-- DNA Collection Questioned as Court Weighs Privacy Rights
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-26T19:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/dna-collection-questioned-as-court-weighs-privacy-rights.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , hearing what
one justice said might be the biggest criminal procedure case in
decades, considered overturning as many as 29 state and federal
laws that allow the collection of DNA samples when a person is
arrested.  In an hour-long argument full of rapid-fire questions, the
justices debated whether the constitutional ban on unreasonable
searches requires officials to wait until a person is convicted.  The session produced no consensus beyond Justice  Samuel Alito ’s characterization of it as “perhaps the most important
criminal procedure case that this court has heard in decades.”
The ruling in the  Maryland  case will be the court’s first on the
privacy of genetic information and may have implications for
other cutting-edge police techniques in the future.  Several justices, including  Stephen Breyer  and  Antonin Scalia , suggested they may cross the ideological lines that
often divide the court. Scalia signaled his skepticism toward
Maryland’s collection program immediately, scoffing when the
state’s lawyer opened her argument by touting the 225 matches
and 42 convictions the state had secured.  “I’ll bet you if you conducted a lot of unreasonable
searches and seizures, you’d get more convictions, too,” Scalia
said. “That proves absolutely nothing.”  Innocent Exonerated  Breyer pointed to the usefulness of DNA, saying court
filings by outside groups described “case after case” where
samples from arrested people had helped exonerate someone who
had been wrongfully convicted.  Compared to fingerprints, “it’s much more accurate, and
that doesn’t just help the defendant,” Breyer said.  The court is considering the case of Alonzo King, who was
arrested in Maryland for assault in 2009 and was linked through
his DNA to an unsolved 2003 rape. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is backing Maryland in the case.  Until 2008, Maryland collected DNA samples only from people
who were convicted of a felony. The state amended its law in
2008 to include anyone arrested for a crime of violence or
burglary.  After taking a sample, Maryland ships it to a laboratory to
create a profile -- a string of numbers almost always unique to
that person. The state then submits the profile to CODIS, a
national database maintained by the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation. The database allows comparison of the new profile
to unknown DNA on file.  Fourth Amendment  Maryland’s highest court threw out King’s rape conviction
last year, saying the state had violated the  Fourth Amendment .
The court pointed to the “vast genetic treasure map” the state
would be acquiring for each person arrested.  Maryland’s chief deputy attorney general, Katherine
Winfree, argued that arrested people have a “reduced
expectation of privacy.” The state also points to safeguards in
the law, including requirements that samples be destroyed, with
the records expunged, if a judge throws out the charges or the
person is acquitted.  Winfree drew resistance from Chief Justice  John Roberts ,
who said her argument would apply equally to “anybody pulled
over for a traffic violation.”  Kagan Query  Justice Elena Kagan similarly questioned whether the
state’s position had a logical stopping point, saying Maryland’s
argument would let it search the house or car of anyone arrested
in the hope of finding evidence of an unrelated crime.  “Just because you’ve been arrested doesn’t mean that you
lose the privacy expectations in things you have that aren’t
related to the offense that you’ve been arrested for,” Kagan
said.  Michael Dreeben, a Justice Department lawyer, said DNA
collection was little different from fingerprinting -- a
practice that is now routine procedure at intake centers, even
though the Supreme Court has never ruled on its
constitutionality.  He drew support from Alito, who called DNA collection the
“fingerprinting of the 21st century.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  also emerged as a likely vote for
the government. He asked King’s lawyer, Kannon Shanmugam, to
acknowledge that Maryland had a “legitimate interest” in
discovering whether King could be connected to any unsolved
crimes.  Short-Circuited  Shanmugam argued that, while the state does have an
interest in solving crimes, it can’t short-circuit the usual
requirement that police have reason to suspect a particular
person before conducting a search.  “It is settled law that warrantless, suspicionless
searches are presumptively unconstitutional,” Shanmugam argued.  The crucial vote may belong to Roberts, said Steven Shapiro, legal director of the  American Civil Liberties Union ,
after the argument.  Roberts directed questions at both sides, asking Shanmugam
how his client could have a privacy interest when police could
have collected King’s DNA off a glass of water.  “How legitimate is it for you to expect privacy in
something that the police can access without you even knowing
about it?” Roberts asked.  Granting Bail  Roberts was one of several justices who suggested the state
could legitimately collect DNA -- and check for matches to
unsolved crimes -- to help a magistrate judge decide whether a
suspect should be granted bail.  The problem, Roberts said, is that states don’t process DNA
quickly enough for that to happen. Although Winfree said that in
less than two years states would have “rapid DNA analyzers” to
make comparisons in 90 minutes, Roberts said that potential
might not be enough for Maryland to win the case.  “How can I base a decision today on what you tell me is
going to happen in two years?” Roberts asked. “You say in two
years we will have this rapid DNA available, but we don’t now.
Don’t I have to base a decision on what we have today?”  The case, which the court will decide by June, is Maryland
v. King, 12-207.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  