-- Kuroda Heading for Confirmation as Abe Prepares BOJ Nominees
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-02-27T09:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/dpj-seen-backing-kuroda-as-boj-chief-iwata-may-face-opposition.html
Asian Development Bank President
Haruhiko Kuroda is set for parliamentary confirmation as  Japan ’s
next central bank chief following his nomination, ushering in a
leadership team projected to step up monetary stimulus.  Members of the main opposition Democratic Party of Japan
said they will back Kuroda, easing his passage through a split
parliament. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will present his nominees
for Bank of Japan governor and two deputies tomorrow morning,
ruling Liberal Democratic Party lawmaker Genichiro Sata said.  While the DPJ signaled resistance to one anticipated deputy
pick -- Kikuo Iwata, an advocate of greater government oversight
of the BOJ -- two other opposition parties showed support,
increasing the chance that Abe gets approval for his full slate.
Confirmations would yield him a win on his biggest agenda item
since he took office in December vowing to lift Japan out of 15
years of deflation.  “I’m expecting smooth sailing,” Robert Feldman, head of
Japan economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The new leadership
of the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is going to have to announce some measures
that amount to regime change in monetary policy.”  Kuroda is Abe’s pick to head the central bank, two people
familiar with the discussions said on Feb. 25. The prime
minister is also likely to name Iwata, an economics professor at
Tokyo’s Gakushuin University, and BOJ official Hiroshi Nakaso as
deputies, the people said on condition of anonymity.  Yen Reaction  The yen has fallen 9 percent since the LDP’s Dec. 16
victory, and reached a 33-month low of 94.77 per dollar on Feb.
25 on speculation Kuroda will push for more easing. Japan’s
currency rose 0.3 percent to 91.71 at 6:30 p.m. in Tokyo as
investors weighed the timing of new BOJ measures, and as  Italy ’s
inconclusive elections renewed concerns about  Europe ’s economy.  While the DPJ won’t formally respond until Abe announces
his picks, its lawmakers praised Kuroda, a former Ministry of
Finance official who called for an inflation target a decade
before the central bank adopted a 2 percent target last month.  “Taking his insight and experience together, he is all-in-
all a very capable candidate,” Hirofumi Ryu, the DPJ’s deputy
secretary-general, said of Kuroda yesterday in an interview. At
the same time, “there are some in the party who have concerns
about Iwata.”  Iwata in an January interview advocated changing the law
governing the central bank to give the government greater say in
setting policy goals. The DPJ, which was ousted from power in
December, last month dropped its opposition to former finance
ministry officials leading the bank while stressing the
importance of preserving its independence.  ‘Completely Against’  “Kikuo Iwata has insisted that if the inflation target
isn’t reached then the BOJ law should be changed to allow the
government to fire the governor,” DPJ lawmaker Keisuke Tsumura
said in an interview. “I am completely against him.”  He called Kuroda “a very capable person with the kind of
experience and knowledge needed for Japan’s economy right now.”  Smaller opposition parties are backing Iwata, reducing the
risk Abe will fail to get his choices approved through the
opposition-controlled upper house. Hiroyuki Arai of the New
Renaissance Party, which has 2 seats in the chamber, today said
in an interview that the reported candidates “are well
qualified” and would likely get his party’s support.  The Your Party, which has 12 upper house lawmakers, this
month said it would back Iwata if he’s nominated. The DPJ has 87
members in the 242-seat chamber, the LDP has 83 and its
coalition partner New Komeito has 19. Six seats are vacant.  Abe’s Popularity  Abe ousted the Democrats with a platform calling for fiscal
and monetary stimulus to end 15 years of deflation. His approval
rating rose for a second month to 70 percent, according to a
Nikkei newspaper poll published on Feb. 25. Almost 60 percent of
those surveyed agreed with his plan to appoint a BOJ governor
who favors “bold” monetary easing.  The Nikkei polled 914 people by phone between Feb. 22-24
and gave no margin of error.  Abe’s popularity in the wake of a landslide victory makes
it unlikely the DPJ will resist his BOJ nominations, especially
for governor, political analyst Katsuhiko Nakamura said.  “Abenomics is widely supported by the public,” said
Nakamura, director of research at Asian Forum Japan in  Tokyo .
“The Democrats are in a very weak position. If they are looking
for an issue on which to do battle, the BOJ governor is probably
not the top priority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  