-- DreamWorks Animation Posts Quarterly Loss on ‘Guardians’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-27T21:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/dreamworks-animation-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-from-guardians-.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
studio led by  Jeffrey Katzenberg , reported a fourth-quarter loss
after its only new film in the period, “Rise of the
Guardians,” failed to connect with moviegoers. The shares fell.  The loss of $82.7 million, or 98 cents a share, compared
with net income of $24.3 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier.
Sales rose 21 percent to $264.7 million, the Glendale,
California-based company said yesterday in a statement, beating
the $223.2 million average of nine analysts’  estimates .  The company recorded an expense of $165 million to write
down “Guardians” and “Me & My Shadow,” which was pulled from
the release schedule. DreamWorks Animation will fire 350
employees this year to reduce costs and position the company to
compete with a larger number of family oriented films in the
marketplace, Katzenberg and Chief Financial Officer Lewis Coleman said on a conference call.  “We’ve taken this as an opportunity to significantly
right-size everything and put it on what will be a better margin
and long-term success path going forward,” said Katzenberg, the
chief executive officer.  DreamWorks Animation  slid  1.8 percent to $16.31 at the
close in  New York . The shares have lost 1.6 percent this year.  The loss pressures DreamWorks Animation to produce a hit
with “The Croods,” opening in theaters March 22. The film,
about a prehistoric family, may generate $465 million in
worldwide ticket sales in the U.S. and  Canada , Lazard Capital
Markets analyst  Barton Crockett  said in a Feb. 24 note.  ‘Creative Momentum’  “A beat would ease concerns about DWA’s creative
momentum,” wrote Crockett, who rates the shares neutral.
Another disappointment would prompt “greater doubts about DWA’s
creative prowess and future movie slate.”  The writedown included $87 million for “Guardians,” $54
million for the delay on “Me & My Shadow” and $20 million for
other projects, the company said in the statement.  “Rise of the Guardians,” released on Nov. 21, has taken
in $102 million in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. Worldwide sales total $302.3
million. The site lists a production budget of $145 million.  DreamWorks Animation on Feb. 5 pulled “Me and My Shadow”
from its release schedule and delayed “Mr. Peabody and
Sherman” from November of this year to March 2014.  Competition for family audiences has increased as rival
studios produce more live-action movies that appeal to adults
and children, Katzenberg said. He cited movies such as Time
Warner Inc. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.’s “The Hobbit: An
Unexpected Journey” and Walt Disney Co.’s “The Avengers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  