-- DuPont Says Wheat Yield May Jump 20% With Hybrid Creation
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-02-26T22:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/dupont-says-wheat-yield-may-jump-20-with-hybrid-creation.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the world’s second-
largest seed company, said wheat yields would increase 15
percent to 20 percent if it can make a hybrid version of the
world’s most planted grain.  Those yield gains would occur with the first commercial
product, expected in a decade or so, John Soper, a vice
president of research at Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, said
today in a telephone interview. The company is using
conventional and biotechnology approaches to developing hybrid
wheat, Soper said.  DuPont, the largest U.S. chemical maker by market value,
joins Basel-based  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  in pursuing ways to create wheat
hybrids. About 500 million acres of wheat are planted globally
each year, and “a hybrid wheat system would have access to a
lot of it,” Soper said.  Wheat plants are normally self-pollinating, Soper said. So
the challenge is creating plants that have no pollen that can
then be fertilized with pollen from another plant to create a
hybrid of the two, he said.  Hybrid wheat technology has been added as the first phase
of a five-step research and development pipeline at DuPont’s
Pioneer seed unit, Jim Borel, a DuPont executive vice president,
said today in a webcast from a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
conference in  New York .  GMO Wheat  Dow Chemical Co. and  Monsanto Co. (MON) , which have previously
announced efforts to boost wheat yields through genetic
modification, are not pursuing the creation of wheat hybrids.  “Wheat is planted on more acres globally than any other
crop but productivity improvements have lagged the other major
crops,” Borel said in the presentation.  Protecting intellectual property in wheat would be easier
with hybrids than the inbred varieties currently available, as
hybrid seed saved from a prior harvest produce less grain, Soper
said.  Agriculture accounted for 30 percent of DuPont’s 2012
sales, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Monsanto is the
largest seed company.  Wheat was planted on 215.8 million hectares (533.3 million
acres) globally last year, surpassing rice, corn and soybeans,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  