-- Teachers’ CEP Leech Says Plan Able to Take More Risk
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-26T18:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/teachers-cep-leech-says-plan-able-to-take-more-risk.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Chief
Executive Officer Jim Leech said changes to inflation-protection
guarantees for his plan members will allow  Canada ’s third-
biggest pension fund to invest in higher-risk assets such as
equities.  “It gives us the flexibility to take more risk, still
within our very conservative risk-management framework,” Leech
said. “We could, for example, raise our allocation to equities,
or it could mean less reliance” on real-return bonds.  The Ontario government and the teachers’ union agreed this
month to eliminate an inflation-protection guarantee paid on
future benefits under the Ontario Teachers’ plan.  “Just at a time when we need great returns for this fund,
we can’t really afford to put the members in jeopardy because of
the guarantees,” Leech, 65, said today in a telephone
interview. “You loosen the guarantees, that allows us more
flexibility to take risk.”  Under the changes, inflation protection on pension plans
for service accruing after 2013 will depend on the plan’s
funding.  “The plan’s liabilities are very sensitive to interest
rates, and the current low interest rate environment has led to
a series of deficits,” according to a Feb. 7 statement. “The
partners recognized the need to take action now to balance the
plan’s assets and liabilities and to reduce the plan’s risk
profile.”  Ends Deficit  The inflation changes allow Ontario Teachers’ to eliminate
its C$9.6 billion ($9.4 billion) deficit as of the end of 2011.
The Toronto-based pension fund manager, with assets of C$117
billion, will report 2012 results April 2.  “It is a significant move,” Scott MacDonald, head of
pensions, insurance and sovereign wealth strategy for RBC
Investor Services, said today in an interview. “It certainly
does manage the liabilities of the plan with a little bit more
freedom.”  Ontario Teachers’ manages the retirement funds of 300,000
active and retired teachers in Canada’s most populous province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  