-- ECB Should Join ‘Currency War’ to Weaken Euro, Montebourg Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-26T12:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ecb-should-join-currency-war-to-weaken-euro-montebourg-says.html
The  European Central Bank  should
weaken the euro, confronting the new “currency war” head on to
help address economic stagnation in the region, French Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said today.  Calling for a more activist and “political” management of
the currency shared by 17 European nations, Montebourg said at a
press conference in Paris that he wants “the European Central
Bank to do its job.”  “The euro is too strong and doesn’t correspond to economic
fundamentals,” he said. The ECB “should prepare to confront a
new currency war in which the weakening of currencies becomes a
political tool.”  Montebourg’s recommendations run contrary to a pledge this
month by finance ministers and central bankers from G-20 nations
that they won’t target exchange rates for competitive purposes.
The group refrained from singling out  Japan  for weakening its
currency, after the Asian nation came under fire ahead of the
meeting for a drop in the yen.  With his latest comments, Montebourg is courting controversy
again. He sparked a furor in November by threatening to
nationalize an ArcelorMittal steel plant to block its
shuttering. He has crusaded to save other factories slated for
shutdown such as the Petit-Couronne refinery in Normandy.  Most recently, he got into a war of words with Titan
International Inc. Chairman Maurice Taylor after the U.S.
company walked away from taking over a French plant of Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co., blaming the country’s high wages and short
work hours.  Hurting France  Montebourg today called for the euro to be “more
politicized.”  “The European Central Bank should manage the exchange
rate,” based on the euro-group’s preferred exchange rates
against the dollar and the yen, he said.  The euro’s strength hurts exporters at a time when
countries like  France  are working to improve their
competitiveness, Montebourg said. An appreciation by 10 percent
of the common currency shaves 1 billion euros from revenue at
Airbus parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , he said.  “We are very happy with the weakening of the euro,” he
said today. “This must continue.”  The euro, which dropped today to $1.3018, the weakest level
since Jan. 7, on concern that inconclusive Italian elections
will deepen  Europe ’s debt crisis, has since recovered to trade
at $1.3080 at 12:47 p.m. in Paris.  The minister also took aim at the ECB for not doing enough
to ease the debt burden of the region’s struggling economies.  “The moment has come to move to another level,” he said.  ‘Timid’ ECB  A move by the ECB to monetize debt to help member countries
shore up their balance sheets would be “a pragmatic approach
rather than dogmatic” and would follow what was done in the
U.K. and U.S, he said.  “There are efforts to be made in cleaning up public
finances but believing that all the effort has to be done
through taxes and lowering public spending is excessive,”
Montebourg said.  The ECB should be doing more on this front, he said, adding
that measures can be taken under the central bank’s “current
mandate.”  “It has already started to do this timidly because it has
put 1 trillion euros into the hands of the banks at zero
percent,” he said. “I would have preferred it to have put 1
trillion euros in the hands of the state.”  The French minister has gained a reputation for putting
forward ideas that are later rejected by President  Francois Hollande  and the government of Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault.  “I am expressing personal sentiments here but the debate
has started within the euro group on the euro being too strong
and the role of the ECB,” he said. “We have to look at what’s
going on the world. All central banks that are doing their job
are doing it this way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  