-- EDF Said to Seek at Least 95 Pounds for U.K. Nuclear Output
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-26T18:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/edf-said-to-seek-at-least-95-pound-price-for-u-k-nuclear-output.html
Electricite de France SA  is seeking
guarantees from the the U.K. government that the next generation
of nuclear reactors will get power prices almost double current
levels before agreeing to their development, said a person
familiar with the matter.  Europe ’s biggest power generator is aiming for a so-called
strike price of 95 pounds ($144) to 99.50 pounds a megawatt-hour
to build the atomic power stations, according to the person, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. The
rate is about twice the wholesale market rate for electricity.  An EDF official declined to comment.  The U.K. faces pressure to agree on a deal with EDF, which
is trying to lock in a rate for 40 years, after  Centrica Plc (CNA) 
dropped plans to help build the nation’s first reactors since
the 1980s. The French company won’t push ahead with facilities
proposed for Somerset, southern  England , unless investment is
profitable, Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said Feb. 14.  Under the so-called contracts for difference system, EDF
gets a guaranteed power, or strike, price regardless of market
conditions. Should wholesale power prices drop below that level,
EDF will be compensated through extra charges on consumer bills,
and if they are higher, the company pays back the difference.  EDF and the government haven’t reached agreement on
commercial terms or a strike price in their negotiations, a
Department for Energy and Climate Change spokesman said. The
Independent newspaper reported EDF’s price range earlier.  ‘Huge Costs’  “There are huge costs associated with nuclear and no
certainty of the return on investment,” according to Josef
Pospisil, head of utilities and transport at  Fitch Ratings .
“Nuclear has a future in  France ,  Finland  is pushing ahead with
a project but anything else in Europe would need government
backing.”  While a 40-year lock-in allows EDF to cut project risks,
it’s potentially capping revenues should industry efforts to
curb carbon emissions raise prices, said Brian Potskowski, an
analyst in London at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. It may also
make it harder to get European approval for state aid, he said.  “We’ve seen tremendous upheaval in the energy markets in
just a few years’ time,” Potskowski said. “Undoubtedly, we can
expect significant shifts over the next four decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  