-- Egypt Opposition to Boycott Parliament Vote, Mursi Talks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-26T17:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/egypt-opposition-shuns-mursi-s-call-for-dialogue-over-elections.html
Egypt’s broadest opposition alliance
said it would boycott the next parliamentary elections, clouding
President Mohamed Mursi’s hopes of bridging a widening political
divide.  The rejection, announced today by the National Salvation
Front opposition alliance, came hours before Mursi started talks
with parties that participants say aim to make recommendations
to guarantee the transparency of a four-stage legislative vote
that begins in April. The front said it refuses to take part in
today’s talks.  Egypt has struggled to restore stability since the 2011
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . Mursi’s critics argue he has
focused on cementing the power of his Muslim Brotherhood at the
expense of the nation’s broader interests.  The political divide, underlined by regular street protests
which have often erupted into violence, has thwarted efforts to
revive the economy, making the government’s bid to negotiate a
$4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan more urgent.  Mursi “can speak with himself” or anyone else he wants,
Sameh Ashour, the head of the lawyers’ syndicate and a leader
within the NSF, said at a news conference in Cairo. “Talks
today are in vain,” he said, adding that the bloc will “not
accept a dialogue on the bodies of the martyrs.”  New Constitution  Ashour listed the bloc’s grievances with Mursi, from his
pushing through of an Islamist-backed constitution that sparked
clashes to ignoring demands for a new national unity coalition
and a committee to amend the charter. He accused the government
of pressing ahead with its plans “without real acknowledgement
that Egypt is greater than any one party.”  At the start of today’s talks, Mursi stressed his
invitation to “everyone” and that he hopes that those who
didn’t take part will join later. In comments carried on state
television, he urged them to submit comments or recommendations
to guarantee the vote’s transparency.  “We are all keen for these elections to be completely
transparent,” he said, adding that the elections commission was
awaiting recommendations resulting from the talks.  Mursi, who became Egypt’s first freely chosen civilian
president in June, has stressed that the parliamentary election
is key to achieving stability and rebuilding state institutions.  The parties that have so far responded to his call for
dialogue on the vote have been mostly his Islamist allies. The
NSF’s boycott may deepen divisions and raise questions about the
legitimacy of the vote.  The April 6 youth movement said earlier today it won’t
attend the talks on the grounds that Mursi’s invitation was not
serious as “it came after the election date was already set.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  