-- Lehman Gets $16.3 Billion in Claims on Defunct Brokerage
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-26T21:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/lehman-gets-16-3-billion-in-claims-on-defunct-brokerage.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
investment bank that has been fighting affiliates over who owes
what to whom since filing for bankruptcy in 2008, said its
defunct brokerage agreed to let it claim about $16.3 billion.  The accord with the brokerage,  Lehman Brothers Inc ., and a
London-based unit provides the parent company with
$2.3 billion in customer claims on the brokerage and $14 billion
in unsecured claims, the company said in a statement today.  “The settlement, consistent with the views of the global
creditor base, will enable LBHI to accelerate distributions to
creditors with allowed claims,” Daniel Ehrmann, Lehman’s head
of international operations, said in the statement.  Lehman, which is still liquidating and trying to cut claims
after exiting bankruptcy court protection last year, plans a
third payment to creditors on April 4. It said in October that
its largest claim on an affiliate was $15.2 billion owed by the
brokerage.  The pact with the brokerage, which has yet to pay  hedge
funds  and banks, is conditional on its customers getting all
their money back, according to the statement.  The Lehman parent has so far paid creditors about 9 cents
on the dollar, or half of what it said it expects to pay by
about 2016. Lehman said in December that it raised $3.9 billion
for creditors in the quarter ended Sept. 30 and another
$1.6 billion in October and November, while its $6.5 billion
sale of apartment owner Archstone was due to close by March 26.  Disputed Claims  Lehman had cash of $8.3 billion as of June 30, plus
restricted cash of $13.6 billion, including money set aside for
disputed claims and debts, the New York-based company said in a
regulatory  filing . It was owed $45.2 billion by affiliates,
including the $15.2 billion claimed from the brokerage and $14.3
billion owed by a Swiss affiliate, Lehman Brothers Finance.  Under the latest agreement, and following the outlines of a
deal they struck in October, the brokerage agreed to allow
affiliate Lehman Brothers International Europe a $7.5 billion
customer claim and a $4 billion general estate claim.  The three-party deal requires U.S. and U.K. court approval.  “If judicially approved and implemented, securities
customers should receive full satisfaction of their claims and
distributions from the general estate will be facilitated,”
James Giddens, the brokerage’s trustee, said in the statement.  Lehman failed in September 2008, filing the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history, because of too much debt and risky
real estate investments, according to an examiner’s report.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  