-- Lehman Sued by Shareholders Over Archstone Asset Sale
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-26T05:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/lehman-sued-by-shareholders-over-archstone-asset-sale.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was
sued in Denver by former shareholders of its Archstone Inc. unit
seeking to block a sale of Archstone assets that they claim are
valued at $16 billion.  The complaint, filed yesterday in federal court, also names
as defendants Chicago-based  Equity Residential (EQR) , and another
publicly traded apartment owner,  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) 
based in Arlington, Virginia.  In December, Equity Residential, founded by billionaire Sam Zell and the largest publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord,
said it will acquire about 60 percent of Archstone in a cash-
and-stock deal valued at about $16 billion, including debt, with
AvalonBay buying the other 40 percent.  The plaintiffs are former owners of an Archstone trust who
claim that through a 2007 merger with units owned by Tishman
Speyer Properties LP, they were “coerced” to assume a
different category of ownership “without adequate
consideration,” according to the complaint.  The pending $16 billion sale “will leave Archstone an
empty shell with no assets” from which investors could win a
court judgment in a separate, pending case over the 2007 merger,
according to the complaint.  “Archstone will also have nothing from which to satisfy
its obligations, including distributions, redemptions and tax
protections,” the investors said in the complaint.  Lehman Liquidating  Lehman, which is still liquidating and trying to cut claims
after exiting bankruptcy court protection last year, has so far
paid creditors about 9 cents on the dollar, or half of what it
expects to pay by about 2016. It said in December that it raised
$3.9 billion for creditors in the quarter ended Sept. 30 and
another $1.6 billion in October and November, while its $6.5
billion sale of apartment owner Archstone was due to close by
March 26.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail yesterday after regular business hours seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Marty McKenna, a spokesman for Equity
Residential,and Jason Reilly, a spokesman for AvalonBay, didn’t
immediately return e-mails yesterday after regular business
hours seeking comment.  The case is Stender v. ERP Operating Limited Partnership,
13-cv-00496, U.S. District Court for the District of  Colorado 
(Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  