-- Televisa Falls After Forecasting Slower Programming Growth
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-02-26T21:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/televisa-falls-after-forecasting-slower-growth-in-programming.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, reversed earlier gains in
Mexico City trading after forecasting slower growth in its
programming unit.  Revenue in the content division, which relies mostly on
advertising and licensing fees, will climb by a “mid-single
digit” percentage this year, Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said today. That compares with last year’s 7.2
percent expansion to 32.9 billion pesos ($2.56 billion).  Bookings in the past few months of advance ad sales for the
year, known as upfronts, rose 0.7 percent from a year earlier,
after 8.9 percent growth in 2012, Televisa said. Government
agencies that normally participate in the sales didn’t this time
because they were busy with the transition to a new presidential
administration, de Angoitia said on a conference call.  The upfronts also caused  Mexico  City-based Televisa to
spend more on its TV shows to impress advertisers, cutting into
fourth-quarter profit. The content division’s operating margin
fell to 47 percent last quarter, from 49.2 percent a year
earlier, and will remain about 47 percent this year, he said.  “Margin was the main disappointment in the quarter,”
Andrew Campbell, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Sao
Paulo , said in a research note published today. “We see results
as neutral for the shares.” He rates the stock outperform.  Televisa  fell  0.5 percent to 67.45 pesos at the close in
Mexico City after climbing as much as 1.3 percent. The shares
have dropped 1.2 percent this year, compared with an 0.5 percent
decline for the benchmark IPC index.  Profit Climbs  The forecast for mid-single-digit revenue growth in the
programming business compared with the 3.9 percent average of
nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Some of the
analysts haven’t updated their outlook for several months.  Fourth-quarter net income climbed to 3 billion pesos from
2.17 billion pesos a year earlier, Televisa said yesterday in a
statement. That topped the 2.6 billion average estimate. Sales
rose 8.2 percent to 19.8 billion pesos, just above the 19.6
billion average estimate.  Televisa is depending more on its pay-TV businesses for
expansion as growth slows at its broadcast networks, whose
viewers increasingly turn to the Internet and to cable channels
for entertainment. Satellite subscriptions rose 5.5 percent from
the previous quarter to 5.2 million, while cable-TV accounts
grew 2 percent to 2.3 million.  Broadcast advertising sales rose 3.6 percent from a year
earlier to 7.7 billion pesos.  Operating income climbed 3.5 percent to 5.32 billion pesos.
Net income was boosted by a gain of 687.6 million pesos from the
value of derivative instruments, compared with an increase of
70.3 million pesos a year earlier.  (Televisa held a conference call to discuss the fourth-
quarter results at 10 a.m.  New York  time. Click here for audio
and a transcript.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  