-- Emaar Drops Most in 3 Weeks as Dividend Disappoints: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-26T10:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/emaar-plans-10-fils-dividend-matching-payouts-in-past-2-years.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  fell the most
in more than three weeks as the real-estate company proposed no
change to its annual cash dividend despite a property recovery
in Dubai.  Shares of the developer of the world’s tallest tower
declined 2.8 percent, the largest retreat since Feb. 3, to 5.14
dirhams at the close in Dubai. Emaar fell the most on the
benchmark DFM General Index, which lost 1 percent. The company
proposed a  dividend  of 10 fils per share for 2012, matching
payouts in the prior two years.  “The market is disappointed as investors were expecting 15
fils to 20 fils this year, even though the chairman indicated
that Emaar needs to retain liquidity,” said Mohammed Ali Yasin,
managing director of Abu Dhabi Financial Services Co., the
brokerage unit of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC. (NBAD)  “I’m sure
there will be a lot of lobbying and haggling to raise the
dividend to 15 fils at the annual general meeting.”  Investors in Dubai stocks, which have rallied almost 19
percent this year, are chasing dividends after the emirate’s
economy grew at the fastest pace in five years, according to
government estimates. Emaar’s profit jumped 18 percent in 2012
following a decline a year earlier. The developer made no
payouts in 2008 and 2009 amid a real estate crash in the city
that sent  home prices  tumbling more than 65 percent.  Dividend Debate  Emaar, which said it will hold an AGM on April 9, agreed to
resume dividend payouts in 2010 following a three-hour meeting
that saw heated arguments between the shareholders and
executives, who wanted to conserve cash for projects. The
developer this month said it will offer units of a luxury hotel
and apartment development in Dubai and  Riyadh  on March 2
following a sell-out response to those made available at a
separate project in Downtown Dubai in January.  The dividend proposal was understandable “in light of the
liquidity it needs to fund the future projects that the company
announced and will commence in the near future,” said Nabil Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  Dubai announced in November plans to develop a new district
with the world’s largest mall, 100 hotels and gardens larger
than  London ’s Hyde Park, which Emaar will co-develop. The
company’s 2013 net income is set to rise 7 percent, according to
the mean estimate of 11 analysts on Bloomberg.  Excluding today’s decline, the  shares  surged 41 percent
this year, making it the best-performing stock on the benchmark
 DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   Ten analysts  recommend  investors buy Emaar shares and
three say to hold them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
HSBC Holdings Plc said earlier this month it expects the stock
to increase to 6 dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  