-- Emerging Stocks Tumble to Two-Month Low on Europe Concern, China
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-26T22:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/emerging-stocks-decline-to-two-month-low-on-europe-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks slid to a
two-month low and currencies weakened as Italy’s inconclusive
election revived European debt concerns and investors speculated
China will announce new property curbs.  Erste Group Bank AG (RBAG)  tumbled the most in three weeks in
Prague as the  PX Index (PX)  drove declines among major emerging
markets.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  plunged to the lowest close
since November 2005 and  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333)  sank
to a three-month low in Hong Kong. Russia’s ruble and the Indian
rupee weakened against the dollar, while Poland’s zloty
depreciated against the euro.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.1 percent to
1,042.71 in New York, its lowest close since Dec. 17. Early
results suggested Italy’s election would lead to a political
vacuum of at least a month. The 21 countries in the developing-
nations gauge send about 26 percent of their exports to the
European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  “People were of the view the euro-area situation was
somewhat stabilizing, but Italy’s election just comes back to
haunt investors,” Aryam Vazquez, a global  emerging markets 
economist at Wells Fargo in New York, said by phone today.
“Sentiment is a bit guarded, but for emerging markets as a
whole, the long-term outlook provides a floor to further
downside risk.”  Home Prices  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.6
percent to 42.94 after falling 1.3 percent yesterday. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, dropped 7.4 percent to 20.25.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 6.8
percent from December 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain in
U.S. home prices since July 2006, a report showed today in New
York. Purchases of new homes surged in January by the most in
two decades, and consumer sentiment index climbed to 69.6,
beating all estimates in a Bloomberg survey, other data showed.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke defended the central
bank’s unprecedented asset purchases as he and his colleagues on
the Federal Open Market Committee debate whether to curtail $85
billion in monthly bond-buying. The purchases are supporting
economic recovery with little risk of inflation or asset-price
bubbles, Bernanke said today in testimony to the Senate Banking
Committee in Washington.  Italian Deadlock  Election results in Rome showed pre-contest favorite Pier Luigi Bersani won the lower house by less than a half a point.
Silvio Berlusconi, the former premier who has vowed to reverse
austerity measures, won a blocking minority in the Senate. An
Italian government requires a majority in both houses. President
Giorgio Napolitano may install an interim government to write a
new election law as the prelude to another vote. That would
extend the political deadlock through most of 2013.  “Although this clearly represents a much less certain
environment for markets it does not inevitably mean that Italy
faces a return to crisis conditions,” Michael Shaoul, chief
executive officer of Marketfield Asset Management LLC in New
York, wrote in an e-mail today.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s biggest lender, fell to the
lowest level in three weeks as the nation’s BUX Index tumbled
1.8 percent to the lowest level since Dec. 28, while the forint
weakened 0.2 percent against the euro. The nation’s central bank
cut the benchmark interest rate for a seventh month to a record
low today as policy makers fight a recession. It was Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor’s final policy meeting.  Petrobras Slides  OTP sank 3.5 percent.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , Hungary’s largest refiner,
fell 1.6 percent after reporting fourth-quarter profit that was
below what analysts estimated as the recession crimped fuel
sales, Syrian production ceased and gas trading in Croatia
suffered a loss.  The Czech Republic’s benchmark gauge sank 2.1 percent in
its biggest drop in seven months, as Erste slid 3.4 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  added 0.6 percent as Gerdau SA led a rally
in Brazilian steelmakers spurred by speculation that a surge in
U.S. home sales will bolster demand for metals. Gerdau, Latin
America’s largest steelmaker jumped 3.3 percent in a fourth day
of gains.  Petrobras, as the state-run oil company Petroleo Brasileiro
is known, dropped 1.2 percent on a fifth day of declines. Oil
slid 0.5 percent in New York to the lowest settlement since Dec.
31 as supplies probably climbed to a seven-month high last week,
a Bloomberg survey showed before government data tomorrow.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 1.3 percent, declining for
the first time in three days. Power producer OAO Mosenergo fell
3.1 percent in Moscow after President Vladimir Putin ordered
ministries to cap growth in tariffs at 6 percent a year, the RIA
Novosti newswire reported yesterday, citing the president’s
comments at a government meeting.  Special Dividends  Mail.ru Group Ltd. jumped 4.3 percent in London after the
Russian Internet company said it plans to pay $899 million in
special dividends next month after reducing its stake in
Facebook Inc. and exiting investments in Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc. Mail.ru will pay investors $4.30 a share as of March 20,
the Moscow-based company said today in a regulatory filing.  Poland’s WIG20 Index retreated 1.1 percent to close at the
lowest level since Nov. 30.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , the country’s biggest gas distributor, lost 3.5
percent and  Bank Millennium SA (MIL) , the Polish unit of Banco
Comercial Portugues SA, slid 2.2 percent.  Renewed Worries  “Emerging markets in Europe have been hit by renewed
worries about the euro zone,” Gaelle Blanchard, an emerging-
market strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, said by e-
mail. “The zloty is the highest beta in the region. It’s
generally the proxy for eastern Europe.”  Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC) , the Polish vodka
distiller rescued by Russian billionaire Roustam Tariko last
year, added 5.1 percent to 65 cents in New York today after
yesterday’s 55 percent plunge. The company has proposed swapping
bonds for equity to cut its debt by more than $750 million. CEDC
shares traded in Warsaw sank for a third trading day, sliding 42
percent to a record-low 2.18 zloty, or 68 cents. CEDC’s Polish
stock fell 20 percent yesterday.  Gauges of financial and energy stocks in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  declined at least 1.6 percent, the most among 10
industry groups. The broader measure has fallen 1.2 percent this
year, compared with a 3.6 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index. The emerging-markets index trades at 10.4 times projected
12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Earnings  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 288 basis points, according to the JPMorgan EMBI
Global Index.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 0.3 percent, rebounding
from a 12-week low, as companies reporting better-than-estimated
earnings spurred analysts to bolster the outlook for stocks.
Shanda Games Ltd. climbed 2.7 percent and Mindray Medical
International Ltd. surged 2.8 percent to the highest level in
February.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. added 0.3 percent to 93.10 in New
York, rebounding from a 12-week low. Mindray Medical
International Ltd. surged the most in a month as Oppenheimer &
Co. lifted its price target for by 15 percent after the health-
care company’s profit beat projections.  India’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  Index fell 1.6 percent to the lowest
since Nov. 27. The Jakarta Composite Index dropped 0.7 percent
from a record. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index slid 1.4
percent, the most in 10 weeks after valuations climbed to an
all-time high.  ‘More Tightening’  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong retreated 2 percent to its lowest level
since Dec. 11. The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese
stocks slumped 1.4 percent.  Chinese equities slumped on speculation the government will
announce curbs on the property markets during a legislative
meeting next week and after  money-market  rates jumped. The
Shanghai Securities News said the city of Guangzhou plans to
announce housing restrictions. Evergrande, China’s biggest
developer by sales volume, fell 4.3 percent.  “There’s too much uncertainty before the National People’s
Congress,” said Xu Shengjun, an analyst at Jianghai Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “People are worried there will be even more
tightening measures for the property sector.”  Hanwha Life Insurance Co., South Korea’s second-largest
life insurer, tumbled 9.8 percent, the biggest decline in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, after a shareholder sold stock at a
discount.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  