-- Encore Capital Falls After Robo-Signing Accord Scuttled
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-26T21:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/encore-capital-falls-after-robo-singing-accord-scuttled.html
Encore Capital Group Inc. (ECPG)  fell the
most in more than three months after a U.S. appeals court
scuttled its settlement of national litigation related to the
“robo-signing” of court documents.  The Cincinnati-based court today rejected as unfair a 2011
agreement that would have resolved potential claims against the
debt collector of an estimated 1.4 million class members for as
little as $10 a person while allocating $8,000 to the four lead,
named plaintiffs and expunging any debts two Encore units sought
to collect from them.  Unnamed class members were also barred by the agreement
from defending themselves in collection cases by claiming
Encore’s Midland Capital Management Inc. was creating, and its
Midland Funding LLC was using, affidavits signed by people
without personal knowledge of their accuracy, a practice known
as robo-signing.  “The disparity of the relief afforded under the settlement
to the named plaintiffs, on the one hand, and the unnamed class
members on the other hand, made the settlement unfair,” the
unanimous three-judge appeals panel said in its ruling.  Encore fell $2.26, or 7.2 percent, to $29.08 in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading , the biggest one-day drop since Nov. 2. The
shares have declined 5 percent this year.  ‘Perfunctory’ Relief  The appeals panel described the final payout of $17.38 a
claimant and a year of injunctive relief during which the Encore
units were required to change their policies as “perfunctory at
best.” It reversed the settlement approval by U.S. District
Judge David Katz in Toledo and returned the case to him for
further proceedings.  Today’s ruling will allow pending class actions frozen by
the settlement to go forward while allowing individual litigants
to raise the robo-signing issue in their own cases, said Charles
Delbaum of the National Consumer Law Center in  Boston , who
argued the case for the settlement objectors.  “The decision doesn’t bar the parties from attempting to
work out a nationwide settlement,” Delbaum said in a phone
interview. “It just points out all the ways in which this one
was deficient.”  Dennis Murray Sr. of Sandusky,  Ohio , who argued for the
settling plaintiffs, said the ability to craft a new accord
depends on the defendants and the courts.  Plaintiff Conflict  “The conflict between the named plaintiffs and the class
as to the paucity of benefits to the class, that’s still going
to stand, even if you resolve the $8,000 and resolve doing
nothing with regard to their debts,” he said.  The court must still decide whether the planned payment of
$10 a class member, which increased to $17.38 after their claims
were tallied, is adequate relief, Murray said.  More difficult to determine is whether Midland will settle
without the assurance the robo-signing issue won’t be raised
elsewhere, he said.  “We are confident in the work that has been done to date
to resolve this case fairly and will continue to work with the
trial court to address the issues raised” by the appeals court,
Gregory Call, general counsel for San Diego-based Encore
Capital, said in an e-mailed statement.  The decision left in place lower-court rulings that Midland
affidavits “accurately stated the class members’ obligations
and that no class members incurred actual damages,” he said.  The case is Vassalle v. Midland Funding LLC, 11-3814, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  