-- Tenet’s Profit Misses Analysts’ Estimates on Costs
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-02-26T21:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/tenet-s-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-on-costs.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp., (THC)  the third-
largest U.S. hospital company, reported fourth-quarter income
helped by higher admissions and reiterated its 2013 forecast.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $336 million beat analysts’ estimates and the
company’s forecast, Dallas-based Tenet said today in a
statement. Earnings excluding one-time items were 52 cents a
share, 15 cents lower than the average of 19 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue climbed 7.3 percent to $2.33 billion, as adjusted
admissions rose 2.9 percent and outpatient visits increased 7.3
percent. Tenet operates 49 hospitals in 10 states and has
doubled the number of its freestanding outpatient centers to 117
from four years ago.  “Their outpatient strategy is clearly paying off,”  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “It’s a good
quarter, not a great quarter.”  Tenet rose less than 1 percent to $37.87 at the close of
 New York  trading. The shares have gained 64 percent in the past
12 months.  “This marks another quarter where our volumes were among
the strongest in the industry, with only a minimal contribution
from the flu,” Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter said in an
e-mailed statement.  Forecast Reiterated  Tenet reaffirmed its  2013 forecast  for adjusted Ebitda of
$1.325 billion to $1.425 billion. Fourth-quarter revenue climbed
7.3 percent to $2.33 billion.  “It’s nice to see the company reiterate guidance,” said
Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee , in a telephone interview.  Uninsured and charity admissions rose 1.1 percent, causing
higher bad debt expenses, the company said. The increase came as
the influenza season reached elevated levels in December, a
month earlier than usual.  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  and  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH) , the largest publicly traded U.S. hospital
companies, also reported higher admissions for the quarter
because of the flu.  The adjusted per-share result was hurt by “impairments”
and “litigation and investigation costs,” as well as
depreciation expenses, Rick Black, a spokesman at Tenet, said in
an e-mailed statement. He said the depreciation costs are “good
news” because the company is ahead of schedule with installing
information technology systems at the company’s hospitals.  Net Income  Fourth-quarter net income was $49 million, or 45 cents a
share, compared with a net loss of $76 million, or 70 cents, a
year earlier when the company repaid debt early.  Shareholders are looking ahead to next year when the
effects of the federal health-care overhaul kick in, said Whit Mayo, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in Nashville.  “Investors are 100 percent focused on 2014,” Mayo said in
a telephone interview. “There are so many unknowns about how
all of this will work.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that 27 million
Americans who would otherwise be uninsured will eventually gain
coverage under the overhaul. Tenet will benefit from the
expansion because the company has operations in states with a
large number of patients without insurance, Fetter said on a
conference call today.  “As our expectations become more tangible on reform, we
see a lot of upsides in our markets,” Fetter said.  The number of U.S. flu cases began to rise in November,
according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. The virus attacks for about three months, moving
through the population and leaving fever, muscle aches and
malaise so severe many patients are bedridden for a week or two.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  