-- EU Chiefs Tell Italy There’s No Alternative to Austerity
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-02-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/merkel-s-euro-doctrine-threatened-as-italians-reject-austerity.html
European Union leaders piled
pressure on  Italy ’s rival factions to form a unity government
committed to budget rigor after a deadlocked election stirred
fears of an quagmire that would re-ignite the euro debt crisis.  In a message that resonated in  Rome , EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  warned in Tallinn,  Estonia , that backsliding on
budget discipline and economic reforms would shatter market
confidence in the 17-nation currency union’s crisis management.  “Every time we turn a corner, we must keep in mind that
just around that corner lies the danger of complacency,”  Van
Rompuy  told Estonia’s parliament yesterday. “There is no way
back. And this we simply cannot afford.”  Italy’s stalemate shook European bond markets, with
investors moving money from crisis-hit  Spain ,  Portugal ,  Greece 
and Italy itself to the perceived haven of  Germany . Ten-year
Italian yields rose by the most in 14 months, rising 41 basis
points to 4.9 percent; the  risk premium  against German debt
jumped 51 basis points to 343 basis points.  As leaders of Italy’s two rival blocs, Democratic Party
chief Pier Luigi Bersani and former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , weighed their options, European officials alternated
between pleading with them to craft a stable government and
fretting that they won’t manage to.  Comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo, whose 5 Star
movement was the top vote getter of any single party with his
message repudiating austerity and calling for a referendum on
the euro, rejected a coalition with anyone.  European ‘Catastrophe’  “This is a catastrophe for  Europe ,” Luxembourg Foreign
Minister Jean Asselborn said in a telephone interview. “Italy
won’t get out of this financial and economic crisis without a
serious plan. This won’t happen with populism or by
misrepresenting things. It can only work by tackling this
problem in a serious manner and creating confidence again.”  Berlusconi, a three-time prime minister ousted in November
2011 during an escalation of the debt crisis, picked up a
blocking minority in the upper house. The billionaire’s re-
emergence and rise of Grillo risked plunging Italy into weeks of
paralysis.  In an interview in Copenhagen, EU Economic and Monetary
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  called it “important to get a
functioning government in Italy.” In a  statement  in Berlin,
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said all Europeans
“are sitting in the same boat” due to the debt crisis, making
political stability in Italy crucial.  German Formula  Since the financial turmoil broke out in late 2009, voters
in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain -- the four countries
tapping emergency aid -- have installed governments that hew to
Germany’s budget-cutting prescriptions, though it took Greece
two elections and the threat of euro expulsion to do so in 2012.  In those elections, voters bought the German argument that
deficit control and the euro go hand in hand. Now the risk is
that voters will equate the currency with mass unemployment.  After three years of recession and austerity, southern
Europe is sitting on a social powder keg, with 2013 unemployment
set to reach 11.6 percent in Italy, 17.3 percent in Portugal,
26.9 percent in Spain and 27 percent in Greece, according to
European Commission forecasts on Feb. 22.  Italians broke the pattern of compliant electorates by
resurrecting Berlusconi and flocking to Grillo, a political
upstart who calls established leaders “failures.” It was a
protest against politics-as-usual and economic distress, with
voters susceptible to populist fancies and promises like the
property-tax giveaway that the 76-year-old Berlusconi used to
curry favor.  Biggest Loser  The principal loser, outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
incarnated the Brussels-to-Berlin consensus that has dominated
the debt-crisis response. A 10-year veteran of the EU
commission, the technocratic Monti was appointed in November
2011 to bring order to Italy’s finances after Berlusconi refused
to do so.  Monti’s reward was 10.6 percent of the lower-house vote,
making him the latest victim of the anti-austerity backlash
sweeping Europe since an insurgent Greek movement, Alexis Tsipras’s Syriza party, arrived on the scene last year.  Monti was installed with Italy’s 10-year borrowing costs
near 7.5 percent and Berlusconi, who is on trial for paying for
sex with a minor and is fighting a tax-fraud conviction,
discredited among his counterparts. The unelected premier
imposed 20 billion euros ($26 billion) of austerity measures to
cut the cost of financing the world’s third-biggest debt load.  France ’s representative on the Brussels-based commission,
 Michel Barnier , said Italy had no choice.  Explanations Needed  “We have seen anger and popular protest and indifference,
not just in Italy but elsewhere in Europe,” Barnier told
Bloomberg Television in Paris. “It shows that we must talk to
the people, to explain the sense of the sacrifices they are
being asked to make.”  Since Greece’s brush with an unprecedented euro exit,
French President  Francois Hollande  has emerged as the highest-
profile advocate of looser budget policies, mainly as an
antidote to a lethargic French economy that has lost ground in
export markets to Germany.  Europe has tinkered around the edges with austerity.
Deficit-reduction deadlines were extended for Greece, Spain and
Portugal. The next question is the treatment of France, which
the commission predicts is heading for a shortfall of 3.7
percent of gross domestic product in 2013, the sixth year above
the 3 percent EU target.  Merkel’s Message  A weeks-long Italian standoff and threat of new elections
could leave markets on edge, posing risks for Europe’s dominant
political figure, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , as she runs
for a third term in September. Merkel’s main talking point is
that she has kept the crisis at bay without burdening Germany
with excessive bailout costs.  “If the largest peripheral country was supposed to add
clarity to the EU converging process with a credible government
and a reassuring pro-reform message, Italy has failed
miserably,” Antonio Guglielmi, an analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in
 London , said in a research note. “Germany has a big problem
today as Italy will hardly maintain the pro-Germany stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  