-- Tesco Ends Appeal Over OFT Dairy Cartel After Fine Is Lowered
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-26T16:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/tesco-ends-appeal-over-oft-dairy-cartel-after-fine-is-lowered.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s largest
supermarket chain, ended an appeal over an alleged conspiracy to
fix the price of dairy products more than a decade ago after a
regulator reduced its fine 38 percent to 6.5 million pounds
($9.8 million.)  A deal between Tesco and the Office of Fair Trading to
reduce the penalty and end the case was approved today by the
Competition Appeal Tribunal in London, the regulator said today
in an e-mailed statement. In December, the court upheld the
agency’s finding that Tesco broke competition law three times
by coordinating increases in prices for cheese in 2002.  The fine, initially set at 10.4 million pounds, was reduced
after the tribunal ruled Tesco “didn’t infringe the law in
relation to a number of other findings of exchanges of future
pricing information,” the OFT said in the statement.  Tesco argued the OFT was wrong to find the grocery chain
colluded with dairy producers to share prices with  J Sainsbury
Plc (SBRY) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda chain and other retailers in
2002 and 2003. Tesco had said the alleged violations followed
lobbying by British dairy farmers for higher prices.  The OFT had left the penalty against Cheshunt, England-
based Tesco unchanged when it reduced the total fines in the
case for the second time in August 2011, to 49.5 million pounds,
after other companies sought to resolve the probe and
cooperated. The levies had totaled 116 million pounds when they
were first issued in 2007. They were lowered to 70 million
pounds in 2010, after the OFT dropped some claims because of
insufficient evidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  