-- Ethiopian Central-Bank Order May Mean More T-Bills, Less Lending
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-02-26T11:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ethiopian-central-bank-order-may-mean-more-t-bills-less-lending.html
An Ethiopian central bank order
making lenders limit 40 percent of their loans to a year or less
by 2015 may crimp credit growth by forcing more government-
security purchases, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  A National Bank of Ethiopia directive from April 2011
already requires the 14 private banks in the Horn of Africa
country to buy five-year bills equal to 27 percent of each loan
given out. The Washington-based lender in September said that
requirement was onerous and suggested lowering it so more credit
would be available to banks.  The new limit on the maturity of loans “will likely
require private banks to purchase more five-year NBE bills at a
very low interest rate of 3 percent,” IMF Resident
Representative Jan Mikkelsen said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday.. “This will further reduce private banks’
ability to extend loans to customers.”  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation and the
world’s fifth-biggest coffee grower, is struggling to fund a
five-year industrialization plan that ends in mid-2015. The
state-led program is designed to diversify the economy away from
reliance on agriculture, which is 43 percent of output now.  Money raised from the central-bank bills will be used for
“financing of priority-sector projects,” according to a copy
of the NBE order seen by Bloomberg.  The government partially liberalized its financial system
in 1993 after more than a decade of communism. It has yet to
allow foreign banks or free trading of the birr currency, and
the state-owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia holds two-thirds of
all bank deposits.  Monetary Impact  About 61 percent of new  bank deposits  worth 10 billion
Ethiopia birr ($535 million) were used to buy central-bank bills
in the fiscal year ending July 7, 2012, according to Addis
Ababa-based research company Access Capital.  The central bank’s Deputy Governor of Monetary Stability
Yohannes Ayalew and Director of the Change Management and
Communications Directorate Alemayehu Kebede did not answer calls
to their mobile phones seeking comment yesterday or today.  The order also reduces the amount commercial banks have to
keep with the central bank to 5 percent of deposits from 10
percent. Lenders will have to invest the released money into the
central bank’s securities, Mikkelsen said.  “It is important to note that NBE plans to absorb the
injected liquidity for all banks,” he said. “As a result,
there will be no immediate monetary impact.”  Ethiopia maintains a tight monetary policy to stem
inflation, which slowed to 12.5 percent in January after
averaging more than 30 percent in the previous fiscal year
starting July 7, 2011, according to the  Finance Ministry . Growth
slowed to 8.5 percent in the same period from 11.4 percent the
year before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  