-- EU Bonus Cap Risks Banks’ Efforts to Raise Capital, Bailey Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-26T11:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/eu-bonus-cap-risks-banks-efforts-to-raise-capital-bailey-says.html
A proposed European Union ban on
bonuses that exceed fixed pay would harm banks’ ability to build
up capital, said Andrew Bailey, the U.K.’s chief banking
supervisor.  Bailey, who is chief-executive-elect of the U.K.’s
Prudential Regulation Authority, said at a Paris conference he
was “skeptical and concerned” about the plan to limit bonuses,
because it would “make the cost base inflexible and make it
more difficult to retain earnings and build capital.”  Lawmakers in the European Parliament have insisted that the
legislation to implement Basel capital rules include tougher
curbs on variable pay. European regulators already agreed on
bonus rules in 2011, including minimum three-year deferrals,
blaming large cash payouts for encouraging the type of risk-
taking that led to the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the subsequent financial crisis.  “It also makes it harder to pull back remuneration when
things have gone wrong,” Bailey said at the Economist
conference. “Clawing back unvested remuneration when things
have gone wrong is a big part of what we are pushing for. We
favor longer time periods for vesting.”  Lawmakers will tomorrow resume negotiations with
governments on the bonus rules, as part of an attempt to seal a
deal on how to implement the so-called Basel III accord in the
EU.  Banks should defer bonus payouts for staff for as long as
10 years to improve “prudence” in remuneration,  Andrew Haldane , executive director for financial stability at the Bank
of England, said last month.  Insider Trading  The current window is “far too short to capture the cycle
in credit” and a period of five years to 10 years would be
better, Haldane said at a hearing of the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards in London. “We had roughly a
20-year boom in the run-up to this crisis, so measuring
performance only over a three or five-year window is far too
short.”  The Financial Services Authority will be split up into two
separate agencies on April 1. Bailey will lead the PRA, which
will set rules on capital, liquidity and bonuses for U.K. banks.
Market conduct issues, such as insider trading, will be dealt
with by the Financial Conduct Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta in London at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  