-- EU Bank Calculations of Capital Vary Widely, EBA Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-02-26T14:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/eu-bank-calculations-of-capital-vary-widely-eba-says.html
The European Union’s top banking
regulator found “material differences” in the way lenders
calculate how much capital to hold on their balance sheets
against potential losses in asset value.  The agency must conduct an in-depth investigation to ensure
lenders’ calculations of so-called risk-weighted assets, or
RWAs, are reliable, consistent across banks and reflect their
true risk profile, the  European Banking Authority , set up in
2011 to harmonize banking rules across the 27-member bloc, said
in a report published on its website today.  “Thanks to this preliminary analysis, we identified some
explanatory drivers of RWA differences across banks,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the EBA, said in a statement. “Greater
disclosure could, therefore, go some way to appease the concerns
raised by investors and market analysts on the reliability of
banks’ RWAs.”  U.S. bankers, including Jamie Dimon, chief executive
officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., have said that flexible
implementation of previous rounds of Basel capital rules in the
European Union has allowed European lenders to hold less capital
against some assets than their U.S. counterparts. The U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority is reviewing banks’ so-called risk
weighted assets for a report to be published as soon as March.  The EBA surveyed 89 banks from 16 countries and used
information from as recently as the end of 2011.  Public information is “insufficient to allow investors and
other interested parties to assess how much of the variation
reflects differing levels of actual risk,” the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision said in a report last month.  Regulators could respond with tougher disclosure rules or
“limitations in the modeling choices for banks,”  Stefan Ingves , chairman of the Basel committee that brings together
regulators from 27 nations to set capital rules for banks, said
last month in a speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta in London at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  