-- EU Parliament’s Groote Says He’s Optimistic on Carbon Deal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-26T10:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/eu-parliament-s-groote-says-he-s-optimistic-on-carbon-fix-deal.html
The European Union’s proposal to
alleviate a record oversupply on the carbon market is likely to
win support from the European Parliament in April after an
option of a fast-track deal was scrapped, a senior EU lawmaker
said.  The 754-seat Parliament is due to initially discuss the
future of the draft emission-market rescue plan during its April
session, offering members from various political groups in the
assembly a chance to iron out a common solution, according to
Matthias Groote, who oversees the measure. Groote, a German
 Social Democrat , decided yesterday to avoid accelerated talks
with EU member states before the plenary meeting.  “I’m optimistic about the outcome because we have more room
to find a good compromise with all political groups,” Groote
said in an interview in Brussels. “Some decisions need more
time and it was better to give up a fast-track approach and seek
a solution that would be satisfying for more members.”  EU carbon allowances dropped to an all-time low of 2.81
euros a metric ton last month as the economic crisis curbed
demand for pollution rights, leading to a record oversupply in
the world’s biggest cap-and-trade market. The EU proposal to
temporarily reduce the glut by delaying auctions of some
permits, known as backloading, has divided governments, members
of the European Parliament and industry.  Whole Assembly  While the Parliament’s environment committee last week
recommended the whole assembly support backloading, in a
separate vote the panel delayed a decision on whether to
authorize Groote to start talks with governments on the final
wording of the proposal. Groote’s decision yesterday to refer
the issue to the plenary followed calls by the European  People’s
Party , the biggest group in the EU Parliament, that the
backloading plan be considered by the whole assembly first due
to its complexity.  The EPP was split on the need to intervene in the carbon
market, according to the results of the Feb. 19 vote in the
environment committee. Eija-Riitta Korhola, the group’s lead
lawmaker on the draft measure, said yesterday that majority of
its members oppose the proposal because it threatens to
undermine industry competitiveness and raise energy prices.  Peter Liese, a German EPP member who voted in favor of
backloading last week, said today in an interview that he was
“optimistic” that supporters of the measure “will have good
arguments and will convince the majority of the Parliament.” The
assembly is considering an amendment to the EU emissions trading
law that would enable a separate draft measure to delay sales of
900 million carbon allowances from 2013-2015 to 2019-2020.  Final Approval  The Parliament could give its final approval to the legal
change by June should a majority of members back it in the
initial plenary debate, according to lawmaker Bas Eickhout. The
backloading strategy was drafted by the European Commission, the
27-nation EU’s regulatory arm.  “If there is consent for potential new compromise
amendments in April, then negotiations with  member states  can
start immediately and will likely be very short, paving the way
for a final approval by the June plenary,’’ Eickhout said in an
interview today.  The pace of talks on backloading will also depend on EU
governments, whose approval is needed for the plan to come into
force, according Eickhout, a Dutch member of the Greens group in
the Parliament. While there are more supporters than opponents
of the proposal among EU member states, the backing is short of
a qualified majority as several nations including  Germany  remain
undecided, three EU officials with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  “If Germany moves this week, then we can even try to move
the plenary discussion to March,” Eickhout said. “If they stay
on the fence, then plenary is unpredictable because the lobbying
of energy-intensive industry is so intensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  