-- EU Regulator to Provide Guidance on UN Carbon Offset Treatment
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-26T14:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/eu-regulator-to-provide-guidance-on-un-carbon-offset-treatment.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
plans to provide guidelines on its treatment of imported carbon
credits following a rule change in the bloc’s emissions trading
system, according to a statement published today.  The European Commission advice covers the certification
requirement for some United Nations carbon offsets, which are
reductions that compensate for emissions made elsewhere, it said
today on its website. The guidance will be made public before
the changes to the bloc’s  emissions registry  come into force,
according to the statement.  The guidance affects UN Emission Reduction Units, or ERUs,
which are created by projects that cut greenhouse-gas discharges
in developed nations and countries in transition to a market
economy including Russia and Ukraine. The EU’s cap-and-trade
system, the world’s biggest, allows the use of some UN offsets
as a cheaper way to comply with carbon-emission limits.  More than 660 million ERUs have been issued since the
climate-protection  Kyoto Protocol  became legally binding in
2005, according to UN  data . Under the revised EU registry rules,
the bloc’s carbon market will be closed from this year to
international offsets made as of 2013 by nations without new
climate goals.  Independent Verification  ERUs issued from this year for emission cuts made before
the end of 2012 can be held and used in the EU’s market as long
as they were generated under the so-called Track Two of the UN
Joint Implementation program, according to the new registry
rules approved by EU governments last month. Track Two involves
independent verification of emission reductions and approval by
the  JI Supervisory Committee .  ERUs representing emission cuts made from 2008 to 2012 and
issued after last year under a procedure overseen by
governments, known as Track One, will be allowed only if they
are certified by one of the independent entities accredited to
UN authorities.  “It is envisaged that project participants will switch
tracks where possible,” the commission said today. “Although
this will not always be possible for all units issued in respect
of a Joint Implementation project, a project participant may at
any time apply to switch tracks. The cases in which issuance
under track 2 is not possible are expected to be quite
limited.”  Following a vote by representatives of national governments
last month, the revised EU registry regulation needs to undergo
a three-month scrutiny period by  member states  and the European
Parliament before it enters into force.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  