-- EU Soy Meal Use Seen Rising by Oil World on South America Supply
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-26T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/eu-soy-meal-use-seen-rising-by-oil-world-on-south-america-supply.html
European Union usage of soybean
meal, an animal-feed component, is forecast to climb in the
first nine months of the year as supply from  South America 
increases, according to Oil World.  Soybean-meal use may climb to 24.2 million metric tons in
the period from January through to September from 22.9 million
tons in the year-earlier period, the Hamburg, Germany-based
industry researcher wrote in a report today.  Rising soybean prices last year made use of meal extracted
from the oilseed less attractive to EU livestock producers,
prompting them to use more meal from soybean seeds and palm
kernels, according to Oil World.  “We expect the dominance of protein feeds other than soya
meal to prevail also in early 2013 before soya-meal supplies
become more ample from March-April onward,” Oil World wrote.  Total use of meal from eight oilseeds in the EU is
predicted to decline to 40.1 million tons in the nine-month
period from 40.3 million tons, according to the researcher.  “On the assumption that sufficient soybean quantities are
delivered from South America in a timely fashion, we currently
project soya meal to rebound more or less sizably in April-
September,” Oil World wrote.  Consumption of sunflower meal will drop to 4.66 million
tons in the January-September period from 5.54 million tons,
rapeseed-meal use will decline to 8.61 tons from 9.11 tons and
usage of palm-kernel meal will slip to 2 million tons from 2.1
million tons, Oil World predicted.  The use of sunflower meal jumped 31 percent last year and
consumption of palm-kernel meal advanced 26 percent, with both
gaining market share as prices for soybean meal increased at a
faster pace, according to the report. Soybean-meal use dropped
to 29.9 million tons from 31.7 million tons in 2011.  “The prospective downtrend of soya meal prices may be
tempered by the large number of market participants waiting for
lower prices,” Oil World wrote. “If the recovery of soybean
crushings and exports from South America turns out even slower
than currently estimated, it will also become supportive for
soybean and soya meal prices in coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  