-- Euro Advances Against Dollar on Easing Italy Concern, Bernanke
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-27T22:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/euro-near-7-week-low-as-italy-sells-bonds-amid-poll-uncertainty.html
The euro rose for the first time in
three days against the dollar as concern eased that  Italy ’s
election deadlock would deepen  Europe ’s debt crisis and Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the bank’s stimulus
policies are working.  The 17-nation currency climbed from almost a seven-week low
yesterday as a report showed economic confidence in the region
improved this month. The yen declined versus the majority of its
16 most-traded peers before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe submits
his nomination for the next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor tomorrow. The
Dollar Index fell for the first time in six days as Bernanke
concluded two days of congressional testimony in  Washington .  “The Italian auction was seen as being relatively positive
by the market,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist at
Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Bernanke’s comments didn’t have much of an impact
because they don’t really stray much from what he said
yesterday.”  The euro gained 0.6 percent to $1.3139 at 5 p.m. in New
York after falling to $1.3018 yesterday, the lowest level since
Jan. 7. The single currency climbed 0.9 percent to 121.17 yen.
The yen dropped 0.3 percent to 92.24 per dollar after sliding to
94.77 on Feb. 25, the weakest since May 2010.  The dollar advanced 1.8 percent this month, the second most
after  Sweden ’s krona among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen added
less than 0.1 percent and the euro dropped 0.9 percent.  Rand, Peso  The South African rand weakened the most in nearly two
weeks against the dollar as Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
the budget deficit in  Africa ’s largest economy will probably
widen this year as economic growth slows. The currency was
little changed at 8.8174 per dollar after falling 0.8 percent,
the most since Feb. 15.  Mexico ’s peso gained for the first time in three days after
central bank board member Manuel Sanchez said he doesn’t see a
case for the country’s first benchmark rate cut since July 2009.
The currency rose 0.6 percent to 12.7652 per dollar after
appreciating to 12.7585.  Hungary’s forint fell to its weakest in four weeks on
speculation the central bank will keep cutting interest rates
and may take other steps to ease monetary policy after a new
chief takes over next week. The forint slid as much as 0.5
percent to 296.47 per euro, the weakest since Jan. 30, before
trading at 295.23.  Bernanke’s View  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell as Bernanke told the House Financial
Services Committee that the central bank’s easing policies are
helping to improve demand for homes and cars, and that the
housing market is recovering. He was continuing his semi-annual
testimony to Congress after speaking yesterday in the Senate.  “The fact that interest rates have gone up a bit is
actually indicative of a stronger economy,” Bernanke said, an
indication the Fed’s stimulus is working.  The central bank is buying $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage bonds a month to put downward pressure on interest
rates.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.4 percent to 81.567 after rising to 81.948
yesterday, the highest since Aug. 22.  ‘Temporary Respite’  Italy’s 10-year bonds advanced as the Treasury sold 4
billion euros ($5.25 billion) of new 10-year securities and 2.5
billion euros of five-year notes, meeting its target. It sold
the 10-year debt at an average yield of 4.83 percent, versus
4.17 percent at a previous auction Jan. 30.  “The fact we haven’t seen a further capitulation in
Italian bonds is providing some temporary respite for the
euro,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “There is
still uncertainty ahead and the underlying message is the euro
zone’s crisis is not over.”  Italian political leaders sparred over forming a government
after inconclusive elections fueled concern about the outlook
for the euro region and the country’s deepening recession.  Beppe Grillo, whose anti-establishment movement was the top
vote-getter in Italy’s election this week, rejected a call made
yesterday by Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani to back
a coalition.  An  index  of euro-area executive and consumer sentiment rose
to 91.1 from a revised 89.5 in January, the European Commission
in Brussels said. Economists had forecast an increase to 89.9,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Japan ’s currency rose as Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide
Suga said Abe will submit his nominations for the next BOJ chief
and two deputies tomorrow.  The yen has tumbled 16 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as Abe
signaled he will push the central bank to boost monetary
stimulus that tends to weaken a currency. It gained 1.3 percent
in the past week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  