-- Everton Advances to F.A. Cup Quarterfinals by Beating Oldham 3-1
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-27T01:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/everton-defeats-oldham-3-1-to-advance-to-f-a-cup-quarterfinals.html
Everton advanced to English soccer’s
F.A. Cup quarterfinals for the third time in five seasons with a
3-1 win against lower-league Oldham.  Kevin Mirallas, Leighton Baines and  Leon Osman  scored last
night at Goodison Park before  Matt Smith  got Oldham’s goal as
Everton won for the first time in five matches. The fifth-round
contest was replayed after the teams drew 2-2 on Feb. 16.  Everton, which won the last of its five titles in England’s
elite cup competition in 1995, will host fellow Premier League
team Wigan on March 9 in the last eight. The Toffees reached the
semifinals last season and were runners-up to Chelsea in 2009.  “We’ve gone close a couple of times so it’s whetted the
appetite and we want to go that bit further and win something,”
Baines said in a televised interview. “Because we are at home
against Wigan we will be favorites, but we’ve had tough games
with them over the last few years.”  Mirallas put Everton ahead in the 15th minute last night
when he guided  Darron Gibson ’s pass into the net. Baines doubled
the lead from the penalty spot in the 34th minute and Osman made
it 3-0 with a flicked header in the 62nd minute. Smith, whose
stoppage-time goal in the first game had forced the replay,
completed the scoring two minutes later.  Oldham, which plays in the third-tier League One, was the
lowest-ranked team left in the competition. The Latics upset
Liverpool in the previous round and had their best F.A. Cup run
since reaching the semifinals in 1994.  The remaining fifth-round match will be played today as
defending champion Chelsea travels to Middlesbrough. The winner
advances to play  Manchester United  on March 10 at Old Trafford.  In the other quarterfinals, Manchester City hosts Barnsley
and Blackburn travels to fellow Championship team Millwall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 