-- Mexican Peso Declines to Eight-Week Low as Europe Saps Demand
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-02-27T03:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/mexico-s-peso-hits-weakest-in-eight-weeks-as-europe-saps-demand.html
Mexico’s peso fell to an eight-week
low on investor concern that the  European debt crisis  will
worsen, adding to speculation that the Latin American country
will cut rates for the first time since 2009.  The peso depreciated 0.3 percent to 12.8435 per U.S. dollar
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the lowest closing level since Jan. 1.  Italy  headed toward a political stalemate that threatened
to derail austerity measures, reigniting speculation the
European country will struggle to repay debt.  “If the winning government doesn’t help with what all the
governments are doing to get out of the crisis in  Europe , it
automatically leads to political and economic risk,” Eduardo Rodriguez, a currency trader at Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB, said
in a phone interview. “The investors leave countries with
higher interest rates.”  The peso briefly erased its losses after the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values showed that home prices in 20
U.S. cities rose in the 12 months to December by the most in
more than six years, boosting the economic outlook for the Latin
American country’s biggest trading partner.  Mexico  sends about
80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  In the four-way race in Italy, Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani won the lower house by less than a half-percentage
point. Former Premier Silvio Berlusconi, who pledged to reverse
austerity measures, won a blocking minority in the Senate.  Yields on local-currency bonds due in 2024 rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.13 percent, the highest
closing level since Feb. 8. The price on the debt fell 0.85
centavo today to 143.04 centavos.  In Mexico, interbank futures contracts show that traders
are betting that the central bank will probably announce a cut
in the 4.5 percent benchmark rate after its next meeting on
March 8. Banco de Mexico reiterated on Feb. 13 that it may
reduce the target rate after inflation in January slowed to 3.25
percent, the slowest since October 2011.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy posted its biggest
trade deficit since 2008 last month on falling exports,
according to data in a preliminary report from the the national
statistics agency today, fueling speculation that policy makers
will cut the benchmark interest rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  