-- Lexus Named Top Car Brand in Consumer Reports Rankings
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/lexus-named-top-car-brand-in-consumer-reports-rankings.html
Japanese car brands, led by  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus , took the top seven spots in Consumer
Reports magazine’s annual quality rankings, as the top U.S.
brand placed 14th out of 26 in the ratings.  Lexus received the most points based on the scores of its
eight models, all of which the magazine recommends buying.
Parent-company Toyota’s namesake line tied for fourth place with
Honda Motor Co.’s Acura brand. Subaru, a unit of  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7270)  that placed first among automakers last year,
was second and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s Mazda was third.  Consumer Reports changed its ranking system this year,
breaking out brands instead of ranking automakers according to
collective scores for all their lines.  “We feel this is more in line with how people shop,” Rik Paul, the magazine’s automotive editor, said in an interview
before the rankings were released yesterday at the  National
Press Club  in Washington.  Consumer Reports , published by  Consumers Union , tests and
evaluates cars for how well they drive, interior-finish quality,
fuel economy and reliability. The rankings influence car buyers
and are published in the magazine’s annual auto issue.  Japanese brands combined to  account  for 36.9 percent of
vehicles sold last year in the U.S., according to Autodata
Corp., a researcher based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac, boosted by the CTS, was the
top U.S. brand, ranking 14th. The CTS was rated above-average
for reliability and called “as capable as its German rivals.”  Reliability Issues  The bottom six brands in the rankings were U.S.-based --
Chrysler Group LLC’s Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep;  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Ford and Lincoln; and GM’s Buick.  “The American automakers are getting better,” Paul said.
“As much as companies are improving, companies like Toyota and
Honda are still raising the bar.”  Chrysler accepted the criticism and said it’s working to
improve its vehicles.  “Although we are moving in the right direction, we’ll be
the first to acknowledge that we need to improve faster,” Doug Betts, senior vice president for quality, said in an e-mail.
“We’re aggressively upgrading our product lineup. For example,
we’re already making significant investments to vehicles already
recommended by Consumer Reports --  Jeep Grand Cherokee  and Dodge
Durango.”  MyFord Touch  Ford said it’s working on improvements to infotainment and
transmissions.  “In  North America  at the moment,  J.D. Power  and other
third-party results validate our own internal metrics showing
isolated areas for improvement -- primarily with MyFord Touch
and PowerShift automatic transmissions,”  Wes Sherwood , a Ford
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The good news is customers
already are benefiting from the updates we made to both
technologies.”  “Ford has had problems with reliability,” Paul said,
because the company’s infotainment system is difficult to use
and repair-prone. That fault “hits them twice” in rankings on
the road test and reliability, he said.  Cadillac’s in-vehicle infotainment system is “following
down the path of Ford and Lincoln,” Jake Fisher, director of
auto testing, told reporters yesterday. “It takes a long time
to do simple things.”  GM is making progress, Mike Hardie, the automaker’s
director of global quality strategy, said in an interview.  “There’s certainly a lot of work to do, but I do believe
we’re on a good track and we really want to score better,”
Hardie said.  ‘Glorious Things’  About 70 percent of GM’s product portfolio is turning over
in the next 12 months, Hardie said.  “We anticipate grand and glorious things in the future,”
he said.  Lexus earned praise for vehicles that are “generally
quiet, plush and very reliable, though they’re rarely sporty,”
the Yonkers, New York-based magazine said.  “When Consumer Reports recommends 100 percent of Lexus’
line-up, it speaks volumes about our dedication to building
high-quality  luxury vehicles ,”  Mark Templin , Lexus group vice
president and general manager, said in an e-mailed statement.  Toyota sold 2.08 million cars and light trucks in the U.S.
last year, trailing only  GM and Ford , as it expanded its Prius
hybrid lineup and its Camry midsize sedan remained the nation’s
best-selling car model.  Audi, Volkswagen  Because redesigns of Chrysler’s Dodge Ram and GM’s
Chevrolet Silverado haven’t been tested, the magazine elected
not to make a “best pick” among all types of pickups this
year. In its place, Consumer Reports brought back the “budget
car” category, choosing  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra as the best
car for less than $20,000.  Honda’s Accord won the best pick for the midsized sedan
category, the top-selling vehicle class in the U.S.  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi A6 was the best pick for luxury cars and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke (BMW)  AG’s 328i was the best pick for sports sedans,
bringing German automakers back into the best picks list for the
first time in a decade.  “Audi has come a long way,” Fisher said. “Five years
ago, I never thought I would be talking about Audi and
reliability in the same sentence or even the same paragraph.”  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, placed 16th in brand
rankings. The manufacturer has a target of overtaking Toyota and
GM to become the world’s biggest carmaker by 2018. Its U.S.
sales have been undeterred by poor reviews by Consumer Reports
of its Jetta SE sedan, which placed last in its category of
compact sedans.  Deliveries of Volkswagen brand cars and SUVs surged 35
percent in the U.S. last year to 438,133, the best since 1973.
The division has more than doubled its market share since 2007,
to 3 percent from 1.4 percent.  Consumer Reports Magazine’s Best, Worst Car by Category  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  