-- Exxon, Total Study Sri Lanka Oil Reserves Ahead of Biggest Sale
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-02-26T06:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/exxon-total-study-sri-lanka-oil-reserves-ahead-of-biggest-sale.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Total SA (FP)  are
among explorers reviewing Sri Lanka’s oil and natural gas
reserves ahead of the biggest auction of blocks planned by a
nation that imports all its crude.  Exxon Mobil, the world’s largest oil company by value, and
Total, Europe’s third-largest, bought data related to the sale
of 13 offshore fields, Saliya Wickramasuriya, director general
at the Petroleum Resources Development Secretariat, said in an
interview.  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and India’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) 
have enquired about the bids, which are scheduled to open at a
meeting with potential investors in Houston on March 7 and end
about five months later, he said.  “We’ve had quite a few people from Big Oil come by,”
Colombo-based Wickramasuriya said in a Feb. 25 telephone
interview. “We’ve had 20 companies that took our data, made
repeat visits, or expressed interest in taking discussions
further in the framework of the bid round.”  Global oil majors are being lured by prospects beyond the
island’s famed white-sand beaches as the nation seeks to rebuild
an economy ravaged by three decades of civil war.  Sri Lanka ,
where conflict ended in 2009, is looking for technology to
unlock the potential of the area neighboring India, where
companies including  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and BP are present.  “It’d be good for Sri Lanka to get the big conglomerates
in the energy sector interested at the onset,” said Dushni Weerakoon, director at the Institute of Policy Studies in
Colombo. “It’ll be a signal of confidence and an enormous
economic relief as we are a heavy energy importer.”  Crude Importer  Sri Lanka, which doesn’t produce any oil or gas, imports
all its crude oil requirements from nations including  Saudi
Arabia  and  Iran . The nation has identified 13 blocks off the
northern and western coasts of Sri Lanka for the auction,
including five in the Cauvery basin and eight in the Mannar. Two
of the 13 may be withdrawn because of a lack of data,
Wickramasuriya said.  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Exxon
didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the bidding. Total
spokeswoman Anastasia Zhivulina and ONGC Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva declined to comment, as did an Eni spokesman, who
couldn’t be named because of company policy.  “BP continuously evaluates and ranks new exploration
access opportunities around the world,” spokesman Mark Salt
said in an e-mail on Feb. 25.  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , which is producing oil at India’s largest
onshore block, discovered gas in an offshore area in Sri Lanka’s
Mannar basin last year, estimated by the government to hold 1
billion barrels of oil. That’s equal to about 18 percent of
India’s proved oil reserves, according to BP data.  Gauge Potential  Cairn  India  started drilling a new well in the area this
month, Chief Executive Office P. Elango said in a Feb. 20
interview. It needs to drill two or three more wells before it
can gauge the potential of the reserves, Wickramasuriya said.  The Sri Lankan Cauvery basin is a geological extension of
an area in India off the coast of Tamil Nadu state,
Wickramasuriya said. Reliance announced a gas discovery in a
deepwater well in the Indian waters of the basin in July 2007.
Four years later, it announced another discovery in the area.  Loans from China’s Export-Import Bank and companies
including China Merchants Holding International and China
Machinery Engineering Corp. are helping Sri Lanka expand its
ports, power generation, and transportation networks. Chinese
oil explorers have yet to contact Wickramasuriya or his office
for the latest auction, he said.  “Now that we’re launching the bid, some companies that
have been interested internally may now start contacting us,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  