-- Focus Media Sued by Investor Over Carlyle-Led Buyout
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-26T21:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/focus-media-sued-by-investor-over-carlyle-led-buyout.html
Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , the
Shanghai-based advertising company, was sued with its top
management by a U.S. pension fund seeking to stop a buyout led
by  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   Iron Workers Mid-South Pension Fund filed a complaint in
federal court in San Francisco alleging the buyout price is
unfair to shareholders and the company’s proxy statement
contained false and misleading information.  “In agreeing to the proposed transaction, the board acted
in an unfairly prejudicial and oppressive manner by failing to
conduct a full and fair sales process designed to secure the
best value available for the company’s shareholders,” according
to the complaint filed yesterday.  Focus Media agreed Dec. 19 to be bought for $3.7 billion by
a group of investors led by Carlyle. The company operates
networks of advertising display panels in office buildings,
supermarkets and other venues, and began trading on the  Nasdaq 
in 2005. Focus Media, which short-seller Muddy Waters LLC said
in 2011 had overstated its network, joins other Chinese
companies seeking to withdraw from U.S. exchanges after
corporate governance concerns cut valuations.  SEC Probe  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
Focus Media’s purchase and resale of companies including Allyes
Online Media Holding Ltd., a Chinese online ad agency, Focus
said in a Jan. 18 U.S. regulatory filing. The company said it
was cooperating with the probe.  The defendants in the lawsuit include Focus Media’s chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, directors and
Giovanna Parent Ltd., the acquiring entity. After the buyout,
the parent entity will be beneficially owned by Focus Media’s
chief executive and affiliates of and funds managed by Giovanna
Investment Holdings Ltd., which is owned and controlled by
Carlyle Asia Partners III and others, the company said in a Dec.
19 press release.  The merger agreement contains “onerous and preclusive
provisions” which will “serve to unreasonably deter and
discourage superior offers,” the pension fund said in its
complaint. The lawsuit, filed for the pension fund by San Diego,
California-based Robbins Arroyo LLP, seeks to represent other
Focus Media shareholders in its request for a court order
finding the merger agreement unenforceable. The transaction is
expected to be completed in the second quarter, Focus Media said
in December.  Shares Sale  The iron workers pension fund sold 600 shares of Focus
Media on Jan. 24, according to the complaint.  Jing Lu, a Shanghai-based investor relations executive for
Focus Media, said the company had no comment on the lawsuit.  Randall Whitestone, a Carlyle spokesman, also declined to
comment on the case.  Focus Media said last year that the allegation by Muddy
Waters about its network “lacks credibility.”  The case is Iron Workers v Focus Media, 13-827, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  