-- Forint Drops Before Central Bank Meeting on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-26T10:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/forint-drops-before-central-bank-meeting-on-europe-debt-concern.html
The forint weakened amid speculation
 Hungary ’s central bank will further cut  interest rates  and as
demand dropped for riskier assets on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis will escalate after inconclusive Italian elections.  Traders increased bets the Magyar Nemzeti Bank will extend
half a year of monetary easing as bank President Andras Simor’s
term ends this week. Simor has opposed lowering rates and has
been outvoted each month since August by four Monetary Council
members appointed by the ruling Fidesz party. Emerging-market
stocks dropped to a two-month low today after early results
suggested  Italy ’s elections would result in a hung parliament.  “The forint is mainly falling on the worsening global
sentiment after the Italian elections,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG. “The central bank question is
probably also having an impact on the currency.”  The forint weakened 0.2 percent to 294.13 per euro,
extending its depreciation to 0.9 percent this year. Yields on
the government’s 10-year bonds rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.263 percent by 10:41 a.m. in Budapest.  Policy makers will cut rates 25 basis points to 5.25
percent today, according to all 26 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , who has urged the central
bank to more strongly support economic growth, will take over
from Simor next week, Nepszabadsag reported today, matching
earlier reports from news websites including Index and vg.hu.
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will name the new chief on March 1.  Forward-rate agreements fixing interest in one month fell
18 basis points to 5.03 percent, the lowest intraday level in
three weeks. The FRA contracts traded 21 basis points below the
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate. Twelve-month FRA contracts fell
two basis points to 4.28 percent.  “We expect the central bank to continue easing monetary
conditions in the months ahead,”  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-
based currency strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in an e-
mailed report today. “We keep a negative view on the forint
ahead of the nomination of the new governor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  