-- Foul-Up on Afghan Film Has Tacita Dean Back at Blackboard
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/foul-up-on-afghan-film-has-tacita-dean-back-at-blackboard.html
After more than a decade away from
blackboard drawings, British artist  Tacita Dean  returned to the
form with last year’s “Fatigues” series.  First shown at the  Documenta  exhibition outside Kassel,
 Germany , the works are now at the  Marian Goodman Gallery , along
with Dean’s 2010 film “The Friar’s Doodle.”  “Fatigues” comprises immense drawings in white chalk on
blackboard that depict Afghanistan’s Hindu Kush peaks, the
source of the Kabul River in the mountains and another view of
the river descending toward Kabul.  Dean, 47, planned and created the drawings for Documenta’s
tall vertical space, with the peaks shown on top, the flowing
river on the bottom.  At Marian Goodman, she had to adapt her vision to a single
floor of two rooms. She sees a long corridor between them
helping the viewer make the spatial transition.  We met at the Manhattan gallery just a few days before the
opening of the show.  Rosboch: Your main medium is film. I understand there was a
foul-up with a film project that more or less forced you back to
blackboard drawing after so many years.  Dean: I went down to Kassel and the curator told me that
she would have part of Documenta happening in Kabul. So I
decided to make a blind film there.  I found a cameraman, got a little Bolex wind-up camera and
some film, and sent everything by diplomatic bag to  Afghanistan .  Tax Office  Then I was very involved with the Turbine Hall and when I
eventually looked at the footage, I realized that most of it was
unusable. Also, the space that I was supposed to have was given
to someone else and in its place I was offered a three-story tax
office with a very ornate staircase in the middle.  That’s when I realized that I would have to work with
things on the wall and, given the little time, go back to
something I trusted -- blackboard drawing.  Rosboch: Tell me about the drawings.  Dean: I bought some albumen prints of Kabul from 1875 off
the Internet that depicted an incident in the second Anglo-
Afghan war. I started researching into that and was led to a
horribly jingoistic poem by Rudyard Kipling called “ Ford O’
Kabul River ,” about a platoon of soldiers trying to cross the
Kabul River and drowning.  It was the combination of that and the memory of a brief
moment in my failed faulty footage when a flash flood was going
through the streets of Kabul.  Fatal Floods  So I started doing the Hindu Kush and the passage of the
Kabul River and got quite into the whole geography of it. The
war receded and it became just about the general rising of the
waters and the melting of the ice every year, that brings some
sort of catharsis, the washing of the streets, but is also a
disaster and kills people.  Rosboch: Have you been to Afghanistan?  Dean: No, the blind film I did in the beginning was because
I didn’t want to go. The drawings came from my head, to some
extent. I used some pictures of mountains, like the Himalayas,
but then I kind of made it up. That is always what happens to
me, I find a way of doing things and then drawing takes over.  But I had to not make it look like  Switzerland  because
there are no trees there. So the moment of breakthrough was
working out how to do those bare rocks. It was pretty hard.  Rosboch: Do you keep any of your work?  Dean: No, but I keep proofs of all my films. Not that
that’s going to be of any use when film doesn’t exist anymore.  The art world knows the difference but the cinema industry,
which has all the money and controls the medium, thinks film and
digital are the same thing.  Time Medium  Rosboch: What are the main differences?  Dean: Everything. Film is for me a medium of time, and you
never know what you have, so all the energy goes into the
making. With digital it’s all in post-production and everything
can be changed.  There’s a potential to have two different mediums, which is
exciting, but they have to be so absolutist.  Rosboch: Can you talk about “The Friar’s Doodle,” the
film now at Marian Goodman?  Dean: When I was at boarding school -- I was a Catholic in
a Methodist school -- I received dispensation from attending
chapel and was allowed to go across the road to a study center
for young Franciscans.  One of them gave me a photocopy of this doodle that he’d
made, which I kept, amazingly enough, for 30 years.  No Exit  When I was invited to do something in a monastery in Silos,
 Spain , I immediately thought of the friar’s doodle. It’s quite
strange, with swirls and ducts, stairs and passageways, crosses
and stars, and no kind of exit. It always fascinated me.  So I filmed it the old way, with an old rostrum camera --
probably the last place you could find one in  England  is gone
now.  It goes round and round and you can’t ever find a way out.
You never see the whole doodle in the film, you’re lost in it.  The show is on view through March 9th at the Marian Goodman
Gallery, 24 W. 57th St. Information: +1-212-977-7160;
 http://www.mariangoodman.com/exhibitions/2013-02-01_tacita-dean/   (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art ,  Susan
Antilla  on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in  New York  
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 