-- Fox Rothschild, Wachtell Lipton, Norton: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-26T12:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/fox-rothschild-wachtell-lipton-business-of-law.html
Fox Rothschild LLP poached a team of
eight attorneys from Day Pitney LLP to open a Morristown, New
Jersey, office this summer that specializes in real estate.  Robert A. Klausner, Deirdre E. Moore, Christopher M. Rider,
Grace J. Shin and Mat D. Carlson joined Fox as partners along
with three associates.  “We have been looking to expand our transactional practice
in Northern New Jersey for quite a while and to find such a
prestigious real estate group, one of the few groups in New
Jersey rated Band 1 by Chambers USA, is quite an exciting
opportunity for Fox,” Stanley L. Goodman, managing partner of
Fox Rothschild’s Roseland office, said in a statement.  Day Pitney’s managing partner Stanley A. Twardy said in an
e-mail that the firm is disappointed to see the group depart.  “But this is how the legal business is today,” Twardy
said. “We still have one of the best real estate practices in
the region and our real estate department is doing just fine
despite the departures.”  Klausner has experience in leasing, acquisitions and
dispositions, joint venture structuring, financing and build-to-
suit, spec and urban development, the firm said. Moore advises
commercial and residential developers and investors, handling
matters related to the acquisition, sale, leasing, management
and financing of commercial, retail, mixed-use development and
redevelopment projects, as well as industrial and golf course
projects.  Rider has experience in acquisitions and sales, commercial
mortgage, mezzanine and construction financings, debt
restructurings, joint ventures, development and construction
projects, and commercial leasing. Shin handles commercial real
estate transactional matters, particularly those related to
leasing and sales and acquisitions. Carlson represents clients
in commercial real estate transactions involving acquisitions,
dispositions, financings, commercial leasing and real estate
joint ventures, according to the firm statement.  Fox Rothschild has three offices in New Jersey with more
than 150 attorneys. The firm has more than 500 lawyers in 17
U.S. offices.  K&L Gates Adds Commercial-Disputes Partner in Miami  K&L Gates LLP hired Kevin K. Ross-Andino, previously at
Foley & Lardner LLP, as a partner in the commercial disputes
practice.  Ross-Andino represents clients throughout the U.S.,  Latin
America , and the Caribbean on cross-border business disputes and
arbitration matters. He advises on private placement of debt and
equity securities, insurance coverage, products liability,
judgment enforcements, intellectual property rights, financial
institutions and creditors’ rights, and mergers and acquisitions
and post-employment disputes, the firm said.  K&L Gates has 47 offices in the U.S., Asia, Australia,
Europe, the  Middle East  and  South America .  Michelmores Hires Osborne Clarke Private-Client Team Head  Michelmores LLP hired Sandra Brown in the firm’s Bristol
office as a partner in the private client group. Brown was head
of the private client team at  Osborne Clarke  for nearly 15
years, the firm said.  Michelmores plans to continue to grow its national and
international private client practice.  “Our aim is to build rapidly on the existing practice, and
recruit more top class private-client lawyers into the Bristol
office,” Will Michelmore, senior partner and head of
Michelmores’ private client team said in a statement.  The firm now has 350 employees and 53 partners, with
offices in London, Bristol and Exeter.  Corporate Restructuring Lawyer Joins Blank Rome in Philadelphia  Blank Rome LLP hired Leon R. Barson as partner in the
business restructuring and bankruptcy group in the Philadelphia
office. He joins Blank Rome from Pepper Hamilton LLP where he
was a partner in the corporate restructuring and bankruptcy
group.  Barson focuses his practice on corporate reorganizations,
workouts, debtors’ and creditors’ rights, and corporate
transactions, the firm said.  Blank Rome has more than 500 attorneys at 12 offices in the
U.S. and Asia.  Corporate and Banking/Finance Lawyer Rejoins Chadbourne  Adam Mycyk has rejoined Chadbourne & Parke LLP as an
international partner in the Kiev office. Mycyk, who was a
partner at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP in Kiev, is returning to
focus on corporate and banking/finance matters in Ukraine, the
firm said.  Mycyk, who left Chadbourne in 2007, advises international
and Ukrainian companies, banks, investment banks and other
financial institutions and investors on structuring and
implementing debt and equity inward investments involving
privatizations, mergers and acquisitions or joint ventures and
on complex cross-border commercial and financing transactions.  Chadbourne has 12 U.S. and international offices.  Fees  Gupta Ordered to Pay Goldman Sachs $6.2 Million for Probe Fees  Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
convicted of passing tips to his friend  Raj Rajaratnam , was
ordered to pay the bank more than $6.2 million in restitution as
a victim of his  insider trading , in part to pay for fees
generated by  law firm  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  Goldman Sachs argued that as a result of Gupta’s crimes, it
was entitled to $6.9 million in legal fees and other expenses it
had spent during a federal probe of the bank by the Manhattan
U.S. Attorney’s Office and the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,
as well as a parallel investigation by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Gupta, 64, who sat on the board of New York-based Goldman
Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was convicted
in June of passing information he gathered at board meetings to
Rajaratnam, his former business associate who was co-founder of
the hedge fund Galleon Group LLC.  “Goldman Sachs has proved by a preponderance of the
evidence that 90 percent of its tendered expenses were both
necessary and incurred during its participating in the
investigation and prosecution,” U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
who presided over Gupta’s criminal trial, said in a ruling
yesterday.  Rakoff said that he reviewed the more than 542 pages of
billing records from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, which represented
the firm during the investigation of both Gupta and Rajaratnam.
Rajaratnam, convicted of insider trading in 2011, is serving an
11-year prison sentence.  Gupta was found guilty of leaking tips to Rajaratnam about
Goldman Sachs, including information about a $5 billion
investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  on Sept.
23, 2008, and a second tip about a quarterly loss at the firm in
October 2008.  “In convicting Gupta of conspiracy and substantive insider
trading violations, the jury necessarily determined that Gupta
breached his duty as a director of Goldman Sachs,” said Steven Peikin, a Sullivan & Cromwell partner. “The victim here is
Goldman Sachs.”  Peikin had argued that Goldman Sachs was entitled to
recover expenses including money it spent conducting an internal
investigation; funds spent representing the firm during U.S.
criminal and civil investigations of both Rajaratnam and Gupta
and expenses paid to Gupta for his defense. Goldman Sachs also
said it was entitled to funds it paid the law firm in response
to the government’s request for documentation and the
preparation of Goldman Sachs witnesses. Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  testified at both Rajaratnam’s
and Gupta’s trials and was deposed during the parallel SEC case.  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, declined to comment on
the judge’s ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deals  Wachtell Lipton, WilmerHale on Chesapeake Shale Stake Sale  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  agreed to sell a stake in an
Oklahoma oilfield to China Petrochemical Corp. for less than
one-third of its estimated value. Chesapeake shares tumbled the
most in three months.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal adviser
to Chesapeake Energy’s board of directors. Ray Lees at
Commercial Law Group is the outside counsel representing
Chesapeake Energy. Reginald Brown and Benjamin Powell of Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP are advising on regulatory
issues, Wachtell said in a statement.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partner David A. Katz and antitrust partner Nelson O. Fitts.  Sinopec, as China’s second-largest energy producer is
known, will pay $1.02 billion in cash for a 50 percent interest
in 850,000 acres Chesapeake controls in the Mississippi Lime
formation, the companies announced in separate statements. The
price equates to $2,400 an acre, less than the $7,000 to $8,000
at which Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake valued the asset in a
July presentation.  The transaction includes wells that were pumping the
equivalent of 34,000 barrels of crude a day during the final
three months of 2012, according to Chesapeake’s statement. The
per-acre price lags the $4,425 and $2,750  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) 
received in successive Mississippi Lime deals in 2011, said
 Michael Kelly , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in
Houston. Neither of the SandRidge sales included producing
wells, he said.  Chesapeake agreed to sell more than $12 billion in
oilfields and pipelines since the beginning of 2012 to plug a
cash-flow deficit aggravated by low prices for natural gas,
which accounts for about 80 percent of the company’s output.
Chesapeake failed to meet its asset-sales target last year and
the prices received haven’t matched the company’s projections.  Chesapeake wants to raise $4 billion to $7 billion this
year from asset sales, according to a presentation published on
the company’s website yesterday.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Employment and Labor Boutique Joins  Norton Rose  in Calgary  Norton Rose LLP acquired a small Calgary employment and
labor boutique, Armstrong Mitchell Lawyers.  As of March 1, the firm’s two partners, William J.
Armstrong and Timothy D. Mitchell along with two associates will
join the firm.  The Armstrong Mitchell lawyers have experience advising
private and public sector employers in provincial and federal
jurisdictions in labor relations, employment, human rights,
occupational health and safety and workers compensation matters,
the firm said.  “We are excited to be expanding our employment and labour
capabilities in the Canadian market by adding respected
expertise to our existing practice,” Richard J. Charney, the
employment and labor global practice leader said in a statement.  Norton Rose will be combining with U.S. law firm Fulbright
& Jaworski on June 1. Norton Rose Fulbright will have 3,800
lawyers at offices worldwide.  King & Spalding Appoints Holleman Charlotte Office Head  Finance partner W. Todd Holleman has been appointed
managing partner of King & Spalding LLP’s Charlotte, North
Carolina, office.  Holleman, a resident in the firm’s Charlotte office since
it opened in 2007, represents financial institutions and funds,
energy companies, private equity sponsors and project
developers. He has expertise in leveraged acquisition finance
and energy and commercial real estate finance, the firm said.  King & Spalding’s Charlotte office has 28 lawyers,
including 12 partners. The office provides legal services
primarily in the areas of finance, litigation, private equity,
corporate and real estate.  Among recent major deals and cases by partners in the
Charlotte office are a $1 billion dollar credit facility
provided by Wells Fargo Bank to Puget Sound Energy, the $335
million sale of TMW Systems, a patent infringement victory for
McKesson, the firm said in a statement.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 