-- Fung Wah Chinatown Buses Ordered Off Road After Checks
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-26T22:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/fung-wah-chinatown-buses-ordered-off-road-after-checks.html
Fung Wah Bus Transportation Inc.,
the largest Chinatown bus company operating between New York and
 Boston , was ordered to park its entire fleet of 28 buses because
of safety concerns, U.S. regulators said.  The Transportation Department’s Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration issued the order to complete detailed
inspections of the buses and company operations, the agency said
today in a statement. The action came after the Massachusetts
Department of Public Utilities found cracked bus frames and
repairs that appeared to make the defects worse.  “This carrier lacks an understanding of basic federal
safety management system requirements and is currently incapable
of maintaining a fleet of motor coaches,” Ann Berwick, the
state department’s chairman, said in a Feb. 22 letter to FMCSA
Administrator Anne Ferro.  Federal regulators have been increasing scrutiny of bus
safety at discount lines that, like Fung Wah, often operate
between Chinatown neighborhoods of large cities. Their growth
has been booming as passengers seek discount tickets, which may
sell for as little as $1.  The U.S. “imminent hazard” declaration applies to the 28
buses owned by Fung Wah, until the company convinces U.S.
regulators the vehicles have been fixed, its drivers have been
trained to properly report vehicle defects and the company has
an effective safety management plan in place, according to the
regulator’s order.  Leasing Buses  Fung Wah, which is still selling tickets on its website,
isn’t shut down and is allowed to rent or lease other buses,
Duane DeBruyne, a FMCSA spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Bus transportation is the fastest-growing form of intercity
travel in the U.S., with scheduled departures increasing 7.5
percent last year, according to  Chicago ’s DePaul University.  On Feb. 14, the Transportation Department said it would
send specially trained investigators to find and shut down
unsafe bus companies across the country. That followed a sweep
last May in which the department cited safety hazards in
shutting down 26 companies operating in New York and
Philadelphia.  Safety Records  The U.S. investigation of Fung Wah will include examination
of vehicle safety records, and regulators “may consider
additional actions against the company if warranted,” the FMCSA
said.  Fung Wah employees who answered the phone at ticket offices
in New York and Boston referred questions to the company’s
office in New York. Calls to that number got a busy signal.  This month’s Transportation Department crackdown followed
two fatal accidents. A Feb. 3 crash near Yucaipa,  California ,
involving a bus from Tijuana,  Mexico , killed eight people. Nine
people died in a Dec. 30 wreck involving a Canadian company in
eastern  Oregon .  Fung Wah’s driver fitness record, based on data collected
at roadside inspections, is worse than 97 percent of the bus
industry, according to records on the FMCSA’s website. Its
record on unsafe driving trails 66 percent of the industry.  Massachusetts inspectors looked at Fung Wah buses on Feb.
14 after receiving a complaint from Boston police that the
company was operating three buses ordered off the road due to
cracks in their frames, according to the state’s letter to
FMCSA.  State Inspections  The state inspections resulted in two more buses being
placed out of service, the letter said. Inspectors removed the
license plates from one of the buses because of the severity of
safety problems. Five more buses were taken off the road Feb. 20
because of frame cracks.  “The department has also noted that some of the attempted
repairs made by Fung Wah to various buses appear to be
substandard,” Berwick said. “The cracks appear to be larger
than they were when the buses were initially inspected.”  Fung Wah meets the federal definition of a “high-risk”
passenger carrier as outlined by Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood in announcing the federal crackdown, Berwick said, asking
FMCSA to immediately declare the company a public safety hazard.  Fung Wah had agreed to take 21 of its 28 buses off the road
voluntarily on Feb. 23 based on the state’s concerns, Berwick
said. The state pushed for idling the entire fleet, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  