-- Gaza Rocket Hits Israel for First Time in Three Months
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-02-26T12:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/gaza-rocket-hits-israel-for-first-time-since-november-operation.html
A rocket fired from the  Gaza Strip 
struck southern  Israel  today for the first time since Israeli
forces concluded an operation in November designed to end
attacks from the Palestinian enclave.  There were no injuries, an army spokeswoman said, speaking
anonymously in accordance with military regulations.  The Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, a militant group associated
with the Fatah movement, claimed credit for the attack in a
statement, the Palestinian Ma’an news agency said. Ahmed Abu-
Nasser, a Fatah spokesman based in Gaza, disputed the report in
a phone interview.  Israel’s November operation in Gaza concluded with an
Egyptian-mediated agreement with Hamas, which controls Gaza, and
other Palestinian militant groups to halt rocket attacks.  “Calm with be answered with calm, rockets will be
responded to with a reaction,” Israeli President  Shimon Peres 
said today during a tour of communities bordering Gaza. “I
believe that both parties have a profound interest in lowering
the flames,” Peres said, in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio .  The rocket strike comes after a week of demonstrations in
the  West Bank (WBC)  over the treatment of Palestinian prisoners in
Israeli jails.  The protests intensified after Israel announced Feb. 23
that a prisoner had died in custody, and Palestinian officials
charged it was due to “torture and medical negligence.” The
Israeli Health Ministry said an autopsy on the prisoner showed
“no signs of external trauma” and initial findings were unable
to determine the cause of death.  Palestinian official Saeb Erekat said today he has
requested the United Nations conduct an international
investigation into the prisoner’s death, according to a
statement posted on the website of the official Palestinian Wafa
 news agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  