-- Germany Agrees on Regulation to Allow Fracking for Shale Gas
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-02-26T15:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/germany-agrees-on-regulation-to-permit-fracking-for-shale-gas.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government agreed on draft regulation to allow the tapping of
shale gas via hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a practice the
opposition says may harm the environment.  The legislation would outlaw fracking in water protection
areas and near drinking water wells and would make environmental
impact studies mandatory for new projects, Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier and Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said in a
joint letter obtained by  Bloomberg News . The measures would
permit the technique in non-restricted areas and provide “a
unified legal situation,” the ministers wrote.  “This offers a good perspective for the future even if we
should wait to see the actual progress,” Roesler said in a
statement e-mailed today by his ministry in Berlin. While
fracking offers “significant opportunities, we must always keep
in view possible effects on the environment.”  Fracking is politically and environmentally contentious in
 Germany  as federal elections loom on Sept. 22. The main
opposition  Social Democrats  have called for a temporary ban on
the practice while their Green Party allies want to outlaw it
altogether. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  last week suggested the
government may be open to the technology even as Bild  reported 
that Altmaier wanted to ban the practice.  Domestic Energy  Merkel’s government is keen to develop domestic energy
sources as it closes nuclear plants by 2022 and shifts to
renewable power. While a successful drilling campaign would
redraw the energy map across  Europe , a continent reliant on
 Russia  for about a quarter of its gas, public opposition means
little headway has been made on fracking in Germany.  The government is opening the door to a potentially harmful
technique, said Oliver Krischer, a Green Party lawmaker.  “Excluding drinking water protection areas is just for
show,” Krischer said in an e-mailed statement. “It means that
fracking is allowed on more than 80 percent of Germany’s
landmass.”  BASF SE (BAS)  Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock said he welcomes
the agreement on fracking in Germany, speaking today at a press
conference at the chemical maker’s Ludwigshafen headquarters.
Fracking shouldn’t become a “fear” topic, he said.  BASF, which gets the biggest portion of sales and earnings
from its oil and gas business, is a proponent of fracking as it
seeks to harness the rising cost of raw materials.  Shale Rock  Fracking involves drilling hundreds of wells and cracking
shale rocks with a high-pressure mixture of water, sand and
chemicals to unlock gas or oil from impermeable stone. It has
been used on conventional reserves in Germany since the 1960s.  The practice is rising on the political agenda as industry
tries to absorb increasing energy costs resulting from Merkel’s
nuclear exit.  Gas prices  in Germany are now four times those of
the U.S., where support for shale gas is lowering costs, Ulrich Grillo, the president of Germany’s BDI industry association, was
cited as saying in the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  on Jan.
28.  Germany sits on as much as 2.3 billion cubic meters (81
billion cubic feet) of shale gas, enough to boost the current
output of natural gas 100-fold, according to Volker Steinbach,
the head of the natural resources department of the Federal
Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources.  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  have drilled test
wells into unconventional natural gas reservoirs in Germany in
an attempt to emulate the U.S. shale-gas boom. Fracking has been
used at least 275 times at conventional gas and oil wells in
Lower Saxony state, according to a study presented by the
 Environment Ministry  in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  