-- German Industry Says Proposed EU Gender Quotas Are Illegal
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-02-26T12:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/german-industry-says-proposed-eu-gender-quotas-are-illegal.html
German industry groups representing
thousands of companies and small businesses voiced their
opposition to gender quotas imposed by the European Union, which
they say would impinge on shareholder rights and be illegal.  The proposed 40 percent threshold for female directors on
supervisory boards would particularly burden family-owned
companies, the presidents of the BDA, BDI and DIHK trade groups
said in a letter to politicians including Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler obtained by Bloomberg News today.  “Substantially increasing the number of women in
leadership positions is an important issue of concern for German
business,” the groups said. “It is nonetheless firmly against
binding standards of a uniform quota for supervisory or
executive boards.”  The European Commission adopted a draft proposal in
November aimed at requiring supervisory boards to be at least
two-fifths female by 2020. Companies may face sanctions if they
fail to favor women over equally qualified men.  Germany  lags European peers when it comes to female
representation on corporate boards. Women represent 7.2 percent
of the total number of German executive board members and 13.8
percent of supervisory board members, according to an October
study by the European Commission. That compares with an EU-wide
average of 15.8 percent and 16.8 percent, respectively.  The new measures would apply to about 5,000 listed
companies in the EU by 2020 and state-owned companies by 2018,
the commission said. They exclude companies with less than 250
employees or global sales below 50 million euros ($64 million).  The letter, which was also sent to Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen, Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser Schnarrenberger and Angela Merkel’s Chief of Staff Ronald Pofalla, said the quota contravenes the EU’s subsidiarity
principle, which gives national laws precedence over those
agreed in Brussels.  “The measures already undertaken by EU member states to
increase the proportion of women in leadership positions in the
private sector are not taken into sufficient account,” the
industry bodies wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  