-- Glaxo’s Swine-Flu Shot Linked to Narcolepsy in U.K. Kids
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-02-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/glaxo-s-swine-flu-shot-linked-to-narcolepsy-in-u-k-kids.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Pandemrix
swine-flu vaccine was associated with an increased risk of
narcolepsy in U.K. children for the first time in a  study  that
supports similar findings in Finland and  Sweden .  Among 75 children between the ages of 4 and 18 diagnosed
with narcolepsy, 11 had been vaccinated with Pandemrix before
symptoms began, seven of them within six months, scientists at
the U.K. Health Protection Agency found. The study was published
today in the British Medical Journal.  The European Medicines Agency in July 2011 recommended
restricting the use of Pandemrix in people younger than 20 after
the product was linked to rare cases of narcolepsy. More than 30
million Europeans received the treatment during the 2009
influenza pandemic. The U.K. study suggests a probability of
narcolepsy for about 1 out of every 55,000 doses of Pandemrix, 
the HPA said in a statement.  “These findings suggest there is an increased risk in
children of narcolepsy after Pandemrix vaccination, and this is
consistent with findings from studies in other European
countries,”  Elizabeth Miller , a consultant epidemiologist with
the HPA and lead author of the study, said in the statement.
“However, this risk may be overestimated by more rapid referral
of vaccinated cases.”  Narcolepsy is a neurological disorder caused by the brain’s
inability to regulate sleep-wake cycles, provoking bouts of
sleep throughout the day. Long-term follow-up is needed to fully
understand the association with Pandemrix, the researchers said.  Immune Reaction  The vaccine against the H1N1 flu virus may have triggered
an immune reaction against the sleep center cells in children
who were genetically predisposed to develop  narcolepsy , said
John Shneerson, co-author and consultant physician from the
Respiratory Support and Sleep Centre at Papworth Hospital in
Cambridge,  England .  Glaxo first became aware of the possible link through
reports of side effects in 2010, said company spokesman David
Daley. More investigation is needed to disentangle other
factors, including genetic and environmental ones, that are
associated with the condition, he said.  “We remain committed to carrying out additional research
into the potential role of Pandemrix in the development of
narcolepsy,” Daley said in an e-mailed statement. “The
additional data becoming available will support our ongoing
research efforts and, we hope, enable us to provide more
answers.”  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, is conducting a study
in  Canada , where an equivalent H1N1 vaccine, Arepanrix, was
widely used. The company plans to report the full results of
that research next year, Daley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  