-- Gleacher Stung by Defections as Cuts Fail to Stanch Losses
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-02-26T21:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/gleacher-stung-by-defections-as-cuts-fail-to-stanch-losses-2-.html
As Thomas Hughes prepared to run
 Gleacher & Co. (GLCH)  in 2011, he vowed to cut costs and transform the
brokerage into a “substantial force.” Now the  stock  is down 66
percent as he grapples with losses and worker defections.  Gleacher, beset by $159.8 million in losses in the past two
years, is struggling to find a working strategy as Wall Street
recovers from a 2008 financial crisis that had once opened the
way for smaller firms to vie for deals and trades shunned by
bigger competitors. Hughes shut the equities division, fired the
head of corporate debt and this month said he wouldn’t seek a
sale or merger.  The debt-brokerage business, Gleacher’s most profitable,
has been hemorrhaging staff, and the company said in a filing
yesterday that four directors plan to step down. At least 20
people out of fewer than 100 in the credit unit have defected
since mid-February. The exits probably will have “an adverse
impact” on revenue, according to a Feb. 19 regulatory filing.  “The solution of cost-cutting is a race to the bottom,”
said Lee Fensterstock, who led Broadpoint Securities Group Inc.,
the bond brokerage that bought Gleacher, from 2007 to 2010.
“You have to attract the best people and you have to pay them
in a way that allows you to retain them.”  The brokerage, which now makes most of its money trading
bonds, carries the name of founder Eric Gleacher, the merger
banker known for advising Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. on its
record-setting $30 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco Inc. in 1989.
Gleacher employs about 250 people, Hughes said earlier this
month, compared with 342 three years ago.  Compensation Costs  While  revenue  almost tripled in 2009, pay consumed 69
percent of the money that came in that year and 90 percent in
2010, a regulatory filing shows. Hughes brought in third-party
consultants the year he became CEO to increase returns for
shareholders and “reshape our compensation-to-revenue ratio,”
he said at the time.  Andrew Siegel , a spokesman for Gleacher,
declined to comment for this article.  Gleacher, the former head of mergers and acquisitions at
Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., sold his
boutique four years ago for stock and $20 million in cash to
Broadpoint, which eventually took on his name.  The 72-year-old ex-U.S. Marine, the company’s second-
biggest shareholder with a  stake  of more than 11 percent,
resigned from the board of directors last month, saying he
planned to strike out on his own.  Founder ‘Frustrated’  “It was alluring to him, it just didn’t work out,” said
Peter Solomon, a friend of Gleacher’s who founded New York-based
investment bank Peter J. Solomon Co. “He just wasn’t in
control. I think that’s what frustrated him.”  Smaller brokerages are struggling amid a slowdown in
trading that led to the closing of Gleacher competitors,
including ThinkEquity LLC, Rodman & Renshaw LLC, WJB Capital
Group Inc. and Ticonderoga Securities LLC. Others, such as
Citadel LLC and Chapdelaine & Co., have shuttered or scaled back
credit-brokerage units since 2010 as the biggest banks regain
their dominance over debt markets.  Gleacher was among about 70 small and mid-size firms that
expanded amid the crisis as Wall Street gutted  corporate-bond 
inventories and cut the money used to facilitate debt trading.  The brokerage doubled the size of its debt capital markets
division in the 18 months after Bear Stearns Cos. and  Lehman
Brothers  collapsed. In March 2008, it hired Joseph Mannello and
a team of credit brokers from BNY Capital Markets Inc. It
expanded its mortgage- and asset-backed securities and so-called
rates group under Robert Fine.  ‘Good Opportunity’  Gleacher sought to match the size of New York-based
Jefferies Group Inc., with $500 million of revenue and a $1
billion market valuation, Fensterstock said in a June 2009
interview.  “If we can achieve that, there is a very good opportunity
that we can go well beyond that,” he said then.  Gleacher shares exceeded $9 in October 2009, a year in
which the firm posted a $54.9 million  profit . The stock has
since plunged 93 percent, closing today at 61 cents.  The success of Gleacher’s trading businesses depended on
Fine and Mannello, Fensterstock said in an interview last week,
adding that he lured top brokers partly by agreeing to pay them
based on how much money they generated for the firm.
Fensterstock said compensation was part of the reason he left in
2010.  “They wanted to move to a much more subjective form of
compensation,” he said. “The thinking was that they should be
much more like Goldman Sachs than an eat-what-you-kill
environment.”  ‘Substantial Force’  Hughes took over as CEO on May 2, 2011, after a  Wall Street 
career spanning more than 25 years. He led mortgage-backed
securities trading at Merrill Lynch & Co. and headed global
asset management for Deutsche Bank AG, Gleacher said in a
statement announcing his appointment.  His goal was “to accelerate the evolution of Gleacher &
Co. into a substantial force in the financial-services industry
and a value-creator for its shareholders,” Hughes said in the
statement.  Eric Gleacher’s boutique had advised on more than $250
billion of deals from its founding in 1990 through Broadpoint’s
purchase of the brokerage, according to a March 2009 statement.
That included American Home Products Corp.’s $9.3 billion
acquisition of American Cyanamid Co. in 1994.  Goodwill Writedown  Gleacher had sold his firm once before. In 1995, London-
based National Westminster Bank acquired Gleacher & Co. for $135
million. NatWest, now part of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
sold the business back to him four years later for about $4
million after deciding to exit  investment banking , said a person
familiar with the matter who requested anonymity because the
information wasn’t made public.  “Eric was very good at buying and selling his company,”
said Solomon, who worked with Gleacher at Lehman Brothers. “He
was better at it than anybody else.”  Hughes opted to cut back on the investment-banking business
in 2011, firing 32 people and writing down goodwill by 95
percent to $3.73 million, according to a regulatory filing in
November of that year. Goodwill is an intangible asset on a
firm’s balance sheet representing the premium paid over the
market value of assets in an acquisition.  Pretax income from investment banking had fallen to $2.5
million in the nine months ended September from $3.5 million a
year earlier, the company said in a November regulatory filing.  Mannello Fired  Gleacher fired Mannello, 55, last February, said two people
familiar with the departures who requested anonymity because the
reasons for the exits haven’t been made public. Fine, 50, left
two months later.  Fine became CEO of Brean Capital LLC last year and has
hired about 60 of the 75 people who were working at Gleacher’s
MBS and rates group at the time of his departure, one of the
people said.  Fourth-quarter revenue at Gleacher’s credit-products
division declined 15 percent to $16 million from the preceding
three-month period because of “tightening spreads, partially
offset by higher volumes,” Controller Bryan Edmiston said in a
Feb. 15 conference call. The mortgage-backed securities and
rates division posted a drop of about 30 percent “due to lower
market spreads and lower volatilities,” he said.  The brokerage paid 2012 bonuses in cash, including $1.2
million in the fourth quarter that mainly stemmed from efforts
to rebuild the MBS and rates unit, Edmiston said.  Top Shareholder  Last year, Gleacher hired Credit Suisse Group AG to solicit
offers for some or all of its businesses amid pressure from its
top investor, private-equity firm MatlinPatterson Global
Advisers LLC, people familiar with the matter said at the time.
After a six-month review, the firm decided against a sale or
merger, it said on Feb. 15.  A junk-bond team departed that day, including five high-
yield debt salesmen and two analysts, people with knowledge of
the move said at the time. Members of the group have told
colleagues they are joining Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird &
Co., the people said.  “They were hanging on because they were being told by
management that they were in talks to merge,” said Michael
Maloney, president of New York-based recruitment firm Maloney
Inc.  Board members Henry Bienen, Robert Gerard, Bruce Rohde and
Robert Yingling said in a Feb. 23 letter that they intend to
resign. They cited the “virtual certainty” that they wouldn’t
be re-elected amid opposition from the biggest shareholders,
including MatlinPatterson and Eric Gleacher, according to
yesterday’s filing. The four board members comprised the special
committee that reviewed Gleacher’s strategic options.  ‘Seem Confident’  Gleacher is replacing the traders and salesmen who left and
is in the process of fixing its business model, Hughes said on
the Feb. 15 conference call. The mortgage business is growing
again and using less of the  balance sheet , he said.  “Any time you have defections of good people that’s a
negative,” said Joseph Jolson, co-portfolio manager of hedge
fund Harvest Opportunity Partners II LP, which  owns  Gleacher
stock. “They seem confident that they’re going to be able to
attract top producers to their platform and earn money this
year.”  If the company can become profitable, its shares will be
worth slightly under $1.50, more than double their current
price, Jolson said.  “If they lose money every quarter, they’re frittering away
that value,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  