-- Global Logistic Shares Drop as Singapore Plans Stake Sale
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-02-26T09:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/glp-falls-most-in-five-months-on-gic-stake-sale-singapore-mover.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP)  fell
the most in almost 17 months in  Singapore  trading after
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. said it is selling a
stake in the biggest owner of industrial properties in  Japan .  Shares of the company, also known as GLP, declined 6.6
percent to S$2.57 at the close in Singapore. The stock had its
biggest drop since Oct. 4, 2011. GLP was the worst performer in
the Straits Times Index’s  property measure , which tracks 39
developers, and slid 1.2 percent.  GIC, Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund and GLP’s biggest
shareholder with a 49 percent stake before the stake sale,
raised S$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion) by selling 595.7 million
shares at S$2.60 apiece, according to details in a term sheet
obtained by Bloomberg News. That’s at the lower end of a S$2.60-
to-S$2.66 range and a 5.5 percent discount to GLP’s closing
price of S$2.75 yesterday, according to another term sheet.  “It looks like a measure of portfolio management by GIC
and that they are creating more liquidity,” Donald Chua, a
Singapore-based analyst at CIMB Research Pte, said yesterday
after the term sheet was sent to investors. “I don’t believe
that there is fundamentally anything wrong with the company.”  The stake is about 13 percent of the total shares
outstanding of Singapore-based GLP, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is the only bookrunner on the
sale, according to the term sheet. GLP said it’s also the
biggest owner of industrial properties in China and  Brazil .  The share sale is part of GIC’s rebalancing of its holdings,
the state fund, which manages more than $100 billion of the
nation’s reserves, said in an e-mailed statement today, adding
that it remains a “substantial” long-term shareholder in the
real estate company.  “GIC has been the major shareholder in GLP since its
establishment,” the fund said. “We are pleased with the
company’s execution of its strategies and are confident of its
long-term prospects.”  The block trade went through at 9:12 a.m. in Singapore,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  