-- GM Denies Seeking More Compensation for CEO in 2013
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-26T18:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/gm-said-to-request-11-1-million-pay-for-ceo-in-2013.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, denied today that it is seeking increased
compensation for Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson a day after
reports that the company proposed an $11.1 million package.  GM is planning $82 million in compensation for its top 25
executives, according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .
While the names of the GM employees were redacted, Akerson was
identified as the highest-paid by a person familiar with the
material who asked not to be revealed disclosing private
information. Akerson was paid $7.7 million for 2011, when his
target compensation was $9 million.  After a company spokesman declined to comment yesterday on
the specifics of the company’s pay proposal, Detroit-based GM
said it sought no change and that the request was misrepresented
“to score political points on the eve of a congressional
hearing.” The House Oversight Committee met today to discuss
executive pay at companies whose compensation has been
supervised by the Treasury.  “Reports that General Motors has requested an increase in
Dan Akerson’s 2013 compensation are false,” GM said in the e-
mailed statement. “In fact, Dan specifically asked to keep his
compensation at the same level for 2013 as it was in 2012 and
2011. That amount of $9 million is what the company submitted to
the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive
Compensation.”  Panel’s View  The House panel “is not focused on the issue of whether or
not the total compensation for the CEO of GM was $9 million or
$11 million,” Frederick Hill, a spokesman for the oversight
committee, said in a telephone interview. The group is examining
why executives at bailed-out companies are receiving millions of
dollars after President  Barack Obama  said in 2009 that he would
put tighter limits on their compensation, Hill said.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , formerly GM’s lending arm, wants to
pay CEO  Michael Carpenter  $9.6 million, according to another
document obtained by Bloomberg.  Pay for executives at seven bailed-out companies, including
GM and Ally, was scrutinized and restricted by the Treasury
starting in 2009. American International Group Inc., Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Chrysler Group LLC and Chrysler
Financial Corp. have left the government’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program and are no longer subject to the department’s pay
rulings.  ‘GM Complies’  Greg Martin , a spokesman for GM, yesterday declined to
comment on the specifics of the company’s pay proposal.  “GM complies with all TARP restrictions and special master
decisions while we focus on driving solid business results for
the company,” Martin said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“We’ve provided the committee with the information it has
requested and will continue to cooperate with the committee.”  The  Detroit News  reported about the Akerson pay issue
yesterday.  Akerson is paid considerably less than  Alan Mulally , the
CEO of  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the largest U.S. automaker to avoid
bankruptcy in 2009. Mulally’s 2011 compensation rose 11 percent
to $29.5 million. A few weeks before Ford revealed Mulally’s
full-year compensation, the company gave him $58.3 million in
stock as a reward for the automaker’s turnaround.  Daimler AG (DAI) , maker of Mercedes-Benz luxury cars and heavy
trucks, cut CEO Dieter Zetsche’s pay 5.8 percent amid a
reduction in managers’ bonuses as the world’s third-biggest
maker of luxury cars fell behind competitors in sales and
dropped profit goals. His total compensation for 2012 totaled
8.15 million euros ($10.7 million).  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said last week that CEO Martin Winterkorn
will receive 17 percent less compensation.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, paid
President Akio Toyoda 136 million yen ($1.48 million). Nissan
Motor Co. paid CEO  Carlos Ghosn  $10.7 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  