-- Goldman Sachs’s Tusar Will Step Down as Electronic Trading Chief
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-02-27T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/goldman-sachs-electronic-trading-chief-tusar-to-leave-company.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
generates the most revenue from equity trading of any bank in
the world, said Greg Tusar, global head of electronic trading,
will leave after 13 years at the firm.  Tusar, 43, will focus on the company’s REDI trading
software business before departing at the end of May, according
to a memo sent to employees yesterday.  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman at the New York-based firm, confirmed the memo’s
contents.  “Greg’s leadership has played an integral role in the
evolution and growth of our global electronic-trading
franchise,” Pablo J. Salame and Isabelle Ealet, co-heads of the
global securities division, said in the memo.  Tusar joined Goldman Sachs in 2000 when the firm acquired
Spear, Leeds & Kellogg LP, the biggest specialist firm on the
New York Stock Exchange. He was named managing director in 2003
and promoted to partner in 2008. Tusar joined TLW Securities in
1992 and was chief executive officer when Spear Leeds bought the
company in 1999, the memo said.  The electronic trading chief spent years representing
Goldman Sachs at industry conferences and commenting publicly
about exchange and regulatory rule proposals involving equities
market structure. Tusar was involved in the bank’s decisions to
make investments in companies including Direct Edge Holdings
LLC, an exchange operator based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
according to the memo.  Combining Units  Goldman Sachs is merging the legal entities that handle
equities trades by computers and by voice, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter. The trading business of Goldman
Sachs Execution & Clearing, which handles trades electronically,
will be combined into Goldman Sachs & Co., the firm’s broker-
dealer, by mid-year, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank
by assets, last year merged its stock sales and trading unit
with its top-ranked electronic equities-trading business and
gave responsibility for the combined group to  Dan Mathisson , who
ran the electronic side.  Goldman Sachs plans to start cutting more than 5 percent of
equity-trading division jobs today as it undertakes an annual
cost-elimination exercise, according to a person familiar with
the matter. Fewer than 5 percent of the  jobs  in fixed-income,
currency and commodities trading will be cut, the person said.
Reuters previously reported the job cut plans.  Wall Street firms are looking for ways to reduce costs
after equities trading revenue fell 5 percent across the
industry last year, the third straight annual drop, according to
analytics firm Coalition Ltd. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest
 U.S. bank , cut pay in its equities unit about 4 percent and
pushed out about three dozen employees, people with knowledge of
the moves said earlier this month.  Goldman Sachs disclosed in January that 13 percent of the
equity division’s 2012 revenue actually came from a reinsurance
business that the firm may sell.  Cuts to equity divisions are taking place even as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached its highest level in five
years earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  