-- Google Cites Censorship Risk in EU Data Control Lawsuit
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-26T14:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/google-cites-censorship-risk-in-eu-data-control-lawsuit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  shouldn’t have to remove
content from its search engine that was lawfully published
elsewhere, the company argued in a case at the European Union’s
top court that will set boundaries between freedom of expression
and data-protection rights.  The operator of the world’s largest search engine isn’t a
data “controller,” it is “a mere intermediary in terms of the
data which it indexes,” Google lawyer  Francisco Enrique
Gonzalez-Diaz  told a panel of 15 judges at the  EU Court of
Justice  hearing today. Direct requests for personal information
to be removed from a search engine -- even if it was put online
by a newspaper -- would be “a fundamental shift of
responsibility from the publisher to the search engine” and
“would amount to censorship.”  The dispute raises questions about the scope of EU privacy
rules when it comes to personal data on the Internet; the rights
of search engines to use any online data to remain commercially
successful; and who ultimately is in charge of what happens with
the data. The Luxembourg-based court’s ruling will be binding on
courts across the 27-nation bloc.  The case was triggered by about 200 instances of  Spain ’s
data-protection authority ordering Google to remove information
on people. The information in today’s case concerned a Spanish
man whose house was auctioned off for failing to pay taxes.
Newspaper La Vanguardia published the information in 1998 and
years later it could still be found via a  Google search .  ‘Serious Harm’  “In this case and in many other cases, serious harm is
done to individuals,” Joaquin Munoz Rodriguez, a lawyer
representing the man, told the EU court. “The information is
tracked and ordered by Google and contains, to a very large
extent, personal data.”  Google is liable because it allows easy and quick access to
information that wasn’t easily found online before, he said.  Google faces privacy investigations around the world as it
adds services and steps up competition with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  for
users and advertisers. The  Mountain View , California-based
company created a uniform set of privacy policies last year for
more than 60 products, unleashing criticism from regulators and
consumer advocates over whether it was properly protecting data.  “People shouldn’t be prevented from learning that a
politician was convicted of taking a bribe, or that a doctor was
convicted of malpractice,” Google said in a  blog post . “The
substantive question before the court today is whether search
engines should be obliged to remove links to valid legal
material.”  Data protection is currently policed by separate regulators
across the EU. The bloc’s executive body wants to simplify the
system so companies deal with only one.  A lawyer for the European Commission, the EU’s executive,
argued today that Google does control data. That view diverges
from an  opinion  of a group representing the bloc’s data-
protection watchdogs, which said search engines are “generally
not to be held primarily responsible” for content.  The case is:  C-131/12 , Google Spain, S.L., Google Inc. v.
Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos, Mario Costeja Gonzalez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  