-- Google Improves Tools to Track Effectiveness of Ads
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-26T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/google-improves-tools-to-track-effectiveness-of-ads.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , seeking more customers
for its marketing services, is unveiling a tool to collect
feedback from consumers on the effectiveness of Web-advertising
campaigns.  Marketers will be able to ask online users questions to
measure data such as brand awareness, Susan Wojcicki, senior
vice president of advertising, said in an interview. While
marketers track performance based on which ads are clicked, the
survey service aims to better measure whether users might later
recall product names or consider purchases after viewing 
promotions, which can include videos, pictures or graphics.  Google is crafting new tools to help it expand beyond
search-based advertising and fend off rivals such as  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Google got 84 percent of its revenue 
from ads in the latest quarter, and is expected to grab 43 
percent of the 2013 U.S. digital-ad market, which is projected 
to grow 14 percent to $42.5 billion, according to  EMarketer Inc.   “There’s a lot more work that we can do here,” Wojcicki
said in an interview prior to a presentation at the  Internet
Advertising Bureau  meeting today in Phoenix. “We are investing
a lot more in our brand advertising business. That’s definitely
a focus for us.”  The new service builds on past efforts, including a feature
called Brand Activate, which signals when an ad has been viewed.  The new tool borrows from a marketing research service
called “Google Consumer Surveys,” which gives people access to 
premium online content after they complete questionnaires. The 
new service will be initially available for customers buying 
video ads on YouTube, Google’s video-sharing site.  The ad feature rollout is part of the company’s broader
push to provide marketers with more metrics on how advertising
is performing online, Wojcicki said.  “We’re basically in a really dynamic and important time,”
she said. “Because users are moving digitally so fast,
advertisers have to move as fast as users.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  