-- Google Documents Sought in Suit Over Pact to Not Hire Rivals
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-27T00:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/google-documents-sought-in-suit-over-pact-to-not-hire-rivals-1-.html
Employees suing  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  over claims they broke antitrust laws by
agreeing to not recruit from each other are demanding to see
documents involving Bill Campbell, who has ties to all three
companies.  Lawyers for the employees asked a magistrate judge in San
Jose, California, to force Google to turn over messages and
other communications between the search engine company’s
employees and Campbell, who is now chairman of Intuit. Google
argues the documents are protected by attorney-client privilege.  The documents “were not made for the purpose of seeking
legal advice” and they “were not privileged in the first
place,” plaintiffs lawyer Dean Harvey said at a hearing today.  The dispute is the latest over information sharing, or
discovery, in a lawsuit filed in 2011 against seven technology
companies. The other defendants are  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar animation unit and Lucasfilm Ltd.  Discovery has confirmed that senior officers at the
companies personally entered into non-solicitation agreements to
eliminate competition for each other’s employees, kept the pacts
hidden from the workers, supervised the implementation of the
plans, and policed each other, plaintiffs said in court filings.  ‘Primary Actor’  Campbell was a “co-conspirator of Google” and “primary
actor and central participant in the defendants’ illegal
activity,” according to a court filing by the employees.
Campbell is former chief executive officer of Intuit, serves on
Apple’s board and has been an adviser to Google for several
years.  The case mirrors claims the companies settled with the U.S.
Justice Department in 2010 after the government alleged that the
companies kept do-not-call lists to avoid competitive
recruiting, and that such agreements restrained competition,
which hurt employees.  Lawyers for the employees have argued that while the
settlement with the federal government exposed the illegal
behavior and put an end to it, the agreement didn’t compensate
the employees who were harmed.  Campbell’s Role  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal said at today’s hearing
that he’s interested in what role Campbell has played at Google,
which may determine whether the communications at issue must
remain confidential.  “Only a few” of the 166 documents the employees seek
involved Campbell’s lawyer, and even those didn’t involve legal
advice, Harvey said.  Google’s lawyer, Donald Falk, told the judge Campbell is a
“management guru” and “strategic guide” to Google, who is
sometimes included in executive meetings. Campbell hadn’t signed
a consulting agreement with Google until 2007 and doesn’t work
“solely” at the company, though he has been compensated by
Google and there is a “record of performance” dating back to
2002, Falk said.  “The communications speak for themselves,” Falk told
Grewal. “Of course legal advice is given -- it must be given in
the course of business operations -- that’s exactly what was
happening here,” he said. “The level of advice is consistent
with his position of former CEO of Intuit in the 1990s and
chairman since.”  Both sides are waiting for U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh
to rule whether the case will proceed as a group lawsuit, with a
proposed class of employees including engineers, sous chefs,
administrative assistants and others.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-2509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Jose). The previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-1629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  