-- Gulf May Slow After `Exaggerated' Spending, CEBR Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-26T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/gulf-may-slow-after-exaggerated-spending-cebr-says.html
Persian Gulf economies are set to
slow this year after  government spending  “exaggerated the pace
of growth” during the past two years, the  Centre for Economics
and Business Research Ltd.  said.  Growth in the oil-producing Gulf region will ease to 4.8
percent from 6 percent in 2012, CEBR said today in a report
published with the  Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales . That compares with a growth forecast of 3.9 percent
for the entire  Middle East  this year, the London-based center
said.  “In 2013, the Middle East is set to slow from the robust
expansion experienced over the last two years,” CEBR said.
“The dramatic increase in government spending over the last two
years exaggerated the pace of growth across the GCC countries in
particular, so the rate of change in expansion is likely to ease
in 2013.”  The economy of  Saudi Arabia , which derives about 90 percent
of revenue from oil sales and is the Arab world’s biggest, grew
an estimated 6.8 percent in 2012 as  King Abdullah  allocated oil
wealth for projects to expand airports, build roads and real
estate. This year the economy will ease to 5.9 percent, CEBR
said.  The Kuwaiti economy will slow to 4.2 percent from 6.8
percent last year, CEBR forecasts. Growth in the  United Arab
Emirates , the Middle East’s second biggest economy, will ease to
3.6 percent from 4.3 percent last year, it said.  Spending Concerns  Persian Gulf oil producers have used revenue from oil sales
to finance their spending requirements. Saudi Arabia raised its
2013 expenditure target by almost a fifth to a record 820
billion riyals ($219 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in a
statement on its website on Dec. 29.  Saudi crude oil output fell in December to a 19-month low
as the kingdom exported 7.06 million barrels of crude a day, the
least since September 2011, the Joint Organisations Data
Initiative said on Feb. 17. The kingdom, which pumped 9.95
million barrels a day on average in 2012, is likely to produce
4.5 percent less this year, Riyadh-based  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) 
said in a January report.  “The large expansion in public spending provides a
stimulus in the short term, but questions remain over its long-
run sustainability,” CEBR said. “The risk remains that if
shale oil and gas really take off as a fuel source in the West
and beyond, demand for crude oil could slip, and Middle Eastern
countries could have to cut their budgets very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  