-- Iberdrola Sells Polish Wind Unit for $264 Million to PGE, Energa
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-26T08:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/iberdrola-sells-polish-wind-unit-for-264-million-to-pge-energa.html
PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s largest power
producer, and Energa SA will buy wind assets in the country from
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  for 840 million zloty ($264 million) after striking
a deal for Dong Energy A/S’s Polish wind unit one week ago.  PGE will acquire three Polish wind farms with a 70.5
megawatt capacity, the Warsaw-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Energa, based in Gdansk, will get 114 megawatts
of wind farms located in Pomorskie and Zachodniopomorskie
regions in northern Poland, according to another filing.  PGE is seeking to increase its wind capacity more than
sevenfold in four years to replace aging power stations with
cleaner sources as Poland aims to get 15 percent of its energy
from renewables by 2020, compared with about 2.5 percent now.
Spanish utility Iberdrola said in December it would sell wind-
power units in France, Germany and  Poland  as part of a plan to
divest 2 billion euros ($2.61 billion) of assets before 2015 to
curb debt.  PGE and Energa agreed to buy 75 percent of Iberdrola
Renewables Polska and plan to purchase remaining stake from the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development later, the
companies said in separate statements today. Iberdrola has sold
1.1 billion euros of wind farms in  Europe  after today’s deal,
the Spanish utility said in an e-mailed statement.  PGE, which along with Energa agreed Feb. 19 to buy the
Polish wind business of Denmark’s biggest utility Dong for 1
billion zloty, said that today’s deal will also include wind
farm projects under development, according to the statement.
Wind capacity in Poland, which relies on coal for about 90
percent of its electricity, grew 55 percent last year to 2.5
gigawatts, according to the energy market regulator.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  advised Energa, while Banco Santander SA’s
 Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW)  was PGE’s adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  