-- IHH Healthcare Net Jumps Almost Fourfold After Turkey Expansion
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-02-26T10:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ihh-healthcare-net-jumps-almost-fourfold-after-turkey-expansion.html
IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , Asia’s biggest
hospitals operator, said fourth-quarter profit rose almost
fourfold, boosted by first-time contributions from Turkey and
one-time gains.  Net income  surged to 195.9 million ringgit ($63 million),
or 2.43 sen per share, in the three months ended December 31,
from 52 million ringgit, or 0.95 sen per share, a year earlier,
according to a stock exchange filing in Kuala Lumpur today.
Revenue advanced 79 percent to 1.52 billion ringgit.  IHH, controlled by Khazanah Nasional Bhd. and Mitsui & Co.,
raised about $2 billion through an initial public offering last
year in Kuala Lumpur and  Singapore . It operates hospitals under
brands including Gleneagles and Mount Elizabeth in Asia and last
year expanded into Europe by acquiring Acibadem Saglik
Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS, Turkey’s largest hospital group.  “We see opportunities in the region for the year ahead and
will continue to build on our past year’s performance and are
looking for new opportunities in countries like  Vietnam , Turkey
and  Abu Dhabi ,” IHH Chairman Abu Bakar Suleiman told reporters
in Kuala Lumpur today.  IHH, the world’s second-biggest health-care provider by
market value, has risen 22 percent from its 2.80 ringgit offer
price in July, closing unchanged at 3.41 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur
today ahead of the earnings announcement.  It’s rated the equivalent of buy by nine out of 23 analysts
whose  ratings  are compiled by Bloomberg. Five recommended
selling the stock.  Quarterly earnings were boosted by exceptional items
including a 31.6 million-ringgit valuation gain on its
investment properties and a 41.7 million ringgit write-back on
an earlier impairment loss, the filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  