-- Millions Said to Be Wasted on U.S. Broadband Expansion
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-02-26T20:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/millions-said-to-be-wasted-on-u-s-broadband-expansion.html
The U.S. wasted millions of dollars
on a program to spread high-speed  Internet service , a Republican
lawmaker overseeing the spending said. A Democrat defended the
initiative as helping localities.  “The government has spent millions on equipment it did not
need and on stringing fiber to areas that already had fiber,”
Representative Greg Walden of  Oregon  said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Walden is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce panel’s
communications subcommittee, which is to hold a  hearing tomorrow 
on the $7 billion program that was part of the 2009 stimulus
plan set up to spark a struggling U.S. economy. The hearing is
scheduled as Republicans and Democrats argue over across-the-
board spending cuts set to take effect March 1 unless there’s an
agreement.  “At a time when government is considering cutting meat
inspectors and FAA traffic controllers to address the federal
spending problem, we need to be careful how we use taxpayer
dollars,” Walden said.  “There are undoubtedly some success stories but, overall,
was the program well-conceived and well-implemented?” Walden
said. “I won’t tolerate any waste or abuse, and it appears
we’ve uncovered millions that fit that category.”  ‘Profound Impact’  Representative  Anna Eshoo  of  California , the top Democrat
on the subcommittee, in remarks prepared for the hearing said
the stimulus spending is working and “having a profound impact
in local communities around the country.”  “There is no doubt we have much more work ahead because
approximately 19 million Americans remain unable to obtain a
broadband connection,” Eshoo said in remarks her office
distributed today by e-mail.  Many projects funded under the programs haven’t been
completed and some have been criticized as overbuilding, or
installing lines where private companies already offer broadband
service, according to a memo prepared by the subcommittee’s
Republican staff.  A Commerce Department program has deployed or improved
78,000 miles of lines carrying broadband, and connected more
than 11,200 institutions such as schools and libraries,
according to a  fact sheet  posted on its website. The Broadband
Technology Opportunities Program, known as BTOP, is run by the
department’s National Telecommunications & Information
Administration.  Program Performance  A separate program is run by the Agriculture Department’s
Rural Utilities Service.  “The vast majority of BTOP projects have performed well,”
Lawrence Strickling, administrator of the telecommunications
administration, said in a Feb. 22  blog posting . Officials
identified problems with nine projects out of 233 awarded and
have taken “enforcement actions to ensure that taxpayer dollars
weren’t being wasted,” Strickling said.  “Many carriers” have complained the U.S. funds are
subsidizing competitors, and the Energy & Commerce Committee’s
investigations subcommittee is looking into whether the
Agriculture Department program funded such overbuilding in areas
of  Minnesota  served by closely held Mediacom Communications
Corp., according to the memo.  Robust Broadband  The Agriculture Department “made the award to help meet
our goal to fund affordable, robust broadband to help strengthen
rural economies,” Justin DeJong, an agency spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The Commerce Department’s inspector general found
overspending on computer gear of between $500,000 and $1.2
million in West Virginia by the Commerce Department program,
according to the memo.  An aide to West Virginia’s governor disputed the finding,
and in a letter to the inspector general said the spending
allowed the state to buy more computer gear at a discount.  “West Virginia lags behind nationally in broadband
capabilities,” Rob Alsop, chief of staff for  West Virginia 
Governor Earl Ray Tomblin, a Democrat, said in the Jan. 25
letter. “This grant is drastically expanding broadband
capabilities into our schools, libraries, public facilities, and
public safety offices.”  Juliana Gruenwald, a spokeswoman for the telecommunications
administration, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  