-- India to Seek Consensus on Ending State Controls on Sugar Mills
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-02-26T09:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/india-to-seek-consensus-on-ending-state-controls-on-sugar-mills.html
India , the world’s biggest sugar
producer, plans to seek a consensus among various ministries on
ending four-decade old state controls on the domestic industry,
Food Minister K.V. Thomas said. Shares of sugar mills declined.  A cabinet approval to allow mills freely sell sugar in the
local market will be sought only after an agreement is reached
among ministries including finance, which has expressed concerns
over possible increase in prices, Thomas said in an interview in
New Delhi today. The food ministry also plans to end the
practice of the government buying sugar from mills at below
market prices to supply to the poor, Thomas said Jan. 31.  Scrapping of state purchases from mills at below market
price may allow  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH)  and  Balrampur Chini Mills
Ltd. (BRCM) , the nation’s biggest mills, and other producers, earn
about 27 billion rupees ($499 million) to 30 billion rupees
annually, according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association. A
government panel in October recommended ending of controls
including limits on sales by mills, first introduced in 1972.  “The  finance ministry  has expressed concerns over
inflation and we will address those concerns,” Thomas said. “I
do not think there will be any major increase in sugar prices
after decontrol.”  Consultations with the finance ministry will begin after
the  federal budget  on Feb. 28, he said.  While wholesale  inflation  eased to a 38-month low of 6.62
percent in January, the increase in consumer prices accelerated
to 10.79 percent, one of the highest levels in major economies.
Sugar futures gained 12 percent on the National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai last year.  Bajaj Hindusthan fell as much as 2.4 percent to 22.40
rupees in Mumbai, Balrampur dropped as such as 3.2 percent to
45.85 rupees, and  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the top refiner,
fell as much as 4.2 percent to 26 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  