-- India Beats Australia by 8 Wickets to Go 1-0 Up in Test Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-26T06:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/india-beats-australia-by-eight-wickets-in-test-cricket-opener.html
India  beat Australia by eight
wickets in their series-opening cricket Test, chasing down the
50 runs needed for victory in 69 balls after dismissing the
touring team for 241 on the final morning in Chennai.  Sachin Tendulkar hit 13 not out, including two straight
sixes off spin bowler Nathan Lyon, to help guide India to the
target 40 minutes before lunch on day five after Murali Vijay
and Virender Sehwag got out. Australia earlier added nine runs
to its second-innings total for an overall lead of 49.  India, which lost 2-1 to  England  in its last home series
after winning the opening Test, is seeking to regain the Border-
Gavaskar trophy following a 4-0 sweep in  Australia  in 2011-12.
The second of four matches starts March 2 in Hyderabad.  “You have to take the positives out of this particular
game but at the same time the lessons of the last series that we
played,” India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who was named man
of the match after top scoring with 224, said at the
presentation ceremony. “It’s very important to be focused.”  Australia allrounder Moises Henriques was earlier left
unbeaten on 81 for his second half-century in his Test debut
after Lyon was caught by Vijay off Ravindra Jadeja when on 11.
The last-wicket pairing had taken the match into a fifth day on
a deteriorating pitch after Australia slumped to 175-9.  Offspinner Ravi Ashwin led India’s bowlers with 5-95 to
follow up his 7-103 in Australia’s first-innings 380. Ashwin and
fellow spinners Jadeja and Harbhajan Singh took all 20 wickets.  Home captain Dhoni’s career-best score helped India amass
572 yesterday in reply. Dhoni’s 265-ball innings, which included
24 fours and six sixes, was the highest score by an India
captain in elite Tests and the third-best by a wicketkeeper.  The victory also took Dhoni, 31, level with Sourav Ganguly
with a record 21 victories as India Test skipper.  “Full credit has to go to India,” Australia captain
Michael Clarke said. “They played outstandingly throughout the
whole game, led by their captain. Dhoni’s innings changed the
game from our perspective. We’ve got a couple of days to turn
things around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  