-- Indian Stocks Drop Most in 7 Months on Inflation Outlook, Europe
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-02-26T13:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/india-s-nifty-stock-index-futures-decline-before-federal-budget.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks tumbled the most in
seven months after a proposed increase in freight costs in the
railway budget raised concerns about inflation and as  Italy ’s
inconclusive election revived European debt concerns.  The S&P BSE Sensex index slid 1.6 percent, the most since
July 23, to 19,015.14 at the close. Nine out of the 30 stocks on
the measure declined more than 3 percent.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the
owner of Jaguar Land Rover, slid the most in three weeks.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the operator of the world’s largest
refining complex, lost 3.6 percent, erasing the year’s advance.  Freight costs will be linked to fuel prices starting April
1, a move that may lead lead to an average 5 percent increase in
rates, Rail Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said in parliament.
While the measure helps the government limit subsidies, higher
shipping costs would add to price pressures and dim prospects of
the central bank easing monetary policy, said Anand Tandon,
chief executive officer of brokerage JRG Securities Ltd.  “Likelihood of interest-rate cuts this year is becoming
more and more remote if inflation continues to persist,” he
told Bloomberg TV India in an interview. Higher transportation
costs “affect the entire system,” he said.  After the first interest-rate reduction in nine months in
January,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on
Feb. 16 inflation risks will limit the extent he can further
pare rates to bolster an economy growing at the weakest pace in
a decade. Funding costs in India are among the highest in  Asia .  Autos Weaken  Tata Motors, the best performing stock on the Sensex last
year, plunged 3.3 percent to 289.4 rupees.  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. (MSIL) , the country’s biggest carmaker, declined 2.8 percent to
1,404.3 rupees, the lowest close since Oct. 30.  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s largest maker of sport-utility vehicles
and tractors, decreased 3.3 percent to 865.75 rupees.  Reliance Industries tumbled 3.6 percent to 823.5 rupees,
the most since Oct. 8.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest
engineering company, retreated 2.6 percent to 1,365.7 rupees.
Mortgage lender  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  slumped 3.8
percent to 771.55 rupees and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the country’s
second-biggest lender, lost 2.7 percent to 1,064 rupees.  Shares of companies that cater to the railways plunged.
Kalindee Rail Nirman (Engineers) Ltd. sank 11 percent to 70.4
rupees, the most in 15 months.  Texmaco Rail & Engineering Ltd. (TXMRE) 
lost a record 11 percent to 54.8 rupees, while Titagarh Wagons
Ltd. fell 8.3 percent to 244.3 rupees, almost a four-year low.  “There was no major announcement in the rail budget that
improved the outlook on the companies’ order books,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. at Kochi in southern India.  ‘Shaken, Stirred’  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index lost at least 1 percent at 6:22 p.m. Mumbai time after
early results suggested Italy’s election would yield a hung
parliament, leading to another vote. The European Union is
India’s top trading partner, according to the commerce ministry.  “Italy elections have shown Europe is still coughing and
the short term is further shaken and stirred by the potential
U.S. spending cuts kicking in on March 1,” Shankar Char, vice
president at ICICI Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, said by phone.
“Add to this, we have the budget coinciding with the expiry of
the February derivatives series.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram will present the
budget on Feb. 28 that may deepen spending cuts to ease price
pressures amid wider efforts to revive investment. Derivative
contracts in  India  expire on the last Thursday of every month.  Overseas funds bought a net $49 million of local shares on
Feb. 25, data from the regulator show. Foreigners bought a net
$8.3 billion this year, a record for the period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Scorecard  They purchased a net $24.5 billion in 2012, helping the
Sensex to its biggest annual gain in three years. The measure
has fallen 5.4 percent from a two-year high reached on Jan. 25
as profits at 43 percent of the 30 Sensex firms lagged behind
 estimates  in the December quarter, compared with 40 percent in
the previous two quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Net
outflows from domestic mutual funds for eight straight months
through January contributed to the decline in the gauge, data
from the industry trade body show.  The Sensex trades at 13.4 times  projected 12-month profits ,
compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.2 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Volumes on the gauge were 14 percent
more than the 30-day average at the close.  The CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index of the National Stock Exchange slid 1.6
percent to 5,761.35. India VIX, which measures the cost of
protection against losses in the Nifty, jumped 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  