-- India May Curb Widest BRIC Budget Gap for Rate-Cut Room: Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-02-27T10:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/india-seen-curbing-widest-bric-budget-gap-to-boost-rate-cut-room.html
India ’s government may curb spending
growth in the budget tomorrow to pare the widest  fiscal deficit 
in major emerging nations, seeking to boost the central bank’s
scope to reduce  interest rates  as the economy falters.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram will stick to
deficit goals set in October of 4.8 percent of gross domestic
product for the year through March 2014 and 5.3 percent in 2012-
2013, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG said.  The government has stepped up efforts to avert a credit-
rating downgrade and damp inflation of almost 7 percent under
policy changes since September. To avoid political repercussions
from restrained expenditure, Chidambaram could allocate initial
funds for a plan to give poor people cheap food, according to
 State Bank  of India, the nation’s largest lender by assets.  “Moderating the subsidy bill will help the  Reserve Bank  of
India to lower rates, boosting private-sector borrowing,” said
Taimur Baig, the director of  Asia  economics at Deutsche Bank AG,
who previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund . “But
we need to see if the government keeps to its fiscal road map as
the year progresses.”  Benchmark 10-year bond yields have slid 23 basis points in
2013 to 7.82 percent as Chidambaram strives to preserve India’s
investment-grade rating. The rupee has strengthened 2.2 percent
versus the dollar in the period to 53.80 as of 3:38 p.m. in
Mumbai, paring its loss in the past 12 months to 8.5 percent.
The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has slipped 1.5 percent this year.  Fiscal Consolidation  Chidambaram’s  target  is a 3 percent shortfall by 2017. He
is due to present at 11 a.m. tomorrow the government’s last full
budget ahead of a general election due by 2014. The finance
minister will unveil his plan in parliament in  New Delhi .  India will probably contain the  budget deficit  at about 5.3
percent of GDP this fiscal year as it tries to slow inflation,
and economic growth is set to recover,  Finance Ministry  advisers
said in a report in New Delhi today.  “The government is committed to fiscal consolidation,”
they said, predicting GDP will rise as much as 6.7 percent in
the year through March 2014. Deficit curbs, along with “demand
compression and augmented agricultural production should lead to
lower inflation, giving the RBI the requisite flexibility to
reduce policy rates,” they said, referring to the Reserve Bank.  The report was prepared by a panel headed by  Raghuram Rajan ,
chief economic adviser in the Finance Ministry. India is in a
difficult situation and needs to reduce its fiscal and current-
account deficits, Rajan said at a briefing in New Delhi today.  Railway Fares  The administration said yesterday it intends to link rail
passenger fares and freight rates to fuel prices for the first
time, in a bid to reduce more than $4.5 billion of losses at
 Indian Railways , Asia’s oldest network.  Morgan Stanley estimates total government expenditure will
climb 9.5 percent to 16.1 trillion rupees ($298 billion) in
2013-2014, less than the 12.9 percent increase in the current
fiscal year. It predicts subsidies will fall 8.6 percent to 2.6
trillion rupees.  Sales of shares in state-owned companies, auctions of
telecom spectrum and a climb in tax revenues will also help
contain the deficit, according to Morgan Stanley’s projections.  India intends to raise 350 billion rupees next fiscal year
by disposing of stakes in companies including Coal India Ltd.,
Indian Oil Corp., Engineers India Ltd., Power Grid Corp. of
India Ltd. and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., two Finance
Ministry officials said this month, asking not to be identified
as the plan isn’t public.  The nation plans gross market borrowing of about 6 trillion
rupees in 2013-2014, a record high, according to three Finance
Ministry officials with knowledge of initial estimates. They
also requested anonymity as the details aren’t public.  Oil Subsidies  Oil subsidies will drop 41 percent after diesel prices were
partially freed from state control last month, Morgan Stanley’s
figures show. The savings may help fund supplies of rice, wheat
and millet in the pending  National Food Security Bill .  The bill aims to provide grains to more than 60 percent of
India’s 1.2 billion people. About two-thirds of the population
lives on less than  $2 per day , based on World Bank data.  India’s GDP will rise 5 percent in 2012-2013, the weakest
pace in a decade, the statistics agency forecasts. Price
pressures, a drop in exports and cooling investment hurt growth.  “The government should, and I guess will, resist any
temptation to be overly populist as the chips are stacked
against them,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . Excessive spending may
threaten India’s investment-grade credit rating, he said.  Interest Rates  India has the widest fiscal gap in the BRIC group of large
emerging countries, which also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings warned last year they may
strip the nation of its investment-grade rating.  The Reserve Bank has signaled the fiscal deficit and a
record shortfall in the current account limit its room to lower
borrowing costs. It reduced the  repurchase rate  to 7.75 percent
from 8 percent on Jan. 29, the first cut since April 2012.  The central bank in a Jan. 28 report indicated a push to
pare the deficit that increasingly relies on sales of shares in
state-owned companies and one-off auctions of telecom permits
may be unsustainable.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has changed policies since
September to revive expansion, including steps to open retail
and aviation to more foreign investment, ease caps on capital
inflows and accelerate infrastructure projects.  IMF Forecast  The reforms will help boost Indian expansion to 6 percent
in the year through March 2014, the IMF forecasts. That would
remain below the past decade’s average of about 8 percent.  “The current macro backdrop warrants a reduction in the
fiscal deficit,” said  Chetan Ahya , an economist at Morgan
Stanley in Hong Kong. “The government also needs to ensure
momentum in policy measures to accelerate investment.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s annual
 trade deficit  unexpectedly widened in January, a report showed
today.  Hong Kong  said economic growth accelerated to 2.5 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.  Thailand  reported a 16.1 percent climb in January exports
from a year earlier, while Taiwan said industrial output
advanced 19.17 percent. In the U.S., data are due on durable
goods orders, mortgage applications and pending home sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  