-- Iran Nuclear Talks to Resume Next Month as Meeting Ends
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-02-27T10:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/iran-said-to-plan-countering-offer-by-world-powers.html
World powers and Iran ended two days
of talks over the Islamic Republic’s disputed nuclear program
with a pledge to hold further discussions starting next month.  Iran’s negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , called the two-day session
in Almaty, Kazakhstan a “turning point” and said a “more
realistic and logical” proposal was made to Iran. He didn’t
give details. Technical talks will be held in Istanbul on March
18, and political discussions with the so-called P5+1 -- the
U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia  -- will resume in
Almaty on April 5, Jalili told reporters.  The EU’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, said the
new offer made to Iran was “balanced” and “responsive” to
Iranian concerns, without disclosing details of the talks.  World powers led by the U.S. say they are seeking a deal
involving curbs on the country’s nuclear program, which they say
may be aimed at developing atomic weapons, in return for the
removal of economic sanctions they have imposed.  Israel  has
warned that it may bomb Iran’s nuclear facilities to halt their
development if talks don’t achieve that result. The U.S., while
advocating diplomacy, hasn’t ruled out the use of force for the
same end. Iran says its program is for peaceful purposes.  The two-day meeting in Kazakhstan was the first since June
last year. The U.S. and its partners have offered to ease some
banking, petrochemical and gold sanctions if Iran ceases its
output of 20 percent enriched uranium, according to officials
involved in the latest talks.  Jalili reiterated that Iran has the right to enrichment
under an international treaty it signed. He said there was no
justification for seeking the shutdown of  Iran ’s Fordo plant,
which was built clandestinely in the side of a mountain and
produces most of the country’s medium-enriched uranium, since
it’s under inspection by the United Nations nuclear watchdog.  Ashton declined to say whether the P5+1 has dropped its
earlier demand for the closing of Fordo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Almaty, Kazakhstan at 
Or  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  