-- Irish Exit Emergency Ward With Bank Guarantee End, Noonan Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-26T17:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/irish-exit-emergency-ward-with-bank-guarantee-end-noonan-says.html
Ireland’s government will lift its
bank guarantee at the end of March, marking the nation’s exit
from a financial emergency ward, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said.  Irish lenders are moving back into a “normal banking
space,” Noonan told reporters in Dublin today. Bank liabilities
covered by guarantees for up to five years are unaffected, while
deposits of up to 100,000 euros are shielded by a permanent
central bank guarantee.  “The guarantee was made in an emergency,” Noonan said.
“We’ve moved out of the emergency ward now.”  Ireland introduced a snap guarantee in September 2008 of
almost all its banks’ liabilities, totalling about 440 billion
euros, weeks after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc
sparked a global financial crisis. Former Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  in November 2010 was forced to seek an international
bailout to prop up the country’s banks.  The ending of the guarantee marks “a major milestone for
the Irish government in its attempts to unwind its near total
backstopping of the Irish banking system,” said Owen Callan, an
analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin.  ECB Funding  “The date of Tuesday, 30 September 2008, will go down in
history as the blackest day in Ireland since the Civil War broke
out” in 1922, Noonan said in March 2011, weeks after his Fine
Gael party led a coalition into power. “That was the date on
which the then government extended the infamous guarantee to the
Irish banks.”  He said today he didn’t want to “go back in time” to
discuss whether the guarantee should have been introduced.  He
said the removal of the program is part of a process leading up
to Ireland’s exit from the international bailout program at the
end of the year.  Between July 2011 and the end of January this year, state-
guaranteed banks’ deposits increased 10 percent to 154.3 billion
euros, the  finance ministry   said  on Feb. 14. Their European
Central Bank funding reliance fell about 30 percent to 48
billion euros in the same period, it  said .  The amount of bank liabilities covered by the so-called
Eligible Liabilities Guarantee is about 73 billion euros. The
ELG, introduced in December 2009, covers senior unsecured
certificates of deposits, commercial paper, bonds and notes and
deposits over 100,000 euros not covered by a separate retail
deposits guarantee.  The nation’s two largest lenders,  Bank of Ireland Plc  and
 Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , withdrew their U.K. units from the ELG
program last year. Both banks said in November they are prepared
for the expiry of the guarantee. Noonan said today the banks
will welcome the ending of the program, which costs the banks
about 1 billion euros a year in fees.  “The Irish banking system failed the Irish people and
the mismanagement of the banks and the crisis has cost the Irish
taxpayer over 62 billion euros,” Noonan said. “All of the
government actions since taking office in March 2011, both at
home and abroad, are designed to repair this damage and break
the negative link between the banks and the state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  