-- Italian Treasury Gauges Investor Reaction to Vote With Bill Sale
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-26T01:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italian-treasury-gauges-investor-reaction-to-vote-with-bill-sale.html
Italy  is set to gauge investor
reaction to elections that produced a hung parliament and
threaten another vote this year.  The Rome-based Treasury will auction 8.75 billion euros
($11.4 billion) of six-month bills today and return to market
tomorrow with the sale of as much as 6.5 billion euros of five-
and 10-year bonds.  Pre-election favorite Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani barely won in the Chamber of Deputies, squeaking by with
a margin of less than half a percentage point over former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . While Italy’s voting rules award him
a majority of the 630 seats in the Chamber, Bersani will fall
short of controlling the Senate even if he strikes a post-
election alliance with outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  The euro fell to a six-week low, Italian bonds declined and
U.S. Treasury notes rose as the results came in pointing to a
hung-parliament. Italy has  Europe ’s second-biggest debt after
 Greece  at more than 120 percent of gross domestic product and
the Treasury needs to sell more than 30 billion euros of bonds
and bills a month.  “Ethically, politically, ideologically and personally
there is no way that a lasting coalition can be formed, so new
elections seem inevitable,”  James Walston , a politics professor
at Rome’s American University, said by e-mail.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party refused to concede and
called for a recount, possibly leading to heightened political
tensions in the coming weeks.  Seat Count  Bersani’s bloc and Monti together would get 135 seats in
the 315-seat Senate, while Berlusconi’s coalition and the party
of comic-turned politician Beppe Grillo would have 117 and 54
senators respectively, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on Senate votes that don’t take into account six senators
elected by Italians abroad.  This may force Bersani to try to seek the support of
Grillo’s anti-establishment party or try to build up a so called
grand coalition. Should he fail to assemble a government,
Italy’s President Giorgio Napolitano may appoint a caretaker
premier to pass urgent reforms or call new elections.  Should the older parties fail to address the issues, the in
the next election “the populists will do even better, the cost
of Italy’s debt will spiral out of control and the whole euro
system will be threatened,” Walston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  