-- Italian Turmoil May Dent Latvians’ Support for Euro, Vilks Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-02-26T13:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italian-turmoil-may-dent-latvians-support-for-euro-vilks-says.html
Latvian public support for adopting
the euro may be damped if markets react negatively to  Italy ’s
inconclusive election or Cyprus’s financial woes, said Andris Vilks, the Baltic country’s finance minister.  Public opinion may “fluctuate,” Vilks said in an
interview today after addressing the European Parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in Brussels. “It’s a
very, very vulnerable situation what could be in Italy and what
could be in Cyprus,” he said. “But it doesn’t impact our
commitment to join the euro zone.”  Italian stocks and bonds fell, while the cost of insuring
the nation’s debt against default climbed to the highest this
year, as the country’s election deadlock reignited concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will deepen. Latvia is trying to become the
18th euro-area country next year and has satisfied criteria
related to debt, budget deficit and inflation, according to the
government.  Vilks said positive developments in euro countries from
Ireland to Spain may compensate for any possible negative
fallout from the Italian election.  The number of Latvians strongly or somewhat in support of
adopting the euro rose in January to 33 percent, according to a
 TNS poll  published on Feb. 11. Sixty-three percent of 1,012
respondents in the poll said they were very or somewhat opposed
to the euro, while four percent were undecided.  In his testimony to EU lawmakers today, Latvian Central
Bank Governor Ilmars Rimsevics said 30 percent of Latvians favor
adopting the euro, 33 percent are against and up to 35 percent
remain undecided.  Asked about the discrepancy between his numbers and the TNS
poll, Rimsevics said he was “generalizing” in his testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
NI EUR
NI EMC
NI LATVIA
NI BALTIC
NI ITALY
NI ESTONIA
NI EEU
NI LITHUANIA
NI EM
NI  EUROPE  