-- Italian Hung Parliament Could Lead to Revamp of Election Law
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-26T01:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italian-hung-parliament-could-lead-to-revamp-of-election-law.html
Italy ’s election, which produced a
divided parliament, underscores the need to revamp a voting law
known as the “pigsty.”  The rules make it difficult for any party to win a working
majority in both houses of Parliament. Both chambers have equal
powers, making a working majority necessary to pass legislation
and remain in power.  The current law was passed by Silvio Berlusconi’s second
government in 2005 and dubbed the pigsty by Roberto Calderoli,
Berlusconi’s reforms minister of the time. The system forces
voters to cast ballots for lists of candidates handpicked by the
party readers rather than voting for individual candidates.  Here are some details on how the law works:  -- Voting age: 18 years for the  Chamber of Deputies , 25
years for the Senate.  -- Election eligible age: members of the lower house must
be at least 25 years old, senators 40 years old.  --  Election of Chamber of Deputies : the lower house has 630
deputies, the majority is 316. Twelve seats are assigned to
electoral districts outside Italy and one to the small region of
Aosta Valley. The remaining 617 deputies come from 26
constituencies with a proportional system.  -- The party or coalition that wins a relative majority
automatically gets 54 percent of seats in the Chamber of
Deputies. The threshold to get seats are 10 percent on a
national basis for coalitions, and 2 percent for lists within a
coalition; 4 percent for unaligned lists and lists in coalitions
winning less than 10 percent of votes.  -- One seat is assigned to Aosta Valley, 7 to Trentino
Alto-Adige, 2 to Molise, 6 to Italians abroad.  -- Election of  Senate : the upper house has 315 seats, the
majority is 158. Getting an outright majority in the Senate is
more difficult because the seat premium assigned to the winning
coalition is allocated on a regional basis rather than at the
national level, meaning the law tends to reward those parties,
like the Northern League, that have a strong regional base.  -- Apart from the 309 seats assigned to the regional
contests, six seats are reserved for Italians living abroad.  -- The winning coalition in a region is guaranteed at least
55 percent of the seats assigned to that region. The regions
with the highest number of seats are Lombardy (49), Lazio (28),
Campania (29), Sicily (25) and Veneto (24).  -- The threshold for representation in the Senate are 20
percent for coalitions at the regional level, 3 percent for
lists within a coalition, 8 percent regionally for unaligned
lists or lists in coalitions winning less than 20 percent of
votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  