-- Italian Stocks Sink Most in 10 Months After Election
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-26T16:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italian-stocks-sink-most-in-three-weeks-after-election.html
Italian stocks  fell the most in ten
months as the country’s inconclusive parliamentary elections
signaled voters are tiring of austerity.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo (ISP)  SpA, the nation’s biggest
banks, slumped at least 8.5 percent.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,
the country’s largest insurer, sank 6.5 percent, while Telecom
Italia SpA, the biggest phone company in Italy, dropped to a 15-
year low.  The  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  tumbled 4.9 percent to 15,552.2 at the
close in Milan, its largest decline since April 10. The volume
of shares changing hands was 41 percent greater than the average
of the last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The equity benchmark has lost 3.4 percent this year.  “Investors are a bit dismayed that the hopeful Mario Monti
did so poorly and won only about 10 percent of the vote,” said
Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million as head of equity
and fixed income at LLB Asset Management AG in Vaduz. “There’s
fear that  Italy  will stray from the chosen path of virtue and
that the recent reforms will be discarded. In the mid-term, now
is a good buying opportunity for equities.”  Pre-election favorite Pier Luigi Bersani won the lower
house by less than a half a point in the poll over the past two
days. Silvio Berlusconi, the former premier fighting a tax-fraud
conviction and charges of paying a minor for sex, won a blocking
minority in the Senate. In its first national contest, Beppe
Grillo’s Five Star Movement obtained 25 percent of votes for the
Chamber of Deputies. An Italian government needs a majority in
both houses.  Popular Vote  Berlusconi and Grillo, the candidates who pledged to
reverse the austerity implemented by outgoing Premier Mario
Monti to contain the region’s financial crisis, won about 55
percent of the popular vote. The result may lead President
Giorgio Napolitano to install an interim government to write a
new election law before calling another round of elections.  Berlusconi acknowledged Bersani’s narrow victory in the
lower house of Parliament and said he’s open to a broad alliance
to avoid a second election.  “Everyone needs to think what good can be done for Italy
and this will take some time,” Berlusconi said in an interview
with Canale 5, a station owned by his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  broadcaster.
The country cannot be left without a government, he said.  Government bonds fell, pushing yields on 10-year Italian
debt 40 basis points higher to 4.89 percent.  The Italian market regulator, Consob, banned short selling
of Banca Carige SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo for today and tomorrow.  Banks Slump  Italian banks  tumbled, with UniCredit, the nation’s biggest
lender, sliding 8.5 percent to 3.83 euros, and Intesa Sanpaolo,
the second-largest, slumping 9.1 percent to 1.23 euros.  Banca
Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  fell 5.7 percent to 51.9 euro cents.  The  FTSE Italia All-Share Banks Index (IT8300)  dropped 8.4 percent,
its biggest decline since August. Generali fell 84 euro cents to
12.01 euros, the lowest price since October.  Mediolanum SpA (MED) , the Italian financial-services company
partly owned by Berlusconi, plunged 10 percent to 4.12 euros.
Mediaset, the broadcaster controlled by the former prime
minister, sank 5.6 percent to 1.62 euros.  Telecom Italia dropped 7.3 percent to 54.9 euro cents, its
lowest price since August 1997. Kepler Capital Markets said the
company’s refinancing strategy remains at risk.  Enel SpA, Italy’s biggest utility, and Eni SpA, the
nation’s largest oil company, declined 5.8 percent to 2.71 euros
and 3 percent to 17.01 euros, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  