-- Italy Borrowing Costs Rise at Bill Sale on Political Turmoil
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-26T12:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italy-borrowing-costs-rise-at-bill-sale-on-political-turmoil-1-.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs rose to the
highest in almost four months one day after elections that
produced a hung parliament, creating the risk of another vote
this year.  The Rome-based Treasury auctioned 8.75 billion euros ($11.5
billion) of six-month bills today at 1.237 percent, the highest
since Oct. 29 and up from 0.731 percent at an auction of similar
maturity debt Jan. 29.  Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, the pre-
election favorite, won in the Chamber of Deputies by a margin of
less than half a percentage point over former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi . While Italy’s voting rules award him a
majority of the 630 seats in the Chamber, Bersani will fall
short of controlling the Senate even if he strikes a post-
election alliance with outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  “The inconclusive outcome of the Italian general elections
has already weighed on Italian supply,” Annalisa Piazza, a
fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said by e-mail
after the auction.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 32 basis points to 4.82
percent after the sale at 12:44 p.m. in  Rome . That’s the highest
in more than three months. Italy returns to the market tomorrow
with the sale of as much as 6.5 billion euros of five- and 10-
year bonds.  Debt Load  Italy has Europe’s second-biggest debt after  Greece  at more
than 120 percent of gross domestic product and the Treasury
needs to sell more than 30 billion euros of bonds and bills a
month.  Prospects for Italian debt remain “gloomy” with growing
risks the rating agencies might downgrade the country due to
political uncertainties, Piazza said. In order to assemble a
working government, Bersani may try to seek the support of
Grillo’s anti-establishment party or try to build up a so-called
grand coalition. Should he fail to assemble a government,
Italy’s President Giorgio Napolitano may appoint a caretaker
premier to pass urgent reforms or call new elections.  “Ethically, politically, ideologically and personally
there is no way that a lasting coalition can be formed, so new
elections seem inevitable,”  James Walston , a politics professor
at Rome’s American University, said by e-mail. If the older
parties fail to address the issues, in the next election “the
populists will do even better, the cost of Italy’s debt will
spiral out of control and the whole euro system will be
threatened,” Walston said.  Bigger Test  At today’s auction, investors bid for 1.44 times the amount
of the debt offered, down from 1.65 times last month.  Today “demand held up rather well giving a constructive
signal ahead of tomorrow’s more challenging” sale of a new 10-
year bond, said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist
at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan.  A temporary grand coalition would be “the most market
friendly scenario” and “reforming the electoral law should be
the priority,” Barclays Capital economists including Fabio Fois
wrote today in a note.  -- Editors:  Andrew Davis , James Hertling  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  