-- Italy Jewelry IPO Shelved as Vote Threatens Investments
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-02-26T13:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italy-jewelry-ipo-shelved-as-vote-threatens-investments.html
Pomellato SpA, the Italian jeweler
whose trinkets have been worn by actress Tilda Swinton, intended
to sell shares in an initial public offering as soon as next
year to fund expansion. After Italy’s election produced a hung
parliament, that plan is on hold.  “It forces us to look into alternative courses of action,
you have to look at other sources of capital,” Andrea Morante
said today on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua . “There was wishful thinking that these elections could
bring about stability in the political outlook, that wishful
thinking has been proven wrong.”  Italy’s inconclusive election, which renewed market tension
over  Europe ’s debt crisis, will probably propel companies to
change investment strategy as consumers curtail spending amid
the fourth recession since 2001. Even before the vote, the
European Commission forecast the country’s economy will shrink 1
percent this year after a 2.2 percent decline in 2012.
Unemployment is at a 13-year high of 11.2 percent.  “Gridlock in parliament means gridlock in the economy,”
 Alberto Gallo , an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in London,
wrote in a note to clients today. “With political uncertainty
around key laws and reforms, companies are less likely to hire
and invest and banks are less likely to make new loans.”  Rising Costs  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s largest manufacturer, may be among the
companies hardest hit by the political turmoil. The automaker’s
car sales in Italy accounted in January for more than half of
European deliveries. The Turin-based carmaker controlled by the
Agnelli family will pay higher interest rates on its debt and
may battle a further sales contraction in the country, which
fell last year to the lowest in more than 30 years. Fiat
declined to comment today on the election results.  “I pay a spread on top of the Italian spread because I’m
Italian based,” Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of
Fiat and Chrysler Group LLC, told reporters Dec. 20 at the
company’s car plant in the southern city of Melfi. Italian
stocks tumbled in Milan today, with Fiat dropping as much as 5.8
percent to 3.9 euros.  Credit-default swaps insuring Fiat against default climbed
56 basis points to 616 at 11:55 a.m. in  London , the highest
level in a month and the biggest same-day move since April, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. An increase signals deterioration in
perceptions of credit quality.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on a
contract protecting 10 million euros ($13.1 million) of debt for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Tax Increases  Italy’s borrowing costs rose to the highest in almost four
months after the treasury auctioned 8.75 billion euros of six-
month bills today.  The election outcome intensifies the risk of tax increases
for Italian utilities, even with the average rate already at 40
percent compared with the European average of 28 percent,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  The emergence of a populist-oriented government may result
in a realignment of austerity measures from consumers to
corporations, such as the extension of the so-called Robin Hood
tax on utilities created in 201O, according to Bloomberg
Industries analyst Chris Rogers.  A2A SpA (A2A) , Italy’s biggest
municipal utility,  dropped  as much as 9.4 percent in Milan.  Telecom Italia’s refinincing strategy could be at risk give
the political uncertainty, according to Kepler analyst Enrico
Coco. The company will wait for more “stable and favorable
market conditions” before selling a hybrid bond of as much as 3
billion euros, CEO Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  said today in an interview
with Il Corriere della Sera.  Fiat Plan  To stem mounting losses in Europe as its market share
dwindles, Fiat intends to transform underused factories into
export hubs for more expensive vehicles from Jeep, Alfa Romeo
and Maserati. Marchionne had asked Premier Mario Monti’s
government last year to reduce the corporate tax rate on
vehicles exported from  Italy  in order to competitively build
cars in the country for North America.  “Whoever wins the election in February, I sincerely hope,
resurrects this plan because it is important not just for Fiat,
but anybody who is operating assets in this jurisdiction,”
Marchionne said Jan. 30 on a conference call with analysts.  Renewed Uncertainty  That won’t happen soon. Italy’s recession-scarred voters
repudiated budget rigor and made Beppe Grillo, a former
comedian, a political force. In the four-way race, Bersani, the
pre-election favorite, won the lower house by less than a half a
point. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, fighting a tax-
fraud conviction and charges of paying a minor for sex, called
for a recount and won a blocking minority in the Senate.  Berlusconi and Grillo, the candidates running to reverse
the austerity implemented by incumbent Monti to contain the
region’s financial crisis, scored about 55 percent of the
popular vote.  “The uncertainty renews our worries about the future,”
Filippo Pavan Bernacchi, head of the country’s car dealers
association, said in an interview.  “We’ll stay at the bottom
of the crisis for a longer period.”  Auto sales in the country, which could have started a
recovery with a “strong” government, may fall about 5 percent
this year to 1.3 million vehicles, Bernacchi estimates. More
spending cuts, though, are also not the answer, he said.  “On the other side, austerity measures killed the car
sector in this country, so they must be canceled,” said
Bernacchi, who forecasts that the Italian dealer network shrank
by 20 percent since the crisis started in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  