-- European Banks Fall as Italy Vote Revives Debt Concern
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-02-26T15:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/italy-banks-fall-as-vote-outcome-produces-gridlock-milan-mover.html
European bank stocks fell, led by
Milan-based  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , after
inconclusive election results in Italy threatened to reignite
the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, slumped as much as 10
percent to 3.76 euros in Milan, its largest intraday drop since
Jan. 9, 2012, while Intesa  declined  as much as 12 percent.
France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , which has a branch network in
Italy, slid as much as 6.6 percent.  A political stalemate in Italy is weighing on banks, among
the biggest holders of Italian  government bonds , as the gridlock
threatens to derail 15 months of austerity under Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s technocrat government and revive speculation the
country will struggle to pay its debt.  “We should expect the market to price a tail risk of a
euro zone break-up back into the bank stocks,” Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, an analyst at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note
today.  The Euro Stoxx Banks Index fell as much as 5.5 percent, the
 most since  Sept. 26, as lenders from  Portugal  to Germany tumbled
and the cost of insuring against default on European bank debt
reached the highest in three months.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank, dropped as much as 6.6 percent, and was 4.6 percent lower
at 94.3 cents by 4:21 p.m. in Lisbon. Deutsche Bank AG,
Germany’s largest bank, fell 3.9 percent to 34.78 euros in
Frankfurt.  ‘Sovereign Spreads’  The results from Italy’s election, which concluded
yesterday, suggest a hung Parliament and may lead to another
vote. Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, who campaigned
to maintain budget rigor, won control of the lower house but
failed to capture the Senate, where rival  Silvio Berlusconi  won
a blocking minority.  Bond yields jumped in Italy,  Spain  and Portugal following
the vote, threatening to raise banks’ funding costs.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, to 4.81 percent as of 12:57 p.m. in London,
after reaching 4.93 percent, the highest level since Nov. 20.
The gap in yield, or spread, between 10-year Italian bonds and
German bunds widened 41 basis points to 334 basis points.  “The potential negative effect, volatility on sovereign
spreads and lack of potential pro-growth reforms will likely
continue to negatively impact Italian banks,” analysts
including Azzurra Guelfi and Giada Giani at Citigroup Inc. wrote
in a note. “This is due to their high gearing to sovereign
exposure and asset quality, both of which are negatively
affected by weak macro conditions.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on 25 banks and insurers rose as much as 12 basis points to 163.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  