-- J&J Seeks to Avoid Punitives After Losing Mesh Verdict
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-26T22:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/j-j-seeks-to-avoid-punitives-after-losing-mesh-verdict.html
A jury began deliberating whether to
punish  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  for a South Dakota nurse awarded $3.35
million in the first trial among 2,100 New Jersey lawsuits over
its vaginal mesh.  Lawyers for Linda Gross today asked jurors in Atlantic City
to require J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care
products, to pay punitive damages. The panel yesterday awarded
compensatory damages to Gross after finding J&J failed to warn
her surgeon of the risks of its Gynecare Prolift implant and
fraudulently misled her about the risks. The jury, which met for
about 30 minutes today before leaving, is scheduled to resume
deliberations tomorrow.  New Jersey caps punitive damages at five times compensatory
damages, or $16.75 million, although jurors weren’t told that.
Gross attorney Adam Slater urged the panel of six women and
three men to find that J&J and its Ethicon  unit  acted with
willful and wanton disregard of the probable harm to his client.  “Tell them through your verdict, don’t do this again,
change your way of business,” Slater told jurors today.
“You’ve already found they knew what they were saying was
untrue. When you make a punitive damage award and you want to
deter them, you take into account how much money they have.”  Gross, 47, sued along with her husband, complaining of
constant pain and 18 operations she underwent after the device
was implanted to shore up weakened pelvic muscles. J&J, based in
New Brunswick, New Jersey, claimed at trial that Prolift is safe
and effective, and the company warned adequately of risks.  ‘I Understand’  “I understand that Johnson & Johnson and Ethicon didn’t do
as good a job as they could have,” J&J attorney Christy Jones
told jurors in a voice barely above a whisper. “I understand
they could have given better warnings” to Gross’s surgeon.  She asked jurors to review the evidence in light of the
higher burden of proof for punitives, which is clear and
convincing evidence, rather than a preponderance of the
evidence, the standard for compensatory damages.  Jones said that Ethicon tried to teach surgeons how to
minimize the risk to patients, and sought through “instructions
for use” to warn of the risks.  “I asking you, I’m begging you, to think about what was
done and why,” said Jones, holding her hands as if in prayer.
“Please consider the burden of proof and hold the plaintiffs to
their burden of proof. Please stand by your convictions and do
what’s right. It’s important to all of us.”  Gross’s attorneys called a forensic economics expert, Frank
Tinari, to testify about J&J’s financial condition.  Net Worth  The company, he said, had total assets of $121.3 billion
and a net worth of $64.8 billion through Dec. 31. The average
annual  profit  from 2009 to 2012 was $11.5 billion, he said.
Advertising and marketing expenses were $20.9 billion last year,
or $57 million a day, he said.  Under questioning by Gross’s attorney David Mazie, Tinari
said that every 45 minutes, the company spends the equivalent of
the $3.35 million awarded to Gross on marketing and advertising.  J&J attorney William Gage asked Tinari about a variety of
other company expenses, including research and development, as
well as intangible assets and goodwill.  When Gage tried to ask about J&J giving away vaccines
around the world, Superior Court Judge Carol Higbee upheld an
objection by Gross’s lawyers.  A J&J manager of financial reporting, Mark Schneider,
testified his analysis of Prolift sales from 2005 through 2012
showed the total was $128 million, and profit was $5.6 million.  Sales Calculations  On cross-examination, Mazie suggested Schneider’s
calculations were unreliable and he underreported sales. He
showed Schneider a company document saying sales in the first
half of 2008 alone were $55 million. Schneider said he hadn’t
seen it.  In his summation, Slater went through e-mails, memos and
video depositions, including one of the device’s creator, Axel
Arnaud. Slater said Arnaud contradicted Ethicon’s statement that
Prolift posed “rare and small risks” of complications.  “I have given you 100 percent irrefutable proof that the
guy who created the procedure is telling you those statements
were not true,” Slater said. “This is clear and convincing.
There’s no doubt. It’s their words.”  Mazie said J&J is a “big giant,” and jurors must send a
“loud message” to punish the company for its conduct.  “Provide justice today to Linda Gross and send a message
to Johnson & Johnson and tell them ‘No more, no more, no
more,’” he said. “Send a message and make sure it’s heard.”  J&J faces about 4,000 pelvic mesh lawsuits around the U.S.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  