-- Japan Lending Surge Meets Deflation Bottleneck: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i n h   B u i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-02-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/japan-lending-surge-meets-deflation-bottleneck-chart-of-the-day.html
The most lending by Japanese banks
since May 2009, fueled by record liquidity, has yet to reverse
more than a decade of deflation, underscoring the challenge
facing the next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor.  “Just expanding the injection of money won’t help,” said
 Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JP Morgan Securities  Asia 
in  Tokyo  and a former BOJ official. The next governor needs to
show how he’ll improve the transmission mechanism by which extra
monetary easing translates into rising prices, he said.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks how the gauge of consumer
prices excluding fresh food and energy has been negative every
month since January 2009, even as M2  money supply  rose to a
record. Meanwhile, bank lending excluding trusts in January rose
to the most in 3-1/2 years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who won election in December
around a campaign centered on ending deflation, is likely to
pick Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda as next
central bank governor, according to two officials with knowledge
of the discussions. Kuroda said in an interview this month that
he favors greater monetary stimulus, and that there are the
equivalent of trillions of dollars of financial assets that the
BOJ could buy.  The BOJ last month set a 2 percent inflation target, and
said it would shift to open-ended asset purchases beginning in
2014. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , scheduled to step down March
19 after five years at the helm, established a 76 trillion yen
($826 billion) asset-purchase fund and an unlimited bank-loan
financing program.  The M2 monetary base is comprised of notes and coins in
circulation and also money that financial institutions have on
deposit at the central bank. Since Abe took office, the yen has
weakened about 9 percent against the dollar, the worst performer
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Minh Bui in Tokyo at 
 mbui@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  