-- Japan Considers MOF Currency Head Nakao for ADB Presidency
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-02-26T03:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/japan-considers-currency-policy-head-nakao-for-adb-presidency.html
Japan  is considering Takehiko Nakao,
the nation’s top currency official, as a candidate to lead the
Asian Development Bank under the assumption that current ADB
head Haruhiko Kuroda becomes the next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor.  “There will be an election to decide the presidency of the
Asian Development Bank, so we have to campaign for Japan to win
that position,” Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters in
 Tokyo  today. “There are various candidates but he is probably
one of them,” Aso said, when asked if Vice Finance Minister for
International Affairs Nakao should take the position.  Japan has held the presidency of the Manila-based ADB since
the institution was founded in 1966, and is tied with the U.S.
as having the largest  voting power  at the development bank. The
U.S. has monopolized the leadership of the World Bank, while
Europeans historically have chosen the head of the International
Monetary Fund.  “Japan and the U.S. are still the largest shareholders and
the U.S. has no intention to assume the presidency of the ADB,”
Masahiro Kawai, dean of the Tokyo-based Asian Development Bank
Institute, said in an interview last month.  China , Asia’s
largest economy, lacks sufficient support to grab the role and
Japan can retain its hold, Kawai said.  Kuroda, 68, is a predecessor of Nakao in the vice finance
minister job, directing Japan’s currency policy from 1999 to
2003. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is likely to nominate
Kuroda as central bank governor this week, according to two
officials with knowledge of the discussions who asked not to be
named as the talks are private.  Currency Intervention  Nakao, 56, oversaw the government’s biggest-ever one-day
currency-market intervention on Oct. 31, 2011, after the yen
reached a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar.  The currency official, who joined the finance ministry in
1978 and has an MBA from the University of California, Berkeley,
is the author of a 2008 book, “America’s Economic Policy: Can
it Sustain its Strength?” In 2010 he said the stability of the
international financial system is premised on the U.S dollar as
a “key currency.”  The yen yesterday reached its lowest level against the
dollar since May 2010 on prospects for more monetary stimulus
from Japan’s central bank under Kuroda. It later rallied amid
haven demand stemming from concern  Italy ’s election failed to
produce a majority winner. It was at 92.52 as of 11:43 a.m. in
Tokyo.  The Chinese, Australian and South Korean finance ministries
declined to comment on Nakao’s potential candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  