-- Jay-Z to Play U.K. Olympic Park Amid $442 Million Revamp
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/jay-z-to-play-u-k-olympic-park-amid-442-million-revamp.html
London’s  Olympic Park  is gearing up
for a second life: as a place for rock concerts, a floating
cinema, street art and theater.  On July 13, Jay-Z’s only 2013 European concert is planned
in the newly renamed Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, said the
 London Legacy Development Corporation , which is leading the
park’s 292 million-pound ($442 million) transformation. Justin Timberlake performs on July 12. It’s all part of producer  Live
Nation Entertainment, Inc. (LYV) ’s transfer of the Wireless and Hard
Rock Festivals from Hyde Park, announced on Feb. 19.  Elsewhere in and around the park -- seven months after the
 2012 Olympic Games  -- a cinema-on-a-barge, outdoor murals and
fringe theater are getting under way. They’re supported by the
 Legacy List , a charity set up to bring culture to the park,
which has raised 1.7 million pounds so far.  “The sport is there, center stage: We’re going to add the
extra 10 percent, the magic gold dust that brings a place
alive,” says Chief Executive Sarah Weir, who previously co-ran
the  Almeida Theatre  and headed  Arts Council London .  “To leave behind that memory of the three elements of the
Olympics is really important: sport, education, culture,” says
Weir. “What we can do is continue to tell the story of the park
through artists.”  The site will reopen in stages, starting on July 27 with
the north park -- where the athletes’ village was located. The
area around the Olympic Stadium and the Aquatics Centre opens in
2014, once temporary venues, seating and walkways are removed
and paths put in.  Floating Cinema  The floating cinema -- designed to move along the narrow
canals, host screenings and talks, and project outdoor movies --
had its pilot run about the time of the Olympics. The inaugural
season included an outdoor projection of “Fantastic Mr. Fox”
(the 2009 stop-motion animation movie) in front of the 3 Mills
Studios in east  London  where it was made.  In late June, a new, slightly larger cinema opens. Designed
by  Duggan Morris architects , it’s built on a disused, 60-year-
old steel barge that once transported cargo. The program is
being drawn up by curators who track their progress on a
website:  http://www.floatingcinema.info .  “The canals have really started to be reconsidered as a
place for culture and leisure,” says Emma Underhill, director
of UP Projects, which commissions artists and architects to
create temporary public work. “They’re the consistent thing
that runs right through the park, almost like arteries that
connect the exterior to the interior.”  Canal Art  The walls of the canal opposite the park will come alive
with street art commissioned by Cedar Lewisohn, who curated Tate
Modern’s street art show in 2008. He’ll have four artists make
non-permanent “interventions, as opposed to bombastic murals.”  “Some street art can look messy,” says Lewisohn. Here, the
art will include abstraction and avoid “the typical image
people associate with street art, which is stencil-led or
graphic and cartoon-y.”  A third Legacy List benefactor is the Yard Theatre in
Hackney Wick, on the park’s edges. It was started in 2011 by ex-
actor Jay Miller, now 28, who, with 9,000 pounds in startup
cash, built an amphitheater in a warehouse that can fit as many
as 140 spectators.  Miller wants stage talent to get noticed. Visual artists
“can get a pencil and piece of paper and be self-reliant,” he
says. In theater, “you need to have serious capital in your
back pocket before you’ve even thought about beginning.”  The Yard is already getting attention. Michaela Coel’s
humorous monologue about growing up in Hackney, “Chewing Gum
Dreams,” transferred to the Bush Theatre in London.  “We’re in an area of London that’s changing on a day-to-
day basis, and has been forgotten for years and years,” says
Miller. The challenge now is to “develop what it is: a place
which is raw and has loads of stories.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
supports the Legacy List, and more specifically two of its
programs: UP Projects’ Floating Cinema Extra-Ordinary, and The
Canals Project of outdoor art.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Robert
Heller  on music and  Katya Kazakina  on art.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 