-- JPMorgan’s Petno Sees Banks Making ‘Irrational’ C&I Loans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-26T18:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/jpmorgan-s-petno-sees-banks-making-irrational-c-i-loans.html
Banks are making “irrational”
commercial and industrial loans as they seek higher-yielding
assets and the supply of quality borrowers is low, said  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Doug Petno.  “Just in the last several months we’ve seen some
irrational behavior, in our view, in terms of structure and
price,” Petno, chief executive officer of commercial banking,
said today at an investor conference at the firm’s  New York 
headquarters. “There’s a lot of capital chasing a finite amount
of opportunities.”  Commercial and industrial loans jumped 12 percent in 2012
to $1.51 trillion, the largest increase among loan categories,
according to data from the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. 
Petno’s unit outpaced the industry in quarter-over-quarter C&I
loan growth in each period of 2012, according to his
presentation today.  “It’s fiercely competitive,” Petno said. “Any really
high-quality loan opportunity, all the usual suspects are
competing.”  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, had $73.6
billion in C&I loans as of Dec. 31, according to the
presentation. Health-care companies made up 14 percent of that
total, with state and municipal governments and consumer
products companies each accounting for 9 percent.  Petno said his bank’s controls will help it avoid getting
pressured into making risky loans, including quarterly meetings
that include reviewing “crazy transactions” in the industry.
JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  has made maintaining  credit quality  a
priority over growth, Petno said.  “We’ll be tested and tempted, but this place really has a
proven model,” Pento said. “We’ve got tremendous confidence in
our track record and our ability to hold the line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  