-- Ken Heebner Bets 21% of His Stock Fund Against Treasuries
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ken-heebner-bets-21-of-his-stock-fund-against-treasuries.html
Money manager Kenneth Heebner,
convinced that a growing U.S. economy will eventually prompt the
Federal Reserve to boost interest rates, has bet 21 percent of
his  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  on a decline in U.S. Treasuries.  The $1.44 billion fund, which Heebner uses to make
concentrated wagers on stocks, had sold short $300 million of
U.S. Treasury bonds at the end of last year, according to a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. That is up from $190 million at the end of the third
quarter and $80 million halfway through last year.  Heebner, who turned CGM Focus into the top-performing
diversified U.S. stock mutual fund for the decade ended 2007
before losing his touch in the financial crisis, is doubling
down on a bet that left him  trailing  peers and the stock market
over the past year. Wall Street professionals such as Nassim
Taleb and James Rogers have recommended betting against
Treasuries, though timing that wager has proved difficult as
investors flocked to U.S. government debt in search of a safe
haven from economic turmoil in  Europe .  “If you have staying power, this is a perfectly acceptable
time to be getting short treasuries,” said Stephen Stanley, the
chief economist for Pierpont Securities LLC, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based brokerage that focuses on government bonds.
“Over a shorter period, you are kind of fighting the Fed.”  ‘Stronger Economy’  CGM Focus has generated an annual average loss of 9.9
percent during the five years ended Feb. 25, worse than 99
percent of other mutual funds that follow a similar strategy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund rebounded over
the past three months when Treasuries fell, beating 99 percent
of peers. It slumped again this month as an inconclusive
election in  Italy  damped optimism about the global economy.  “We established a significant short position in U.S.
Treasury bonds in anticipation of what we believe will be a
stronger U.S. economy going forward,” Heebner said in a Jan. 2
letter included in the filing.  Unlike most mutual funds, CGM Focus Fund has the ability to
short sell securities. The fund, which mostly invests in stocks,
employs a “flexible” investment style and can invest in fixed-
income securities, according to a prospectus filed with the SEC.  In 2006, CGM Focus sold short 3.85 million shares of
Amazon.com Inc., only to call off the trade after losing at
least $43 million on short sales during the first half of 2007.
By the end of 2007, the fund had sold short 30 million shares of
mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp.  Too Bullish  Yesterday’s filing showed that CGM Focus had sold short
$200 million of 2.75 percent Treasuries and $100 million of
3.125 percent bonds that mature in August and February 2042
respectively.  Investors use short selling to profit from a decline in the
value of a stock or bond. The technique involves borrowing and
then selling a security in anticipation of buying it back in the
future at a lower price.  The fund had 29 percent of its assets invested in  banks 
including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , with an additional 24 percent devoted to homebuilders
D.R. Horton Inc.,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)   During 2012, Heebner positioned CGM Focus to benefit from
greater economic growth “than actually occurred,” the money
manager said in yesterday’s filing, leading the fund to
“modestly” underperform the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. CGM
Focus had a 14 percent total return last year, including
dividends, compared with a 16 percent return for the S&P 500,
according to the fund’s annual report.  Policy Change  In an interview last week, Heebner said a rebound in
housing will translate into a strong financial position for
consumers, boosting the U.S. economy and prompting the Federal
Reserve to end stimulus programs known as quantitative easing.  “The Fed will eventually change its policy by moving away
from QE3 and then raising rates,” Heebner said, without
specifying a time frame.  Martha McGuire, a spokeswoman for Capital Growth Management
LP in  Boston , said Heebner wasn’t available to comment.  Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer for money-
management firm Guggenheim Partners, compares the Fed’s
quantitative easing with a similar program that lasted from 1942
until about 1951, when the central bank vowed to take action
should interest rates climb above 2.25 percent.  Minerd, whose firm has offices in  Chicago  and New York and
oversees about $170 billion in assets, noted that the current
stimulus program has been under way for almost four years. He
said the Fed may be forced to keep rates low longer than
anticipated, for fear of roiling markets and causing another
credit crunch.  “We could have another five to six years of this,” said
Minerd, who works in Guggenheim’s office in Santa Monica,
 California , near Los Angeles. “You could be short for a lot of
years before you got any pleasure out of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  