-- Kerry Pledges Momentum on ’Comprehensive’ U.S.-EU Trade Pact
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-26T14:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/kerry-pledges-momentum-on-comprehensive-u-s-eu-trade-pact.html
Secretary of State John Kerry
pledged to accelerate momentum for a “comprehensive” trade
agreement between the U.S. and the European Union, saying it
would create jobs and wrest Europe out of its economic woes.  During a trip to Berlin as part of a European tour, Kerry
extended President  Barack Obama ’s promise earlier this month to
seek an agreement during his second term. He said he’d discuss
with German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle how to speed up
preparations toward a pact “seriously and rapidly.”  “We want to see even more trade and investment that will
create jobs, jobs for Germans, jobs for Americans, jobs for all
Europeans,” Kerry told reporters today alongside Westerwelle. A
new pact will “help to lift the European economy at a time that
it obviously needs it,” he said.  European leaders have latched onto Obama’s  State of the
Union  pledge as the EU aims to complete trade talks with the
U.S. within two years. The 27-member bloc, buffeted by the
three-year-old euro crisis, has cited lower tariffs, eased
regulation and expanded investment across the Atlantic.  Westerwelle, who has pointed at a deal with the U.S. as
realistic by the end of Obama’s second term, said the two sides
had a “window of opportunity” to lock in a pact that will
foster growth without accruing debt.  “We agree that a trans-Atlantic free-trade agreement now
has to move forward -- we mean it seriously,” Westerwelle said.  The EU and U.S. have been at odds over issues such as farm
subsidies, health protections and regulatory standards. Trade
and investment between the two was valued at $4.5 trillion in
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Berlin at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  