-- Kuroda’s Inflation Failure Seen in Long Bond Rally: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-02-26T05:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/kuroda-s-inflation-failure-seen-in-long-bond-rally-japan-credit.html
Japan’s government bond yield curve
is pricing in the success of Haruhiko Kuroda in adopting more
aggressive easing as the next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor and his
ultimate failure to hit a 2 percent inflation target.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 30-year JGBs
instead of 5-year notes slid to 1.77 percentage points from the
seven-year high of 1.86 set earlier this month, reflecting
speculation of increased BOJ purchases of debt and that the
buying will do little to spur consumer prices. A similar  spread 
in the U.S. was at 2.3 percentage points.  Japan’s five-year yields fell to a record 0.115 percent
today as officials said Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will probably
nominate Asian Development Bank President Kuroda as the new
central bank chief and academic Kikuo Iwata as a deputy. The
 bond market  is signaling expectations that  inflation  will
average 1.26 percent in the next five years, meaning that while
 Japan  may exit more than a decade of deflation, the BOJ won’t
meet Abe’s inflation goal.  “Kuroda and Iwata would likely carry out various easing
measures more aggressively than other candidates, just as Abe is
hoping,” said Shuntaro Take, the deputy general manager for the
corporate accounting and investment department at Tokio Marine &
Nichido Life Insurance Co., which manages about $41 billion in
 Tokyo . Even so, “expectations are very low that inflation will
be brought about.”  Parliament Approval  Japan’s benchmark  10-year yield  fell three basis points to
0.675 percent today, the lowest since June 2003. The yield may
drop to 0.6 percent by the end of June, Take said, which would
be the least since June 2003.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his two deputies are due
to step down on March 19. Nominees for their successors must be
approved by the upper house of parliament, where Abe’s  Liberal
Democratic Party  lacks a majority. The opposition  Democratic
Party  of Japan is ready to approve Abe’s nominations, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today.  The prime minister will also probably nominate Hiroshi Nakaso, a senior BOJ official, as the second deputy chief,
according to one government official and a ruling coalition
executive, who asked not to be named as the talks are private.  Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters in  Seoul  yesterday
that Kuroda would be a right choice for the next BOJ governor.  Kuroda said in a Feb. 11 interview that it was important to
end consumer-price declines because they cause households and
businesses to postpone spending. He said Japan’s central bank
has “substantial room” for further easing.  ‘QE Zealot’  In 2002, he advocated an inflation target of as high as 3
percent, and this month said that the current goal is
“appropriate.” Kuroda, who is also a former vice finance
minister, said the BOJ could purchase the equivalent of
trillions of dollars of assets to expand its balance sheet.  The 2 percent inflation goal is higher than the yield on
all JGBs maturing in up to 30 years. The 30-year rate slid three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.87 percent today.
Deflation is a positive for bonds as it enhances the purchasing
power of their fixed payments.  Iwata, an economics professor at Gakushuin University in
Tokyo, said in an interview last month that the best way to
achieve 2 percent inflation is to increase the cash that
commercial lenders hold at the central bank, boosting the so-
called monetary base.  “Abe’s made absolutely clear that the new Bank of Japan
governor will do precisely as he’s told or he will fire him,”
 Nicholas Smith , the Japan strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. That
direction is backed up by the choice of Iwata “who is an
absolute QE zealot.”  Japan’s Friedman  The Gakushuin professor is Japan’s equivalent of  Milton Friedman  and has repeatedly criticized central bank policy,
 Hideo Kumano , the chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo and a former central bank official, said
yesterday. Friedman, the Nobel prize-winning American economist,
espoused the theory that changes in money supply prompt price
fluctuations.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Hankyu Hanshin
Holdings Inc. (9042) , an Osaka, Japan-based passenger rail company,
hired banks to sell 10 billion yen ($109 million) of seven-year
bonds, according to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co., which will manage the deal with Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors 0.28 percent
this month, compared with the 0.41 percent return for the
nation’s sovereign notes, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Company debt worldwide has gained 0.77 percent.  Inflation Bonds  The Ministry of Finance will offer up to 2.7 trillion yen
of two-year notes on Feb. 28. The previous auction on Jan. 31
drew bids 10.13 times the amount on offer, in line with the
average of previous 10 sales.  The yen has depreciated about 12 percent versus the dollar
since Abe called for unlimited money printing by the BOJ on Nov.
15, and it tumbled to 94.77 yesterday, the lowest since May
2010. A weaker currency typically boosts import prices while
making Japanese-made products cheaper overseas.  The price of the nation’s inflation-linked securities
maturing in June 2018 climbed to a record 113.087 yen yesterday
from a low of 76.342 yen in December 2008, signaling rising
demand for protection against future gains in consumer prices.  45-Year Career  Heading the BOJ would cap a 45-year career for Kuroda that
includes a secondment to  Washington  with the  International
Monetary Fund , a stint as adviser to former Prime Minister
 Junichiro Koizumi  and a master’s degree from Oxford University.  Kuroda rose to become Japan’s vice finance minister for
international affairs, the senior official in charge of foreign-
exchange issues, from 1999 to 2003. He succeeded  Eisuke Sakakibara , who was known as “Mr. Yen” for his ability to
influence the  currency markets  with his comments.  “The Kuroda-Iwata pair wouldn’t do things half-heartedly
but would take very aggressive actions” to boost inflation
prospects, said Tadashi Matsukawa, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $1.5 billion as the head of fixed-income
investment at PineBridge Investments Japan Co. in Tokyo. “We
can’t rule out the possibility that 2 percent inflation will be
eventually achieved.”  CPI Data  The BOJ must be committed to eradicating deflation
“through whatever measures available,” Kuroda said in an
interview on Feb. 11. He also said the “global standard” for
central bank’s to achieve price goals is about two years.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food probably  fell  0.2
percent in January from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
data due for release on March 1. The so-called core inflation
rate has decreased an average of 0.2 percent every month over
the past decade and has never been above 2 percent for more than
a year since 1992.  “There are very few people who seriously think 2 percent
inflation is achievable,” said Shogo Fujita, chief Japanese
bond strategist in Tokyo at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, one
of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at Japanese government
bond sales. “The market is asking how determined the BOJ is to
pursue lowering bond yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  