-- New Jersey’s Legislature Approves Amended Online Gambling Bill
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-26T19:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/new-jersey-s-legislature-approves-amended-online-gambling-bill.html
New Jersey ’s Assembly and Senate
passed an online gambling bill today with changes recommended by
Governor  Chris Christie , clearing the way for Internet betting
in the state to begin this year.  The governor, a first-term Republican seeking re-election,
conditionally vetoed a bill on Feb. 7 that would have allowed
state residents to bet online in games run by Atlantic City
casinos. He sent the measure back to lawmakers with recommended
changes, including a time limit, a tax-rate increase, and more
money for compulsive-gambling programs.  New Jersey is looking to fend off competition as nearby
states opening casinos and others pursue online gaming. Senator
Raymond Lesniak, an Elizabeth Democrat who sponsored New
Jersey’s bill, has said  Internet gambling  offers the best chance
to do so. Last week Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval signed a
measure legalizing such gaming in his state and opening the door
for agreements with other states.  “The fact that  Nevada  had moved down this road made it
more likely Governor Christie would be tipped over the edge,”
said Simon Holliday, director of the U.K.-based gaming research
firm H2 Gambling Capital. “Both of them have a vision of
getting out there first, becoming some kind of hub for
interstate pooling of liquidity.”  Online gambling in New Jersey could be a $1.5 billion
annual business in five years, Dennis Farrell, a casino analyst
at Wells Fargo Securities, said in an investor note Jan. 24.  “All New Jersey license holders will benefit, but
properties with strong brands and gaming facilities will likely
see the most upside,” Farrell said.  Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa, a joint venture between  Boyd
Gaming Corp. (BYD)  and  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , and  Caesars
Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  are the companies best positioned to capture
online business in New Jersey, Farrell said.  Zynga Rally  Borgata is the top-grossing single property in Atlantic
City, while Caesars is the largest operator with four casinos,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  The Nevada legislation prompted a rally in the stock of
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest maker of online social games. The shares
climbed 7.5 percent Feb. 25 amid investor optimism that other
U.S. states would follow suit and allow Internet gambling.  Christie’s recommended changes included raising the state’s
share of bets to 15 percent from 10 percent and establishing a
10-year time limit, after which the legislature would have to
reauthorize the bill. The first online bets should be taken by
September, Lesniak has said.  In New Jersey, casino revenue fell 8 percent to $3 billion
in 2012, the sixth straight annual decline, according to state’s
Division of Gaming Enforcement. Nevada gaming revenue increased
1.5 percent to $10.86 billion last year, according to Bloomberg
Industries data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  