-- New Zealand’s Annual Trade Deficit Widens as Exports Decline
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-26T22:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/new-zealand-s-annual-trade-deficit-widens-as-exports-decline.html
New Zealand ’s annual  trade deficit 
unexpectedly widened in January as exports fell to a four-month
low, led by reduced sales of dairy products.  Imports exceeded exports by NZ$1.3 billion ($1.1 billion)
in the 12 months ended January, compared with a revised NZ$1.16
billion shortfall in the year through December,  Statistics New
Zealand  said today in Wellington. Economists expected an NZ$897
million gap, according to the median of nine estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Exports fell 5.1 percent in the 12 months through January
as slowing global demand curbed commodity prices and the New
Zealand dollar’s gain cut returns. Policy makers are betting
that a recovery in  Australia  and  China , which together take more
than a third of the nation’s exports, will help accelerate New
Zealand’s economic recovery this year.  Prices for the nation’s commodity exports declined 10
percent in January from a year earlier, according to an index
from ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. that is adjusted for gains in the
nation’s currency.  The local dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 82.47 U.S. cents at 10:51 a.m. in Wellington.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s largest dairy
exporter, today said it forecasts dairy prices will move higher
in the next few months. Still, the Auckland-based company cut
its forecast milk collection for the season ending May 31,
citing dry conditions in parts of the country.  Exports in January declined 10 percent from a year earlier
to NZ$3.35 billion, the lowest since September. Economists
predicted NZ$3.6 billion.  China Overtakes  Overseas sales of milk powder, butter and cheese, which
make up about a quarter of total exports, dropped 16 percent
from January last year.  China was New Zealand’s largest trading partner, surpassing
Australia for a second straight month.  In January, imports fell 6 percent from a year-earlier to
NZ$3.65 billion. Imports were little changed when a large
aircraft purchase in January 2012 is excluded, today’s report
showed. Economists predicted NZ$3.5 billion.  The drop in exports meant New Zealand had a monthly trade
deficit of NZ$305 million, compared with a revised NZ$534
million surplus in December. Economists predicted a NZ$125
million surplus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  