-- Confidence Jump With Housing Points to U.S. Growth: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-26T21:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/new-home-sales-in-u-s-surge-in-january-to-highest-since-2008.html
Purchases of  new homes  surged in
January by the most in two decades and  consumer confidence 
jumped this month, signs of a rebound in U.S. economic growth at
the start of 2013.  Home sales surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000 annual pace,
exceeding the highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey and
following a 378,000 rate in the prior month, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. The Conference
Board’s consumer sentiment  index  climbed to 69.6, also beating
all estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The figures bolster Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s view that the fourth-quarter slump in growth will
prove temporary as the central bank’s efforts to keep interest
rates low help households repair finances. Rising property
values may underpin consumer spending, benefiting retailers such
as  Macy’s Inc. (M) , even as an increase in the payroll tax reduces
take-home pay and gasoline prices climb.  “Housing is now kicking into higher gear,” said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , who was the best confidence forecaster over the
past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The
next few months are still going to be a struggle for households
as fuel prices are elevated, but the improvement in confidence
reduces the risk of the worst-case scenario.”  Stocks climbed, following the biggest slump since November
for benchmark indexes, after the reports indicated the world’s
largest economy was overcoming the budget impasse in  Washington .
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.6 percent to 1,496.94
at the close in New York.  Bernanke’s Defense  Bernanke today defended the central bank’s unprecedented
asset purchases, saying they are supporting the expansion with
little risk of inflation or bubbles in stocks and bonds.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery,” Bernanke said in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in Washington.  A year after first using the term “fiscal cliff” to warn
of the cost of immediate cuts in government outlays, Bernanke
returned to Congress with three days remaining to avert $1.2
trillion of automatic cuts over nine years that take effect
unless lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  agree on an
alternative. Bernanke cited an estimate from the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office that the spending cuts known as
sequestration will cause a 0.6 percentage-point reduction in
growth this year.  Central Banks  Belief in the effectiveness of central banks’ extraordinary
measures was echoed overseas as Bank of England Deputy Governor
Paul Tucker said today that he’s open to adding to asset
purchases as policy makers stressed they have the flexibility to
expand stimulus if needed.  The  median  estimate of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for U.S. new-home sales to climb to a 380,000 annualized
rate. Estimates ranged from 355,000 to 409,000.  The level of sales last month was the highest since July
2008 and the percentage increase from December was the biggest
since April 1993.  Another report today showed home prices in 20 U.S. cities
rose in the 12 months to December by the most since July 2006.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 6.8
percent from December 2011 after advancing 5.4 percent in
November, the New York-based group said. Nineteen of 20 cities
showed gains.  ‘Broadly Based’  “The key here is it’s not as if we’re getting all the
juice from one area, it’s broadly based across the country,”
said Brian Jones, a senior U.S. economist at Societe Generale in
New York, who correctly projected the year-over-year increase.
“Rates are low, prices are attractive, so affordability is
high, and the labor market is gradually healing as well. If you
were in the market to buy a home, right now it’s a good time.”  Demand for new houses picked up in all four regions as
buyers took advantage of  mortgage rates  near record lows,
helping to boost the outlook for companies from  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) 
to  Mohawk Industries (MHK)  Inc.  “2013 will be a better year for U.S. housing than 2012,”
Richard Dugas, chief executive officer of PulteGroup, said on a
Jan. 31 earnings call.  Housing-related businesses like Mohawk Industries, the
world’s largest maker of flooring products, also are counting on
the rebound.  “In the U.S., low mortgage rates, stabilizing home prices,
improving employment should sustain the housing recovery,”
Jeffrey Lorberbaum, chief executive officer of Calhoun, Georgia-
based Mohawk, said on a Feb. 22 earnings call. “We anticipate
revenue and earnings growth for 2013 as the U.S. market
improves.”  Confidence Jumps  The Conference Board’s sentiment  index  jumped in February
from a revised 58.4 in January, data from the New York-based
private research group showed. The measure’s 11.2-point jump was
the biggest since November 2011, offsetting much of the almost
15-point slide over the previous three months.  “The absolute levels of consumer confidence are still
low,” said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte , North Carolina, who had the highest
estimate for confidence in the Bloomberg survey. “It’s
important to make a distinction between recovering and
recovered.”  The cutoff date for replies to the Conference Board’s
consumer survey was Feb. 14, indicating the heated political
rhetoric over the across-the-board government spending cuts
slated to take effect March 1 wasn’t reflected in these numbers,
said Vitner.  Growth Forecast  Still, an improving housing market and gains in employment
and confidence indicate growth will pick up this month. The
world’s largest economy will grow at a 1.8 percent annualized
rate from January through March, 0.1 percent more than they
previously estimated, economists at Morgan Stanley in New York
said following the new-homes sales report.  Gross domestic product shrank at a 0.1 percent pace in the
last three months of 2012, the Commerce Department reported last
month. Revised figures in two days will show the economy grew at
a 0.5 percent rate, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Growth is heating up a little bit, but the pace of
economic growth is still much slower than what we’re used to in
an economic recovery,” said Wells Fargo’s Vitner.  Sustained gains in consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, as Americans weather the budget
battles are among the reasons why growth will strengthen.  Cincinnati-based Macy’s, the second-largest U.S.
department-store chain, today forecast annual profit that was
higher than analysts’ estimates amid a surge in online sales.  Among other signs of improvement, a regional manufacturing
gauge jumped this month. The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond’s
 factory index  showed manufacturers in its region expanded in
February after slumping at the start of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  