-- New Stream Fund Executives Charged With Securities Fraud
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-26T21:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/new-stream-fund-executives-charged-with-securities-fraud.html
Three New Stream Capital LLC hedge
fund executives were charged by the U.S. with defrauding
investors by lying about fund closings to avoid losing a client.  David Bryson, 44, and Richard Pereira, 40, both of
Ridgefield,  Connecticut , and Bart Gutekunst, 61, of Weston,
pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiracy, securities fraud
and wire fraud in federal court in Hartford today, Connecticut
U.S. Attorney David Fein said in a statement.  “Fearing the loss of their fund’s largest investor, these
defendants orchestrated a scheme to deceive investors in order
to obtain and maintain investments,” Fein said. The investor
wasn’t named.  New Stream introduced new feeder funds in November 2007,
some based in the Cayman Islands, according to the statement.
The firm told investors they would have to move investments from
a Bermuda-based fund, which was closing, to the new ones.  When New Stream’s largest investor planned to redeem its
investment in the Bermuda fund and not move its money to the new
funds, the company devised a scheme to secretly keep the Bermuda
fund open to reverse the redemption, prosecutors said.  The defendants failed to inform other investors who had
transferred their funds that the Bermuda fund remained open and
would have priority over other funds, the prosecutors said. The
defendants used deceptive marketing materials to hide the
existence of the Bermuda fund, according to the statement.  Liquidation Plan  Bryson and Gutekunst were released on $5 million bonds,
Pereira on a $300,000 bond. If convicted, they face as long as
20 years in prison on each of 10 counts of securities fraud and
eight counts of wire fraud. The one count of conspiracy carries
a five-year maximum sentence.  “Mr. Gutekunst and others relied on professionals
including lawyers and accountants,” Stanley Twardy, Gutekunst’s
lawyer, said in a phone interview. “He looks forward to having
the opportunity to acquit himself at trial.”  James Glasser, a lawyer for Bryson, and Brian Spears, a
lawyer for Pereira, didn’t immediately respond to messages for
comment.  New Capital had its liquidation plan approved by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Delaware  in April. Investors in the funds
received recoveries of 7 percent to 19 percent, according to the
liquidation plan. The firm specialized in “non-traded private
debt,” which consisted primarily of a portfolio of life-
insurance policies.  The case is U.S. v. Bryson, 13-cr-00041, U.S. District of
Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  