-- New Jersey Governor Signs Bill Allowing Online Gambling
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-27T19:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/new-jersey-governor-christie-signs-law-allowing-online-bets-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
signed legislation authorizing online gambling in the state,
setting off a national horse race over a business forecast to
reach $13.4 billion in five years.  The governor, a first-term Republican seeking re-election,
signed the bill yesterday. Christie said the measure will help
New Jersey’s struggling casino industry and projected an 85
percent increase in his state’s casino tax revenue from online
gaming and an economic recovery.  “This was a critical decision, and one that I did not make
lightly,” Christie said in a statement. “I am confident that
we are offering a responsible yet exciting option that will make
 Atlantic City  more competitive while also bringing financial
benefits to New Jersey as a whole.”  New Jersey  is the most-populous state to legalize online
gambling, following  Nevada  and  Delaware . Other states, including
the largest,  California , may be prodded to pass Internet betting
bills in the absence of federal legislation, according to Simon Holliday, director of the U.K.-based research firm H2 Gambling
Capital. Nevada and New Jersey, with their long-standing casino
industries, are competing to take a leadership role in the
evolving business.  “The fact that Nevada had moved down this road made it
more likely Governor Christie would be tipped over the edge,”
said Holliday, who provided the five-year forecast. “Both of
them have a vision of getting out there first, becoming some
kind of hub for interstate pooling of liquidity.”  Casino Stocks  Casino companies in Atlantic City rose.  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) ,
co-owner of the Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa with  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , gained 3.9 percent to $6.75 at 2:10 p.m. in  New
York . MGM Resorts added 2.8 percent and  Caesars Entertainment
Corp. (CZR) , the city’s largest operator, advanced 3 percent.  London-traded online gambling companies with ties to New
Jersey’s casinos also rose.  Bwin.Party (BPTY) , in a partnership
agreement with Boyd and MGM Resorts, added 8.9 percent to 150
pence at the close of trading.  888 Holdings Plc (888) , in an accord
with Caesars, climbed 4.3 percent to 156.75 pence.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,
the biggest maker of online social games, jumped 5.1 percent.  On Feb. 7, Christie conditionally vetoed the bill, which
allows New Jersey residents to bet online in games run by the
state’s casinos. Lawmakers returned it to him yesterday with
recommended changes, including a time limit, a  tax-rate 
increase, and more money for compulsive-gambling programs.  State Benefits  Online gambling in the state could be a $1.5 billion annual
business in five years, Dennis Farrell, a casino analyst at
Wells Fargo Securities, said in a Jan. 24 investor note.  “All New Jersey license holders will benefit, but
properties with strong brands and gaming facilities will likely
see the most upside,” Farrell said.  Borgata’s owners, Boyd Gaming and MGM Resorts, and Caesars
are best positioned to capture online business in New Jersey,
Farrell said. Borgata is the top-grossing single property in
Atlantic City, according to Bloomberg Industries data, while
Caesars operates four casinos.  New Jersey is looking to fend off competition as nearby
states open casinos and others pursue online gaming. Senator
Raymond Lesniak, an Elizabeth Democrat who sponsored New
Jersey’s bill, has said  Internet gambling  offers the best chance
to do so. Last week Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval signed a
measure legalizing such gaming in his state and opening the door
for agreements with other states.  Legal Process  Casinos licensed in New Jersey must get a permit to offer
online betting, according to Lisa Spengler, spokeswoman for the
state’s Division of Gaming Enforcement. Third parties that want
to offer services through the state’s casinos must obtain
licenses, she said. Regulators will announce an official start
date, which will be in 90 to 270 days.  Caesars expects to offer online poker in Nevada this year
and in New Jersey in about 18 months, Chairman and Chief
Executive Gary Loveman said on a conference call yesterday.  The governor projects fiscal 2014 casino-tax revenue of
$435.8 million, up from a revised fiscal 2013 expectation of
$235.4 million, according to a budget summary. The 2013 number
was lowered from an earlier prediction of $284 million after
casino revenue failed to meet his forecasts.  Christie’s recommended changes included raising the state’s
share of bets to 15 percent from 10 percent and establishing a
10-year time limit, after which the Legislature would have to
reauthorize the bill. The first online bets should be taken by
September, Lesniak has said.  New Jersey casino revenue fell 8 percent to $3 billion in
2012, the sixth straight decline, according to the Division of
Gaming Enforcement. Nevada’s revenue rose 1.5 percent to $10.9
billion last year, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  Lesniak said the legislation will save one or two Atlantic
City casinos that might have faced closing, preserving as many
as 4,000 jobs. Michael Doherty, the Republican senator who cast
the sole vote against the legislation, said the state should
follow the example of New York by increasing the tax rate on
casinos and allowing them closer to the population centers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  