-- NHL Devils, Newark in Prudential Center Deal Said to Raise Taxes
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-02-26T17:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/nhl-devils-newark-in-prudential-center-deal-said-to-raise-taxes.html
The  New Jersey Devils  reached a
revenue-sharing deal with the city of Newark for the National
Hockey League team’s Prudential Center home arena that will
increase taxes and fees for fans.  Financial details weren’t included in a joint statement
announcing the agreement. A person involved in the talks, who
declined to be identified because he isn’t authorized to
disclose specifics of the arrangement, said the city will build
a new parking deck near the Prudential Center and the team will
lease enough spots to make it profitable.  The arena’s owners will also walk away from an offset
clause on a ticket tax that will add 1.37 percent to the cost of
most sports-event seating and the city will be forgiven for a
$600,000 payment under an arbitration award, the person said.
 Newark  will also pay the team about $2.7 million annually in
parking revenue for non-municipal lots surrounding the arena,
according to the person.  “We can now move forward together, continuing to build on
the successes of the last five years, which will make the Rock
and the rapidly growing arena district an even greater economic
engine for Newark,” according to the statement from the Devils
and the Newark Housing Authority.  State Assemblyman Al Countinho, a Newark Democrat, said in
an interview that the deal will benefit the city by between $2.5
million and $3 million a year through the course of the contract
and he said the parking tax changes will need some level of
approval in the New Jersey Legislature.  “It’s a good deal for the city,” he said.  The city council will debate the measure today.  Mayor’s Remarks  The deal comes less than a year after Mayor Corey Booker
described Devils Owner Jeff Vanderbeek as a “high-falutin’
huckster and hustler” who came to Newark with a “mouthful of
promises and a pocket full of lies” after an independent
arbitration panel granted the team the parking revenue.  Booker told Bloomberg Television at the time that his city
has made painful financial sacrifices while Vanderbeek has
dodged promises to pay for job training, youth organizations and
a recreation center, creating “a sense of betrayal.”  The city sold about $200 million in bonds backed by marine-
terminal revenue in 2004 to pay for the arena, with the Devils
saying they put in about $185 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 