-- Nigerian Crude Exports to Rebound in April From Three-Year Low
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-02-26T12:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/nigerian-crude-exports-to-rebound-in-april-from-three-year-low.html
Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil
producer, will boost crude exports in April to 72 cargoes, seven
more than the revised total for March, according to preliminary
loading programs obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Daily exports are scheduled to be 2.2 million barrels
compared with 1.9 million in March, which is the lowest in three
years, according to the plans. The African nation will ship
65.86 million barrels, the schedule showed. That compares with
65 lots, or 59.77 million barrels. Shipments dropped to 1.8
million barrels a day in March 2010.  The country will export 11 consignments of its benchmark
Qua Iboe grade in April, three more than a revised schedule for
next month, according to the program. This includes four lots
that were deferred from March. Exports of Bonny Light blend will
rise by four to nine cargoes.  Exxon Mobil Corp. lifted its two-week force majeure on Qua
Iboe exports, Nigel Cookey-Gam, a Lagos-based spokesman, said on
Feb. 24 in an e-mail. The force majeure, a legal step used by
companies when they can’t fulfill a contract for reasons beyond
their control, had been in place since Feb. 7 due to disruption
caused by repairs to a pipeline.  Nigeria  will also ship seven cargoes of Agbami, six each of
Bonga and Forcados, five each of Akpo and Usan, four of Brass
River, three lots of Amenam, Erha and Escravos, two each of
Antan, EA Blend, Okono and Yoho and one lot each of Abo and
Okwori, the plans showed.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  