-- No Grand Bargain on Budget Raises Doubts for Code Rewrite
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-02-26T17:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/no-grand-bargain-on-budget-raises-doubts-for-code-rewrite.html
Lawmakers seeking to rewrite the
U.S.  tax code  have a narrower path to an agreement because of
the partisan divide over how much money the federal government
should collect.  For more than two years, congressional tax writers had
looked to a bipartisan budget deal to provide them a starting
point. A so-called grand bargain might have resolved the revenue
debate up front and focused the tax discussions on figuring out
which breaks could be trimmed.  Now, with such a deal fading amid fiscal feuding, top tax
writers in the Republican-led House and Democratic-majority
Senate will try to move forward while approaching a rewrite from
conflicting perspectives. Even if they can agree on how to
simplify the system, they must confront Democrats’ insistence on
raising more revenue and Republicans’ refusal to do so.  “They’re talking past each other on what tax reform really
is,” said Catherine Schultz, vice president for  tax policy  at
the  National Foreign Trade Council , which favors open
international commerce. “You have to have some agreement on
what you want to achieve.”  For individuals and businesses, failure to simplify the tax
code would perpetuate a system that costs $168 billion and 6.1
billion hours a year in compliance, according to  Nina Olson , the
national taxpayer advocate, an independent office within the
 Internal Revenue Service . Corporations would continue to be
subject to the world’s highest statutory rate of 35 percent,
which combines with an array of tax breaks to impose widely
varying effective rates on industries.  Riskier Approach  Without a so-called grand bargain, lawmakers will have to
operate via regular congressional rules -- starting a bill in
the House Ways and Means Committee and maneuvering it through
both chambers. That’s a riskier approach than relying on a
framework passed by Congress because there will be less
assurance of support from lawmakers.  “Had the relevant decision makers actually signed onto
something that had some degree of specificity, it would have
been viewed as a sign of progress,” said Kenneth Kies, a
Republican tax lobbyist whose clients include Caterpillar Inc.
and Pfizer Inc. “The potential for it to happen is there, but
it’s going to require all of the parties to make some
substantial movement to one another that hasn’t happened yet.”  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, is undeterred. The Michigan Republican, who
probably will have to give up his post at the end of 2014
because of party term limits, says his panel will pass a tax
code overhaul this year that won’t raise more revenue and will
lower marginal tax rates for individuals and corporations.  ‘Move Forward’  “We’re just going to continue to move forward on how we
can make our code simpler, how we can reform it and do that by
broadening the base and lowering rates,” Camp said.  Camp isn’t trying to roll back the $630 billion tax
increase that Congress passed last month.  He has released drafts of changes to international taxation
and taxation of financial products and set up 11 bipartisan
working groups within the committee.  Still, the divide over revenue hampers the process, said
 Michael Linden , director of tax and budget policy at the Center
for American Progress, a  Washington  group that typically aligns
with Democrats.  “I don’t think that it’s very plausible that we’re going
to get actual, comprehensive tax reform in this Congress,” he
said. If House Speaker  John Boehner  “said we will accept $600
billion in additional  tax revenue  but only through a process of
tax reform, I think we’d start doing tax reform,” Linden said.  Mortgage Interest  Recognizing that Senate Democrats would try to add revenue
to a House-passed bill could make Republicans nervous about
voting for changes to popular tax breaks such as the mortgage
interest deduction that may be necessary to reduce tax rates.  “Why would the House take the political pain of passing a
 tax reform  bill, which is going to be difficult to do?” Linden
said. “A tax reform package that came out of the House
Republican caucus will be a political gift to the Democrats.”  That difficulty might lead lawmakers to temper their
ambitions, he said, seeking changes where they can find common
ground without rewriting the code.  Even without an agreement on revenue, the committees can
work through structural issues on international taxation and
other details, said Jon Traub, managing principal of tax policy
at Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington.  A plausible path, he said, would involve the House passing
a bill without new revenue, the Senate adding revenue and then
the two sides reaching “some meeting of the minds” in a
conference committee amid pressure.  ‘Only Way’  “It’s easy to be a skeptic right now, but I’m not one,”
said Traub, a former Camp aide. “Tax reform becomes the only
way to square the circle of the desires of the House to do tax
reform and the president to get additional revenue.”  Camp’s Senate counterpart,  Max Baucus  of  Montana , has
reiterated his commitment to revamping the tax code. He has been
less specific than Camp about what he wants to do and how
quickly he wants his committee to act.  “It has been close to 30 years since the last major
overhaul of America’s tax code,” Baucus said today. “Our tax
code is antiquated and acting as a weight on our economy.”  Like Camp, Baucus faces political constraints. He’s up for
re-election in 2014 in a state that President  Barack Obama  lost.
Because united Senate Republicans can block action, Baucus also
won’t be able to take a one-party approach.  Coordinating Approach  Camp and Baucus meet and talk regularly, coordinating their
approaches despite some disagreements.  For its part, the Obama administration has outlined a
framework for business taxation. It has been less specific about
what it wants to do about individual taxation.  At his confirmation hearing Feb. 13, Jack Lew, Obama’s
nominee for Treasury secretary, said “it’s a very hard thing”
to broaden the individual tax base. He noted the lack of fiscal
accord and placed a much lower emphasis on rate reduction than
Republicans do, signaling the gap between the parties.  “Under our concept of tax reform, nobody’s rates would go
up,” Obama said yesterday. “But we’d be able to reduce the
deficit by making some tough, smart spending cuts and getting
rid of wasteful tax loopholes.”  The cloudy outlook for a tax code rewrite doesn’t foreclose
the possibility that the current Congress would act before the
end of 2014. The Jan. 1 tax deal, Kies said, would have seemed
almost impossible if predicted six months earlier.  “As long as Dave Camp is moving forward,” he said, “he’s
preparing for when the stars do align.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  