-- BlueCrest Said in Talks to Hire Ex-Nomura Executives
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-02-26T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/nomura-s-larkin-said-to-quit-at-americas-equities-trading.html
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP is
in talks to hire former  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  executives Jonathan
Larkin and Christian Dalban, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Larkin, 38, who was head of Americas equities trading at
the Japanese brokerage, left this week after about a year, said
two people with knowledge of the matter. Dalban, whose group
uses Nomura’s capital to trade, was also poised to leave the
bank, two other people said earlier this month. The people asked
not to be named because the information is private.  Ed Orlebar, a spokesman for London-based BlueCrest, which
manages more than $30 billion, declined to comment, as did
Jonathan Hodgkinson, a spokesman in  New York  for Tokyo-based
Nomura. Larkin and Dalban didn’t return telephone messages
seeking comment.  Nomura’s Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai has pledged to
cut $1 billion of expenses that swelled after the company bought
some of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s operations in 2008.
Nomura trimmed investment bank payrolls last quarter and had
34,098 employees as of Dec. 31, down 717 from three months
earlier.  Ciaran O’Kelly, hired by Nomura in 2009 to lead the
expansion of its Americas equities business, was scheduled to
leave at the end of last year, according to a September memo to
employees. The Japanese brokerage planned to cut as many as 30
jobs that month as part of its Americas equities division amid a
global reorganization, people briefed on the plan said in
September.  Cutting Jobs  Nomura joins global financial firms including  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
that are reducing staff. Barclays, which also bulked up buying
Lehman Brothers assets, said in February it plans to cut 1,800
jobs at its corporate and investment bank, which has businesses
in  Hong Kong , London and New York.  Larkin joined Nomura in New York in January last year from
Millennium Management LLC, where he was head of equities for the
hedge fund. He had been at Millennium, run by Israel Englander,
since 2006 after leaving JPMorgan Chase & Co., where he worked
for nine years and had run U.S. single-stock volatility trading.
Larkin left Millennium around October 2011.  Dalban also previously worked at Millennium, where he ran
the hedge fund’s European business, according to Nomura at the
time of his June 2010 hiring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  