-- Nordea Said to Hire BofA to Explore Sale of Polish Unit
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-02-26T16:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/nordea-said-to-hire-bofa-to-explore-sale-of-polish-unit.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , Scandinavia’s
largest bank, hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to explore the
possible sale of its Polish unit  Nordea Bank Polska SA (NDA) , two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  BofA asked banks including  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO) ,  Bank Pekao
SA (PEO)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  whether they were interested in buying the
unit, based in the northern port city of Gdynia, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Nordea Bank’s decision to hire BofA for the
possible transaction was reported by newspaper Dziennik Gazeta
Prawna earlier today.  Foreign banks operating in Poland are facing increased
competition and lower revenue from lending after demand for
goods and services fell. Growth in the European Union’s biggest
eastern economy may slow to 1.5 percent this year, the weakest
since 2002, according to central bank forecasts.  Erik Durhan, a spokesman for Nordea Bank in Stockholm,
declined to comment on the matter when contacted by Bloomberg.
Joanna Krawczyk-Golba, Nordea Bank Polska’s spokeswoman, didn’t
return calls made to her office. Elzbieta Anders, spokeswoman
for PKO in Warsaw, and Katarzyna Karpiuk, a spokeswoman for
Pekao, declined to comment. Victoria Garrod, spokeswoman for
BofA in London, said she had no immediate comment.  Shares Climb  Nordea Bank Polska, in which its parent owns a 99.2 percent
stake, jumped 24 percent to 30.3 zloty at 5:04 p.m. in Warsaw,
the biggest increase since 2007 and valuing the company at 1.68
billion zloty ($528 million). PKO,  Poland ’s biggest bank, is
worth 43.7 billion zloty, according to its share price.  European banks are also revisiting their growth strategies
in Poland and other  emerging markets  as higher capital
requirements make it tougher for them to support none-core
operations. Nordea is among four Swedish lenders required to
hold bigger capital buffers and must meet a minimum core Tier 1
capital ratio of 10 percent of risk-weighted assets this year,
higher than peers in Germany, France and the U.K.  Nordea said last April that it would reduce staff in Poland
by 20 percent and cut branches to about 135 from 193. It said in
2010 that it planned to have 400 branches and double its market
share to 8 percent. Citigroup Inc.,  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest
bank, and BNP Paribas have announced similar plans to pare their
operations in the country.  Operating profit at Nordea Bank Polska fell to 78 million
euros last year from 95 million euros in 2011. Net loan losses
swelled to 37 million euros from 14 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  