-- NWR in Talks With Potential Partners for Debiensko Coal Mine
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-02-26T12:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/nwr-in-talks-with-potential-partners-for-debiensko-coal-mine.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the largest
Czech producer of coal for steelmakers, said it’s seeking a
partner to help develop the Debiensko mine in  Poland .  “This is Europe’s largest deposit of hard quality coking
coal,” Chairman Gareth Penny said in an interview in  Prague .
“We are looking at potential partners.”  Developing Debiensko is part of a plan for NWR to become
Europe’s leading coking coal supplier in the next decade, said
Penny, the former chief executive officer of De Beers, the
biggest diamond producer. The company is cutting output of
thermal coal to focus on more profitable coking coal that’s
supplied to steel producers such as  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and carmakers
including  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Debiensko is a “really important part of NWR’s long-term
future,” Penny said in yesterday’s interview. He dismissed
reports that the company may try to sell the mine because of
technical difficulties with underground water.  NWR has held “very early-stage” talks with some Polish
coal companies as well as financial investors and even customers
to cooperate on the project, according to Penny.  The company, which is  listed  in London, Prague and Warsaw,
is in the process of buying up the land around the mine, a
process that should be finished in April, Penny said.  NWR was little changed at 79.5 koruna in Prague today. The
stock has lost 19 percent so far this year, adding to a 28
percent retreat in 2012.  Safety Review  Last year the miner cut planned spending at Debiensko to 5
million euros ($6.6 million) from 50 million euros following the
discovery of large quantities of underground water. A technical
and safety review proved the project is “viable” and the
company doubled  capital spending  for the mine, which contains an
estimated 190 million metric tons of coking coal, to 10 million
euros this year, Penny said.  NWR plans to boost imports of coking coal into Europe from
the U.S. and is considering buying mines in  North America . It
had 267 million euros in cash at the end of last year.  “Valuations in coal right now are very attractive,” Chief
Financial Officer Marek Jelinek said in an interview. “We have
a lot of cash on our balance sheet which in the current business
environment isn’t earning us anything, so the most accretive way
to finance an acquisition today would be to use that cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  