-- Mob Siege of Kurdish MPs Shows Threats to Erdogan Peace Effort
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-02-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/mob-siege-of-kurdish-mps-shows-threats-to-erdogan-peace-effort.html
When Kurdish lawmakers visited
Turkey’s Black Sea coast last week to promote Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s peace effort, they were met by stone-
throwing crowds and had to cut the trip short.  For Erdogan, it was a reminder of the popular backlash that
stymied his last effort to end the three-decade Kurdish war.
This time, the premier’s other big project is also at risk:
rewriting the constitution to enshrine a U.S.-style presidential
system. That would cement his position as Turkey’s most dominant
leader in decades, yet he may be dependent on Kurdish votes in
parliament to get the measure through.  Erdogan has broken taboos in the effort to end a conflict
that has killed tens of thousands and cost at least $300 billion
since the early 1980s. Officials are in talks with  Abdullah Ocalan , the militants’ jailed leader, and have proposed steps to
free hundreds of other prisoners. Still, the government hasn’t
said how it would meet Kurdish demands for self-rule and
improved conditions for Ocalan, and may be constrained by a
public hostile to the Kurdish case.  “Without a national consensus on how to solve the Kurdish
question and whether to grant autonomy, Erdogan is pushing his
luck,” said Nihat Ali Ozcan, an analyst at the Economic Policy
Research Foundation in Ankara. “It’s not possible to convince
the PKK to lay down arms without autonomy, and the reaction of
the majority of Turks is the determining factor. If you make the
PKK happy, you’ll make most Turks unhappy.”  Kurds Besieged  There are signs of public opposition to a deal. About 56
percent of respondents in a  Metropoll survey  in Istanbul said
it’s a mistake to talk to Ocalan, whose Kurdistan Workers’ Party
or PKK is listed as a terrorist group by  Turkey  and the U.S.,
compared with 25 percent who supported the initiative. Asked
about easing his jail conditions, 84 percent were opposed and 6
percent approved.  “We don’t want the PKK in Sinop,” hundreds of protesters
chanted in the Black Sea town as they surrounded a teachers’
building where lawmakers from the main Kurdish party, which has
ties to the PKK, were visiting Feb. 19. The Kurds were besieged
for 10 hours as police used tear gas to keep the crowd away,
Hurriyet daily said.  Erdogan is relying on those Kurdish lawmakers to back a
referendum on a new constitution, which would switch the country
to a presidential system from a parliamentary one. It requires
330 votes in the  550-member assembly , four more than Erdogan’s
party holds. The Kurds have 29 seats. The other two parties in
parliament are opposed.  Unstable Coalitions  Erdogan took power after a decade dominated by weak
governments and financial crises, and has presided over record
growth and investment. He says moving to a presidential system
would entrench stability, removing the risk of unstable
coalitions and speeding up asset sales.  Turkish  stocks  and  bonds  extended gains last year even amid
violent clashes between the army and PKK, and haven’t been hit
by recent disputes over the Kurdish plan and constitution.  Markets assume “Erdogan will ultimately get his way,”
said Tim Ash, chief emerging market economics at Standard Bank
Plc in  London . Still, “anything which impacts on Erdogan’s
ability to rule will cause nervousness eventually.”  Metropoll found 39 percent in favor of the presidential
system, with 34 percent against. The study interviewed 2,502
people in the week through Feb. 1, and reported a margin of
error of 2 percent.  ‘National Identity’  Turks will elect a president in 2014 to replace  Abdullah
Gul . Currently, the post has mostly symbolic powers. The latest
draft constitution by Erdogan’s party would enable the president
to issue decrees with force of law, dissolve parliament, call
elections and decide whether to use the military.  The main opposition parties, one secular and one
nationalist, say Erdogan is seeking to expand his own powers.
They also oppose Kurdish demands including Kurdish-language
education and the removal of references to Turkish ethnicity
from the constitution. Some are linking the two.  “The prime minister will become president, and in return,
he’ll give away the national identity,”  Deniz Baykal , a former
opposition leader, told parliament on Feb. 12.  Erdogan won’t be able to tackle a problem as deep-rooted as
the status of Turkey’s Kurds with proposals linked to short-term
political calculations, said Kerim Yildiz, head of the
Democratic Progress Institute, a London think-tank, and author
of studies of Kurds in Turkey and  Iraq , where they achieved
self-rule after the 1991  Gulf War .  Drinking Hemlock  A solution “must not be related to elections or
presidential proposals,” Yildiz said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Evidence shows that such tactics or strategies will
fail.”  It’s possible Erdogan could meet Kurdish demands by
increasing the powers of local governments across the country,
then “empowering Kurdish-majority provinces in the southeast
with de-facto local self-government,” said Soner Cagaptay,
director of the Turkish Research Program at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy. “This wouldn’t be autonomy,
just some sort of devolution.”  It’s not clear, though, whether such nationwide steps would
satisfy Kurds, or whether a special status for the Kurdish
southeast would be acceptable to the rest of the nation.  The premier abandoned his last Kurdish initiative in 2009
amid signs of a backlash among Turks against what were seen as
PKK victory celebrations. In parliament yesterday, Erdogan told
his party that he is ready to sacrifice popularity this time in
the search for a solution.  “If needs be, we will drink the hemlock,” he said. “War
is easy, peace is difficult. We’re aiming for the difficult
one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  