-- Obama May Bolster Gay-Marriage Bid in California Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-26T18:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/obama-may-bolster-gay-marriage-bid-in-california-case.html
President  Barack Obama  may be poised
to show new support for gay marriage as a deadline approaches
for his administration to take a stand in the U.S.  Supreme Court 
on a  California  ban on same-sex nuptials.  A month after urging legal equality for gays in his
inauguration speech, Obama could use the high court case as an
occasion to call for same-sex marriage rights nationwide.  An administration filing last week, in a separate Supreme
Court case involving a law that limits federal benefits for
same-sex couples, may have foreshadowed a call to overturn
California’s ban under Proposition 8. In arguing against the
federal law, Obama’s lawyers said gays have endured a history of
discrimination and now should be afforded special protection
under the Constitution, much like racial minorities and women.  “The undisputed 20th-century discrimination has lasted
long enough,” wrote U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the
president’s top Supreme Court lawyer.  Dozens of Republicans plan to file a court brief backing
such unions. The American Foundation for Equal Rights, which is
backing the Proposition 8 challengers, said more than 80 people
are signing its brief, including former presidential candidate
and Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  and former New Jersey Governor
Christine Todd Whitman.  Obama’s Options  In his filing last week, Verrilli said laws barring same-
sex marriage were evidence of discrimination. He pointed to the
passage of Proposition 8 as an indication that gays lack the
political clout to ensure equality on their own.  Proposition 8, approved by California voters in 2008,
reversed a decision by the California Supreme Court that the
state constitution guaranteed the right to gay marriage. A
federal appeals court struck down the ballot initiative last
year. A court stay has kept same-sex marriage banned during the
appeals.  The administration must file any brief opposing the
California ban by Feb. 28. It also might take a more incremental
approach, urging the court to reinstate same-sex marriage in
California without affecting the 40 other states that prohibit
the practice. And Obama has the option not to get involved in
the case at all. Gay-rights activists say they are optimistic
that the president will take their side, at least to some
degree.  “Our aspirations have always been SG support of our
position on all counts,” said  Theodore Olson , a Washington
lawyer who served as President  George W. Bush ’s solicitor
general and is leading the legal fight against Proposition 8.
“But we’ll be pleased with whatever we can get.”  Obama’s Position  Both sides in the California case met with Verrilli in
recent weeks to make their case, as is customary when the
solicitor general is considering taking a position in a Supreme
Court dispute.  A call to make same-sex marriage a constitutional right
would be a shift for the president. Obama opposed it when he ran
for the White House in 2008. Even after coming out in support
last year, he has said states should continue to be the ones to
make the decision.  Defenders of Proposition 8 say voters shouldn’t be
precluded from reinstating the understanding of marriage that
has applied for virtually all of human history.  “Our Constitution does not mandate the traditional
gendered definition of marriage, but neither does our
Constitution condemn it,”  Charles Cooper , the Washington lawyer
representing the sponsors of Proposition 8, argued in court
papers.  The court will hear arguments on the California case on
March 26. The following day the justices will consider the
federal law, the Defense of Marriage Act. The court is scheduled
to rule on both cases by June.  The cases the court will review are  United States  v.
Windsor, 12-307, and Hollingsworth v. Perry, 12-144.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  