-- Lockhart Supports Fed Asset Purchases Through End of 2013
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-26T02:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/lockhart-supports-fed-asset-purchases-at-least-into-second-half.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he wants to continue central bank
asset purchases through the end of this year to help improve the
job market.  “Considering current labor market conditions, I think
continuing the asset purchase program to support the recovery
and to improve employment conditions remains appropriate for
now,” Lockhart said today in prepared remarks in Knoxville,
Tennessee. “Given the outlook and associated risks, I am
comfortable with sticking with the current approach at least
into the second half of the year.”  Lockhart supported the  Federal Open Market Committee  on
Jan. 30 to continue $85 billion in monthly bond buying. Several
participants “emphasized that the committee should be prepared
to vary the pace of asset purchases” in reaction to changes in
the economic outlook, according to meeting minutes released last
week.  “I would support completing a program that goes through
the end of the year,” Lockhart told reporters after his speech
at the University of  Tennessee . “The employment situation
justifies trying to continue” monetary stimulus. “In some form
I think we can justify going through year end.”  Slowing purchases as the employment market improves is an
option worth studying, Lockhart said.  Tapering Off  “Certainly the notion of tapering it off and reducing the
overall scale of purchases could very well be consistent” with
his view of keeping the program to year end, the Atlanta Fed
chief told reporters. “The idea of tapering is certainly under
consideration and in the air” in “terms of public commentary
and I think it is a legitimate thing for the committee to
consider.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  has proposed varying
monthly purchases, an idea also endorsed by Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher . The central bank, seeking to stoke growth and
bring down 7.9 percent unemployment, has expanded its  balance
sheet  to a record exceeding $3 trillion.  Lockhart also told reporters he was watching the
possibility of asset imbalances.  “Certainly there is a strong search for yield going on,”
he said. “Money has been channeled to certain asset classes,”
such as real estate investment trusts. “I am not prepared to
say there are true bubble asset classes that have developed. But
I do think we have to continue to be attentive to market
developments.”  Benefits, Risks  In his prepared text, Lockhart said benefits from asset
purchases outweigh potential risks.  “I do not think that monetary policy has yet crossed the
line where the benefits of the current policy -- specifically
the quantitative easing element -- are swamped by serious
concerns over problems the policy might be creating for the
longer term,” Lockhart said.  The  U.S. economy  is likely to grow about 2 percent in the
first quarter and 2 percent and 2.5 percent this year, supported
by a recovery in housing and strength in the  auto industry ,
Lockhart said. While the risks from the  European debt crisis 
have decreased in recent months, fiscal tightening in the U.S.
continues to be a concern, he said.  “This pace of growth implies steady, but not accelerating,
net  job creation ,” Lockhart said. “At this pace of expansion,
unemployment will likely continue to decline gradually.”  Leading Indicators  One positive is that leading indicators for the employment
market, including initial  claims  for  unemployment benefits  and
demand for temporary help services, seem to be improving, he
said.  “I take some encouragement from how much progress has been
made in those areas,” he told reporters. “It suggests there is
some momentum, but it is uneven momentum.”  For those “working part-time for economic reasons” and
those who are “marginally attached” to the  labor force , little
improvement has been made, he said.  Inflation has been running below the Fed’s goal of 2
percent and sometimes approaching 1 percent, the Atlanta Fed
chief said.  “To significantly and persistently undershoot the central
bank’s inflation target could be worrisome in some
circumstances, but, at this point, I think the inflation outlook
is benign,” he said.  Inflation Target  The Fed last month said inflation has been “somewhat
below” its long-run target of 2 percent. An index of inflation
tied to spending patterns rose 1.3 percent in the year ended in
December.  The FOMC decision last month came after the economy shrank
0.1 percent during the fourth quarter. The Fed in December 2008
cut the main  interest rate  close to zero to bring down borrowing
costs and fuel economic growth.  Lockhart, who has never dissented from an FOMC decision,
doesn’t vote on the policy-making body this year.  A former
Georgetown University professor, Lockhart has led the Atlanta
Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes  Alabama ,
 Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and
Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  