-- Office Depot Still Pursuing Mexico Unit Sale to Gigante
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-02-26T02:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/office-depot-still-pursuing-mexico-unit-sale-to-gigante.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  is still
discussing a sale of its Mexico unit to Grupo Gigante SAB,
according to a company spokesman.  Office Depot, the second-largest U.S. office-supplies
chain, announced a deal on Feb. 20 to acquire  OfficeMax (OMX)  Inc. for
$1.17 billion. That came five days after Gigante, which already
owns 50 percent of Office Depot de Mexico, offered 8.78 billion
pesos ($689 million) for the remaining stake. As part of the
merger agreement, OfficeMax has to approve such a deal.  “We are discussing it with the merger partner,” Brian Levine, an Office Depot spokesman, said in an interview. If
OfficeMax approves, then the Office Depot board would need to
sign off on the deal, he said. He declined to offer specifics on
the talks.  Bloomberg News reported on Feb. 15 that Boca Raton,
Florida-based Office Depot was in talks to sell the division to
Gigante. Then after announcing on Feb. 20 that it would merge
with OfficeMax, Office Depot Chief Executive Officer Neil Austrian said on a conference call the same day that “at this
point, we’re not doing anything” about selling the  Mexico  unit.  Austrian’s statement wasn’t meant to be definitive about
the company’s plans for its Mexico unit, Levine said.  “It is an offer that we believe deserves consideration,”
Levine said in an e-mail.  The offer from Mexico City-based Gigante expires on Feb.
28, Office Depot said in a filing on Feb. 22.  Office Depot fell 6.7 percent to $3.93 at the New York
close.  The shares  have risen 20 percent this year. Gigante was
unchanged at 27 pesos in Mexico City trading and has increased
10 percent this year.  Office Depot entered the joint venture in 1994, and the
business has since expanded to more than 240 stores in seven
countries, according to regulatory filings. Last year, the
venture generated $1.1 billion in revenue, and Office Depot’s
share of earnings amounted to about $32 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  