-- Oil Drops to Eight-Week Low as Supplies Seen Rising
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-26T21:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/oil-drops-to-seven-week-low-as-supplies-seen-rising.html
Oil fell to an eight-week low amid
estimates that U.S. inventories rose and as an Italian political
stalemate spurred concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen.  West Texas Intermediate declined 0.5 percent as supplies
probably climbed to a seven-month high last week, a Bloomberg
survey showed before government data tomorrow. A political
vacuum of at least a month loomed in  Italy  after an inconclusive
election threatened to cause volatility in financial markets.
Oil pared losses as U.S.  consumer confidence  jumped more than
forecast in February and the U.S. housing market improved.  “People are looking more toward an inventory build for
tomorrow,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund
manager at Tyche Capital Advisors. “The Italy election didn’t
go well, and that’s what spurred the selloff. The economic data
are much better than expected.”  WTI for April delivery fell 48 cents to $92.63 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Dec. 31. Prices have decreased 16 percent in the past year. The
volume of all futures traded was 23 percent below the 100-day
average for the time of day at 4:35 p.m.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil inventories gained 904,000 barrels last
week to 373.4 million. Futures slid 46 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$92.65 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:35 p.m. Oil was
traded at $92.67 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent for April settlement dropped $1.73, or 1.5 percent,
to end the session at $112.71 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 23 percent above the 100-day
average for the time of day. The European benchmark crude’s
premium over WTI shrank for the first time in four days to
$20.08, the narrowest level in three weeks.  U.S. Supply  U.S. crude inventories probably rose  2.5 million barrels 
last week to 378.9 million, the highest level since July 20,
according to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg before an Energy Information Administration report.
That would be a sixth weekly gain, the longest rising streak
since May.  Domestic  production  rose to 7.12 million barrels a day in
the week ended Feb. 15, the most since August 1992, the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, reported last week. Output
is 22 percent higher than a year ago.  “We still have plenty of supplies here,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “There is a much more bearish
sentiment about the economic outlook” in Europe.  Italian party chiefs began jockeying to forge a coalition
of rivals and head off a second vote in the aftermath of the
inconclusive election.  Italy’s stocks  and bonds fell, while the
cost of insuring its debt against default climbed to the highest
level this year.  ‘Big Build’  “We are expecting another big build in crude tomorrow,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If Europe gets worse, it’s going to
pull back energy demand.”  Oil also dropped as gasoline tumbled and as world powers
urged  Iran  to curb its nuclear activities in exchange for the
easing of some sanctions.  Gasoline futures for March delivery fell 2.6 percent to
$2.9816 a gallon, the lowest level since Jan. 29 and the biggest
one-day drop since Nov. 7, as Brent and refined products in
Europe declined.  An offer to Iran by the U.S. and its partners would ease
banking, petrochemical and gold sanctions, according to two
officials close to the negotiations that started today in
Almaty,  Kazakhstan . In exchange, Iran must agree to cease its
output of 20 percent enriched uranium, they said.  The talks are between Iran and a group of six countries --
the U.S., U.K.,  France , Germany,  Russia  and China.  Iran Talks  “The market seems to be taking the current talks with Iran
a bit more seriously, although we’d say a breakthrough remains
unlikely,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, in an e-mail. “Europe is still coming
to grips with the implications of the Italian election
deadlock.”  Oil pared losses after the Conference Board’s  index  of
consumer confidence climbed to 69.6, exceeding all forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey of economists, from a revised 58.4 in
January, data from the New York-based private research group
showed today.  U.S. Homes  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased 6.8
percent from December 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain since
July 2006. The median projection of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 6.6 percent advance.  New home sales 
surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000 annual pace last month,
exceeding the highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey, figures
from the Commerce Department showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 375,256
contracts as of 4:36 p.m. It totaled 458,827 contracts
yesterday, 16 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.65 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  