-- Tom Brady’s Revised Contract Seen Rankling NFL Players, Agents
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-27T05:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/tom-brady-s-redone-patriots-contract-might-upset-some-nfl-agents.html
The latest contract work between Tom Brady and the  New England Patriots  probably will rankle National
Football League players and the people who cut their deals,
according to agent Brad Blank.  “They’re not going to be happy about it,” said Blank,
whose clients have included NFL players  D’Brickashaw Ferguson ,
Chris Canty and Tedy Bruschi. “As a human being, as a teammate,
as somebody who likes the Patriots, as somebody who likes Tom
Brady, you admire it. In the agent community, I don’t think it’s
going to go over really well.”  Sports Illustrated reported two days ago on its  website 
that Brady, 35, who has two seasons remaining on his current
contract, agreed on a three-year, $27 million extension that
will keep him in New England until 2017, when he will be 40. It
will pay him a $3 million signing bonus immediately and salaries
of $7 million in 2015, $8 million in 2016 and $9 million in 2017,
the magazine said.  The deal will bring $15 million of salary cap relief for
New England as it works to sign free agents such as wide
receiver  Wes Welker , SI.com reported. It also means Brady, a
two-time NFL Most Valuable Player, will forgo about $33 million
he could have made when compared to quarterback peers such as
 Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees , Blank said.  “He gave up a lot,” Blank said in a telephone interview.
“The top quarterbacks are getting about $20 million a year now,
and they’re getting as much guaranteed as Tom got.”  An e-mail seeking comment from Donald Yee, Brady’s agent,
wasn’t immediately returned. The Patriots also haven’t commented
on reports of the extension, with team spokesman Stacey James
declining to comment two days ago in an e-mail.  Since the deal was reported, other news organizations have
revealed what they say is its details. Before the extension,
Brady was guaranteed $30 million and now is guaranteed $57
million should he sustain a career-ending injury,  ESPN reported .  Job Security  “Guarantees are great but almost irrelevant to  Tom
Brady ,” Blank said, pointing out that Brady, a two-time  Super
Bowl  MVP who threw 34 touchdown passes and eight interceptions
last season, has plenty of job security with the Patriots.  Blank said Brady’s deal might have a “chilling effect on
the market,” and that it would lower the franchise tag value
for other quarterbacks seeking new deals. Baltimore’s  Joe Flacco ,
who led the Ravens to a Super Bowl win against the  San Francisco
49ers  this month, is among those in negotiations.  Joe Linta, Flacco’s agent, said the Brady package would
have “no impact whatsoever on what we’re doing,” according to
 USA Today .  “The bottom line is, whether Brady took a pay cut or took
$27 million a year, it wouldn’t have an impact on what we’re
doing,” Linta said,  according to the newspaper . “We’ve
determined a number that we think is fair with respect for the
Ravens’ cap situation.”  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players Association,
said in an e-mail that the union doesn’t have a position or an
opinion on individual player deals.  A-Rod’s Contract  The Major League Baseball players’ union has intervened in
the past when a player was willing to take less than he had been
contracted to get.  Alex Rodriguez  was set to be traded to the
 Boston Red Sox  from the  Texas Rangers  following the 2003 season.
The deal was scuttled by the union because it lowered the annual
value of his deal to $20 million from $27 million.  Brady, whose $22.5 million in salary and endorsements
ranked 26th among U.S. athletes last year, according to Sports
Illustrated, has more financial flexibility than many of his
peers because of his marriage to Gisele Bundchen. The supermodel
earned $45 million from May 2011 to May 2012, according to
Forbes.  Still, it’s an uncommon gesture for any professional
athlete to leave money on the table, Blank said.  “As someone who knows Tom Brady personally, I’m always
kind of in awe of the way he conducts himself,” Blank said.
“It’s very admirable what he did. It’s just so counterintuitive
to the animal that is the players and agents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  