-- Home Depot Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on Housing
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-02-26T21:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/home-depot-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-housing.html
Home Depot Inc. (HD)  posted fourth-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates as shoppers spent
more on projects and  Hurricane Sandy  repairs. The company also
raised its dividend and approved a $17 billion share buyback.  Net income rose 32 percent to $1.02 billion, or 68 cents a
share, from $774 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier, the
Atlanta-based company said today in a statement. Excluding a
favorable adjustment to a charge to close stores in  China ,
profit was 67 cents a share. Analysts projected 64 cents, the
average of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Rising home values are encouraging consumers to spend more
on remodeling, and Home Depot, the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, benefited from $242 million of sales related to
Hurricane Sandy repairs in the quarter. The average purchase
rose 5.6 percent to $55.46, the company said.  “As housing prices have stabilized and started to improve
in many regions of the country, homeowners have a propensity to
make those bigger-ticket remodeling decisions and purchases,”
 John Tomlinson , an analyst at ITG Investment Research in  New
York , said today in a telephone interview. “Spending on storm
recovery is going to be higher-ticket and stronger than the
typical repair for maintaining the home.”  Tomlinson’s firm doesn’t rate shares.  Home Depot rose 5.7 percent to $67.56 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase since May 18, 2009. The  shares  added
44 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 35 percent
gain for Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer.  Share Buyback  Home Depot said it plans to repurchase $17 billion of stock
by the end of its fiscal 2015. The company also increased its
quarterly  dividend  34 percent to 39 cents a share, payable March
28 to shareholders of record March 14.  Home Depot today followed Lowe’s in forecasting profit for
the current fiscal year that trailed analysts’ estimates. Home
Depot said profit this year will be about $3.37 per share, while
analysts estimated $3.49, on average.  Lowe’s said yesterday that profit this year will be about
$2.05 a share. Analysts’ estimated $2.10. Spending on store
improvements and hiring will weigh on the Mooresville, North
Carolina-based company’s earnings in 2013, Chief Financial
Officer  Robert Hull  told analysts on a conference call.  Economic Growth  Home Depot’s guidance anticipates “modest” growth of
gross domestic product in 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake  told analysts today. He likened the housing recovery to a
“gradual thawing process,” while Chief Financial Officer Carol Tome said the company doesn’t expect a full recovery of housing
this year.  U.S. take-home pay has shrunk this year after Congress let
the tax that funds  Social Security  benefits revert to 6.2
percent from 4.2 percent. Job openings in the U.S. dropped in
December from a four-year high as wrangling over tax and
spending programs by lawmakers made employers cautious.  “With all of these unknowns -- the impact of payroll tax
increases and lackluster job growth -- they are not going to
start off the year with an overly bullish EPS outlook,”
Tomlinson said of Home Depot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  