-- Thompson Dodging Amateur-Campaign Image Trails in NYC Mayor Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-02-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/thompson-dodging-amateur-campaign-image-trails-in-nyc-mayor-race.html
William Thompson  still boasts about
how in 2009 he came within 4.3 percentage points of denying  New
York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  his third term even though the
billionaire incumbent outspent him 10 to 1.  Thompson waited two months after that election to announce
he would run again. Since then, the 59-year-old former city
comptroller says he’s been fighting the idea that he lost
because of a lackluster and amateurish campaign. A joke still
makes the rounds: If Thompson had only campaigned harder, he
would have lost by more.  “The one thing I learned is that perception is reality,”
said Thompson, who’s running a distant second to Council Speaker
Christine Quinn in early polls of Democratic mayoral hopefuls.
“To those who say, ‘He lacks fire in the belly or he’s
cautious,’ I say look at my history. This time, we’re not going
to allow a different perception to set in.”  Thompson, the only black candidate in a five-way primary,
wants to capitalize on changing demographics and what he calls
voter frustration that New York’s outer boroughs have been
ignored in favor of  Manhattan . He touts his background in
municipal finance and education, and courage in taking on
Bloomberg when most political analysts said he had no chance.  In 2010 Thompson became senior managing director of Siebert
Brandford Shank and Co. LLC, a minority-owned municipal-bond
underwriter.  Black Vote  “He’s held citywide office, he’s worked on  Wall Street ,
he’s got all the credentials,” said  William Cunningham , a
senior adviser to former U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan,
Governor Hugh Carey and Bloomberg. “Once everybody’s satisfied
that Thompson’s running to win, the African-American base will
be very strong for him.”  Bloomberg, 71, who spent $108 million against Thompson, is
legally barred from seeking re-election, giving Democrats a
chance to retake  City Hall  for the first time since David Dinkins left office in 1993. The Sept. 10 primary may be
decisive in the general election because Democrats outnumber
Republicans 6 to 1.  Jerry Skurnik, a Manhattan-based political consultant, says
blacks, Latinos and Asians may comprise 58 percent primary vote,
up from 55 percent in 2009. The winner must capture 40 percent
to avoid a runoff among the top two vote-getters.  Running Behind  A Feb. 14  NY1-Marist College poll  of registered Democrats
suggests that may be an ambitious goal for Thompson. He placed
second, with 13 percent, behind Quinn’s 37 percent, with 26
percent undecided. Even among blacks, Quinn led Thompson, by 29
percent to 24 percent.  “He needs to hone his message and be able to connect more
than he has,” said poll director  Lee Miringoff .  During a debate in Harlem last month, Thompson brought
several in the audience to their feet as he assailed Bloomberg’s
stewardship of the city’s schools and said he would replace
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly. While he denounced Kelly’s
stop-and-frisk crime-fighting policy, he said he would rather
limit than end it.  “I’m not keeping other people’s people,” he said to
cheers at a Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration hosted by  Al
Sharpton . “The current police commissioner will not be
retained.”  No Bombast  Hank Sheinkopf, who worked for Thompson’s 2001 campaign for
comptroller and for Bloomberg in 2009, said it would be a
mistake to underrate Thompson.  Those who say he lacks intensity don’t realize it’s
“because he’s not bombastic,” Sheinkopf said. “In politics
today, when you’ve got no pointed edges, it appears as if you’re
weak.”  During the last campaign, Thompson rarely spoke about his
personal life. This time, he often mentions his wife, Elsie McCabe Thompson, the former president of Manhattan’s Museum for
African Art whom he married in 2008 after two divorces. The
couple lives in Harlem with her two children. Thompson also has
a daughter from a previous marriage.  Thompson grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant,  Brooklyn , where his
father served as city councilman, state senator and appellate
court judge. His mother taught public school.  He entered politics soon after his 1974 graduation from
 Tufts University , working as an aide to former U.S.
Representative Fred Richmond, who resigned in a scandal in 1983.
He served as deputy to Brooklyn Borough President Howard Golden,
who appointed Thompson to the city Board of Education in 1994.
He became board president two years later, then was elected
comptroller in 2001.  Not Shy  As steward of the city’s finances, Thompson audited
agencies and oversaw five pension funds, which then held assets
of about $80 billion.  “He has mostly praised the mayor’s budgets, smiled on his
economic policies and hailed Bloomberg’s accomplishments with
the city’s schools,” wrote Jarrett Murphy, editor of  City
Limits , a nonprofit journal of public policy, in a 2009 review
of Thompson’s performance. Bloomberg is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Thompson recalls it differently. “I wasn’t shy, I wasn’t
quiet, I was aggressive,” he said.  He cited his 2004 lawsuit against a Bloomberg plan to give
beverage maker Snapple exclusive rights to sell its drinks in
all city-owned buildings. Courts allowed the deal to go ahead.
The city abandoned the deal anyway in 2009 after it failed to
provide the $166 million in revenue that Snapple forecast.  Placement Agents  Thompson’s tenure coincided with a national scandal in
which politically connected placement agents got paid to set up
deals between asset managers and public pension funds. In April
2009, Thompson was among several pension stewards who barred
investment firms from using such intermediaries.  The combined return of the city’s pensions performed above
the median for half of Thompson’s eight years as comptroller,
when compared with an index of pension funds larger than $5
billion by Wilshire Associates Inc., a  Santa Monica , California
consulting firm.  The number of asset managers increased to 255 from 91, and
they helped push investment expenses up to $427 million from $96
million. The increases were the result of portfolio
diversification beyond stocks and bonds to real estate, private
equity and hedge funds, Thompson said. The mayor’s office and
the pension boards also were part of the decisions, he said.  Attack Ads  Thompson also reaped hundreds of thousands of dollars in
campaign contributions from placement agents and money managers,
a subject that Bloomberg’s campaign used to attack him. He
denies any correlation between donations and pension-board
investment decisions.  “The people who made decisions on money managers had no
idea who contributed to my campaigns, and I made sure it stayed
that way,” he said. “There were people who contributed who
didn’t receive any business.”  He counts as one of his most courageous moments his support
for Harold Levy, a Citigroup Inc. executive, as schools
chancellor over opposition from Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , a
Republican who distrusted Levy’s ties to the teachers union and
Democrats in the state Assembly. Giuliani backed Richard Kiley,
former president of the New York City Partnership, a civic group
composed of corporate chief executives.  “It took standing up to threats from City Hall,” Thompson
said. It also took guts, he said, to challenge Bloomberg, the
two-term incumbent with an unlimited campaign war chest, “when
everyone else walked away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé Deprez at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  