-- One-Hundred-Year Bond Backfires as QE Seen Ending: Mexico Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-02-26T16:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/one-hundred-year-bond-backfires-as-qe-seen-ending-mexico-credit.html
Seven months after investors piled
into  Mexico ’s 100-year bonds, the world’s longest-dated
government debt is saddling money managers led by  MFS Investment
Management  with the nation’s worst losses.  The $2.7 billion of notes due in 2110 have fallen 15.97
cents since reaching a record 125.77 cents on the dollar on Aug.
2, as investors spurn debt more sensitive to changes in  interest
rates . Yields on the century bonds rose 0.67 percentage point in
that span, touching an eight-month high of 5.27 percent last
week. That compares with a 0.09 percentage-point drop on
similar-rated emerging-market government debt.  Investors who bought Mexican bonds last year as central
banks globally suppressed rates to revive growth are now
unloading the debt as the Federal Reserve signals it may curb
asset purchases. Yields on 30-year U.S. Treasuries have
increased 0.4 percentage point since August. The correlation
between the U.S. notes and century bonds from Mexico, which
sends about 80 percent of its exports to its northern neighbor,
touched an all-time high in January.  “We’re at the beginning of what is possibly a very bearish
 bond market ,” Jeremy Brewin, who oversees more than $5 billion
of fixed-income assets as head of emerging-market debt at Aviva
Investors Ltd, said by phone from  London . “You don’t want to
own long bonds for the next two to three years.”  ‘Very Closely’  MFS is the biggest holder of Mexican debt due in 2110,
according to regulatory filings compiled by Bloomberg. John Reilly, a Boston-based spokesman for MFS, declined to comment,
citing a company policy against discussing specific securities
in its portfolios.  Alejandro Diaz de Leon, the head of public debt in Mexico,
said the selloff in Mexico’s bonds “precisely reflects” the
retreat in long-term Treasuries.  “I anticipate that our whole dollar curve is going to
follow very closely what happens in Treasuries,” he said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  The minutes from the most recent Fed meeting show some
policy makers “expressed some concerns about potential costs
and risks arising from further asset purchases.” A survey by
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York  released on Feb. 21 and
taken before the most recent Jan. 29-30 Fed meeting showed
primary dealers expected policy makers to reduce the pace of
asset purchases by the beginning of 2014. A majority anticipated
an end to mortgage-bond buys by January.  The Fed said Jan. 30 that it will keep buying bonds at a
rate of $85 billion a month as part of its third round of so-
called quantitative easing, or QE.  ‘Gotten Whacked’  Mexico’s 100-year bonds are among the most vulnerable to
the decline in Treasuries because an increase in yields cuts
more value from longer-maturity notes that pay a larger number
of coupons than shorter-dated debt.  Modified duration, which measures a bond’s sensitivity to
rate changes, was 18.7 for the 100-year bond. That’s more than
twice as much as Mexico’s notes due 2022, which have duration of
7.6.  Brazil ’s longest-dated dollar-denominated bond, which
matures in 2041, is 15.1.  “Anything with duration has gotten whacked,”  Kevin Daly ,
a  money manager  who oversees $11 billion in emerging-market
assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said in a telephone
interview from London. “We have been reducing the duration in
our portfolio.”  Buying Opportunity  The decline in Mexico’s bonds is creating a buying
opportunity because Treasury yields are unlikely to climb
further, according to  Enrique Alvarez , the head of Latin America
fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal in New York.  “In the shorter run, unless you can predict a very violent
rise in the long end of U.S. Treasury rates, which I don’t think
is going to occur, you shouldn’t expect much higher yields in
trying to find a better or more attractive rate for entry,”
Alvarez said in a telephone interview from New York.  Yields on  30-year U.S. Treasuries have dropped 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, in the past week on
speculation that U.S. will fail to avert automatic spending cuts
slated to take place later this year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries widened six basis points to 185
basis points at 11 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 105
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  The peso weakened 0.6 percent to 12.8702 per  U.S. dollar .  An investor holding $10 million of Mexico’s century bonds
would incur a loss of $979,000 if the price on the securities
fell to 100 cents on the dollar from 109.8 cents now, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As a long-term investor, we’re not looking at the next
six months,” Brewin said. “Frankly, why would I want to own
something that is low-yielding and is subject to all the
concerns about duration?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  