-- Ore-Ship Rates Reach Five-Month Low on Mine Strike and Storm
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-26T15:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ore-ship-rates-reach-five-month-low-on-mine-strike-and-storm.html
Rates to charter Capesize ships, the
biggest mineral and grain carriers, reached a five-month low as
a strike at a Colombian  coal mine  and a storm near  Australia 
curbed bookings of the vessels.  Average daily hire costs slid 7.2 percent to $4,724, the
lowest since Sept. 17, figures from the London-based Baltic
Exchange showed today. That sent the Baltic Dry Index, a wider
measure of freight costs, down 0.3 percent to 741 even as
charter rates increased for the three classes of smaller vessels
tracked by the gauge.  Workers at the Cerrejon mine have been striking since Feb.
7 over wages and benefits. Severe Tropical Cyclone Rusty
approached the northwest coast of Australia, triggering orders
to evacuate parts of  Port Hedland , site of the world’s biggest
bulk export terminal. Australia is the leading global shipper of
 iron ore , the main Capesize cargo.  “The strike among coal miners in  Colombia  and the cyclone
outside West Australia have reduced cargo flows, pressuring
Capesize rates,” RS Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment
bank, said in an e-mailed report today.  Capesize rates  tumbled  37 percent this month as disruptions
in Colombia and Australia worsened a decline in hiring of ships
for single voyages in February, amplifying an oversupply of the
vessels and further curbing earnings.  Brazilian Ports  Sixty-eight Capesizes were booked so far in February,
against 95 for the entire month in 2012, according to figures
from Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker. Not all bookings,
known as fixtures, are reported to the market. Fixtures from
ports in  Brazil , the second-largest iron-ore shipper and the
biggest generator of demand for the vessels, plunged to four
this month from 19 in the prior period, Clarkson data show.  Bookings to carry Brazilian iron ore must increase if rates
are to rebound, according to Platou. The investment bank
predicted a revival starting in April as mills in  China , the
biggest global importer of the steelmaking raw material, start
to restock inventories.  “Because of the huge trading distances, Brazil-to-China
shipments require about three Capesize vessels for every one
Capesize moving between Australia and China,” the bank said.  Four weeks have passed since Jan. 28, the last time
Capesize returns as assessed by the exchange exceeded daily
operating costs estimated at about $7,758 by Moore Stephens LLP,
a London-based accountant. That’s before paying for fuel. The
ships need $16,000 to break even and cover finance repayments,
says Pareto Securities AS, an Oslo-based investment bank.  The world’s 1,513 Capesizes comprise about 40 percent of
the dry-bulk fleet’s total capacity. Capesizes will carry 90
percent of the estimated 1.2 billion metric tons of iron ore to
be transported by sea in 2013, according to Clarkson.  Average daily rates for Panamaxes, the largest ships to
navigate the Panama Canal, gained for a 15th session to $7,502
as Supramaxes that are about 25 percent smaller advanced 1.4
percent to $7,674. Handysizes, the smallest vessels in the
index, climbed 1.2 percent to $6,235.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  