-- Ormet Files for Bankruptcy, Agrees to Sell Business
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-26T21:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ormet-files-for-bankruptcy-agrees-to-sell-business.html
Ormet Corp. (ORMT) , the operator of an Ohio
aluminum smelter, filed for bankruptcy and said it agreed to
sell itself to a group of private investment funds, seven years
after emerging from a previous bankruptcy.  Ormet, based in Hannibal, Ohio, listed assets of $407
million in the Chapter 11 filing in bankruptcy court in
Wilmington,  Delaware , and liabilities of $416 million.  The company’s debt and legacy costs have been obstacles to
achieving profitability, Chief Executive Officer Mike Tanchuk
said in a statement posted on the company’s  website . The Ormet
pension plan is listed as the company’s biggest creditor, with a
claim of $143 million. The shares fell 90 percent to close at 5
cents in  New York .  The filing lets Ormet “sell the company in a controlled
process,” Tanchuk said. “We will come out of this process
stronger and better positioned for the future.”  Private investment funds managed by Wayzata Investment
Partners LLC agreed to provide $30 million in debtor-in-
possession financing, with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  providing a $60
million loan, Ormet said. Wayzata agreed to buy Ormet’s assets
and will submit an opening bid in a stalking horse process in
bankruptcy court, Ormet said.  Ormet has the capacity to produce 270,000 tons of aluminum
a year, it said in an October  filing . About 82 percent of its
output for 2013 through March 2015 is tied to sales agreements
with commodity trader customers including  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN) , Ormet said in the filing.  In August, the company curtailed two of the six potlines at
its sole smelter in Hannibal.  The case is In re: Ormet Corp., 13-103334, U.S,  Bankruptcy
Court  District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  