-- Oscars Missed the One Movie You Must See
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-02-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/oscars-missed-the-one-movie-you-must-see.html
“Searching for Sugar Man,” a movie
about a musician from the 1970s who was a celebrity without
knowing it, is a deserving winner of this year’s Oscar for best
documentary. As much as I loved it, though, this week I’ve
another documentary on my mind and make no apologies for drawing
your attention to it.  Made for British television, it wasn’t an Oscar contender.
It’s on limited release in U.S. cinemas right now and will make
its way to DVD, but too few Americans will end up seeing it or
even being aware of it. What a shame.  “56 Up”  is the newest
installment in the most remarkable documentary-film project ever
undertaken.  The series started with  “Seven Up!”  in 1964. The filmmakers
chose 14 boys and girls, all 7 years old, from every stratum of
English society and interviewed them about their lives and
hopes. They were children from state schools and from private
schools; from loving families, broken homes and an orphanage;
urban and rural; rich, middle class and poor.  Splice of Life  That first film advanced a thesis, quoting the Jesuit
saying, “Give me a child until he is seven, and I will give you
the man.” It was about the English class system, the role of
inherited advantage and deep-seated social injustice. The adults
these children would become were already as good as formed, or
so the film supposed.  “Seven Up!” was a notable work in its own right, both
charming (because 7-year-olds talking about themselves can’t
help being charming) and disturbing (because the different life
trajectories were indeed already apparent). What put the project
in a category of its own was the decision by filmmaker Michael Apted -- a researcher on the first program and director of all
the others -- to go back to the same children every seven years.  Each of the subsequent films -- “7 Plus Seven,” “21 Up,”
“28 Up” and so forth to “56 Up” -- splices segments from its
predecessors, so that every installment is self-contained and
shows what has become of the children up to that point. These
unfolding life stories are utterly absorbing and at times almost
unbearably moving.  I’ve a particular interest, I know, because I’m an
Englishman just two years older than the group and see fragments
of my own life rendered in alarming clarity. Whatever your age
or nationality, though, if you watch the films in sequence, I
dare say you will want to write and thank me for the
recommendation. (There’s no need. You’re quite welcome.)  Since each is self-contained, is it necessary to watch them
all? Oh, certainly. As the lives lengthen, material from the
earlier films has to be compressed, and every particle of
information about the protagonists should be enjoyed and
considered. You won’t appreciate the later films in full unless
you’ve watched the earlier ones first.  After half a century of actuality, what remains of that
initial theory of social predestination? The answer is, “It’s
complicated.” And this is what gives the series astonishing
force.  Yes, it helps to have two loving parents. Yes, it helps to
have money and go to the best schools. You bet it helps. But the
individuals in these films are above all exactly that --
individuals.  Defying Stereotypes  It’s all so untidy. They keep defying the stereotypes they
are supposed to exemplify. After the first program, you see the
filmmakers lose interest in their own theory. The dignity as
well as the detail of each life forbid generalization of that
kind. Once you get to know these people, you don’t want to
insult them that way.  One problem you might expect Apted to face doesn’t really
arise. Only one of the original 14 dropped out after “Seven Up!”
Others take sabbaticals for an episode or two, but “56 Up” has
interviews with 13 of the original group.  Subtler problems do arise, however, and Apted skillfully
deals with them. One is that the lives grow not only longer but
more complicated. In “56 Up,” especially, you have a sense that
more of what matters to the group has moved, as it were, off-
stage -- to ailing, aged parents; to their own children, now
leaving home and trying to make their way; to grandchildren. The
film allows the extended families their privacy. Perhaps at the
group’s insistence, perhaps because doing anything else would
have caused the project to collapse under its own weight,
they’re shown but not studied.  Another difficulty is that the subjects have become
conscious of their own role in Apted’s enterprise and, in
Britain, minor celebrities to boot. Some enjoy it, some say they
hate it, but all are affected by it. (In a previous episode, one
of the group confessed that as the next spell of filmmaking came
around, she felt an obligation to have done something
interesting.) A lesser filmmaker would have kept this out of
sight. Apted puts the issue on display, as well as letting the
group complain about the way he has distorted or truncated them,
as one or two insist he has.  Themes do emerge, and they’re no more surprising, I
suppose, than the fact that it’s good to be loved as a child and
bad to be poor. Dumb luck matters, yet to a great degree you
make your own chances. Somebody with a large capacity for
happiness can be happy in testing circumstances; somebody not
blessed with that trait can find life a burden regardless. Some
people are resilient; some are broken so easily it’s
heartbreaking to watch. If there’s one key to satisfaction in
life, it’s having the comfort and support of a loving partner --
and if finding and keeping that partner aren’t always easy, it
could be your own fault.  Perhaps those are truisms. Seeing them expressed in the
lives of real people over the space of almost 50 years is
nonetheless a revelation.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 