-- Hostess Union Says Flowers Offers No Assurance for Workers
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-02-26T00:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/hostess-union-says-flowers-offers-no-assurance-for-workers-1-.html
The union representing bankrupt
Hostess Brands Inc.’s fired bakery workers said the bids by
 Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  for company brands offer no guarantees for
workers.  “While the debtor’s secured lenders may view Flowers’ bids
as the ’best’ for getting themselves paid, Flowers’ bids provide
zero assurances that the rights of the debtors’ workers will be
protected,” the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and
Grain Millers International Union and the Bakery and
Confectionery Union and Industry International Pension Fund said
in court papers filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in White
Plains,  New York .  Flowers Foods submitted the lead bids for most of the
company’s bread-baking operations to be sold at a Feb. 28
auction. Flowers Foods, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , offered
$360 million for the Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and
Nature’s Pride brands, 20 bakeries and 38 depots and offered $30
million for the Beefsteak brand. A March 19 hearing has been set
to authorize the sale to the highest or otherwise best bidders.  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
liquidation auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets. The bakers union went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains  imposed contract
concessions opposed by more than 90 percent of the union’s
members. The union represents more than 5,000 Hostess workers.  Labor Laws  The union and the pension fund said that while they
“welcome a sale” of the assets, “any consideration of the
‘highest and best’ offer” for the bread businesses “must
include consideration of the bidder’s commitment to the
preservation of jobs, recognition of the rights of workers, and
compliance with labor laws,” according to court papers.  Tom Becker, a Hostess spokesman, declined to comment on the
filing. Keith Hancock, a spokesman for Flowers Foods, didn’t
immediately respond to a request seeking comment on the filing.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  