-- How to Use Statistics to Seek Out Criminals
-- B y   R o s a   M .   A b r a n t e s - M e t z
-- 2013-02-26T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/how-to-use-statistics-to-seek-out-criminals.html
The discovery of banks’ efforts to
manipulate the London interbank offered rate owes a lot to
statistical techniques that provided the first indications of
wrongdoing. If regulators want to uncover more misdeeds in the
markets, they’ll have to use such tools much more actively than
they currently do.  Academics and journalists have become adept at employing
statistical screens to shed light on a wide range of
questionable or illegal activities in the financial markets.
Notable examples include  collusion  among Nasdaq stock dealers,
the backdating of stock options and possible insider trading
among corporate executives.  Libor is a case in point. In early 2008, the Wall Street
Journal published a  study  showing that the borrowing-cost
estimates banks submitted for the calculation of the benchmark
interest rate were bunched much too close together and bore
little relation to the banks’ riskiness as reflected in the
market for default insurance. Together with co-authors Albert
Metz, Michael Kraten and Gim Seow, I  extended  the analysis to
show that nonrandom patterns in the banks’ reported borrowing
costs started years earlier than the period examined by the
Journal and also likely involved coordinated behavior among
banks. The studies pointed to the widespread misbehavior that,
four years later, is proving to be one of the biggest and most
costly financial scandals in history.  Classic Screens  The Libor studies were classic screens, in that they tested
for divergence from normal statistical behavior or from markets
thought to be functioning properly. To understand how screens
work, consider one popular statistical tool: Benford’s law. The
law states that the digits in certain types of data from
naturally occurring events follow a consistent pattern. The
number 1 is by far the most frequent first digit, followed by 2,
3 and so on all the way to 9. The second significant digit is
more evenly distributed, and so is the third digit. Such
patterns have been observed in financial data such as stock
prices, corporate revenue and interest rates. Libor submissions
followed Benford’s law closely for about 20 years, but began to
diverge sharply in the mid-2000s.  Statistical analysis, by itself, will not usually prove
manipulation or other cheating. Rather, it can signal unusual
patterns that may require closer investigation. Beyond flagging
strange patterns, screens can potentially indicate which actors
were involved and when the cheating began.  U.S. regulatory agencies such as the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
the Department of Transportation and the Internal Revenue
Service routinely use screens to help find a variety of illegal
behavior, such as insider trading, tax evasion and accounting
shenanigans.  The use of screens has been limited, though, in other
areas, particularly in antitrust matters. More frequently than
not, regulators rely on passive detection policies, in which
they wait for complainants or whistle-blowers to come forward.
This approach has a track record of success, and it is
undoubtedly less resource-intensive than actively engaging in
detection. Unfortunately, it probably misses a lot of fraud.
Attempts at Libor-rigging, for example, might never have been
uncovered without screens.  If regulators were more proactive in their use of screens,
they could be more effective in both the detection and
deterrence of fraudulent market behavior. The most successful
frauds have the biggest effects on prices or quantities, and
hence are the most visible to screens. These are precisely the
cases in which whistle-blower programs tend to fail -- after
all, a conspirator is less likely to come forward if the
conspiracy is working effectively from his perspective. The
knowledge that authorities were constantly screening for
questionable activity would also have a powerful chilling effect
on potential perpetrators.  Regulatory agencies can start by enhancing data collection
and analysis, and training their staff to monitor those markets
they see as most susceptible to illegal behavior.  There have always been those who are naturally skeptical
that simple empirical analyses can be brought to bear in complex
markets. Hopefully, the Libor scandal will settle the question
of whether screens should be more vigorously applied and move
the discussion to how that needs to happen.  (Rosa M. Abrantes-Metz is an adjunct associate professor at
New York University’s Stern School of Business and a principal
in the antitrust, securities and financial regulation practices
of Global Economics Group, a consulting firm based in New York.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 