-- Oxbow Price-Fixing Suit Against Buffett’s BNSF Dismissed
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-26T19:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/oxbow-price-fixing-suit-against-buffett-s-bnsf-dismissed.html
Oxbow Carbon & Minerals LLC’s price-
fixing suit against  Union Pacific Railroad Co. (UNP)  and  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  railway was dismissed by
a federal judge, who ruled the mineral company hadn’t shown that
the rail carriers engaged in monopolistic behavior.  Oxbow “failed to allege adequate facts to state claims”
under the Sherman Antitrust Act, U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman in  Washington  said in a ruling released today.  While Oxbow claimed that Union Pacific and Burlington
Northern conspired to monopolize rail transportation services
for coal and petroleum coke in the western U.S., “the complaint
lacks factual allegations about how the alleged agreement came
about, the basic terms of the agreement itself, or how the
defendants used the agreement to monopolize the rail freight
market,” Friedman wrote.  Six related Oxbow companies, which brought the suit, didn’t
each explain how they were harmed by the railroads’ behavior,
including the allegedly improper imposition of more than
$30 million in fuel surcharges, according to Friedman’s ruling.  Address Shortcomings  Friedman said Oxbow could refile the suit to address the
shortcomings he cited, saying “it is possible, of course, that
plaintiffs will be able to cure these defects by amendment.”  Brad Goldstein, a spokesman for Oxbow, declined in an
e-mail to comment on the ruling. Tom Lange, a spokesman for
Union Pacific, of Omaha,  Nebraska , didn’t immediately respond to
a phone message requesting comment.  Steve Forsberg, spokesman for Forth Worth, Texas-based
Burlington Northern, said in a phone interview that company
attorneys are reviewing the ruling, “but the initial feeling is
they are pleased with the judge’s action.”  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , based in Omaha, bought
Burlington Northern in 2010.  Closely held West Palm Beach, Florida-based Oxbow, which
mines and markets coal and natural gas, was founded by William
Koch, son of the founder of Koch Industries Inc.  The case is Oxbow v. Union Pacific, 11-01049, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  