-- Toyota to Ship U.S.-Built Venza Wagons to Russia, China
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-27T02:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/toyota-to-export-kentucky-built-venza-wagons-to-russia-ukraine.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will broaden
exports of U.S.-built vehicles by shipping Venza wagons produced
in  Kentucky  to  Russia , Ukraine and  China  later this year.  Production of Venzas for Russia and Ukraine in Georgetown,
Kentucky, start in April, the  company  said in a statement
yesterday. The initial goal is to send a combined 5,000 annually
to those markets, it said. Shipments to China of the wagon,
which is derived from the Camry sedan, are also planned, with
details to be announced soon, Javier Moreno, a Toyota spokesman,
said without elaborating.  Those exports “further solidify our U.S. manufacturing
base,” Shigeki Terashi, Toyota’s North American president and
chief operating officer, said in the statement. The world’s
largest automaker said it sent more than 124,000 U.S.-built
autos to global markets in 2012, up 45 percent from a year
earlier and a record for the Toyota City, Japan-based company.  Toyota began shipping Venzas to South Korea last year
following exports of Camrys to that market in an effort to
maximize use of North American factories and blunt the impact of
a strong yen. Japan’s  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) 
likewise are expanding overseas shipments of North American-
produced autos three decades after opening plants in the region
to meet U.S. demand.  The  stock  fell 2 percent to 4,620 yen at 11 a.m. in Tokyo
trading, trimming its gain this year to 15 percent. Toyota
 climbed  56 percent last year.  Japan’s Nikkei newspaper said Toyota will export several
thousand Venzas to China annually, citing no one. Moreno
couldn’t immediately comment on the report.  Toyota’s North American corporate unit is based in New
York, with U.S. sales operations headquartered in Torrance,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  