-- Panasonic Board Said to Vote on Cutting the Number of Executives
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-26T06:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/panasonic-board-said-to-vote-on-cutting-the-number-of-executives.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s board will meet
tomorrow to consider cutting its number of top executives by
almost half as part of President Kazuhiro Tsuga’s efforts to
rebound from a record annual loss, two people familiar with
the plan said.  The board probably will approve a proposal that would
reduce the number of executive officers from 30 in order to
lower  costs  and speed up management decisions, a person familiar
with the plan said, declining to be named because the proposal
hasn’t been made public. The  Osaka , Japan-based company will
probably announce the changes tomorrow after the meeting, said
another person, who also declined to be identified.  Tsuga, 56, who took the top job in June, is cutting jobs
and reducing the number of business units after Panasonic posted
a 772 billion-yen ($8.4 billion) net loss in the year ended
March 2012.  Japan ’s second-largest TV maker booked a profit last
 quarter  after eliminating 13,000  jobs , while closest domestic
peer  Sony Corp. (6758)  reported a net loss.  James Bell , a spokesman for Panasonic, declined to comment.
Panasonic’s executive officers have responsibilities ranging
from corporate environmental affairs to cost-cutting projects,
according to a company  statement .  Panasonic fell 1.8 percent to 671 yen in Tokyo trading,
trimming its  gain this year  to 29 percent. Sony dropped 3.7
percent as Japanese exporters fell.  The maker of Viera TVs is reducing the number of basic
business divisions to four from nine and the number of business
units to no more than 56 from 88, starting April 1.  In October, Panasonic cut staffing at its headquarters to
about 150 from about 7,000 by reassigning most workers.  Tsuga is set to announce a new medium-term plan next month
that may include realigning businesses. He plans to focus on
units offering the highest profit margins, including beauty
products, and decrease reliance on lower-margin products
including TVs and mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  