-- Pentagon Will Open Networks to Apple, Google Devices in 2014
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-02-26T23:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/pentagon-will-open-networks-to-apple-google-devices-in-2014.html
The U.S. Defense Department said
today it will begin opening its communications networks by next
February to mobile phones and tablet computers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The move may pose a threat to  BlackBerry (BBRY) ’s dominance at the
Pentagon, which has more than 450,000 of the company’s devices.
BlackBerry has lost market share to competitors and seeks to
make a comeback with its new BlackBerry 10 phone. The device
will go on sale in the U.S. next month.  The Pentagon said it wants employees to have the
flexibility to use commercial products on its systems, including
its classified network for the first time. It plans to create a
military mobile applications store and hire a contractor to
build a system that may eventually handle as many as 8 million
devices.  “This is not simply about embracing the newest technology
–- it is about keeping the department’s workforce relevant in an
era when information accessibility and cybersecurity play a
critical role in mission success,” Teri Takai, the department’s
chief information officer, said in a statement.  Shares of Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry fell 19 cents,
or 1.4 percent, to close at $13.06.  Positive Feedback  Following the BlackBerry 10’s international release, the
company has received “outstanding feedback” from customers,
 David Smith , the company’s executive vice president of mobile
computing, said in an e-mail.  Government workers can use BlackBerry’s new technology to
keep “sensitive information secure without compromising a great
user experience,” Smith said.  Spokesmen for Cupertino, California-based Apple and
Mountain View, California-based Google didn’t respond to e-mails
and phone messages requesting comment.  The Pentagon has more than 600,000 mobile devices,
including 470,000 BlackBerrys, 41,000 Apple products and 8,700
platforms running Google’s Android operating system, according
to the statement. Many of the Apple and Android products aren’t
connected to Defense Department networks except for testing.  The department uses two communications networks to exchange
data such as e-mails and documents -- one for unclassified
information and another for classified material. Most of the
BlackBerrys work only on the unclassified network,  Air Force 
Lieutenant Colonel Damien Pickart, a spokesman at the Pentagon,
said in a telephone interview.  Classified Communications  That will change with the new mobile architecture, which
“permits the use of commercial products for classified
communications for the first time,” the department said in a
statement.  The Air Force last year awarded a $9.36 million contract to
buy as many as 18,000 Apple iPad 2s to replace the bags of paper
manuals and charts carried by pilots and navigators.  While the military has relied on BlackBerrys, it has been
testing the Apple and Google Android devices.  “We’re device-agnostic,” Air Force Major General Robert
Wheeler said today during a press conference at the Pentagon.
“What we’re looking for is to have a family of devices”
approved for use by personnel ranging from junior enlisted
members to senior officials, he said.  For now, the networks will remain closed to wireless
devices owned by military personnel, according to the Defense
Department.  ‘Compelling Benefits’  The recent bring-your-own-device trend in the civilian
workplace “presents many compelling benefits,” though existing
Pentagon policies and security vulnerabilities “prevent the
adoption of devices that are unapproved and procured outside of
official government acquisition,” Takai said in an attachment
to a memo dated Feb. 15 and released today.  The  Defense Information Systems Agency  plans to select a
company or group of firms by early summer to develop the
architecture to manage mobile devices and distribute software
applications, according to John Hickey, mobility program manager
at the agency.  More than 40 companies, including  Falls Church , Virginia-
based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , have expressed interest in the
agency’s  notice  about the competition. The agency has also been
in talks with carriers such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
Hickey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  