-- Perry’s Texas Cancer Fund Mired in Pay-to-Play Claims
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-02-26T20:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/perry-s-texas-cancer-fund-mired-in-pay-to-play-claims.html
Six years ago,  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  persuaded voters to approve $3 billion in taxpayer-backed
bonds to research cures for cancer.  Now, after the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of
Texas spent $836 million with no major advances to show, its
research has been halted by allegations of favoritism toward
people that contributed to Perry and other leaders. A  district
attorney , lawmakers and the attorney general are investigating.  The program’s disarray followed closely upon Perry’s
abortive run for the Republican presidential nomination last
year. That campaign capsized after the governor was unable
during a televised debate to name the three federal agencies he
promised to dismantle. At home, Perry had made fighting cancer a
signature initiative, calling the funding “a turning point.”
The state touted the agency as the second-largest source of
 cancer-research  funding behind the U.S. government.  “It’s wonderful that the state of Texas wanted to use its
money to bring an end to death and suffering from cancer,” said
Jonathan Simons, chief executive of the Prostate Cancer
Foundation in  Santa Monica ,  California , which provided $30
million in research grants last year. “It’s too bad they
couldn’t keep some people from getting the money based on
political relationships.”  Armstrong’s Muscle  Cancer accounted for 23 percent of the 2.5 million U.S.
deaths in 2011. Texas officials said the only larger U.S.
government source of funding toward its cure is the  National
Cancer Institute  in Bethesda,  Maryland , which awarded more than
half its $5.08 billion budget in fiscal 2012, according to the
 American Association  of Cancer Research.  Perry, 62, campaigned for the Texas cancer agency in 2007
with  Lance Armstrong , the Texan cyclist and cancer survivor
stripped of his record seven  Tour de France  titles for doping.
Perry’s idea was to expand economic development by boosting the
second-largest state’s universities and bringing treatments to
market.  The agency, based in an office building in downtown Austin,
began unraveling last year in a dispute over whether money was
steered to institutions with ties to those awarding the grants,
and over whether too much was spent on basic research instead of
bringing drugs to market.  Answering Questions  Rosemary Lehmberg, the Democratic district attorney for
Travis County, which includes Austin, is examining the grants,
said Gregg Cox, who heads her public-integrity unit. She will
take the matter to a grand jury, he said. Cox declined to say
who is under investigation and what laws might have been broken.  Prosecutors began investigating last year amid staff
resignations from the cancer agency and legislative probes.  A state audit last month found that the agency lacked
controls to “assure the public that its award decisions are not
improperly influenced.” In a dozen cases, the agency didn’t get
reports showing how grants were used, the audit found.  Perry’s spokeswoman, Lucy Nashed, declined to comment on
the audit and investigations. She said in e-mails that Perry had
no say in funding and that he expects the agency “to fully
address the concerns that have been raised about its processes
and operations prior to future grants being awarded.”  The agency stopped awarding grants in December. Lawmakers
of both parties are calling for legislation to promote
accountability and to avoid conflicts before allowing more.  Walking Out  Phillip Sharp, chairman of an agency-assembled scientific
panel that recommended which grants should be funded, resigned
in protest after money was disbursed without his panel’s advice.  “You need to reduce the role of politics in the review of
what projects get funded,” said Sharp, a professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge and the 1993
winner of the Nobel Prize for medicine. “They need to stop
making decisions in closed rooms.”  Among the grants Cox said is under investigation is $11
million given in June 2010 to Peloton Therapeutics Inc., a
closely held  drug-development  company in  Dallas . It was awarded
without scientific review, according to the audit.  Peter O’Donnell Jr., an 88-year-old Dallas investor who
owned part of Peloton until November 2011, has given $504,500 in
contributions to Perry, Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst and
House Speaker Joe Straus since 2000, according to the Texas
Tribune, an Internet news organization. The three Republicans
appoint nine of the agency’s 11 governing board members.  O’Donnell has also given $240,000 to the campaigns of the
other two board members, Attorney General  Greg Abbott  and
Comptroller Susan Combs, both Republicans.  No Recollection  Straus couldn’t recall any grant recipients asking for his
help getting funding, said Jason Embry, a spokesman. Dewhurst
also hadn’t been asked to intervene, said Enrique Marquez, a
senior adviser.  Abbott, whose office is conducting a civil investigation of
the grants, declined to comment, said Jerry Strickland, a
spokesman. R.J. DeSilva, a spokesman for Combs, said the
comptroller didn’t intervene on anyone’s behalf.  The O’Donnell Foundation, which the investor controls, also
gave $1.6 million to another foundation created to raise money
to supplement the cancer agency’s funds and subsidize salaries
for those awarding grants, according to the audit.  O’Donnell invested $900,000 in Peloton because he wanted to
help the biomedical industry, he said. O’Donnell said he didn’t
try to influence grants.  When he realized the investment could create the appearance
of impropriety, he donated his shares to University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, he said.  “I wanted out,” he said. “I was concerned I could be
tagged with a conflict-of-interest charge.”  Bypassed Panel  The executive director of O’Donnell’s foundation, Carolyn Dickson, was the registered agent and board member of a company
that received the agency’s largest grant: Statewide Clinical
Trials Network of Texas, which got $25.2 million to test cancer
treatments.  The agency’s scientific review council didn’t recommended
the grant, according to the audit.  Dickson said neither she nor O’Donnell used political
connections to obtain the money.  After Texas froze funding, Statewide closed in January and
fired 36 people.  The agency also awarded $20 million to the Houston Area
Translational Research Consortium and the Institute for Applied
Cancer Science last year without scientific review, according to
the audit. Without explanation, the grant was given top
priority, Sharp said.  “It leaped to the front of the line,” Sharp said.  Nobelist Departs  The year before the grant was awarded, Perry said the
Institute for Applied Cancer Science, which seeks to accelerate
therapies, made the state “a place where academic research can
come together with a very vibrant private sector.”  That grant prompted the resignation of Alfred Gilman, the
state agency’s chief scientific officer, who oversaw Sharp’s
review panel. Gilman, who shared the  Nobel Prize  in medicine in
1994, declined to comment.  Jimmy Mansour, the chairman of the Texas cancer agency’s
board, declined to comment, said his spokesman, William Miller
with HillCo Partners, an Austin lobbying firm.  Mansour and other board members “are not under suspicion
in the investigation,” Lehmberg said in a Jan. 23 statement.  The state money has helped advance drug development,
supporters said. Austin-based Mirna Therapeutics, which received
$10.3 million, is to begin trials within two months on a liver-
cancer medication, said Paul Lammers, president and chief
executive officer.  “The funding has been vital for us,” Lammers said.  Now lawmakers are proposing ways to revamp the program, or
eliminate it.  State Senator Kevin Eltife, a Republican,  sponsored
legislation to block the state from issuing more general-
obligation bonds for the agency.  “You don’t go into debt for cancer research,” Eltife
said. “We should have paid cash if we were going to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  