-- Persimmon Counts on Mortgage Boost as Margin Growth Slows
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-02-26T17:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/persimmon-counts-on-mortgage-boost-as-margin-growth-slows.html
Persimmon Plc (PSN)  will become more
dependent on an improving U.K. mortgage market to generate
profit as the homebuilder’s ability to widen margins fades,
incoming Chief Executive Officer Jeff Fairburn said.  “There will be a natural flattening of the curve of
profitability,” Fairburn, 46, who takes over as CEO from Mike Farley in April, said yesterday in an interview. “We’ve seen a
pretty good increase in the last few years as we’ve moved onto
new land. Those margins will tail off.”  U.K. homebuilders have boosted margins by focusing on
higher-end homes and building on discounted land after a slump
during the financial crisis caused sales to drop. The  Bloomberg
EMEA Homebuilders Index (BEUHBLD) , composed of the U.K.’s seven biggest
publicly traded house builders, gained 70 percent last year.  Persimmon expects its underlying operating margin to reach
as much as 17 percent within the next 18 months, up from 4
percent in 2009. The underlying operating margin last year grew
to 13 percent from 10 percent, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by
market value said yesterday in an annual results statement.  The company’s 2013 margin, excluding exceptional items and
goodwill impairments, is likely to widen by less than 3
percentage points, Fairburn said.  Home completions rose to 9,903 from 9,360 a year ago as
Persimmon’s net income increased 56 percent to 170.2 million
pounds ($258 million). The company, based in York,  England , has
the capacity to build as many as 14,000 homes a year, Fairburn
said after the results came out. Persimmon’s home completions
peaked in 2006 at 16,701, according to the company statement.  ‘Achievable Volume’  “We anticipate volume moving forward, continuing to invest
in land,” he said. “It’s a sensible, achievable volume from
the size of the business that we have now, but we will deliver
the volume that the market allows.”  A constrained home-lending market has caused the number of
mortgages that have been granted to fall in the past five years.
Gross mortgage lending amounted to about 143 billion pounds in
2012, compared with 363 billion pounds in 2007, according to the
 Council of Mortgage Lenders .  The dearth of mortgage lending has also weighed on
competitors such as  Bovis (BVS)  Homes Group Plc, which reported lower
sales volume yesterday.  “A continuing lack of availability during the year of high
loan-to-value mortgage products constrained market activity for
new-build homes,” the Longfield, England-based homebuilder said
in a statement yesterday. The company’s 2012 net income
increased 76 percent 40.9 million pounds.  Shares Decline  Bovis declined the second most on the Homebuilders Index
today, falling 1.6 percent to 649.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
of trading in London. Persimmon had the third-biggest drop,
declining 1.45 percent to 885.5 pence.  There are signs the mortgage market is undergoing a
revival. Data released Jan. 30 showed mortgage approvals rose to
an 11-month high in December as the central bank’s Funding for
Lending Scheme eased conditions in the home-loan market. The
Bank of England is counting on the program to encourage lending
and provide a boost to an economy that’s close to slipping back
into a recession.  Crest Nicholson Holdings Plc’s 225 million-pound initial
public offering last week is likely to spur other U.K.
homebuilders to do deals, including acquisitions, as smaller
builders struggle to raise capital, Fairburn said.  “We’ve identified and set aside money to buy more land,
it’s about 400 million pounds a year,” Fairburn said. ”So, we
are well equipped to either do small acquisitions” or continue
to buy land, he said.  Persimmon bought Hillreed Homes, a homebuilder focused in
southeast England, for 35.7 million pounds in October. There
hasn’t been a major merger in the U.K. homebuilding industry
since 2007, when Taylor Woodrow Homes Inc. and George Wimpey
Ltd. combined to form Taylor Wimpey, then valued at 5 billion
pounds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s
market value is now about half that after the shares fell and it
divested assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  