-- Philippine Stocks Fall Most in Seven Weeks on Record Valuations
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-02-26T03:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/philippine-stocks-fall-most-in-seven-weeks-on-record-valuations.html
Philippine  stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to its biggest loss in almost seven weeks, after
valuations climbed to a record.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  slid 1.2 percent to
6,644 as of 11:33 a.m. Manila time, poised for the sharpest loss
since Jan. 10. Ayala Land Inc., the nation’s largest developer,
and  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC) , the biggest Philippine restaurant
operator, slid more than 2 percent.  The benchmark index climbed 16 percent this year to a
record yesterday amid speculation accelerating economic growth
will win the nation an investment-grade credit rating in coming
months. Valuations climbed to 18.9 times projected 12-month
profit yesterday, the highest based on data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2006 and 42 percent above the seven-year
daily average.  “The market is ripe for a correction with sky-high
valuations,”  James Lago , head of research at PCCI Securities
Brokers Corp., said by phone today. “Sentiment also turned
negative because of the elections in Italy. If Italy goes
haywire, fear of Europe’s debt crisis will shoot up again.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund sank 1.3 percent yesterday to an 11-week low as an
inconclusive Italian election result renewed concerns over
Europe’s debt crisis. Italy may need a second election after the
four-way race looked to result in a divided parliament that
would challenge the European Union’s embrace of austerity.  Ayala Land fell 2.6 percent. Jollibee sank 2.6 percent,
snapping a seven-day rally. Ayala Land trades for 39.2 times 12-
month projected earnings, while Jollibee is valued at a multiple
of 30.5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  and  SM Investments
Corp. (SM) , the nation’s biggest companies by market value, dropped
at least 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  