-- Pot Sellers Unite: You’ve Nothing to Lose Except Free OT
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-02-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/pot-sellers-unite-you-ve-nothing-to-lose-except-free-ot.html
Medical-marijuana advocates lobbying
Congress this week got powerful new allies to help them make
the case for getting federal prosecutors to back off: labor
leaders.  The 1.3 million-member  United Food and Commercial Workers ,
which represents meat packers, retail and grocery employees, is
joining with advocates for pot dispensaries to push the Justice
Department to ease off on those that sell the drug where it’s
permitted locally. If that happens, legal  cannabis  -- projected
to reach almost $9 billion in sales in several years -- could be
a growth area for unions struggling to find new members.  “We’re in uncharted territory here, and the union could
play a critical role,”  Harley Shaiken , who teaches on labor and
the international economy at the  University of California ,
Berkeley, said in an interview. “On some level, whether it’s a
supermarket or a marijuana dispensary, you’ve got similar issues
in the workplace.”  Pot used to ease pain related to ailments such as cancer,
AIDS, glaucoma and multiple sclerosis was a $1.7 billion market
in 2011, and may increase to $8.9 billion in five years,
according to a report from See Change Strategy LLC of Olney,
 Maryland , that was financed by American Cannabis Research
Institute.  California  accounted for three-quarters of revenue in
the year studied, while Colorado was the fastest-growing, most
business-friendly market, it said.  State Legalization  There are almost 25 million potential patients eligible for
medical marijuana under current state laws, according to See
Change. While 19 states or localities, such as the  District of
Columbia , have legalized the medicinal use of cannabis, the drug
remains illegal under federal law. Separate statutes in
Washington and Colorado made possession of as much as an ounce
(28 grams) of marijuana legal in those states.  “We have our work to do to educate Congress, and that’s
where the UFCW helps us,” Jeff Jones, executive director of the
 Patient ID Center  in Oakland, California, a unionized medical-
marijuana cooperative, said in an interview.  The Obama administration initially pledged a hands-off
approach to pot dispensaries, unless they were linked to illegal
firearms, underage sales or criminal activity. Instead,
activists say the Justice Department has ended up taking an
increasingly aggressive stance against them and their landlords.  “What we’ve seen has been the exact opposite” of what was
promised, Kris Hermes, an Americans for Safe Access spokesman,
said in an interview. “We are all left scratching our heads.”  Attorney General  Attorney General Eric Holder defended the administration’s
approach in a congressional hearing last June, saying it has
only targeted those who “are taking advantage of these state
laws and going beyond that which the states have authorized.”  A department spokeswoman, Nanda Chitre, referred
to a memo issued in June 2011 that reiterated the circumstances
under which marijuana sellers would be prosecuted, when asked
for a comment on the matter.  In a sign of the growing political potency of the issue,
Americans for Safe Access held what it called the first-ever
Washington conference on medical marijuana at the Mayflower
Hotel, the almost  century-old  Washington landmark where former
FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover regularly ate lunch for 20 years.  The 300 people who attended wrapped up the meeting by
conducting door-to-door lobbying visits to  Capitol Hill . They
want Congress to pass a bill to establish a procedure for the
federal  Food and Drug Administration  to review cannabis, and for
possible approval for legal use. The measure also would prevent
federal prosecution for medical use in states where it’s legal.  Inconsistent Laws  “The 19 jurisdictions that permit medical marijuana are
operating in a patchwork of inconsistent local and federal
laws,” U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer, an Oregon Democrat
who met with the activists, said in a letter to House colleagues
on Feb. 14. Medical-marijuana use is legal in Oregon and
Blumenauer has proposed a federal excise tax on legal sales.  So far, unions are joining hand-in-hand with the industry
to help push for the procedure-establishing legislation and urge
the  Justice Department  to ease off.  “Our goal is to give them the dignity that their sincerity
deserves,” Dan Rush, director of the medical cannabis and hemp
division of the Food and Commercial Workers union, said in an
interview. In addition, “this is a growth industry, and people
are looking for jobs.”  Unions “provide us with some level of organization,” said
Jones, with the Oakland dispensary. If the federal government
shifted its policies, marijuana sellers could be as ubiquitous
as local pharmacies “overnight,” he said.  In addition to the political firepower, Rush said that
retail workers processing or selling marijuana have many of the
same issues as other retail or food-processing workers. They
need health insurance, pensions, continuing education and other
benefits.  “There is no difference between medical cannabis workers
and a meat cutter,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  