-- Potash Says ‘Political Events’ Put Its Israel Bid on Hold
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-26T21:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/potash-says-political-events-put-israel-chemicals-bid-on-hold.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, said “political
events” have put its bid for  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  on hold.  “This thing has been put on hold to get through this time
of political events that have happened in Israel,” Chief
Financial Officer Wayne Brownlee said today in a presentation at
a conference in Hollywood,  Florida , organized by BMO Capital
Markets. “We’ll see where we will get to over time.”  Potash Corp. is awaiting the outcome of talks about forming
a coalition government in Israel following elections last month,
said Brownlee. He said his Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company
is seeking to control 51 percent to 100 percent of Israel
Chemicals and won’t go hostile. Potash Corp. currently has a 14
percent stake, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Potash Corp. is facing resistance from Israeli politicians
and labor groups over its plan to acquire control of the second-
largest company by market value on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange’s
benchmark TA-25 Index. Opponents plan an “emergency
conference” tomorrow to stop the sale, Meir Cohen, a member of
Israel’s parliament, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The opposition you’re seeing right now is really based on
what I would call fear of the unknown,” Brownlee said. “We
really have not spent any time yet talking with stakeholders in
Israel.”  Shares Fall  Israel Chemicals fell 2.5 percent to 47.32 shekels at the
close in Tel Aviv, the biggest drop since Dec. 31, giving the
company a market value of 60.2 billion shekels ($16.1 billion).
Controlling stakeholder Israel Corp. declined 2.2 percent while
the TA-25  index  fell 0.2 percent.  Potash Corp. rose 0.8 percent to C$39.96 at the close in
Toronto. Its  shares  have declined 14 percent in the past 12
months.  Israel Chemicals, based in Tel Aviv, is controlled by the
Ofer family’s Israel Corp., which owns 52 percent. The Israeli
government can block takeover bids by using its so-called golden
share, allowing the state to prevent a takeover to protect
natural resources.  “We’re not interested in increasing the stake and still
being a passive, minority shareholder,” Brownlee said. “In
fact, that’s not a tenable position for us on a long-term
basis.”  Low Cost  If Potash Corp. acquires Israel Chemicals, which harvests
potash from the Dead Sea, the Canadian company would control
about 25 percent of global production capacity, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Potash is a form of potassium that
helps crops withstand drought and strengthens plant root
systems. Potash Corp.’s largest potash mines are in
Saskatchewan.  “Clearly the rationale for us to embark on that
transaction, if we can get there, is more regard to marketing
and being the lowest-cost-delivered supplier to anywhere in the
world, which is a pretty powerful statement if you can get
there,” Brownlee said today.  Employees at  Israel  Chemicals, known as ICL, vowed to fight
the proposed deal in December after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met in October with Potash Chief Executive Officer
Bill Doyle.  Brownlee’s comments today look “like an exercise to try
and anesthetize ICL workers, members of parliament and the
public so that the sale can be completed in secrecy,” a task
force of Israel Chemicals’ workers said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  