-- Power Companies Lose Court Bid on Telecom Pole-Wiring Fee
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-02-26T20:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/power-companies-lose-court-bid-on-telecom-pole-wiring-fees-1-.html
American Electric Power Co. (AEP) ,
 Southern Co. (NSC)  and seven other power companies lost a court
challenge to U.S. rules setting rates telephone and cable
providers must pay to attach lines to electric utility poles.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington today upheld Federal Communications Commission
regulations aimed at simplifying and reducing rates to spur
deployment of high-speed Internet service, or broadband, finding
the agency’s justifications to be reasonable.  The power companies “offer neither theory nor fact to
contradict the commission’s fundamental proposition that
artificial, non-cost-based differences in the prices of inputs
among competitors are bound to distort competition, handicapping
the disfavored competitors and at the margin causing market
share and capital to flow to less efficient firms,” U.S.
Circuit Judge  Stephen Williams  wrote in the opinion.  Lowering rates could cost electric utilities $1.2 billion
in foregone fees annually, according to a 2011 estimate by
Thomas Magee, an attorney for a coalition of utilities that
includes  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ,  National Grid Plc (NG/) , Allegheny Energy
Inc.,  PPL Corp. (PPL) , and Dayton Power & Light Co. The utilities
already bear $600 million annually in unreimbursed costs for
pole attachments by cable companies, which should pay higher
rates, Magee said when the rules were proposed two years ago.  ‘Unfortunate Decision’  “The FCC’s decision is not consistent with congressional
intent but the court let them get away with it,” Magee said in
an e-mailed statement. “This is an unfortunate decision for
electric utility ratepayers.”  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
commission’s order is among several key actions the agency has
taken to reduce barriers to broadband deployment and
“accelerate billions of dollars of investment in 21st century
infrastructure.”  There are about 134 million utility poles in the U.S.,
according to a 2009 study by Washington-based economist Michael
Pelcovits submitted to the FCC on behalf of cable companies.
About 49 million poles are subject to FCC-regulated rates, with
the remainder regulated by states or exempt from federal rules,
Pelcovits estimated.  Utility Poles  From 65 to 70 percent of poles are owned by utilities,
according to the FCC. Telecommunications companies pay a range
of prices to attach to utility poles, depending on their
regulatory classification. Prior to the rule, cable companies
paid an average of $7 per foot a year to attach to a utility
pole, while some telecom operators paid about about $20 a foot
each year, the agency said.  The court’s decision means “our recovery of pole costs
will decline, placing an inequitable portion of the cost of
maintaining utility poles on electric utilities and our
customers when other utilities benefit,” said  Melissa McHenry ,
a spokeswoman for American Electric Power.  Applying different rates distorts business decisions, and
could deter some providers from extending their networks, the
FCC said in its  National Broadband Plan  published in 2010. The
FCC left the rate paid by cable companies unchanged while
reducing rates paid by mid-sized and smaller telephone
companies.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the largest
telephone companies, intervened in the case in support of the
FCC rules. AT&T and Verizon sought to pay the same rate as their
smaller peers, according to US Telecom, a Washington-based trade
group that represents the companies.  Unchanged Rates  Today’s ruling also upheld regulations allowing a class of
telecom companies, whose rates weren’t changed by the
regulation, to challenge rates that they believe to be
unreasonable.  Michael Powell , president and chief executive officer of
the  National Cable & Telecommunications Association , whose
members include Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable company,
and No. 2 Time Warner Cable Inc., called the decision a win for
American consumers.  “By reducing the cost of attaching equipment and wires to
utility poles, the changes adopted by the commission in 2011
will help promote the deployment of broadband and
telecommunications networks by cable operators and other
providers,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is American Electric Power Service Corp. v.
Federal Communications Commission, 11-1146, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net :
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  