-- Priceline Profit Beats Estimates on International Growth
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-02-27T21:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/priceline-profit-tops-estimates-on-hotel-growth-in-europe-asia.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the biggest
online travel agency by market value, rose the most in a month
after revenue growth in international markets pushed fourth-
quarter profit past analysts’ estimates.  Profit, excluding items, rose 26 percent to $349 million,
or $6.77 a share, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company said in
a  statement  yesterday. That compares with the average analyst
 estimate  of $6.53 a share, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue jumped 20 percent to $1.19 billion.  Priceline is racing with smaller rival  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  to sell
hotel reservations in Europe and Asia, where consumers are
warming to booking travel online. Expedia, whose growth has
lagged behind Priceline’s in recent years, said last month that
international sales accounted for almost half of its fourth-
quarter sales, a sign of improving growth opportunities abroad.  “It is a combination of more cross-border travel and
you’re also seeing more travel from  China  to Europe,” said Dan Kurnos, an analyst at Benchmark Co., who recommends buying the
shares. Also, “Priceline invested in some of the  emerging
markets  first,” he said.  Priceline rose 2.6 percent to $695.91 at the close in New
York, for the biggest gain since Jan. 25. The stock has advanced
12 percent this year, compared with a 6.3 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Internet, Smartphones  “We can easily see it into the $900s,” Brian Fitzgerald,
an analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in an interview. He has a
buy rating on Priceline and raised his target price to $820 from
$780. “They’re investing in Latin America and Asia. You have
secular growth of the Internet, secular growth of smartphones,
and Priceline’s getting in there early.”  Priceline has climbed more than nine-fold since the end of
2008, making it the  best-returning  stock in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The shares are trading at a 64 percent  premium 
to the index on a price-to-earnings basis, from a discount four
years ago.  The company forecast first-quarter profit, excluding
certain costs, of $4.90 to $5.30 a share, compared with $5.10,
the average estimate of analysts.  International bookings increased 40 percent to $5.49
billion in the fourth quarter, accounting for 83 percent of
total bookings. Most of the company’s revenue outside the U.S.
is through Booking.com, an Amsterdam-based business that
Priceline  purchased  in 2005. The company also serves Asia
through its Agoda business, acquired in 2007.  Growth Campaign  Priceline said it expects international gross bookings to
jump 35 percent to 42 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a total bookings increase of 30 percent to 37 percent. The
company is contending with a lingering debt crisis in  Europe ,
particularly in travel hotspots Greece, Spain and  Italy .  “Given the uncertainty surrounding worldwide economic
conditions, particularly in Europe where much of the company’s
business is concentrated, the company believes the variability
around its guidance is elevated,” Priceline said in the
statement.  Priceline and Booking are now both offering services in the
U.S. market after the European unit started promoting itself in
the U.S. last month. Booking is airing a series of commercials
as part of a campaign called “Booking.yeah,” which focuses on
getting past the painful elements of traveling and the joy
experienced when customers arrive at their hotel rooms.  To expand beyond booking into travel search, Priceline
agreed to buy  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK)  in November for $1.8 billion.
The deal is the biggest to date for Priceline and gives the
company technology that lets travelers compare prices and make
reservations for hotels, flights and cars.  Priceline said in a call yesterday that it’s in the process
of obtaining approval from European regulators and expects a
vote at the Kayak shareholder meeting next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  