-- Rabobank Faces Libor-Rigging Fine of $440 Million Plus
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-02-26T12:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/rabobank-faces-libor-rigging-fine-of-440-million-plus.html
Rabobank Groep faces a fine of more
than $440 million for Libor rigging as global regulators seek to
increase the $2.5 billion in penalties already levied in the
rate-manipulation scandal.  Rabobank, the second-biggest Dutch lender, is next in line
to reach a settlement with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, the Department of Justice and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority over claims it tried to manipulate benchmark
interest rates, said four people with knowledge of the probe who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  The penalty, which may come as soon as May, is likely to be
between the 290 million pounds ($440 million)  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid
in June and the $612 million  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
paid this month, one of the people said. Rabobank, formed in
1898 as a co-operative to lend to Dutch farmers, is the
country’s only contributor to the London interbank offered rate,
the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities.  Barclays, UBS AG and RBS have been fined more than $2.5
billion following a global probe into Libor manipulation.
Traders rigged the benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives,
while banks sought to submit artificially low rates to appear
financially healthier than they were, according to regulators.  Closely held Rabobank is under scrutiny for alleged
attempts to manipulate sterling Libor,  dollar Libor , Japanese
yen Libor and Euribor in its  London , New York,  Tokyo ,  Singapore 
and Hong Kong offices, one of the people said.  Eight Jurisdictions  “It’s likely that an assessment of the facts and
circumstances will lead to a settlement,” Rabobank  said  in a
statement today. “The amount of such a settlement cannot be
estimated reliably at this time,” nor can the timing of any
announcement, the firm said.  The bank has said it’s been subpoenaed or asked for
information by watchdogs in eight jurisdictions, including the
European Union,  Japan , Hong Kong, Singapore, Switzerland as well
as the Netherlands, and is cooperating. The firm said today it
will also defend itself in civil cases pending in the U.S.
involving Libor and Euribor.  Rebekah Carmichael, a DOJ spokeswoman, and  Steven Adamske ,
a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment, as did a spokesman for
the FSA in London.  The probe has intensified in recent months, with officials
from the DOJ and U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation traveling
to London to interview current and former Rabobank employees,
two of the people said. Those talks have ended and the
regulators are now in talks with the bank’s lawyers over the
details of a settlement, the people added.  The Dutch lender has fired four traders for possible
involvement in rate rigging, one of the people said.  Profit Falls  Regulators are also focusing on Christian Schluep and Paul Robson, two derivatives specialists who left Rabobank in 2008 to
join Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, the banking unit of
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  The Japanese bank suspended
the two in July, saying the action wasn’t linked to their work
at Mitsubishi UFJ.  Shinya Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Mitsubishi
UFJ, declined to comment on the current status of the people.
Lawyers for the two men declined to comment.  Rabobank posted a 29 percent decline in first-half profit
to 1.31 billion euros ($1.7 billion). It will report full-year
earnings on Feb. 28. The lender had about 341 billion euros in
deposits at the end of June and a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of a bank’s financial strength, of almost 13 percent.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, an
industry lobby group, that asks firms to estimate how much it
would cost to borrow from each other for different periods and
in different currencies. The top and bottom quartiles of quotes
are excluded, and those left are averaged and published for
individual currencies before noon in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  