-- Ramsay Looks to Spend Up to $1 Billion on Acquisition
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-02-26T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ramsay-looking-for-acquisitions-of-reasonable-scale-.html
Ramsay Health Care Ltd. (RHC) ,  Australia ’s
biggest operator of private hospitals, may pay as much as A$1
billion ($1 billion) on acquisitions to expand its
geographical reach, Chief Executive Officer Chris Rex said.  “We’d be ideally looking for something at a reasonable
scale rather than a small hospital,” Rex said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Something between half a billion, a
billion dollars Aussie, something of that nature, I would
imagine would be the sort of scale we’d be looking for.”  Ramsay, which has hospitals in Australia,  France , the U.K.
and  Indonesia , wants to expand into a new country and “could do
very well” in Southeast Asia, Rex said. Net income rose 10
percent to A$138.4 million in the first half ended December,
Sydney-based Ramsay reported yesterday.  “We’ve been reviewing opportunities for last two to three
years and not been able to land anything,” Rex said. “It’s not
indicative of our enthusiasm or how serious we were taking it.”  The Australian currency traded at $1.0248 yesterday,
extending its longest stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar
since it was freely floated in 1983.  Ramsay listed acquisitions as part of its growth strategy
in a results briefing, and said they must add long-term value.  The company would fund purchases through  debt  and has a
facility in place for “over a billion dollars,” Rex said.
Ramsay has an internal team exploring acquisition opportunities
and hasn’t hired external advisers, he said.  Ramsay gained 1 percent to A$30.89 in Sydney trading
yesterday, compared with a 1 percent drop for the S&P/ASX200
Index. The stock has  advanced  13 percent this year, after
climbing 41 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  