-- Rand Best Performer as South African Growth Beats Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-26T14:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/rand-fluctuates-between-gains-and-losses-before-growth-data.html
The rand led gains among emerging-
market currencies after a report showed  South Africa ’s economy
expanded at a faster pace in the final three months of last
year, beating analysts’ estimates.  South Africa’s currency advanced for a fourth day, climbing
as much as 0.9 percent to 8.7801 per dollar, its highest level
since Feb. 15. It traded 0.5 percent stronger at 8.8204 by 3:10
p.m. in Johannesburg, the best performance out of more than 20
peers tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.23 percent.  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 2.1 percent, from
1.2 percent in the third quarter, Statistics South Africa said
in a report released today in  Pretoria , the capital. The median
estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 1.7 percent.
Growth for the full year slowed to 2.5 percent in 2012, from 3.5
percent a year earlier.  “Things aren’t necessarily as bad as the market
expected,” Mohammed Nalla, the head of strategic research at
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said by phone. “The market
had priced in a much more bearish number.”  In January, the Reserve Bank cut its forecast for economic
growth this year to 2.6 percent from 2.9 percent. That compares
with an estimated expansion of 2.5 percent last year and 3.5
percent in 2011. GDP needs to grow at an average 7 percent a
year through 2020 to cut the jobless rate to 14 percent,
according to government estimates.  Interest Rate  The  Reserve Bank  has kept the benchmark repurchase rate at
5 percent since a surprise reduction in July, concerned that a
weaker rand and higher wages will push inflation above the 3
percent to 6 percent target band. Lower borrowing costs would
reduce the rand’s yield advantage over the dollar.  “A cut in rates in the first quarter remains outside of
our baseline,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in e-mailed comments. “While
today’s print can reinforce some of the short-run rand strength,
we remain more genitive into mid-year” as labor disputes
continue to plague the  mining industry , he added.  South Africa’s currency is the most undervalued out of 34
global currencies and is set for a rebound to 7.80 per dollar by
year-end even as the economy faces headwinds, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc. The rand is “one of the most attractive
currencies” after depreciating 14 percent in the past year,
 Murat Toprak , the London-based head of emerging-markets currency
strategy at HSBC, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “The rand is more or less fairly valued according to our
models,” Nalla at Nedbank said. Still, “people are beginning
to realize that the rand is not just a one-way bet”, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  