-- Ronaldo Lifts Real Madrid Past Barcelona Into Copa del Rey Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-27T00:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/real-madrid-defeats-barcelona-to-advance-to-copa-del-rey-final.html
Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice as
Real  Madrid  won 3-1 at defending champion Barcelona to reach the
Copa del Rey soccer final for a record-extending 38th time.  Ronaldo converted from the penalty spot in the 13th minute
at the Camp Nou last night and doubled the lead in the 57th
minute. Raphael Varane added the third before Jordi Alba scored
for Barcelona as Real completed a 4-2 victory over the two-game
semifinal following a 1-1 draw in Madrid on Jan. 30.  “We had a great attitude and played well from the first
minute until the last,” Ronaldo said in comments on his team’s
website. “Scoring three goals here is very hard. Beating Barca
is always a source of great motivation.”  Real, which hosts Barca in La Liga in three days trailing
its archrival by 16 points, will face Atletico Madrid or Sevilla
in the May 18 final of Spain’s elite cup competition. Atletico
takes a 2-1 lead into today’s return match in Seville.  Ronaldo became the first player to score in six straight
so-called El Clasico matches away from home when he put his
penalty kick past Jose Manuel Pinto in the 13th minute. The
Portuguese forward made it 2-0 when he collected a rebound from
Angel di Maria’s shot and stroked the ball into the net.  “I feel very comfortable playing on this field,” Ronaldo
said. “Entering history by scoring so many times in a row here
is something beautiful.”  Varane, who scored Real’s tying goal in last month’s draw
at the Bernabeu, rose highest to head a 68th-minute corner kick
into the net off the crossbar. It was the first time Real scored
three goals at the Camp Nou since a 3-3 draw in March 2007,
according to Infostrada Sports.  Alba pulled a goal back in the 89th minute to cut the
deficit to two goals, Barca’s biggest margin of defeat at home
since a 2-0 La Liga loss to Heracles on Sept. 11, 2010.  France, Germany  In  France , Saint-Etienne stayed in contention to win both
domestic cup competitions by beating Lille 3-2 to reach the
French Cup quarterfinals. Elsewhere last night, Troyes won 2-1
at Sochaux and Evian Thonon Gaillard beat Le Havre 3-1.  Paris Saint-Germain hosts Marseille tonight, three days
after beating its archrival 2-0 to extend its lead atop Ligue 1
to three points. Former England captain David Beckham may make
his first start since joining PSG on a five-month contract at
the end of January.  VfL Wolfsburg and SC Freiburg reached the semifinals of the
German Cup by beating Kickers Offenbach and Mainz respectively.
Bundesliga leader Bayern Munich hosts defending cup champion
Borussia Dortmund tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  