-- U.S., Australia, Japan Bonds Gain
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-26T07:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/treasuries-fall-for-first-time-in-five-days-before-sales.html
(Corrects size of today’s Treasury note gain in third
paragraph.)  U.S., Australian and  Japan  bonds
gained as investors sought the safety of government debt on
speculation U.S. spending cuts set to begin March 1 will hurt
the world’s largest economy.  Benchmark U.S. 10-year yields fell to a one-month low
before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  addresses U.S.
lawmakers. The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion of five-year notes
today and $29 billion of seven-year debt tomorrow. The Bollinger
band technical indicator showed the Treasuries rally is poised
to stop.  The U.S. 10-year  yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.86 percent as of 6:39 a.m. in  London ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2
percent note maturing in February 2023 rose 2/32, or 63 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 10/32. The last time the yield
was so low was Jan. 25.  “With the sequester cuts coming at the end of the week,
I’m not sure why you’d sell Treasuries,” said Ali Jalai, who
trades  U.S. debt  in  Singapore  at Scotiabank, a unit of Bank of
 Nova Scotia , one of the 21 primary dealers that underwrite the
U.S. securities. “Canada is completely falling apart. European
numbers are not that good. U.K. numbers are not that good. U.S.
numbers are mixed.”  Australia 10-year yields declined to a one-month low of
3.38 percent, based on closing levels.  Japan’s five-year rate slid to a record low of 0.115
percent. The benchmark 10-year yield touched 0.675 percent, the
least since June 2003.  Global Data  Canada  retail sales  dropped 2.1 percent in December from
November, the government reported earlier this month. The euro-
area economy will shrink in consecutive years for the first
time, the European Commission said. Moody’s Investors Service
cut Britain’s top debt ranking.  In the U.S., government data today will probably show new-
home sales rose, while a report tomorrow may show orders for
durable goods fell, based on Bloomberg News surveys of
economists.  Treasuries rallied yesterday as an inconclusive election in
 Italy , the euro area’s third-largest economy, increased demand
for the relative safety of Treasuries.  Ten-year yields are less than the so-called lower Bollinger
level of 1.88 percent, suggesting gains may end. The bands gauge
volatility by plotting standard deviations above and below a
moving average. Analysts use them to determine a probable range
for a rate or security.  Sequestration Looms  President  Barack Obama  urged U.S. governors to pressure
Congress for a deal to avoid the March 1 spending cuts, telling
them yesterday the impact would be felt in every state.  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts, to begin this year and be spread over nine years,
as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit. The
reductions, also known as sequestration, are to be split almost
evenly between defense and non-defense spending.  At the last five-year auction on Jan. 29, investors  bid  for
2.88 times the amount of debt available. The average for the
past 10 sales is 2.86 times.  A $35 billion two-year sale yesterday draw purchase  orders 
for 3.33 times the amount offered, the lowest level in 19
months.  Investors demanded 51 basis points of extra  yield  to buy
five-year securities instead of two-year debt, versus the
average of 46 basis points over the past six months. The
difference was as much as 63 basis points earlier in February.  Two-year yields are anchored by the  Federal Reserve ’s
pledge to keep benchmark borrowing costs low, though rates
indicate an increase is likely by the end of 2015.  ‘Cannot Hike’  “Five-year notes are quite vulnerable,” said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $64.8 billion in
 Tokyo  as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co. “The Fed cannot hike rates for two to three years, but they
may raise rates a lot after they start.”  Thirty-day federal funds futures contracts for delivery in
September 2015 yielded 0.53 percent, indicating investors expect
the central bank to raise its benchmark  interest rate  a quarter
point by then.  Policy makers cut their target for the  federal funds rate ,
which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent in 2008.  Maintain Policy  In January, they affirmed their pledge to keep the target
near zero “at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent.  The central bank is also buying $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage bonds a month to put downward pressure on interest
rates.  The Fed’s Bernanke is scheduled to testify before U.S.
lawmakers today and tomorrow.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said he wants
to continue central bank asset purchases at least into the
second half of the year to help bring about an improved job
market, speaking yesterday in Knoxville,  Tennessee . He doesn’t
vote on monetary policy this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  