-- Tribune Hires JPMorgan, Evercore to Explore Sale of Newspapers
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/tribune-hires-jpmorgan-evercore-to-explore-newspaper-sales-1-.html
Tribune Co. (TRBAA) , the publisher that
emerged from bankruptcy at the end of last year, said it hired
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  as financial
advisers after receiving unsolicited interest in its newspapers.  The advisers will help Tribune consider all of its options
and determine whether the interest is credible, according to an
e-mailed statement yesterday from  Gary Weitman , a Tribune
spokesman. Jimmy Lee, JPMorgan’s vice chairman, will advise
Tribune, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named because the agreement is private.  In addition to the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles
Times, the company owns six other daily U.S. newspapers. Tribune
plans to focus on its more lucrative television business and
hired Peter Liguori, formerly of Fox Broadcasting and Discovery
Communications Inc., as its chief executive officer in January.  Rupert Murdoch , chairman and CEO of  News Corp. (NWSA) , plans to
take a close look at Chicago-based Tribune Co.’s newspaper
assets once they’re available, a person with knowledge of his
thinking told Bloomberg News in December.  Murdoch, 81, has expressed interest internally at looking
at some of Tribune’s bigger-market newspapers, according to the
person. News Corp. is splitting into two companies, with one
focused on entertainment and the other on newspapers and
publishing. That latter company will start off with a debt-free
balance sheet, which may give Murdoch more latitude to pursue
newspaper acquisitions, the person said.  CNBC reported earlier yesterday that Tribune had hired the
two banks.  Zell’s Buyout  Tribune Co. filed for bankruptcy in 2008, a year after
billionaire real-estate developer  Sam Zell  orchestrated an $8.3
billion leveraged buyout of the company, just before a global
recession and a slump in print advertising devastated the
newspaper industry.  The buyout loaded Tribune with debt, and Zell failed to
complete a turnaround of the newspapers. The bankruptcy
triggered a court fight between bondholders who held Tribune’s
pre-buyout debt and the lenders who funded the takeover. A
settlement approved by the bankruptcy court allowed the older
creditors to try to recover some of their losses by pursuing
lawsuits against shareholders and managers, including Zell.  The company was valued at about $7 billion, including
publishing, media and other assets, with $2.06 billion in cash,
according to an April filing with the bankruptcy court.  The publishing group, which also includes the Baltimore Sun
and Hartford Courant newspapers, is valued at about $623
million, $300 million lower than a January 2011 estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  