-- Trina Solar Shipments Exceeded Forecast on China Sales
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-02-26T17:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/trina-quarterly-solar-shipments-exceeded-guidance-on-china-sales.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  shipped 415
megawatts of solar panels in the fourth quarter, a 9.1 percent
gain that exceeded its forecast after a surge in sales in  China .  Shipments rose from 380.3 megawatts in the third quarter,
and were above the Chinese manufacturer’s forecast for as much
as 400 megawatts, “primarily due to increased sales to China-
based customers,” Changzhou, China-based Trina said today in a
statement. That still came in lower than the 425 megawatts
shipped in the same quarter of 2011.  After a price  drop  eroded panel makers’ profits over the
past two years, Trina is pushing toward a return to
profitability, Chief Financial Officer Terry Wang said on a
conference call today.  “Pricing has stabilized,” he said. “We’re not looking
for only market share expansion, now we realize we think about
profitability as top priority.”  Margins will improve as the company cuts costs by about 10
percent this year, Wang said. Costs will fall faster than panel
prices and as the price of polysilicon, the raw material used to
make most solar panels, stays “relatively stable,” he said.  Trina said it shipped 1.6 gigawatts of panels last year and
expects to reach 2 gigawatts to 2.1 gigawatts this year.  ‘Profitless Prosperity’  The company sees increased adoption of solar and new
markets within  Africa , the Americas and the  Middle East ,
Chairman Jifan Gao said in the statement. “We are also
encouraged by recent announcements in  Asia , most notably in
China and  Japan , that governments are strengthening their
commitment to solar energy.”  Trina is advancing plans to develop solar farms using its
own modules in a bid to tap more diverse streams of revenue
after a global glut of panels and slowing sales in  Europe  made
manufacturing the technology unprofitable.  “Aggressive pricing” for modules by competitors continues
to “adversely” impact Trina’s profits, Gao said. Trina expects
to start grid-scale projects in China and the Americas this
year, he said.  Trina said its net loss widened to $267 million in 2012
from $38 million a year earlier. The net margin was minus 20.6
percent, compared with minus 1.8 percent in 2011.  The quarter’s results “exemplify what we call profitless
prosperity,” said  Pavel Molchanov , analyst at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in Houston. “Commodity module pricing is simply
too low for profitability.”  Trina said it received a total of $250 million in credit
lines from China Development Bank Corp. during the fourth
quarter. It had $1.29 billion in bank borrowings and during the
fourth quarter repurchased $5 million of convertible notes due
in July 2013, resulting in a gain of $600,000, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  