-- Romanian Leu Weakens on Italy’s Inconclusive Parliamentary Vote
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-26T14:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/romanian-leu-weakens-on-italy-s-inconclusive-parliamentary-vote.html
The Romanian leu depreciated on
concern  Italy ’s inconclusive parliamentary elections will worsen
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, reducing investors’ risk
appetite.  The currency fell, in line with most emerging-market peers,
as early results suggested Italy’s election would lead to a hung
parliament and another vote. Stocks in Europe fell and the euro
weakened against the dollar.  The leu weakened “given the sour sentiment that took over
the markets after the exit polls of the Italian elections,”
Catalina Molnar, a Bucharest-based economist at UniCredit Tiriac
Bank SA wrote in a note today.  The currency lost as much as 0.3 percent, its weakest level
on a closing basis since Feb. 12, before paring its loss to 0.2
percent 4.3832 per euro by 4:45 p.m. in Bucharest. The euro fell
0.7 percent versus the dollar to 1.3101, retreating for a fifth
day.  Democratic Party Leader Pier Luigi Bersani, the ex-
communist who campaigned to maintain budget rigor, won control
of the lower house and not the Senate, while rival  Silvio Berlusconi  called for a recount of votes casted in Italy.  Today’s decline reduces leu’s advance this year to 1.6
percent, the second-best performance among emerging Europe,
 Middle East  and Africa currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Romania’s debt has rallied as select fixed-income
securities are eligible for entry to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Barclays Plc’s emerging-market bond indexes from March.  “Some more foreign inflows ahead of the inclusion of local
debt in influential emerging market index on Friday may limit
leu depreciation, but we still see the local currency losing
ground to 4.4 per euro in the near run,” Mihai Tantaru, an
economist at ING Bank Romania SA wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  