-- Romero Says Treasury Should Curb Pay for Bailed Out Firms
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-26T15:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/romero-says-treasury-should-curb-pay-for-bailed-out-firms.html
The U.S. Treasury Department should
reevaluate total compensation for employees in companies that
were bailed out and apply guidelines that will curb excessive
pay,  Christy Romero , the special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, said.  “Treasury’s success should not be judged based on
reductions in pay from a time when these companies stood on
their own without taxpayer assistance,” Romero said today in
prepared testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform. “Rather, Treasury’s success should be based
on whether Treasury awards appropriate pay for executives while
taxpayers continue to fund these companies’ bailouts.”  Pay for top executives at seven bailed-out companies was
scrutinized and restricted by the Treasury special master’s
office starting in 2009.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  are still in TARP.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  , Bank
of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Chrysler Group LLC and
Chrysler Financial Corp. have left the program and are no longer
subject to the special master’s rulings.  Romero said today that AIG may return to “past
compensation practices,” and that it falls to the insurer’s new
regulator, the Federal Reserve, to ensure that the insurer’s pay
practices don’t encourage “excessive risk taking.”  Romero’s testimony on pay matches comments contained in a
Jan. 28 report published by her office. In an interview with
Bloomberg Television last week, AIG Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Benmosche  declined to comment on that report.  Appropriate Pay  “Pay is something that has to be appropriate and it has to
reflect what people contribute,” Benmosche said. “You won’t be
successful in the business if you overpay relative to your
competition. You won’t stay in business if you grossly
underpay.”  AIG has said pay limits imposed as part of a rescue package
that swelled to $182.3 billion harmed the New York-based
company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate employees.  Patricia Geoghegan, the Treasury’s acting special master
for TARP executive compensation, said in the same hearing that
Treasury continues to limit compensation and that AIG’s average
pay packages in 2012 were at the 48th percentile compared to
similar positions at similar companies.  “We will continue to follow the framework and guidelines
we used in the 2009-2012 determinations for GM and  Ally
Financial  until they have exited TARP,” Geoghegan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  