-- Rupee Retreats From One-Week High on Europe Political Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-26T12:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/rupee-retreats-from-one-week-high-on-europe-political-concerns.html
India ’s rupee fell from a one-week
high as investors sought the perceived safety of the dollar on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against major
trading partners, touched a six-month high yesterday as early
results suggested Italy’s election would yield a hung
parliament, leading to another vote. The rupee’s losses will be
capped as Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is likely to
announce steps to rein in the fiscal and current-account
deficits when he presents the annual budget to Parliament on
Feb. 28, according to  Federal Bank Ltd. (FB)   “We are seeing largely safe-haven dollar strength,” said
Ravi Ranjit, chief manager at Federal Bank in Mumbai. “The
rupee is unlikely to see too much weakness before the budget.”  The currency declined 0.4 percent to 54.0950 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
53.8650 yesterday, the strongest level since Feb. 15.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 10 basis points to
9.50 percent. The measure has dropped from 10.1 percent at the
end of last year.  Railway Budget  Italy’s Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, having
campaigned to maintain austerity measures, won control of the
lower house but not the Senate. Rival  Silvio Berlusconi  called
for a recount.  Chidambaram has vowed to narrow the  budget deficit  to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year beginning April 1,
from 5.3 percent this year.  The government has cut subsidies on diesel to rein in
spending and raised more than $4 billion in asset sales after
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their credit outlooks
for India last year, citing its failure to cut budget and
current-account deficits. Both companies rank the country at
BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  Indian Railways , Asia’s oldest network, plans to link
passengers fares and freight rates with fuel prices for the
first time as it seeks to cut more than $4.5 billion of losses
stemming from below-cost tariffs.  Charges for shipping commodities on the network will be
linked to fuel prices starting April 1, Rail Minister Pawan
Kumar Bansal said in parliament in  New Delhi  today while
announcing the operator’s annual budget.  “The fuel-linked freight increase is a good move,” said
 Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc in Mumbai.
“That will over time minimize their losses.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.22 per
dollar, compared with 54.99 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.14 versus 54.82. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  