-- Russia Stocks Erase 2013 Advance as Banks, Crude Slide on Europe
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-26T16:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/russia-stocks-drop-as-banks-oil-slide-on-europe-crisis-concern.html
Russian stocks  erased this year’s
gains as financial shares dropped and oil, the country’s main
export, retreated after Italy’s election spurred concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  sank 1.3 percent to 1,484.67 by the close
in Moscow, the lowest level since Dec. 28. Of 50 stocks, 5
increased and 45 decreased. Financial and health-care equities
led declines, losing 1.8 percent. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s
largest lender and the biggest stock in the Micex by weighting,
retreated 2.3 percent, while Bank Vozrozhdenie dropped 1.9
percent.  Oil in  New York  fell to a seven-week low, declining as much
as 1.3 percent, and trading down 0.2 percent at $92.94 a barrel.
Oil and natural gas account for about 50 percent of Russia’s
budget revenue. Candidates seeking to reverse Italy’s austerity
measures won about 55 percent of the popular vote in the
nation’s election.  “Issues in the European Union will trigger capital
outflows from riskier assets, like  Russia ,” Victor Markov, an
analyst at Kapital Asset Management LLC, said by phone from
Moscow. “The Italian elections have created a complicated
situation where one party failed to get the majority of votes
and now it’ll be very hard to pass any laws related to fixing
the country’s debt issues. Oil is falling for the same reason.”  Economic Growth  Thirty-day price swings  on the Micex increased to 12.393,
while the number of shares traded on the gauge was 54 percent
above the measure’s 10-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials declined 0.3
percent to 656.53.  Russia’s economy will expand 3.3 percent in 2013, less than
the 3.6 percent forecast in the fall, the  World Bank  said in a
report today. Output will begin to recover in 2014, with gross
domestic product advancing 3.6 percent, the lender said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, has limited
prospects to bolster growth through traditional channels as  oil
prices  hold near record highs, according to the report. Europe
is facing a deepening recession, while consumer-price growth in
Russia is curbing the household spending that accounts for about
half the economy.  Dividend Payout  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  gained as much as 4.6 percent in  London 
as the Russian  Internet company  plans to pay $899 million in
special dividends next month after reducing its stake in
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and exiting investments in Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc. The amount of shares traded was about 1.2 times the three-
month average.  Mail.ru, controlled by Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov 
and part-owned by China’s Tencent Holdings Ltd. and South
Africa’s Naspers Ltd., will pay investors $4.30 a share as of
March 20, the Moscow-based company said today in a filing.  Polyus Gold International Ltd (PGIL)  lost as much as 4.4 percent
in London as Morgan Stanley cut the gold producer to
equalweight, or the equivalent of hold, according to an e-mailed
note today. Polyus has a “more demanding” valuation compared
with Polymetal International Plc despite “riskier” cashflows
and “more expensive” growth, the bank’s analysts said.  OAO Alrosa dropped 0.6 percent to 33.819 rubles after
rising as much as 4.2 percent earlier. The diamond miner may be
valued at as much as $10.8 billion as the Russian government
looks to sell a 7 percent stake in the company in November, the
Vedomosti newspaper said today, citing two unidentified bankers
close to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The stock has rallied 13
percent this year.  Qatar Fund  VTB Group fell 0.2 percent to 5.48 kopeks after surging as
much as 1.8 percent earlier. Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund is
seeking a discount to VTB shares of as much as 25 percent to
current market price, Interfax reported today, citing an
unidentified banking source.  The Telegraph reported earlier this month that VTB will
issue $1.5 billion in new equity and $1.5 billion of mandatory
convertible bonds to the wealth fund. VTB is meeting sovereign
wealth funds and other investors to sell new shares totaling at
least $3 billion, Russia’s First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an interview last month. VTB hasn’t received an
investment offer from Qatar, RIA Novosti cited him as saying
Feb. 21.  The Micex trades at about 5.6 times  estimated earnings  and
has added 0.7 percent this year. That compares with a multiple
of 10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has lost
1.1 percent over the same period.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, sank 2 percent to $28.78
yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the index futures, rose 0.4 percent to 19.98
yesterday. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-
traded Russian stocks in the U.S. fell 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  