-- Russian Economy Poised to Slow Again, World Bank Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-02-26T09:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/russian-economy-poised-to-slow-again-world-bank-says.html
Russia ’s economy will grow less than
previously forecast this year as the deteriorating global
outlook weighs on demand and inflation hurts domestic consumers.  Gross domestic product  will expand 3.3 percent in 2013,
less than the 3.6 percent expansion forecast in the fall, the
World Bank said in a report today. Output will begin to recover
in 2014, with GDP advancing 3.6 percent, the lender said.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, has limited
prospects to bolster growth through traditional channels as  oil
prices  hold near record highs, according to the report.  Europe 
is facing a deepening recession, while consumer-price growth in
Russia is curbing the household spending that accounts for about
half the economy.  “The weak external environment, high inflation, flat  oil
prices  and sluggish domestic demand are set to postpone a pickup
in growth toward the second half of 2013,” the Washington-based
bank said. “Nevertheless, modest growth and lower inflation are
projected to reduce poverty further.”  The ruble weakened for a second day against the dollar,
depreciating 0.3 percent to 30.5895 as of 11:06 a.m. in Moscow.
The Micex Index of 50 stocks fell 1.3 percent to 1,484.35,
heading for its lowest close since Dec. 28 after election
results in  Italy  raised doubts over its fiscal stability.  The World Bank’s forecast is less than the  Economy
Ministry ’s 3.6 percent projection. The European Commission last
week said it predicted Russia will grow 3.7 percent this year
and 3.9 percent in 2014.  Economists see Russian GDP expanding 3.3 percent this year
before accelerating to 3.8 percent in 2014, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Economy Slumps  Russia’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in January from a
month earlier when seasonal factors were taken into account,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters in Moscow
yesterday. That was the first monthly decline since March 2012,
he said.  A drop in the  inflation  rate in the first half of the year
combined with record low employment and higher wages helped cut
the number of people in poverty to a record low, the World Bank
said.  Some 17.2 million people, or 12.1 percent of the
population, were below the poverty line in the first nine months
of last year, 3 million fewer than a year earlier. The  poverty
rate  was 14.3 percent in the same period of 2011.  Energy Dependence  Still, policy makers will need to take further steps to
reduce the budget’s dependence on revenue from oil and gas, the
report said. Those receipts accounted for 50 percent of Russian
revenue last year.  The central bank must also continue to maintain its focus
on bringing down inflation to make economic growth more
sustainable, the report said.  “Today’s moderate growth reflects Russia’s moderate
potential growth rate, as indicated by low unemployment and high
capacity utilization, along with a weak external environment,”
the  World Bank  said.  Bank Rossii has resisted calls from the government to
reduce borrowing costs, keeping its main rates unchanged since a
quarter-point increase in September. Policy makers including
First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev have argued that output
is near potential and that lowering rates while inflation
remains above the 5 percent to 6 percent target range for this
year would be “counter-productive.”  Russia will need to cut the state’s role in the economy,
better the investment climate, confront demographic challenges
including an aging population and improve governance by fighting
corruption, the World Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  