-- Russian Interbank Repo Defaults Hit $3.7 Billion in Stress Test
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-26T09:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/russian-interbank-repo-defaults-hit-3-7-billion-in-stress-test.html
Defaults on  Russia ’s market for
interbank repurchase deals grew 17 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to a central bank  stress-test  scenario of
falling prices for financial assets.  Defaults increased to 112 billion rubles ($3.7 billion),
compared with 96.1 billion rubles in the third quarter, Bank
Rossii said in an e-mailed report today. Collateral gap, or the
difference between the price of the assets used in the deals and
the amount of cash they were supposed to secure, widened 75
percent to 10.7 billion rubles in the fourth quarter from 6.1
billion rubles in the third, it showed.  A full-blown crisis on the repurchase market is
“unlikely,” the report’s authors wrote. At the same time, they
warned that “mass default” is a “significant risk.”  Russian banks had about 3.7 trillion to 4 trillion rubles
of collateral available to pledge for central bank funds as of
Dec. 1, the report showed. The government, municipalities and
companies issued almost 1.4 trillion rubles of gross new debt in
local bonds and Eurobonds in the fourth quarter. There was a net
increase of about 600 billion rubles of ruble-denominated debt
in the period, according to data on the regulator’s  website .  Demand for liquidity outstripped growth in securities that
can be pledged in the fourth quarter.  “This may continue. Banks may use currency swap operations
more actively if demand for refinancing continues to grow and a
deficit of collateral arises,” the central bank said.  So-called tri-party repurchase operations between Bank
Rossii, lenders and the National Settlement Depository will
start by April, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  