-- S&P Suits Get Boost From Earlier Court Wins, States Say
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-27T16:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/s-p-suits-get-boost-from-earlier-court-wins-states-say.html
Victories by Connecticut and
Illinois in lawsuits against Standard & Poor’s over ratings on
securities will bolster other state cases,  attorneys general  for
those two states said.  Illinois and Connecticut defeated attempts by S&P to throw
out their lawsuits, which were filed before the U.S.  Justice
Department  and other states sued the company this month. Those
decisions undercut a free-speech defense S&P has relied on,
Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan and Connecticut’s George Jepsen said.  “There’s no reason they shouldn’t hold up to scrutiny in
other states,” Madigan said about the state claims yesterday in
an interview at a conference of state attorneys general in
Washington.  The U.S. sued New York-based S&P and parent  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP)  Feb. 4, accusing S&P of disregarding the credit risks of
mortgage  bonds  during the housing boom to win business rating
securities. In addition to the U.S., at least 17 states have
sued the company.  Thirteen states and the  District of Columbia  joined the
Justice Department in suing S&P, according to a statement from
Jepsen’s office. Connecticut, Illinois and Mississippi
previously filed complaints against the company. South Carolina
sued on Feb. 13, according to a copy of the complaint.  Iowa Suing  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is among the state
officials suing S&P, said in an interview that states are
sharing information about legal theories and evidence.  S&P has called the U.S. and state lawsuits meritless and
has said it will fight them.  The credit rater has been able to defeat claims from
investors by arguing that its grades are protected free speech.
A state court judge in Chicago rejected S&P’s argument that its
alleged misrepresentations were opinions, making them speech
protected by the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment, and
refused to dismiss the Illinois case.  “It’s not a First Amendment case because the government is
alleging that S&P didn’t believe what it said,” S&P attorney
 Floyd Abrams  said about the U.S. lawsuit in an interview this
month with Bloomberg Television. “The First Amendment doesn’t
protect against that.”  Madigan said more states will sue S&P. Massachusetts
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  and  New York  Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman are conducting investigations of the company.
Coakley declined to comment about the state’s investigation.  Too Late  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said in an
interview at the conference that her state is prevented from
suing S&P because the time for bringing claims has expired.  The state is looking into whether “there are other legal
avenues for us to take action against the rating companies,”
she said.  The free-speech defense won’t work in the state cases,
Madigan and Jepsen said in separate interviews at the
conference.  “Their principal line of defense has been ruled not
relevant in both Connecticut’s and Illinois’s cases,” Jepsen
said.  Illinois sued under the state’s consumer fraud laws,
alleging the company claimed its work was objective when in fact
there is “overwhelming evidence” their ratings were influenced
by business considerations, Madigan said.  “That’s fraud,” she said. “You can’t use the protections
of the First Amendment when you’re lying.”  The U.S. case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  