-- Santander CEO Saenz to Appeal Court Ruling on Government Pardon
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-26T18:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/santander-ceo-saenz-to-appeal-court-ruling-on-government-pardon.html
Banco Santander (SAN)  SA Chief Executive
Officer Alfredo Saenz will appeal a Spanish Supreme Court ruling
that a government pardon went too far by stating that a criminal
record didn’t affect his ability to work in banking.  Saenz will appeal the ruling to the  Constitutional Court ,
said an official at  Spain ’s  biggest  bank who is familiar with
the thinking of his legal team.  In an appeal ruling handed down on Feb. 12, a panel of
judges said that a pardon granted to Saenz in 2011 by the
previous government could not offset the consequences of his
conviction, including any possible restrictions on him working
in the industry. The Supreme Court published a written version
of the ruling today.  The legal proceedings involving Saenz have overshadowed the
70-year-old executive since 2009, when he was convicted in a
case dating back to 1994. According to Spanish banking
regulations, “professional virtue” is a requirement for those
working in the banking industry and can be lost by anyone with a
criminal record.  The case involving Saenz was related to a lawsuit stemming
from his tenure as chairman of  Banco Espanol de Credito  SA, now
a retail banking unit of Santander.  Banesto, as the lender is known, sued a group of
businessmen to recover loans in 1994. The defendants filed
counter-complaints of false accusation, which a judge decided to
investigate, and Saenz was held responsible because he approved
the filing of the initial lawsuit.  In March 2011, the  Supreme Court  upheld the conviction,
handing him a three-month jail term and a suspension from
banking for the same period. Zapatero issued the partial pardon
in November of the same year by commuting the penalties to the
maximum fine allowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  