-- Saudi Mortgages, Libor Panel, BlackRock, ITT: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-26T13:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/saudi-mortgages-libor-panel-blackrock-itt-compliance.html
Saudi Arabia issued final
 regulations  on real estate financing, leasing and the
supervision of financial companies as the kingdom tries to ease
a housing shortage by opening up its mortgage market and
enacting the first home-loans law.  The regulations outlining three of the five laws that make
up the package of changes were posted Feb. 24 on the  website  of
the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency . Rules on the enforcement of
foreclosures and mortgage registrations have yet to be
completed.  The package goes into effect when regulations for the two
remaining laws are finished and the final version of the
legislation are publicized in the  official newspaper , which
should be in the next few weeks, said Abdulaziz AlGasim, the
managing partner at Abdulaziz AlGasim Law Firm who helped draft
the mortgage measure.  The mortgage law, which has been debated for more than a
decade, will overhaul the kingdom’s home-finance market, from
registering mortgages to allowing judges to prosecute police
officers who fail to carry out eviction orders. The changes
could increase residential lending to about $32 billion
annually, according to estimates by  Capitas Group International
Ltd. , a Saudi company focused on  Islamic finance .  The law “will transform home financing in Saudi Arabia to
property-secured lending from the current practice of extending
loans based on salary assignment, or banks’ automatic deductions
from borrowers’ salaries to repay home loans,” according to a
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services report on Feb. 18.  Most buyers rely on savings or help from family to buy
homes in the kingdom. The government’s  Real Estate Development
Fund  provides low-income buyers with interest-free loans.  The rules will lead to the creation of licensed private
mortgage providers as well as a state-run company for
refinancing resembling  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  in the U.S.
Mortgage lenders in Saudi Arabia will be given two years to
comply with all new requirements set for mortgage providers.
They also must inform Saudi Arabia’s central bank, which will
regulate them, of their plans to conform to the regulations
within nine months of their enactment, the Saudi Press Agency
said yesterday.  Compliance Policy  Capping Top Earners’ 401(k) Benefit Seen as Tax Cost Cut  Pressure is growing to change incentives for retirement
savings as U.S. lawmakers look for revenue, and top earners may
pay the price.  The budget challenges confronting the federal government
are leading to scrutiny of tax-advantaged  savings accounts  such
as 401(k)s because they’re among the costliest tax breaks. A
Brookings Institution report scheduled for release today will
add to research that recommends curtailing the benefits for top
earners to boost U.S. coffers.  The shift from pension plans, which typically guarantee
income for life, to tax-deferred 401(k)s has put more
responsibility on savers to ensure they don’t run out of money
in retirement. As the accounts have grown -- Americans held $3.5
trillion in 401(k)s as of September -- they’ve become a target
in deficit-reduction talks because contributions usually are
invested and compound on a pretax basis.  The benefits reward higher earners who would save anyway
while not providing enough incentive for low and middle-income
earners, according to Karen Dynan, co-director of the economic
studies program at Washington-based Brookings and author of the
report.  Individual retirement accounts, which many workers roll
their 401(k) savings into when changing jobs or retiring, also
benefit from  tax  deferral. The benefit for 401(k)-type plans is
the U.S. government’s  third-largest  tax expenditure, behind only
the mortgage interest deduction and exclusion of employer
contributions for medical insurance. It is estimated to cost
about $429 billion in forgone revenue from 2013 through 2017,
according to the administration’s latest budget proposal. IRAs
will cost about $100 billion over the five-year period.  The latest ranking is scheduled to be released as early as
next month and will reflect changes in tax law as of Jan. 1.  Congress faces a series of fiscal deadlines this year, the
first on March 1 when automatic  federal budget  cuts are set to
begin. Democrats and President  Barack Obama  have said they want
to increase revenue by curtailing tax breaks. While Republicans
have said they won’t accept more tax increases, both political
parties have called for simplifying the deductions, credits and
benefits in the U.S. tax code.  For more, click here.  Bipartisan Panel Calls for Limited U.S. Role in Housing Finance  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  should be replaced with a
government corporation that would assume losses in catastrophic
circumstances, a bipartisan panel of retired U.S. lawmakers and
former officials said in a report yesterday.  The new entity proposed by the Washington-based Bipartisan
Policy Center would guarantee principal and interest payments on
mortgage-backed securities issued by private lenders, taking a
fourth loss position behind borrowers, banks and insurers.  The blueprint is similar to those put forward by the
National Association of Realtors, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  and other groups in that it envisions a continued
government role as a backstop for the mortgage market.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had no explicit government
backing before they were seized in 2008 after investments in
risky loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The two
companies have since drawn about $190 billion in taxpayer aid
and paid Treasury $50 billion in dividends.  Housing-finance reform has failed to gain traction in
Washington, in part because Democrats and Republicans are
divided over alternatives. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have
returned to profitability, further sapping momentum for change.  FDIC, European Commission Meet on Resolution Initiatives  The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the
 European Commission  met Feb. 20 to discuss issues related to
resolution of banks, systemically important financial
institutions and deposit insurance regimes, the FDIC said in a
statement.  Several working group sessions are scheduled for 2013.  Compliance Action  Bank Rossii, Moscow Exchange Discuss Currency Swap Auctions  Bank Rossii asked the Moscow Exchange to prepare necessary
infrastructure for holding exchange-based currency swap
auctions, Sergey Shvetsov, deputy central bank chairman, told
reporters in Moscow today.  “If we feel it’s needed, we’ll attach them to repo”
auctions, Shvetsov said.  The swap rate will be the same as the repo rate, Shvetsov
added. The final timing depends on the Moscow Exchange. The
start is planned for this year, according to Shvetsov.  Peabody Energy Gets Subpoena From SEC Relating to Prairie State  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer, said
the Securities and Exchange Commission served it with a subpoena
seeking information and documents relating to the development of
the Prairie State power station.  Peabody is cooperating with the investigation and believes
“pending or threatened proceedings” will be resolved without
material impact on the company’s financial condition, it said in
its annual report filed with the SEC yesterday.  The Prairie State Energy Campus became operational last
year. Peabody, based in St. Louis, owns 5.06 percent of the
1,600-megawatt, coal-fueled power plant in southern Illinois.
The balance is owned by public power agencies.  Vic Svec, a spokesman for Peabody, said in an e-mail the
company looks forward “to sharing information on what is a
highly successful project.”  BlackRock Gains U.S. SEC Approval for Fund Backed by Copper  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  won U.S. regulatory approval for an
exchange-traded fund backed by physical copper, which some
industrial users said may disrupt the market for the metal.  The Securities and Exchange Commission approved the
proposed rule change by NYSE Arca Inc. to list BlackRock’s
iShares Copper Trust, the regulator said on its website in a
 notice  dated Feb. 22.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won regulatory
approval in December for its planned ETF, which would be the
first U.S. exchange-traded fund backed linked to copper.  A group of industrial copper consumers including AmRod
Corp., Southwire Co. and  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  have opposed plans
for copper ETFs, saying funds backed by copper would leave less
of the metal available for manufacturers, creating shortages and
driving up prices.  ETF Securities Ltd. also has said its plans to start
physically backed ETFs for industrial metals in the U.S.  U.K. Starts Process to Replace Libor Operator After Scandal  The U.K. government formally started the search for a
replacement body to oversee the London interbank offered rate as
it tries to restore credibility to a benchmark tainted by
scandal.  A seven-member panel including Sarah Hogg, chairman of the
Financial Reporting Council, the Financial Services Authority’s
Martin Wheatley, and the Bank of England’s  Paul Fisher  will
recommend a new administrator this year, the Treasury said in a
statement on its website yesterday. Members of the  British
Bankers’ Association , the lobby group that created the benchmark
in 1986, voted earlier in the day yesterday to relinquish
oversight of Libor.  Wheatley recommended in September the BBA should be
stripped of responsibility for the benchmark rate for more than
$300 trillion of securities after regulators found firms had
tried to manipulate the gauge.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have been fined more than $2.5
billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for rate-rigging, and more
than a dozen more firms are still being probed.  ITT Educational Drops After SEC Demands Loan Program Documents  ITT Educational Services Inc. (ESI) , a for-profit college that
focuses on technology, tumbled as much as 14 percent after
disclosing that U.S. regulators subpoenaed documents related to
private loan programs for its students.  The Securities and Exchange Commission demanded documents
relating to “actions and accounting” for the programs, which
helped students pay for education costs that weren’t covered by
state, federal and other funding sources, Carmel, Indiana-based
ITT said Feb. 22 in a filing.  The stock had lost three-quarters of its value in the past
year before yesterday.  Congress, along with state and federal investigators, has
been probing for-profit colleges’ recruitment practices and
students’ debt loads after leaving school. The SEC’s subpoena
asked for documents related to agreements ITT made with outside
entities to loan funds to students, according to the filing.  ITT Educational said in the filing that it’s cooperating
with the SEC. Lauren Littlefield, a spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Hong Kong May Increase Insurance, Dark Pool Oversight, SCMP Says  Hong Kong’s  Securities and Futures Commission  may increase
its oversight of equity or investment fund-linked insurance
products and dark pools,  South China Morning Post  reported,
citing Chairman Carlson Tong.  The commission and the new Insurance Authority, to be set
up in 2015, will review insurance offerings, Tong said.  Hong Kong’s 14 dark-pool operators make up three percent of
total market turnover, according to the report.  Interviews/Hearings  Osborne Testifies Before Parliament on Banking Standards  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  testified before
the  Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards  in London
yesterday.  An advantage of what we are doing in the U.K. “is that we
are moving by largely by consensus” on a bipartisan basis
toward reform, Osborne said. While he acknowledged there are
exceptions, he said the overall movement is on this basis.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Senators Said to Plan Hearing on SEC Nominee White for Mid-March  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee is aiming to hold a
hearing on the nomination of Mary Jo White to lead the
Securities and Exchange Commission in mid-March.  The information came from a Senate aide who asked not to be
identified because a final date has not been set.  Obama nominated White for SEC chairman on Jan. 24. She is a
former U.S. prosecutor and retiring as a partner in the law firm
of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  