-- HSBC Pitted Against Nomura on Rand’s Fate: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-26T08:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/hsbc-pitted-against-nomura-on-rand-s-fate-south-africa-credit.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is squaring off
against Nomura Holdings Inc. in predicting the future course for
South  Africa ’s rand, the world’s worst-performing major currency
in the past year.  The rand is the most undervalued out of 34 currencies based
on measures including purchasing power parity and the Big Mac
Index, and is set to rebound, HSBC said in a Feb. 13 report.
Given the long-term outlook for South Africa’s economy, the
currency is the most over-valued globally and likely to extend
its decline, Nomura said Feb. 21. A weaker rand risks stoking
inflation, reducing returns from investing in bonds.  South Africa’s currency, which takes its name from the
gold-rich Witwatersrand ridge that runs through Johannesburg,
weakened after three credit downgrades since the end of
September and labor disputes at the nation’s gold and platinum
mines cut output, stalling a recovery in Africa’s biggest
economy. The decline has gone too far, said  Murat Toprak , the
London-based head of emerging-markets currency strategy at HSBC.  “The rand is one of the most attractive currencies out
there after its sharp depreciation,” Toprak, who recommends
buying the rand and forecasts a 13 percent recovery to 7.80 per
dollar by year-end, said by phone yesterday. “The macro-
economic situation isn’t too bright, but the depreciation has
gone too far.”  Least Bearish  The currency may climb to 8.57 per dollar by year-end,
according to the median estimate of 26 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Options traders are the least bearish on the rand in
more than five years. Investors paid a 2.42 percentage-point
premium yesterday for the right to sell the rand relative to
options to buy the currency. The so-called three-month 25-delta
option risk-reversal fell to 2.38 percentage points on Feb. 15,
the lowest since October 2007.  The chance of the rand trading at 7.80 per dollar by the
end of 2013 was 28 percent yesterday, when the currency traded
at 8.8188 per dollar, according to calculations by Bloomberg
based on the prices of options contracts to buy and sell the
currency. The rand strengthened 0.5 percent to 8.8242 per dollar
by 10:04 a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand’s 14 percent slump in
the past 12 months is the most out of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg.  Widening Gap  A widening  current-account  deficit and faster inflation
will weigh on the rand over the next three to five years, Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based strategist at Nomura, said in
the report. The rand is about 20 percent overvalued in terms of
Nomura’s medium- to long-term “equilibrium evaluation
metrics,” which look at capital inflows and indicators such as
the current account.  South Africa’s economy probably expanded 2.4 percent last
year, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession, from 3.1 percent
in 2011, a report today may show, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Rising production costs have made South African industries
uncompetitive, while the nation’s reliance on flows from
investors into its equity and bond markets to finance its
current account gap made the rand vulnerable, Montalto said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. The currency may
decline to as weak as 9.25 per dollar this year, he said.  Slow Growth  The Reserve Bank raised its forecast for average inflation
this year to 5.8 percent on Jan. 24 from a previous estimate of
5.5 percent. The shortfall on the current account, the broadest
 measure  of trade in goods and services, was unchanged at 6.4
percent of gross domestic product in the third quarter, the
highest level in about four years. The central bank last month
estimated the economy will expand 2.6 percent this year.  Fitch Ratings cut the nation’s debt one level to BBB Jan.
10, citing slowing growth, the rising jobless rate and social
unrest. While Fitch raised its outlook to stable, Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, which each lowered their
ratings by one level last year, hold a negative view.  The cost of protecting South African dollar-denominated
sovereign debt against non-payment for five years using credit
default swaps rose 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point,
this year to 170 yesterday, indicating a deterioration in risk
perception, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South African bonds have returned 2 percent this month for
dollar investors, the most out of sovereign indexes tracked by
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg.  Swings in the rand makes it difficult to predict future
moves, said Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based strategist at
Commerzbank AG, the most accurate rand forecaster in the fourth
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rand’s
three-month implied volatility against the dollar was 12.14
percent yesterday, the highest out of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg.  The rand may gain to 8.50 per dollar by year-end, Nguyen
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “We
project only a moderate recovery for the second half of 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  