-- HSBC Shuns Formosa Debut as Taiwan Funds Cut Yield: China Credit
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-27T04:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/hsbc-shuns-formosa-debut-as-taiwan-funds-cut-yield-china-credit.html
Taiwanese investors accepted such a
low yield on the first  yuan  bonds sold on the island that global
funds including HSBC Global Asset Management stayed away.  Chinatrust Commercial Bank, a unit of  Taiwan ’s fourth-
biggest lender by market value, sold 1 billion yuan ($161
million) of three-year notes at 2.9 percent on Feb. 25. The
yield on the debt, a class dubbed Formosa bonds to be regulated
by the island’s government, compares with the 3.35 percent on
similar-maturity Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc yuan paper in
Hong Kong. Both lenders are rated A by  Standard & Poor’s .  “For global investors who already have access to the Dim
Sum bond market, Formosa bonds lack appeal,” said Steven Huang,
a Taipei-based  fund manager  at HSBC Global, which manages $417
billion of assets worldwide. “With Taiwan’s existing low-yield
environment, local banks and securities firms are happy to buy
anything that has better returns than Taiwan dollar bonds.”  The debut yuan sale follows an August pact on cross-strait
currency clearing with  China ’s central bank, which allowed the
island’s lenders to offer yuan deposits onshore from Feb. 6 and
compete with rivals in Hong Kong,  Singapore  and  London  for a
share of  renminbi  business. Taiwan’s 1.21 percent 10-year
sovereign yield is the lowest in the world after 0.68 percent in
 Japan  and 0.72 percent in  Switzerland , supporting demand for
debt with higher  interest rates  among managers of the island’s
NT$34 trillion ($1.15 trillion) in savings.  Trade Volume  “The Taiwanese were very enthusiastic about the renminbi
when we visited there,” said  Steve Wang , Hong Kong-based head
of fixed-income research at BOCI Securities Ltd. “Taiwanese
banks want to earn some more money and because returns on local-
investment products are so poor they always look overseas. They
are very familiar with the China market and want to expand in
China using the offshore yuan as an advantage.”  A lack of secondary-market transactions will make Formosa
bonds unappealing to more active investors, according to
Eastspring Securities Investment Trust Co. Some NT$477 billion
of bonds were traded on the island in January, compared with
6.97 trillion yuan in China, according to data from Gretai
Securities Market and Chinabond.  “Apart from the low yields, Formosa bonds’ low liquidities
will be a problem for us,” said Yichun Shi, who helps manage
NT$109 billion of assets as a Taipei-based portfolio manager at
Eastspring. “It makes buying and selling very difficult for
portfolio managers.”  Issuance Planned  Activity may improve as global banks get involved. BNP
Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG have approached Taiwan’s
Financial Supervisory Commission about possible renminbi offers,
according to two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because the details are private. Companies
including  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
have listed yuan-denominated debt in London.  Chinatrust’s Formosa bonds yield 173 basis points more than
its local dollar notes with a similar maturity. They will start
trading on the Gretai Securities Market in Taipei on March 12
and the funds raised will be used for the bank’s loan operations
and to replenish mid- to long-term liquidity, according to a
statement from Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. Taiwan
Depository & Clearing Corp. will be responsible for payments and
settlements for the notes, according to its website. The
renminbi is the official name of China’s currency and the yuan
is the largest denomination.  Locals Keen  Renminbi deposits at Taiwanese lenders’ domestic and
offshore units jumped more than threefold to 31 billion yuan as
of Feb. 22 from a year ago, while  savings  of the currency at
 Hong Kong  banks totaled 603 billion yuan at the end of 2012,
according to central bank data.  To tap that money, HSBC Global is planning to sell a yuan-
denominated bond fund in Taiwan in the first half of 2013
investing in Dim Sum bonds, adding to its existing Taiwan
dollar-denominated yuan debt fund, according to Huang.  Yuan securities in Taiwan will get a boost as insurers will
be allowed to invest in foreign-currency notes listed on the
island, Yu-Chiung Tzeng, director general of the Financial
Supervisory Commission’s Insurance Bureau, said yesterday.  Insurers invested around one-third of their portfolios in
local fixed-income products last year, according to the Taiwan
Insurance Institute.  Yuan Appreciation  A 15 percent rally in the Chinese currency in the past five
years outstripped a 4 percent advance in the  Taiwan dollar ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan will
appreciate 1.9 percent to 6.11 per dollar by the end of 2013,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The Taiwan dollar is forecast to strengthen 3.3 percent.  The yuan in Taiwan has traded in line with its Hong Kong
counterpart since the first day of trading on Feb. 6. The
currency gained 0.06 percent to 6.2253 as of 12:35 p.m. local
time, according to Taipei Forex Inc. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, it rose 0.07 percent to 6.225, while it climbed 0.04
percent to 6.2269 in  Shanghai .  China’s benchmark 10-year government bond yield slipped one
basis point this month to 3.60 percent yesterday, according to
data from Chinabond. It reached this year’s high of 3.61 percent
on Jan. 29.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps contracts has fallen three basis points to
66 this month, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. It is down from as high as 146 in
June 2012. The indexes typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates.  International Competition  The People’s Bank of China approved the Singapore branch of
the  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. this month as the
clearing bank in the city state, making it the third offshore
yuan center after Hong Kong and Taiwan.  “Valuation and market liquidity in Taiwan’s yuan market,
as compared to other opportunities in Hong Kong, are important
investment considerations,” said Angus Hui, a fixed-income fund
manager at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“In medium term, we view it as one offshore market, no matter
the financing and investment activities are centered in Hong
Kong, Taiwan, Singapore or London.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  