-- Sequester Is ‘Speed Bump’ for Economy, Princeton’s Blinder Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-26T16:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/sequester-is-speed-bump-for-economy-princeton-s-blinder-says.html
U.S.  budget  cuts scheduled for March
1 are “small beer” compared with challenges faced earlier this
year, including the so-called fiscal cliff, according to
Princeton University economics professor  Alan Blinder .  “This is a speed bump,” Blinder, Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman from 1994 until 1996, said today at a Council on
Foreign Relations conference in New York. “The main reason I’m
not so worried about it is I spent so much time worrying first
about the fiscal cliff, and then about defaulting on the
national debt.”  If Congress doesn’t act before the March 1 deadline,
federal spending will be reduced by $85 billion in the final
seven months of this fiscal year ending Sept. 30 and by $1.2
trillion over the next nine years. The cuts, known as the
sequester, would slice growth in gross domestic product by 0.6
percent while costing 750,000 jobs, according to the non-
partisan  Congressional Budget Office .  “If you’re focused on quarter-to-quarter GDP, then you
should worry about it, because it could knock enough off of GDP
to round us down to zero again,”  Peter Fisher , senior managing
director at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, said at the conference. “I regret that we’re
focused quarter by quarter. It’s not a big share of GDP over a
five-year horizon, so if you want to be short-run focused, be
worried. If you want to be five-year focused, not so worried.”  ‘Fiscal Path’  GDP unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter on a plunge
in  defense spending , logging the worst performance since the
second quarter of 2009, the last time the world’s largest
economy was in the recession. The Fed has sought to prop up
asset prices and drive down unemployment mired at more than 7
percent since December 2008 by buying  government securities .  “The Pentagon sneezed, and we got effectively zero GDP
growth,” Fisher said. “What the Fed was worried about in
September was, gee, the fiscal path is really uncertain and, who
knows, we could stall out.”  U.S. lawmakers passed a bill last year averting more than
$600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases, known as the
fiscal cliff. Congress also agreed to suspend the $16.4 trillion
debt ceiling until May 19 to prevent a default.  The cliff and borrowing ceiling issues “were concrete
barriers that the car was running 80 miles-an-hour and heading
for,” said Blinder, who wrote “After the Music Stopped: The
Financial Crisis, the Response, and the Work Ahead.” “It was
going to be very ugly. One of them is still alive, by the way,
the debt-ceiling crash. I think it’s not going to happen, but
it’s still sitting there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  