-- Shekel Extends Slump on Second-Quarter Interest Rate Outlook
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-26T11:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/shekel-extends-slump-on-rate-reduction-outlook-israel-overnight.html
The shekel extended declines after
the Bank of Israel held the key rate on speculation policy
makers will opt to cut borrowing costs in coming months to help
stem the currency’s rally to a 15-month high.  “Our base case scenario is for them to cut in early second
quarter,” Mai Doan, a London-based economist at Bank of America
Corp., said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They are
likely maintaining a wait-and-see stance. But the risk is that
the shekel stays strong and the central bank moves earlier.”  The shekel depreciated 0.2 percent to 3.7332 a dollar at
12:45 p.m. in Tel Aviv. It earlier fell to 3.7418 a dollar, the
lowest since Jan. 29. The decline trimmed the gain over the past
six months to 7.8 percent. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN) 
of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli stocks lost 0.9 percent
yesterday, extending its biggest decline in seven weeks.  Nova
Measuring Instruments Ltd. (NVMI)  led the retreat, while  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  fell after it was reduced to hold
at Argus Research Corp.  Governor Stanley Fischer and the monetary policy panel held
the rate at a two-year low of 1.75 percent, saying a rise in
house prices balanced slowing growth and inflation. Fischer
warned on Feb. 13 that the central bank was “going to have to
watch” foreign inflows after the currency appreciated this
month to the strongest level since November 2011.  The Bloomberg Israel-US index fell to 86.74 yesterday, its
lowest level since Feb. 4. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  Index today
slipped 0.6 percent to 1,213.81.  ‘Too Early’  The yield on the 4.25 percent government notes due March
2023 today fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.97 percent.  Ten of the 22 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg  forecast the
decision, while the remainder predicted a quarter-point
reduction. In light of “mixed” indicators of economic
activity, the central bank concluded it was “too early” to
assess whether the economy has staged a turnaround, according to
a  statement  yesterday.  Fischer, who announced last month that he would step down
at the end of June after eight years at the helm, told reporters
in Jerusalem on Feb. 13 that more “expansionary” policies in
advanced economies have led to capital inflow to Israel and
caused the shekel to rise. He praised the Swiss National Bank on
Feb. 7 for successfully stemming the franc’s rally, saying
policy makers can “fight the market.”  ‘Keep Ammunition’  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, dropped one basis
pointtoday, or 0.01 percentage points, to 1.51 percent. It
remains below the benchmark borrowing costs, suggesting traders
are still betting that policy makers will lower the rate.  The central bank has gradually reduced the borrowing rate
from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to boost economic growth.  Israel’s gross domestic product growth eased to an
annualized 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest since
the second quarter of 2009. Exports fell an annualized 6.5
percent last quarter amid the debt crisis in Europe, the
destination for 34 percent of Israel’s goods.  “I don’t think they’ve closed the door for rate cuts,”
Gaelle Blanchard, an emerging-markets strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London, said in a telephone interview. “They’d
like to keep ammunition for later if necessary, especially if
the shekel strengthens too much.”  Inflation slowed to 1.5 percent in January, below the 1.6
percent median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The government’s target range is 1 percent to 3 percent.  Teva Cut  Nova Measuring was the worst performer on the Bloomberg
Israel-US traded gauge, dropping 3.4 percent to $8.71, the
lowest price since Jan. 17. Thirty-day  volatility  on the Ness-
Ziona, Israel-based developer of measurement systems for the
semiconductor industry was at 39.8, the highest level since
Sept. 6. Shares of Nova traded in Tel Aviv today added 1.8
percent to 33 shekels, or the equivalent of $8.84.  Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, lost 1.3
percent to $37.58 on a fourth day of declines. Argus Research
cut the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company to hold from buy.
Shares traded in Tel Aviv this morning lost 0.5 percent to 141.4
shekels, or $37.87.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  