-- Shell Buys Repsol LNG Assets in Americas for $4.4 Billion
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-02-27T17:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/shell-buys-repsol-lng-assets-as-spanish-oil-producer-cuts-debt.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the world’s
largest supplier of liquefied natural gas, agreed to buy LNG
assets from  Repsol SA (REP)  for $4.4 billion in cash to expand in
Latin America and Spain.  The deal, which helps the Spanish oil company avoid a
credit-rating downgrade to junk, gets Shell export capacity in
 Peru  as well as in Trinidad and Tobago, The Hague-based company
said yesterday. Shell will take over financial leases and assume
debt, bringing the transaction’s total value to $6.7 billion.
Repsol’s Canaport terminal in  Canada , which imports gas into
North America, was not sold.  Acquiring import and export terminals “will allow Shell to
realize trading synergies from its global portfolio,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a note.
For Repsol, the sale “ensures investment grade credit rating
and removes the risk of equity dilution due to a conversion of
preference shares,” he said.  The LNG asset sale was the centerpiece of Repsol’s plan to
preserve its credit ratings by selling 4.5 billion euros ($6
billion) of assets and take other measures, if necessary, such
as swapping preferred shares into convertible bonds.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating to one level about
junk and gave the company a negative outlook after Argentina
seized Repsol’s  YPF SA (YPFD)  business in April without compensation.
YPF made up almost half of Madrid-based Repsol’s oil reserves.  Repsol climbed 4.1 percent to close at 16.1 euros in Madrid
trading, the biggest jump in eight weeks.  Shale Rock  Argentina ’s nationalization followed the Spanish company’s
January 2012 announcement of the discovery of 22 billion barrels
of potential oil in shale rock in Argentina. Repsol is seeking
$10.5 billion for the 51 percent stake in YPF it lost.  Spain’s largest oil company will book a $3.5 billion pretax
capital gain from yesterday’s deal and reduce its net debt by
2.2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) from the 4.4 billion-euro total
last year.  Repsol’s bonds had rallied as the company was negotiating
the deal. Its 1 billion euros of 4.875 percent bonds due 2019
gained 1.9 percent in February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, quadruple the 0.47 percent increase in the BofA
Merrill Lynch Euro Energy Index of bonds. The  stock  lost 6
percent in the period.  “The successful execution of this deal allows the
investment community to refocus on the growth of our production
profile, which is outstanding among peers,” Repsol said in a
presentation yesterday.  Canaport Writedown  Shell will acquire part of a Spanish LNG import terminal
and agreed to supply about 1 million tons of the cooled fuel to
Repsol’s regasification plant in Canada over a 10-year period,
according to the statement.  The transaction provides Shell with long-term offtake
contracts for its own portfolio from Trinidad and Peru,
according to Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. analyst  Jason Gammel .
Increasing Shell’s flexible capacity could enable it to trade in
the spot market to a larger extent, he said. “We are generally
bullish on the LNG market through the end of the decade,” he
said.  Canaport was offered for sale and will be written down for
$1.3 billion. Its 25-year commitments to ship gas into North
America were considered a hurdle to closing the deal as the
continent’s domestic gas supply swelled from shale fields, two
people familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Repsol’s contracts through Canaport soured after the
extracting of gas from shale rock created a glut of the
commodity and caused prices to plunge. Shipments from Canaport
have fallen 42 percent this winter compared to the year before,
Bentek Energy LLC  data  reported by U.S. regulators show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  