-- Shionogi Wins U.S. Backing for Menopause Side Effect Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-26T19:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/shionogi-wins-u-s-backing-for-menopause-side-effect-drug.html
Shionogi & Co. (4507) , the Japanese maker
of the Crestor cholesterol pill, won U.S. approval of its
treatment for painful sex caused by menopause.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared the drug Osphena
for post-menopausal women whose thinning vaginal tissues lead to
dyspareunia, or painful intercourse, the agency said today in a
statement. The pill, chemically known as ospemifene, would be
the first oral treatment for the condition, which is currently
treated with lubricants or estrogen-based suppositories.  No product is marketed specifically for this use and
Shionogi’s Osphena may generate $495 million in sales in 2017,
Naomi Kumagai, an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  Tokyo , said in
an e-mail before the announcement. More than 7.1 million women
are diagnosed annually with vulvar and vaginal atrophy,  Osaka ,
Japan-based Shionogi said in June.  “Dyspareunia is among the problems most frequently
reported by post-menopausal women,” Victoria Kusiak, a deputy
director for a branch of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, said in the statement. “Osphena provides an
additional treatment option for women seeking relief.”  Shionogi’s once-daily pill acts like estrogen on vaginal
tissues to make them thicker and less fragile, the FDA said.  Pfizer Inc. and  Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. (LGND)  have a similar
drug, bazedoxifene, under FDA review that also seeks to reduce
hot flashes and prevent osteoporosis in post-menopausal women.
The agency is scheduled to decide by Oct. 3 whether New York-
based Pfizer and Ligand, based in La Jolla, California, can
market their treatment in the U.S.  Shionogi’s Osphena will carry a boxed warning that the drug
can stimulate the lining of the uterus and cause it to thicken,
which typically occurs before menstruation. Postmenopausal women
don’t menstruate and women should see their doctor if they
experience unusual bleeding since it may be a sign of
endometrial cancer, the FDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  