-- Sinead O’Connor Gets Fired Up for ‘Crazy Baldhead’ Tour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-02-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/sinead-o-connor-gets-fired-up-for-crazy-baldhead-tour.html
Sinead O’Connor has chosen to call
her latest concerts the Crazy Baldhead Tour.  The funny name demonstrates the shaven-headed Irish star’s
unadorned honesty. She’s often caricatured for her outspoken
views and erratic behavior. Notoriously, she ripped up a
photograph of Pope John Paul II on television. More recently she
has been open in discussing her bipolar condition.  Following a series of canceled shows, she has confirmed
more dates for this year, including  London ’s  Barbican Hall  on
March 27, a clutch of European appearances in April, and most
recently the Bestival on the Isle of Wight in September.  O’Connor’s performances so far are a jumble of theology and
profanity, a confusion of love, hate and slapdash improvisation.
Her voice remains a torrent of clear spring water.  Low-key gigs in St. Lukes, a converted Hawksmoor church in
East London, and at the Royal Albert Hall’s Elgar Room, give an
idea of what is to come.  She is accompanied by the weaving folk of  Robbie McIntosh ’s
acoustic guitar and the discreet sounds of  Graham Henderson’s 
keyboard. She plays an additional guitar for some songs.  O’Connor has tattoos proud on her forearms, black jeans and
well-worn t-shirt with a Rastafarian image.  The set is drawn largely from her most recent album “How
About I Be Me (And You Be You)?” John Grant’s “Queen Of
Denmark” is an effective opening, the hushed intimacies giving
way to full rock howl.  Dark Humor  The breakup lyrics, bedeviled with dark humor, provide
O’Connor with perfect material. She means it when she bellows
“Why don’t you take it out on somebody else?”  O’Connor’s own songs are equally powerful. “Reason With
Me” is a rare instance of a lyric about addiction that is
neither sentimental nor patronizing.  The wedding story of “4th and Vine” swirls with
uncomplicated joy: You want to hug O’Connor for the sheer
pleasure of her singing it.  “I Am Stretched on Your Grave” transfixes. The bleak
melody, drawn from Irish folk music, has the dancing vowels of
O’Connor’s Dublin accent. The magic of her cover of Prince’s
“Nothing Compares 2 U” is still incomparable.  There are rough edges as O’Connor forgets lyrics and the
occasional chord. She makes up for it by gamely singing
admissions of her errors.  Her stage patter is engaging if eccentric: “Sinead, don’t
tell that inappropriate joke going round your head now.”  She declares the garbled catcalls of one over-emotional fan
as impenetrable as the Cockney accent of Fagin and promptly
bursts into a snatch of song from the musical “Oliver.”  “Jeremiah” possesses a stark Biblical power. “Psalm 33”
muddles Rastafarianism, Christianity and rock ‘n’ roll.  The final song is one taught to O’Connor by some monks of
her acquaintance. It’s a simple prayer, like a lullaby: a final
blessing for the night. Rating: ****½.  O’Connor’s April tour includes dates in the Netherlands,
 Italy ,  Austria  and  France  with a full band.  Information:  http://www.sinead-oconnor.com/  and
 http://www.barbican.org.uk/music/event-detail.asp?ID=14112 .  (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 