-- Singapore to Raise Property Tax Rates for Luxury Homeowners
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-26T09:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/singapore-to-raise-property-tax-rates-for-luxury-homeowners-3-.html
Singapore plans to raise taxes for
luxury homeowners and investment properties, widening a four-
year campaign to curb speculation after prices in  Asia ’s second-
most expensive housing market rose to a record.  The higher tax will apply to the top 1 percent of
homeowners who live in their own residences, or 12,000
properties, Singapore Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam 
said in his budget speech yesterday, without giving a definition
of what constitutes a high-end home. The government will also
raise tax rates for vacant investment properties or those that
are rented out, he said.  Singapore joins  Hong Kong  in extending anti-speculation
measures as low  interest rates  and capital inflows drive up
demand and make housing unaffordable. Residential prices in
Singapore climbed to a record in the fourth quarter as an
increase in the number of millionaires drove up demand.  “The graduated property tax on luxury properties may
impact investors, particularly corporates and high-net-worth
investors,” Petra Blazkova, head of CBRE Research for Singapore
and  Southeast Asia  said in a statement. “It may put pressure on
the holding cost of investment properties held by developers and
investors.”  The  property index  tracking 39 developers fell 1.2 percent
to a one-month low at the close in Singapore.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,
Singapore’s biggest developer by assets, declined 1.5 percent to
S$3.86.  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , the second largest, slid 1.8
percent to S$11.15.  Hong Kong  Singapore’s latest efforts were announced three days after
Hong Kong increased property taxes. The Hong Kong government
last week doubled sales taxes on property costing more than HK$2
million ($258,000) and targeted commercial real estate for the
first time as bubble risks spread in the world’s most expensive
place to buy an apartment.  “The property tax is a wealth tax and is applied
irrespective of whether lived in, vacant or rented out,”
Shanmugaratnam said. “Those who live in the most expensive
homes should pay more property tax than others.”  For a condominium occupied by the owner in  Singapore ’s
central region with an assessed annual rental value of S$70,000
($56,547), the tax will rise 5 percent to S$2,780, according to
the budget statement. If that home is rented out, the tax will
climb 21 percent to S$8,500, according to an example highlighted
in the statement.  Based on a 3 percent rental yield, that property is worth
S$2.3 million. Gains in levies for properties assessed at higher
rental values will also increase at a faster pace, it said. For
a house with an assessed rental value of S$150,000, worth S$5
million based on the same yield assumption, the tax will rise 60
percent to S$24,000. The revised taxes will take full effect
from January 2015, according to the statement.  Singapore is Asia’s most-expensive housing market after
Hong Kong, according to a Knight Frank LLP and Citi Private Bank
report released last year that compared 63 locations globally.  ‘Wealth Tax’  “It is a wealth tax,” Yee Jenn Jong, a non-elected member
of parliament from the opposition Workers’ Party, told reporters.
“There’s been a lot of people that have made a lot of money
through property and the government is using that as a way to
get additional revenue to offset certain goodies they’re giving
to those in the lower income.”  Singapore has since 2009 imposed measures to cool the
 property market . The government last month said home buyers have
to pay 5 percentage points to 7 percentage points more in stamp
duties. It also imposed the added levies for permanent residents
when they buy their first home, while Singaporeans will have to
pay the tax starting with their second purchase.  Foreign Labor  In the budget, Singapore also tightened curbs on foreign
labor for a fourth consecutive year, as the government seeks to
reduce companies’ reliance on overseas workers amid a public
backlash over the influx.  Increasing wealth in the island-state has contributed to
rising property prices. Singapore’s millionaire households rose
by 14 percent in 2011, according to a Boston Consulting study.
The proportion of millionaire homes in the city of 5.3 million
people was 17 percent, the highest in the world, followed by
Qatar and  Kuwait .  “From a progressive tax view point, it’s to be expected
and probably quite fair,” said Tan Su Shan, managing director
of  wealth management  at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., who’s also a
nominated member of Parliament. “From a developers’ point of
view, it’s yet another pill to swallow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  