-- Singapore’s Manufacturing Unexpectedly Falls on Pharmaceuticals
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/singapore-s-manufacturing-unexpectedly-falls-on-pharmaceuticals.html
  Singapore ’s industrial production
unexpectedly declined in January as demand for electronics and
pharmaceuticals faltered.  Manufacturing fell 0.4 percent from a year earlier after a
revised 1.3 percent gain in December, the Economic Development
Board said in a report today. The median of 16 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a 5.2 percent increase.  Singapore’s export-dependent economy has been constrained
by an uneven global recovery that’s seen  Europe  struggle to exit
its worst recession in four years and a manufacturing slowdown
in China damping optimism its rebound is gaining traction. The
island shipped fewer electronics in January, even as exporters
from  Thailand  to  Taiwan  reported stronger demand for such items.  “We expect industrial production to underperform in the
near term,” Chester Liaw, an economist at Forecast Pte in
Singapore, said before the report. “A lot of the other Asian
economies are direct competitors for Singapore’s electronics
industry,” he said, adding that it will take some time for the
city’s manufacturers to shift from producing computer processors
to mobile phones, which are in greater demand.  Singapore’s biomedical industry overtook electronics last
year as the biggest contributor to manufacturing, making up 25.5
percent compared to the other cluster’s 25 percent.  Data for overseas shipments and industrial production in
Singapore for January and February may be distorted by the
Chinese New Year holidays. Asian nations celebrated the Lunar
New Year in January in 2012 and observed it in February this
year, and factories from  China  to  Vietnam  typically shut and
reduce production during the holiday.  The Singapore dollar was little changed at S$1.2389 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 12:24 p.m. local time.  Output decreased a seasonally adjusted 9.2 percent in
January from the previous month, when it rose a revised 6.6
percent.  Electronics production declined 3.4 percent in January from
a year earlier, while pharmaceutical output slid 20 percent.
Chemicals rose 2.5 percent, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  