-- Sinopec’s U.S. Shale Deal Struck at Two-Thirds’ Discount
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-02-26T21:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/sinopec-s-u-s-shale-deal-struck-at-two-thirds-discount.html
China Petrochemical Corp.’s $1.02
billion deal with  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  gives the second-
largest Chinese energy producer a stake in a shale oilfield for
less than one-third of its estimated value.  Sinopec, as the Beijing-based explorer is known, will take
a 50 percent interest in 850,000 acres Chesapeake controls in
the Mississippi Lime formation, the companies said yesterday in
separate statements. The price equates to $2,400 an acre, less
than the $7,000 to $8,000 at which Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake valued the asset in a July presentation.  The deal involves drilling rights across an area twice the
size of  New York City  with wells that Chesapeake said were
pumping the equivalent of 34,000 barrels of crude a day in the
final three months of 2012. Sinopec will exercise more control
over drilling decisions and costs than Chesapeake partners have
on similar ventures because the Chinese company isn’t handing
over a lump sum to cover future drilling costs, said  Mark Hanson , an analyst at Morningstar Investment Services in
 Chicago .  “This is the first joint-venture deal Chesapeake has ever
done without a drilling carry,” Hanson said in a telephone
interview yesterday. For Chesapeake, “this looks pretty
underwhelming,” he said.  Chesapeake Rises  Chesapeake rose 3.3 percent to $19.75 at the close in New
York after yesterday posting a 6.8 percent decline, the largest
drop in more than three months.  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028) , the listed unit of the Sinopec Group, fell 1.3 percent to
HK$8.69 in  Hong Kong . The shares are little changed in the past
12 months, compared with a 5.2 percent gain in the benchmark
 Hang Seng  index.  Chesapeake, which has lost 22 percent of its market value
in the past year, last week announced its biggest annual loss
since 2009.  Chesapeake agreed to sell more than $12 billion in
oilfields and pipelines since the beginning of 2012 to plug a
cash-flow deficit aggravated by low prices for natural gas,
which accounts for about 80 percent of the company’s output.
Chesapeake failed to meet its asset-sales target last year and
the prices received haven’t matched the company’s projections.  Chinese companies may pursue more U.S. energy investments
after  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , a unit of China’s largest offshore oil
producer, this month won approval from the U.S. Committee on
Foreign Investment to buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  for $15.1 billion. Chinese
companies are buying stakes in North American exploration
projects to gain expertise in penetrating unconventional
formations such as shale amid a renaissance in  U.S. oil
production .  In Talks  Sinopec Chairman Fu Chengyu said in May his company had
held talks with Chesapeake and others about investing in shale
assets. Fu was seen sitting in a front-row seat at Chesapeake
Energy Arena in Oklahoma City in June 2012 watching the Oklahoma
City Thunder take on the  Miami Heat  in an NBA final, according
to The Deal. The Thunder is partly owned by Chesapeake Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon .  “While Chesapeake has many quality assets, Chinese  oil
companies  care more about their drilling and shale-fracking
technology,” Laban Yu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF) , said in a telephone interview. “The reason Chinese
oil companies have gone after Chesapeake in the past year was
also because they wanted to apply the technology to tap the
world’s No. 1 shale gas reserves in China.”  Cnooc has invested $1.65 billion with Chesapeake since
2010.  Auctioning Fields  In the Sinopec deal, the per-acre price lags the $4,425 and
$2,750  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  received in successive Mississippi
Lime deals in 2011, said  Michael Kelly , an analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC in Houston. Neither of the SandRidge sales
included producing wells, he said.  Chesapeake is selling some of its most-promising
Mississippi Lime acreage, Hanson said. Unlike the SandRidge
transactions in the same formation in 2011, the land involved in
Chesapeake’s sale already has been heavily drilled and assessed
as “the heart of the Mississippi Lime,” he said.  “This is the good stuff they’re parting with,” Hanson
said. “But they need money so there’s nothing you can do about
it.” Prior to today’s announcement, Chesapeake’s total holdings
in the Mississippi Lime amounted to about 2 million acres.  Asset Sales  Chesapeake is aiming to raise $4 billion to $7 billion this
year from asset sales, according to a presentation published on
the company’s website yesterday.  “Chesapeake is not getting a very competitive price for
its assets in this transaction,”  James Sullivan , an analyst at
Alembic Global Advisors in New York, said in a note to clients.  Chesapeake reported on Feb. 21 that Mississippi Lime
production tripled during the fourth quarter from a year
earlier. Net proved reserves were equivalent to about 140
million barrels of oil as of Dec. 31, the company said today.  McClendon agreed last month to leave the company he co-
founded in 1989, citing “philosophical differences” with the
board that he didn’t detail. McClendon’s dismissal, which takes
effect April 1, wasn’t related to an internal inquiry that found
no wrongdoing in his use of stakes in company-owned wells to
obtain more than $800 million in personal loans, the board said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  