-- Weakening Snowstorm Heads Northeast After Hitting Midwest
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-27T05:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/snowstorm-may-mean-6-inches-for-chicago-before-move-east.html
A winter storm that dropped a record
19 inches (48 centimeters) of snow in Amarillo,  Texas , headed
toward the U.S. Northeast with less staying power.  The second major storm for the central U.S. in two weeks
blanketed the southern Great Plains with well over a foot of
snow, causing more than 1,000 flights to be canceled. Winter
storm warnings and advisories covered parts of 19 states from
 Kansas  to Maine late yesterday, agency data showed. Ice storm
warnings were in effect for parts of West Virginia.  Wheat in  Chicago  dropped to the lowest level in eight
months yesterday as the storm system eased drought conditions in
the world’s largest exporter. Wheat conditions in Kansas
improved in February because of snow, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said on Feb. 25.  “It’s just not going to last long enough” to produce the
amounts recorded in Texas and across the Great Plains in the
past 24 hours, said Richard Castro, a  National Weather Service 
meteorologist in Romeoville, Illinois.  Chicago will probably receive 2 to 5 inches by the time the
heaviest snow ends, Castro said. The storm was expected to bring
moderate to heavy snow to the middle Mississippi River Valley,
the upper Great Lakes and the northeastern U.S.  Wheat for delivery in May traded at $7.13 a bushel at 12:38
p.m. in  Singapore  today, with most-active prices down 8.4
percent in 2013. The grain dropped to $6.9775 yesterday, the
lowest price since June 25.  Canceled Flights  As of 7:37 p.m.  New York  time yesterday, 1,217 flights were
canceled across the U.S., including 545 at O’Hare International
Airport in Chicago and 182 at Kansas City International,
according to  FlightAware , an airline-tracking company. Both
airports were open late yesterday, according to their websites.  The storm closed parts of Interstate 40 in Texas and the
airports in Lubbock and Amarillo. Both airports have reopened,
the  Federal Aviation Administration  said on its website.
Amarillo received a record snowfall for the date of Feb. 25,
breaking a mark set in 1903, according to the weather service.  The storm dropped 18 inches of snow on Fort Supply,
 Oklahoma ; 10 inches on Carbondale, Kansas; and 11.2 inches on
Warrensburg,  Missouri , according to the  U.S. Hydrometeorological
Prediction Center.  The storm’s south side brought gusty wind and
heavy rain, including 5.87 inches at Panama City Beach,  Florida .  The storm will lose power as it travels east and bumps up
against an area of high pressure, said Rob Carolan, founder and
meteorologist at Hometown Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua,  New
Hampshire .  The Boston area may get an inch of snow while parts of New
Hampshire may receive more than 6 inches, Carolan said. Rain or
wet snow will start falling in Boston early today, he said.
Warmer air will keep the precipitation to rain in many places
and make it hard for the snow that develops to stick to the
ground, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  