-- Earnings Drive Advance as Shanda Rallies: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-26T21:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/solars-slip-as-italy-vote-clouds-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rose in  New York , led
by Shanda Games Ltd. and  Mindray Medical International Ltd. (MR) , as
companies reporting better-than-estimated earnings spurred
analysts to bolster the outlook for stocks.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 0.3 percent to 93.1
yesterday, rebounding from a 12-week low. Shanda climbed the
most in a month and Mindray surged to the highest level in
February. Baidu Inc. advanced on a partnership with  China ’s food
and drug regulator to combat fake drugs, while web retailer
 Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  retreated 10 percent from a record high.  China’s economy  emerged from its seven-quarter slowdown in
the last three months of 2012, when the 19 companies on the
China-US gauge that reported since mid-January earned on average
more than triple what analysts estimated, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Citigroup Inc. raised  Shanda (GAME)  to buy, while
Oppenheimer & Co. lifted its price target for Mindray by 15
percent after the health-care company’s profit beat projections.  “We’ll see moderate growth in company sales in the first
quarter and we do expect them to pick up in the second
quarter.” Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer in New York who
rates Shanda the equivalent of buy, said by phone yesterday.
“Fourth-quarter earnings of most U.S.-traded Chinese companies
beat consensus as people’s expectations had been pretty low amid
China’s economic slowdown last year.”  Shanda Climbs  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 0.2 percent to $38.12 in
New York, after sliding to the lowest level since Dec. 4 on Feb.
25. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.6 percent to
1,496.94.  Shanda, China’s third-largest web games operator, gained
2.7 percent to $3.09, the biggest advance since Jan. 16.  The company, based in  Shanghai , posted fourth-quarter sales
of 1.08 billion  yuan  ($180 million), in line with a mean
estimate of 1.075 billion yuan by eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net income for the quarter was 0.92 yuan per ADR,
compared with a 0.89-yuan mean estimate.  Citigroup analysts led by Muzhi Li raised the rating on
Shanda to buy from neutral, and lifted its price target to $3.9
from $3.8.  The company is trading at about 3 times earnings before
interest, interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, which is
a “deep discount” to peers, Li wrote in a note yesterday.  Dividend Increase  American depositary receipts of Mindray, a medical device
seller based in Shenzhen, climbed 2.8 percent to $37.7, the
highest price since Jan. 31.  Mindray reported fourth-quarter profit of $55.8 million,
according to a Feb. 25 statement, exceeding the average $54.7
million projected by four analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales
for the three months grew 20 percent to $316.1 million, compared
with the mean estimate of $308.6 million. The company also
announced a  dividend  of 50 cents for each share, a 25 percent
increase from a year ago.  Oppenheimer analyst Ingrid Yin raised the price target for
Mindray to $45 from $39 yesterday.  Baidu, based in Beijing, entered a partnership with China’s
State  Food and Drug Administration  to provide a database of
qualified medicines and licensed online pharmacies to the search
engine, the official Xinhua News Agency  reported  Feb. 25, citing
Sun Xianze, deputy head of the drug regulator.  Baidu’s ADRs advanced 2 percent to $89.73 in New York, the
steepest gain since Feb. 6.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , a mobile security company, also based in
Beijing, rose 4.7 percent to $6.88, the biggest rally in two
weeks.  Vipshop Sinks  Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based online fashion store operator,
sank 10 percent to $25.6 after a 26 percent, two-day rally.
Thirty-day  volatility  rose to 105, the highest since the ADRs
trading started in March. The company said on Feb. 21 that it’s
 seeking  to sell as much as $120 million of shares.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  tumbled 2 percent to
11,104.10 yesterday, the lowest level since Dec. 11, while the
Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares dropped 1.4
percent to 2,293.34, trimming its gains this year to 1.1
percent.  Chinese stocks will resume this year’s rally as the
government works to shore up the nation’s economic recovery,
according to China Asset Management Co., the biggest  fund
manager .  Gains this year in Chinese A shares, stocks traded in
Shanghai and the southern city of Shenzhen, “didn’t fully
reflect the gradual economic recovery this year,” David Lai, a
portfolio manager at the Hong Kong unit of China Asset
Management, said by phone Feb. 25. “More projects or plans will
be rolled out to support short-term growth after the government
reshuffle next month.”  The National People’s Congress, China’s legislature, will
start on March 5 its annual meeting where a new cabinet will be
elected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  