-- Some Immigrants Facing Deportation Released From Custody
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-02-26T21:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/some-immigrants-facing-deportation-released-from-custody.html
Citing “fiscal uncertainty,” U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have released
hundreds of immigrants facing deportation from custody with
automatic federal spending cuts set to start later this week.  The agency, part of the Homeland Security Department, will
continue to monitor the individuals who’ve been set free, an ICE
spokeswoman, Gillian Christensen, said in a statement. She said
the releases would reduce agency expenses ahead of impending
automatic budget cuts set to take effect beginning March 1.  Detention is being reserved for “serious criminal
offenders and other individuals who pose a significant threat to
public safety,” Christensen said. The others are being
supervised by “less costly” methods, she said.  The agency “is continuing to prosecute their cases in
immigration court, and when ordered, will seek their removal
from the country,” she said. Her statement didn’t specify how
many immigrants were released and how many remain in custody.  An advocacy group, Human Rights First, estimated that ICE
was holding about 400,000 detainees at a daily expense of about
$164 per person, compared with alternatives the group said would
cost from 30 cents to $14 per individual.  Detention Alternative  “We have long advocated for expanded use of alternatives to
detention, a step we knew would save taxpayers millions of
dollars,” said Ruthie Epstein, a senior associate at Human
Rights First. “It is a shame that it took the threat of serious
budget cuts to prompt this move.”  Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican and member of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, called the releases “a
convenient excuse to bow to political pressure” from groups
seeking to allow undocumented immigrants to remain in the U.S.
He said the agency could have found other ways to save money.  Christensen said the move was spurred by the across-the-
board spending reductions scheduled to start March 1.  Known as sequestration, the cuts would take $85 billion
from federal spending in the final seven months of this fiscal
year and $1.2 trillion during the next nine years. Half of the
reductions will come from  defense spending .  Democratic and Republican lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  have been unable to agree on alternatives to the cuts.
Democrats have called for replacing some with higher taxes on
the wealthy, while House Republicans last year voted to offset
the defense cuts with curbs on food stamps and other domestic
programs and remain opposed to any tax increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 