-- SPX Turns Prey as Relational Pushes Asset Sales: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-27T21:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/spx-turns-prey-as-relational-pushes-asset-sales-real-m-a.html
SPX Corp. (SPW) , which ended talks to buy
equipment maker  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  last year, is poised to
become a target itself after activist Relational Investors LLC
urged it to shed assets and focus on industrial pumps.  Relational this week disclosed an 8.76 percent stake in SPX
and pressed the $3.8 billion company to increase profitability
and shareholder value by accelerating sales of units not tied to
its core flow-control business. SPX’s stock traded yesterday at
a lower multiple to revenue and net assets than any of its North
American peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Concentrating on pumps for flow control would make
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based SPX a more likely takeover
target, said  Standard & Poor’s . A slimmed-down company could
lure buyers from  Flowserve Corp. (FLS)  to  GEA Group AG (G1A)  as well as
private-equity suitors, according to FBR & Co. Buyout firms,
which showed interest in Gardner Denver, could even be tempted
to bid for SPX in its current form, SunTrust Banks Inc. said.  “There’s a lot of belief that there’s value here,”  Nick Heymann , a New York-based analyst at William Blair & Co., said
in a telephone interview. Divesting units would make a takeover
“a much better possibility.”  Jennifer Epstein, a spokeswoman for SPX, declined to
comment on whether the company would be willing to divest units
or consider a sale.  ‘Significantly Undervalued’  SPX  produces  equipment such as mixers, evaporators and
hydraulic tools for a variety of industries. It got more than
half of its $5.1 billion in revenue in 2012 and a majority of
its operating profit from its  flow-control unit , which makes
pumps and valves, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Activist Ralph Whitworth disclosed in a Feb. 25 filing that
his firm Relational had taken a stake in SPX, saying the stock
was “significantly undervalued.” Overpaying for acquisitions
hurt shareholder returns and profitability, and SPX should
unlock value by improving margins and accelerating sales of non-
core, underperforming assets, Relational said.  SPX ended takeover talks with Gardner Denver in December
because its shareholders didn’t support the deal for the maker
of compressors and industrial equipment, two people familiar
with the matter said at the time. Gardner Denver said it was
reviewing its options in October after investor ValueAct
Holdings LP urged a sale.  Regaining Trust  SPX is “going to have to regain shareholder trust,” David Batchelder, co-founder and principal at Relational, now SPX’s
second-biggest shareholder, said in a phone interview on the day
of the firm’s filing. “To do that, they’re going to need to get
back to their previously stated goal of becoming a pure-play
flow business over time.”  The company’s  stock , which closed yesterday at $79.91,
traded at 0.78  times  its sales during the past 12 months. That
trailed the median multiple of 1.37 among North American flow-
control equipment companies valued at more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares traded at
1.79 times book value, compared with the median 2.97 multiple
for the group, the data show.  Today, SPX shares rose 1.3 percent to $80.93, their highest
closing level since July 2011.  A simplified business focused on flow control is likely to
lure more interest from potential acquirers, according to Kevin Kirkeby, a New York-based equity analyst at S&P.  “Somebody taking it on now probably would have 10
additional items on their to-do list in terms of really pulling
out the value of the businesses,” he said. “Those are steps
and activities that maybe are beyond the scope of some potential
buyers.”  Saddle Burr  In particular, SPX’s thermal equipment and services unit,
which has seen profits curtailed as demand for cooling systems
and heat exchangers slowed, would deter some buyers, said
Heymann of William Blair. The division  accounted  for 29 percent
of SPX’s revenue in 2012.  “We had kind of thought that eventually at some point or
another this was going to become a flow business and that the
flow business would then get sold,” Heymann said. The thermal
business “is the burr in the saddle that’s got to get fixed.”  Ajay Kejriwal of FBR said divesting at least parts of the
industrial products unit as well would position the remaining
flow control-focused business as an attractive target for
suitors including Flowserve, machinery maker GEA and Lund,
Sweden-based  Alfa Laval AB. (ALFA)   “These are good assets,” Kejriwal said in a phone
interview from New York. “The flow business could be sold as a
standalone company.”  Private Equity  Donat von Mueller, a spokesman for Dusseldorf, Germany-
based GEA, Steve Boone, a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based
Flowserve, and Chip Bresette of Alfa Laval declined to comment
on whether their companies would be interested in acquiring SPX
if it shed assets.  A slimmer SPX would also be attractive to private-equity
suitors, said Kejriwal and Heymann.  At least eight private-equity firms including Bain Capital
LLC, TPG Capital and Onex Corp. expressed interest in acquiring
Gardner Denver, according to people familiar with the matter.
The Wayne, Pennsylvania-based company last week received a $3.68
billion bid from KKR & Co., a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be named as the process is private, said.  Same Playbook  Still, SPX has already outlined its intent to become a
pure-play flow control company and could build out that business
on its own, according to Shannon O’Callaghan, a New York-based
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “It’s not like you have a management team that’s executing
a wildly different playbook already. They’re already choosing to
sell assets for good value when they can,” O’Callaghan said.
“Now would somebody else want to lever it up even more or sell
things even faster? Potentially.”  Private-equity  firms, lured by SPX’s consistent revenue
stream, free cash flow  generation  and the opportunity for margin
expansion, could seek to buy the company even before it makes
any divestitures, according to James Kawai, an Atlanta-based
analyst at SunTrust.  SPX’s  operating margin  of 6.3 percent during the past 12
months was the lowest among North American peers in the flow-
control equipment industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There’s a sense that here you have a business with lots
of revenue visibility and lots of potential upside on the
margins from operating improvements,” Kawai said in a phone
interview. “There are not a lot of  industrial companies  that
are what we call under-earning. Most are at peak earnings or at
very high margins and they’re doing very well. So this one is
kind of unique.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  