-- Sri Lanka Military Raping, Torturing Tamil Prisoners, Group Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-02-26T12:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/sri-lanka-military-raping-torturing-tamil-prisoners-group-says.html
Sri Lanka’s military is continuing
to rape and torture suspected members or supporters of the Tamil
Tiger guerrilla movement, according to  Human Rights Watch .  Almost four years after the end of the country’s war, the
New York-based advocacy group said it has evidence that rape and
other forms of sexual violence are still being used against
Tamil detainees. The rights group today released its findings in
a 141-page  report  called “We Will Teach You a Lesson.”  “Sri Lankan security forces have committed untold numbers
of rapes of Tamil men and women in custody,” Brad Adams, Asia
director for Human Rights Watch, said in the report. “These are
not just wartime atrocities but continue to the present.”  The group spoke to 75 people who said they had been raped
in secret or official detention centers between 2006 and 2012.  The  Sri Lankan High Commission  in New Delhi did not
immediately respond to a telephone call seeking comment. Calls
to the defense ministry in Colombo out of normal office hours
were not answered.  The  United Nations Human Rights Council , whose latest
session will run until March 22, will likely consider whether to
again press  Sri Lanka  to investigate alleged abuses during its
26-year civil war, and especially in the last few weeks of
fighting. About 100,000 people were killed in the conflict as
the guerrillas fought for a separate homeland on the Indian
Ocean island in a conflict that ended in 2009.  Human Rights Watch said most of those it interviewed spoke
outside of Sri Lanka, adding that their accounts had been
corroborated by medical and legal reports. Most of the cases
involved the victim being abducted at home by unidentified men
and taken to an interrogation center.  Bloody Offensive  The group spoke to one 23-year-old student in the U.K. who
claimed he was kidnapped and interrogated. The man said he was
beaten with electric wires, burned with cigarettes and raped
over three consecutive nights.  A 31-year-old Tamil woman told the group she was
interrogated after being picked up at her home in  Colombo . She
told the group that she was beaten with a sand-filled pipe and
repeatedly raped.  The war finished with a bloody offensive by the Sri Lankan
army that ended the rebels’ fight for a separate homeland in the
north and east of the island, 30 miles off  India ’s south coast.
Peace has spurred investment in infrastructure and tourism,
helping lift expansion in the $50 billion economy.  Sri Lanka’s military and the rebel Tamil Tigers committed
serious violations of international law in the final stages of a
conflict and caused as many as 40,000 civilian deaths, according
to a United Nations report released in April 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  