-- Standard Bank Cuts Brazil Unit in Emerging Market Pullback
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-27T19:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/standard-bank-cuts-brazil-operations-in-emerging-market-pullback.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s
largest lender, is scaling back operations in Brazil as it
dismantles a strategy to expand in  emerging markets .  The Johannesburg-based lender is cutting costs in the
country and will focus on Brazil-related work with Africa and
China instead of building up a local banking business, spokesman
Ross Linstrom said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Banco Standard de Investimentos SA, as the Brazilian unit
is known, has $1.46 billion in assets in the country, according
to central bank data. The lender first established an office in
Sao Paulo in 1998 and boosted its presence to over 100 staff,
according to Standard’s  website . The Brazilian bank has been
involved in structured finance, metals trading, commodity
finance, foreign exchange transactions and derivatives trading.  “We have reduced the cost base in this entity and have
simplified the business model in Brazil,” Linstrom said. “This
simplified model should consume less capital and reducing our
capital utilization over time will remain a key focus.”  In 2011, Standard began unwinding its expansion strategy in
emerging markets and announced asset sales in Russia,  Turkey  and
 Argentina  to raise cash for investment in Africa.  In December it completed the sale of 80 percent of its
Argentine division for about $400 million to  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  ICBC, which owns 20 percent of
Standard, is expanding in  Latin America . It opened in Peru in
November and received authorization to open a bank in Brazil a
month later.  Declined Comment  Linstrom declined to comment on which units had been
reduced and how many staff are now employed in Brazil. “No
decision” had been taken to close the business, he said.  The bank announced in April it was naming Andrea Menezes as
chief executive of the Brazilian unit, to replace Fernando Negri, who would move to a different position.  Closing the Brazilian operations wouldn’t be “ideal” for
the lender or its investors, Greg Saffy, a Johannesburg-based
banks analyst for RMB Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  The bank’s  first-half  operating expenses for the six months
through June climbed to 19.2 billion rand, from 16.3 billion a
year earlier, outstripping the 15 percent rise in income from
banking activities. Standard said in November it may be forced
to cut as many as 135 jobs in its corporate and investment bank
in London to reduce costs amid “challenging” economic
conditions and increased regulation.  Banking in Brazil  “I doubt Standard will be cutting headcount further as
it’s more about getting the right people into the right
countries and I expect the headcount in Africa will be going
up,” said Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of
$42 billion at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in Cape Town
including Standard Bank stock. “As a bank is a trust business,
it’s incredibly important that they behave in all stakeholders’
interests in entering and exiting countries.”  The Brazilian government has cut taxes on payrolls,
 consumer goods  and electricity, allowed the real to strengthen
by 4 percent, the most among major currencies this year, and
lowered the benchmark  interest rate  to 7.25 percent. With global
banks under pressure to boost profit and pare costs, UBS AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG have
expanded in Brazil while lenders like the National Bank of  Abu
Dhabi  say they also want to open offices in the country.  Standard is the worst-performing stock on the six-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS)  over the past 12 months after  Absa
Group Ltd. (ASA) , having gained 5.9 percent compared with the index’s
13 percent increase. Today it dropped 1.6 percent to close at
115.25 rand in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  