-- Stifel Said to Cut Three Senior Bankers Following KBW Merger
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-02-26T21:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/stifel-said-to-cut-three-senior-bankers-following-kbw-merger.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  let go at
least three senior bankers after the takeover of boutique
investment bank  KBW Inc. (KBW) , said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The departures include Michael Barry, a managing director
who joined Stifel in 2009 from Merrill Lynch & Co. and most
recently oversaw financial institutions mergers, said one
person, who asked not to be named because the changes haven’t
been made public. Barry is in talks to join Sterne Agee Group
Inc., one person said.  Stifel is cutting staff after agreeing in November to
purchase KBW in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at $575
million to build its financial-services business. The St. Louis-
based firm is offering retention packages to key KBW employees,
and most reductions will involve employees who don’t deal
directly with clients, Stifel Chief Executive Officer Ronald Kruszewski said when the deal was announced.  Sarah Anderson, a spokeswoman for Stifel, didn’t return
calls seeking comment on the personnel changes. Sophia Pogoff, a
spokeswoman for KBW, declined to comment.  Barry was among a handful of senior hires Stifel made in
recent years to compete in financial services. Robert Hutchinson
and Jean-Luc Servat, both managing directors, also left the
company, said the people familiar with the matter.  Servat confirmed his departure from Stifel in an interview
with Bloomberg. The banker, who’s still advising clients on
pending transactions, is considering whether he’s going to stay
in the industry, he said. Servat, based in San Francisco and
responsible for West Coast banks, joined Stifel in 2011 from
Royal Bank of  Canada .  Hutchinson’s Move  Hutchinson will return to Sterne Agee, said one of the
people, where he worked before joining Stifel last year.
Hutchinson, responsible for northeastern banks, joined the
firm’s Boston office in September, according to a press release
announcing his hire. He didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment. Jim Townsend, a spokesman for Sterne Agee, didn’t
respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Stifel dropped 6.3 percent to $35.24 at the close in New
York.  Stifel’s financial advisory group had more than a dozen
senior bankers before it bought KBW, which will operate as a
Stifel unit and continue to do business as Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the market maker that’s being
acquired by Getco LLC, plans to sell its debt-brokerage unit to
Stifel, people familiar with the matter said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  