-- Suntech Holds Talks With Wuxi on Financial Support
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-26T17:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/suntech-holds-talks-with-wuxi-on-receiving-support-adviser-says.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar-panel maker with $541 million in bonds due next
month, is talking with the government of Wuxi about the
possibility of financial support.  “The Wuxi government has been looking for measures to bail
out Suntech,” said Shi Dinghuan, president of the Chinese
Renewable Energy Society and an adviser to the State Council,
the nation’s highest executive organization. “The government
won’t let this well-known company enter catastrophe easily.”  The comment indicates the breadth of discussions under way
between Chinese government officials and solar manufacturers on
how the industry can weather a plunge in prices, excess
production capacity and the possibility of a trade war with the
U.S. and  Europe . No Chinese solar company has yet received a
bailout for its foreign debts.  Suntech, whose bonds are due March 15, hired UBS AG last
year and began talks with creditors about how to refinance the
notes following a disclosure that it was a victim of fraud. In
December, the company cut its forecasts for solar shipments.  “The government can offer support through tax policies,
credit facilities, negotiations and helping consolidation among
companies, while it can’t intervene in companies’ operations
directly,” Shi said in an interview. “How the bailout works
will depend on the local economy and expectations of the solar
industry by the local government.”  An official in the information office of Wuxi’s local
authority declined to comment, saying talks with Suntech were
confidential. Calls to Suntech Chairman Shi Zhengrong weren’t
answered, and a company representative said Suntech won’t
comment.  China Support  China has supported solar companies through credit lines
from China Development Bank Corp. and loans from local
government authorities.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-biggest wafer maker, agreed in
October to sell a 19.9 percent stake to an investor in Xinyu,
where it’s based. Suntech in September got a $32 million loan
that was organized by Wuxi.  Suntech shares have risen 68 percent in the past three
months, reflecting increased confidence in the producer and in
Chinese solar companies amid a stock-market rebound worldwide.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts rose 1 percent in
 New York  trading to as much as 1.5 percent as the Bloomberg
Large Solar Index fell 3.8 percent. That gave Suntech a market
value of $259 million.  Still Hope  “There is still hope with some investors who believe  China 
will not let Suntech go bankrupt and, like LDK, will find local
government support,” Nitin Kumar, an analyst at Nomura
Singapore Ltd., said Feb. 18. He rated Suntech as  reduce  with a
price estimate of $1.  In a presentation to bondholders in November, Suntech said
its main options were probably restructuring payments on the
bonds, an exchange offer that would convert the securities into
stock, or an investment from another party.  In October, China Business News had said Suntech was in
talks with Wuxi Guolian Development (Group) Co. and Wuxi
Industry Development Group Co. about possible cooperation. It
cited unidentified people.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Feifei Shen in
Beijing at   fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  