-- Treasury Yields Close to 1-Month Low Before Auction
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-26T16:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/u-s-japan-australia-bonds-rise-on-haven-demand.html
Treasury 10-year note yields  traded 
at almost the lowest level in a month as the U.S. prepares to
sell $35 billion of five-year securities in the second of three
auctions this week totaling $99 billion.  U.S. debt was little changed as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  defended the central bank’s unprecedented asset
purchases during congressional testimony, saying they are
supporting the expansion with little risk of inflation or asset-
price bubbles. Benchmark 10-year notes rallied the most since
November yesterday as investors sought the safety after
inconclusive elections in  Italy  triggered concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis would intensify.  “The focus today is on Bernanke, who is staying the course
despite the division at Federal Open Market Committee meetings,
and what is going on in Italy, which has yet to play out, said
Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “Both stories have given some
support to the Treasury market. People were waiting to see what
Bernanke had to say after the last two FOMC meetings showed some
divisiveness among the committee members.”  The 10-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.85 percent as of 11:36 a.m. New York time, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield dropped to 1.84
percent, the lowest since Jan. 24. The price of the 2 percent
note maturing in February 2023 added 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 10/32.  Debt Returns  Treasuries of all maturities have returned 0.5 percent this
month, while losing 0.4 percent this year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  U.S. debt  returned 2.2 percent in
2012.  The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, reached
negative 0.7 percent today, the most costly level since Jan. 23.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasury trading volume rose yesterday to $401.6 billion,
the highest level since Feb. 1, according to ICAP Plc, the
largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt . Daily
volume has averaged $292.5 billion this year, compared with $240
billion in 2012.  The five-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.77
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.889 percent at
the previous auction of the securities on Jan. 29.  Investors bid for 2.88 times the amount of available debt
last month, compared with 2.72 times in December.  Auction Outlook  The five-year auction “is going to go very well,” said
 Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee . “Bonds are going to be so glued to figuring
out what positions have to be rebalanced globally. We have to
re-plow an awful lot of ground that people think was behind
us.”  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $29 billion of seven-year
notes tomorrow. A $35 billion two-year sale yesterday drew
purchase orders for 3.33 times the amount offered, the lowest
level in 19 months.  U.S. 10-year yields dropped as much as 11 basis points
yesterday, the biggest intraday slide since Nov. 7, after
Italian results showed pre-election favorite Pier Luigi Bersani
won the lower house by less than a half a percentage point,
while  Silvio Berlusconi , the former premier fighting a tax-fraud
conviction, won a blocking minority in the Senate.  U.S. five-, 10-, and 30-year yields all slid to month lows
earlier today amid speculation spending cuts set to begin March
1 will hurt the world’s largest economy. President  Barack Obama 
urged U.S. governors to pressure Congress for a deal to avoid
the reductions, telling them yesterday the impact would be felt
in every state.  Budget Cuts  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts to begin this year and be spread over nine years
as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit. The
reductions, also known as sequestration, are to be split almost
evenly between defense and nondefense spending.  “The result of the Italian election and the approaching
sequester deadline should bring back a bid to longer-dated
paper,” Lloyds Banking Group Plc strategists led by  Charles Diebel  in  London  wrote in an e-mailed note.  Reports showed  consumer confidence  was stronger than
forecast this month and  new home sales  reached the highest level
since July 2008.  The Conference Board’s index climbed to 69.6, exceeding all
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists, from a revised
58.4 in January, data from the New York-based private research
group showed today.  New home sales surged 15.6 percent to a 437,000 annual
pace, exceeding the highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey and
following a 378,000 rate in the prior month, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington .  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers cut their target for the federal funds
 rate , which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to a
range of zero to 0.25 percent in 2008. In January, they affirmed
their pledge to keep the target near zero “at least as long”
as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.  The central bank is also buying $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage bonds a month to put downward pressure on  interest
rates . The Fed bought $1.4 billion of Treasuries maturing from
February 2036 to August 2042 today.  Fed Chairman Bernanke is scheduled to testify before a U.S.
House committee tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  