-- U.S. Senators Urge EU to Cut Payments-System Link to Iran
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/u-s-senators-urge-eu-to-cut-payments-system-link-to-iran.html
U.S. lawmakers are calling on the
European Union to “immediately” prevent  Iran  from using its
cross-border payment system, known as Target2, to prevent the
country from circumventing sanctions.  “We strongly urge you to take all necessary measures to
immediately cut off Iran’s ability to use its foreign-held euros
by prohibiting direct or indirect access to Target2 services by
or on behalf of accounts owned or controlled by the government
of Iran or its affiliates,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter
yesterday to EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi .  U.S. lawmakers are concerned that Iran is converting its
foreign-held euros into local currencies, which “in turn free
up significant funds to finance Iranian imports, stabilize
Iran’s monthly budget and allows the regime to continue to
engage in sanctionable and illicit activities,” according to
the letter obtained by  Bloomberg News  after it was circulated by
Sens. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, and  Mark Kirk ,
an Illinois Republican.  The letter was signed by at least 35 senators, including a
majority of members of the banking and foreign relations
committees, according to a Senate aide who asked not to be
identified because the letter hasn’t been announced.  The 27-nation EU bans transactions with Iranian banks apart
from some pre-approved payments including those relating to food
and medicine. The assets of at least three Iranian banks have
been frozen as part of a list of sanctioned people and entities
considered to be providing support to the Islamic Republic’s
government.  Nuclear Weapons  Sanctions have been imposed on Iran partly out of concern
that it is seeking to develop  nuclear-weapons  capability,
allegations its government denies.  The ECB said on Feb. 21 that no payments that contravene
sanctions on Iran are cleared via Target2.  While information available on the ECB’s website shows that
four Iran-based banks have a total of six branches registered in
the ECB’s database of financial institutions, they may not be
eligible to receive refinancing loans from the central bank.  “Though we recognize and appreciate the narrow mandate by
which the ECB operates and respect the independence of this
institution, we believe we all have a role to play in ensuring
that Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon,” the U.S. lawmakers
said. “It is critical that the U.S. and  Europe  present a
strong, unified front with respect to  Iran’s nuclear program .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  