-- U.S. Mass Layoffs Report for January (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2013-02-26T15:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/u-s-mass-layoffs-report-for-january-text-.html
Following is the text of the monthly
mass layoffs release from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Employers took 1,328 mass layoff actions in January
involving 134,026 workers as measured by new filings for
unemployment insurance benefits during the month, the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. (Data are seasonally
adjusted.) Each mass layoff involved at least 50 workers from a
single employer. Mass layoff events decreased by 181 from
December, and the number of associated initial claims decreased
by 3,813. In January, 357 mass layoff events were reported in
the manufacturing sector resulting in 43,068 initial claims.
Monthly mass layoff data are identified using administrative
data sources without regard to layoff duration.  The national  unemployment rate  was 7.9 percent in January,
essentially unchanged from the prior month and down from 8.3
percent a year earlier. Total nonfarm payroll employment
increased by 157,000 over the month and by 2,016,000 over the
year.  Industry Distribution (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  The number of mass layoff events in January was 1,528, not
seasonally adjusted, resulting in 144,517 initial claims for
 unemployment insurance . Over the year, the number of average
weekly mass layoff events for January decreased by 44 to 382,
while associated average weekly initial claims increased by 703
to 36,129. Eight of the 19 major industry sectors in the private
economy reported over-the-year increases in average weekly
initial claims, with the largest increase occurring in
manufacturing. The six-digit industry with the largest number of
private nonfarm initial claims due to mass layoffs in January
was temporary help services.  In January, the manufacturing sector accounted for 31
percent of mass layoff events and 37 percent of associated
initial claims in the private economy. Within manufacturing, the
numbers of mass layoff claimants were highest in transportation
equipment and in food. Eleven of the 21 manufacturing subsectors
experienced over-the-year increases in average weekly initial
claims.  Geographic Distribution (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  Among the census regions, the South had the largest number
of initial claims due to mass layoffs in January. Three of the 4
regions experienced over-the-year increases in average weekly
initial claims, with the largest increase occurring in the
South.  Among the states,  California  had the highest number of mass
layoff initial claims in January, followed by  North Carolina ,
 Alabama , and  New York . Twenty-five states experienced over-the-
year increases in average weekly initial claims, led by
California and North Carolina.  Note  The monthly data series in this release cover mass layoffs
of 50 or more workers beginning in a given month, regardless of
the duration of the layoffs. For private nonfarm establishments,
information on the length of the layoff is obtained later and
issued in a quarterly release that reports on mass layoffs
lasting more than 30 days (referred to as “extended mass
layoffs”). The quarterly release provides more information on
the industry classification and location of the establishment
and on the demographics of the laid-off workers. The monthly
data series in this release are subjected to average weekly
analysis, which mitigates the effect of differing lengths of
months. See the Technical Note for more detailed definitions and
for a description of average weekly analysis.  The Mass Layoffs new release for February 2013 is scheduled
to be released on Friday, March 22, 2013, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  Technical Note  The Mass Layoff Statistics (MLS) program is a federal-state
program that uses a standardized automated approach to
identifying, describing, and tracking the effects of major job
cutbacks, using data from each state’s unemployment insurance
database. Each month, states report on employers which have at
least 50 initial claims filed against them during a consecutive
5-week period. These employers then are contacted by the state
agency to determine whether these separations lasted 31 days or
longer, and, if so, other information concerning the layoff is
collected. States report on layoffs lasting more than 1 month on
a quarterly basis.  The monthly data present preliminary mass layoff activity
in the reference month and are not revised in subsequent months
except in special circumstances (e.g., layoffs in states
affected by  Hurricane Katrina ). Counts of initial claims
associated with mass layoff events reflect activity through the
end of the reference month. Additional mass layoff event and
initial claims activity received after data for the reference
month have been published by BLS are not updated in the monthly
mass layoff series and, therefore, may not match revised mass
layoff data issued in state publications. However, any
additional mass layoff information meeting the extended mass
layoff criteria will be reflected in BLS’ quarterly publication
of extended mass layoff data.  A given month contains an aggregation of the weekly
unemployment insurance claims filings for the Sunday through
Saturday weeks in that month.  All weeks are included for the
particular month, except if the first day of the month falls on
Saturday.  In this case, the week is included in the prior
month’s tabulations.  This means that some months will contain 4
weeks and others, 5 weeks.  The number of weeks in a given month
may be different from year to year, and the number of weeks in a
year may vary.  Therefore, data users who intend to perform
analysis of over-the-year change in the not seasonally adjusted
series should use the average weekly mass layoff figures
displayed in tables 3 and 4 of this release.  The average weekly
adjustment process produces a consistent series for each month
across all years, permitting over-the-year analysis to be
performed using strictly comparable data.  The MLS program resumed operations in April 1995 after it
had been terminated in November 1992 due to lack of funding.
Prior to April 1995, monthly layoff statistics were not
available.  Information in this release will be made available to
sensory impaired individuals upon request. Voice phone:  (202)
691-5200; Federal Relay Service:  (800) 877-8339.  Definitions  Average weekly mass layoff events and initial claimants.
The number of events and initial claimants in a given month
divided by the number of weeks contained within that month.  Employer.  Employers in the MLS program include those covered by state
unemployment insurance laws. Information on employers is
obtained from the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages
(QCEW) program, which is administered by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS).  Industry.  Employers are classified according to the 2007 version of
the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). For
temporary help and professional employers organization
industries, monthly MLS-related statistics generally reflect
layoffs related to underlying client companies in other
industries. An individual layoff action at a client company can
be small, but when initial claimants associated with many such
layoffs are assigned to a temporary help or professional
employer organization firm, a mass layoff event may trigger.  Initial claimant.  A person who files any notice of unemployment to initiate a
request either for a determination of entitlement to and
eligibility for compensation, or for a subsequent period of
unemployment within a benefit year or period of eligibility.  Mass layoff event.  Fifty or more initial claims for unemployment insurance
benefits filed against an employer during a 5-week period,
regardless of duration.  Seasonal adjustment  Effective with the release of data for January 2005, BLS
began publishing six seasonally adjusted monthly MLS series. The
six series are the numbers of mass layoff events and mass layoff
initial claims for the total, private nonfarm, and manufacturing
sectors.  Seasonal adjustment is the process of estimating and
removing the effect on time series data of regularly recurring
seasonal events such as changes in the weather, holidays, and
the beginning and ending of the school year. The use of seasonal
adjustment makes it easier to observe fundamental changes in
time series, particularly those associated with general economic
expansions and contractions.  The MLS data are seasonally adjusted using the X-12-ARIMA
seasonal adjustment method on a concurrent basis. Concurrent
seasonal adjustment uses all available monthly estimates,
including those for the current month, in developing seasonal
adjustment factors. Revisions to the most recent 5 years of
seasonally adjusted data will be made once a year with the
issuance of December data. Before the data are seasonally
adjusted, prior adjustments are made to the original data to
adjust them for differences in the number of weeks used to
calculate the monthly data. Because weekly unemployment
insurance claims are aggregated to form monthly data, a
particular month’s value could be calculated with 5 weeks of
data in 1 year and 4 weeks in another. The effects of these
differences could seriously distort the seasonal factors if they
were ignored in the seasonal adjustment process. These effects
are modeled in the X-12-ARIMA program and are permanently
removed from the final seasonally adjusted series.  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  