-- UBS Said to Be in Talks With TrueEX for Swaps Execution
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-26T17:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/ubs-said-to-be-in-talks-with-trueex-for-swaps-trade-execution.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is in advanced talks to send
interest-rate swap orders by its customers to swaps exchange
trueEX Group LLC as the bank adjusts to rules under the Dodd-
Frank Act, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The firms are discussing a partnership as Zurich-based UBS
brings its electronic swap-trading platform, the  Price
Improvement Network , into compliance with the regulation, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Agreements to receive guaranteed trading volume from a
major bank may boost trueEX’s chances against rivals in the
competitive market for regulated swaps trading.  The 2010 legislation, the most sweeping overhaul of U.S.
financial regulation since the 1930s, will require swaps dealers
and major market participants to execute trades on regulated
systems known as swap-execution facilities or designated
exchanges such as trueEX, co-founded by Sunil Hirani. The U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission hasn’t completed the swaps
trading rules or defined what a SEF is.  Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for the bank, confirmed the
talks. Jill Totenberg, a spokeswoman for trueEX, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Switzerland ’s biggest bank is seeking an advantage by
setting up its customer trading to be compliant with rules still
being completed by the CFTC, the people said. UBS must seek
partners because of a rule proposed in October 2010 that
prevents one firm from owning more than 20 percent of a
regulated exchange or trading system. The firms may announce a
deal within the next two months, one of the people said.  Pooling Clients  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News , has
said it plans to register as a swap-execution facility and could
compete with trueEX for transaction business. Other firms that
have said they plan to register as SEFs include Tradeweb LLC,
ICAP Plc, GFI Group Inc. and Creditex, a unit of
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  UBS has been directing swaps trades, which historically
were privately negotiated over the telephone, onto its automated
platform. PIN lets customers directly post prices with a so-
called order-book model where bids and offers are shown before
the trade. UBS is seeking to pool clients and orders, then
funnel them through the regulated trading systems.  Dodd-Frank allows swaps trades backed by clearinghouses to
be completed either on regulated trading systems or an exchange.  TrueEX is the first swaps exchange approved as a designated
contract market by the CFTC. Hirani, an architect of the credit-
default swap market, co-founded Creditex Inc. before selling it
to ICE in 2008 for $513 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  