-- Hungary Court Voids Church Law in Latest Orban Setback
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-26T13:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/hungary-court-voids-church-law-in-latest-orban-setback.html
Hungary’s Constitutional Court
struck down a law that stripped at least 17 churches of state
recognition in the latest defeat for Premier  Viktor Orban ’s
drive to overhaul the country’s laws and institutions.  The justices said giving lawmakers the exclusive right to
determine whether a church meets criteria for state recognition
makes the regulation prone to politicized decisions and fails to
provide for legal redress, according to the  ruling  posted on the
Budapest-based court’s website today.  Since winning elections in 2010 with an unprecedented two-
thirds majority, Orban’s unilaterally pushed through a new
constitution over opposition protests and extended his influence
over independent institutions such as the judiciary, while
overhauling basic laws ranging from labor to elections.  To narrow justices’ room for interpretation, Orban’s party
has proposed barring the high court from citing rulings and
reasonings previous to the new constitution. Decisions cited
legislation dating back to the 19th century defending judicial
independence in striking down a law that forced hundreds of
judges into early retirement.  A constitutional amendment proposed by Orban’s ruling
Fidesz party earlier this month includes allowing limits on
campaign ads outside of public media, giving the chief
prosecutor the right to pick judges for cases, restricting the
definition of a family to marriage and criminalizing the
homeless who live on the streets -- all laws the court voided in
recent rulings.  “We have to be cautious so that we don’t give the
appearance that there is a prestige or political dispute between
the  Constitutional Court  and the executive or Parliament,”
Orban said in a HirTV interview yesterday. “I urge everyone to
be cautious.”  Last month, the court struck down a mandatory voter-
registration law that would have “unduly” limited the right to
vote in 2014 elections. Last week, the court voided a ban on
Nazi and communist symbols, saying the law prohibiting them was
“too general and insufficiently clear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  