-- Usiminas to Boost Brazil Steel Prices Up to 12%, Santander Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-26T11:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/usiminas-to-boost-brazil-steel-prices-up-to-12-santander-says.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the Brazilian steelmaker that posted losses in every quarter
of 2012, is boosting steel prices for distributors by as much as
12 percent next month, Banco Santander SA said.  Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is
known, is set to raise prices for some steel products by between
6 percent and 12 percent, Santander analysts Felipe Reis and
Alex Sciacio said in a note to clients dated today. The increase
may boost the company’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization this year by about 85 million
reais ($42.9 million), they said.  “We have confirmed with steel distributors that Usiminas
is increasing prices to distribution clients,” the analysts
wrote in the report. “We view this news favorably.”  Usiminas’ press office didn’t immediately reply to an e-
mail today seeking confirmation of the increase.  Usiminas posted Feb. 18 a fourth-quarter net loss of 323.8
million reais, more than twice the loss estimated by analysts,
as costs of products sold rose faster than sales.  Usiminas, which boosted steel prices to distributors by an
average 5 percent in January, is working to extend the increases
to its industrial customers by April, Sergio Leite, the
company’s commercial vice president, said Feb. 19 during an
earnings conference call. That would be the second price
increase for clients since July, he said at the time.  Usiminas  rose  6.8 percent to 9.87 reais in  Sao Paulo 
yesterday, the most since Dec. 18 and the first increase in
seven trading days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  