-- Vale Balance-Sheet Cleanup Heralds Record Loss: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-26T21:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/vale-balance-sheet-cleanup-heralds-record-loss-corporate-brazil.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, probably lost money for the first time in a decade
in the fourth quarter after Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira dropped unprofitable projects and wrote down assets.  The Rio de Janeiro-based miner will report tomorrow a
record loss of $1.22 billion for the three months ended Dec. 31
under U.S. accounting standards, according to the average of
five analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. That would mark
the first loss since the third quarter of 2002, when Vale lost
$150 million after a currency slump boosted debt costs.  Ferreira, who took over as CEO in May 2011, is selling
assets and cutting spending after a two-year metals boom led by
China stalled, causing iron-ore prices to slump 55 percent from
a February 2011 peak to a three-year low in September, before
rebounding. The decline helped trigger more than $60 billion in
writedowns at companies from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to Rio Tinto
Group. An increasing focus on its core iron-ore business will
help Vale restore profit and increase dividends, said  Arthur Byrnes  at Deltec Asset Management LLC in New York.  “They have to be much more targeted and much more
efficient about what they are going to expand into,” Byrnes,
who helps manage $1 billion, including Vale shares, at Deltec as
a senior managing director, said by telephone. “Dividends would
have been a lot nicer having not gone nuts for eight of the last
10 years trying to do everything in the world.”  Stock Decline  Vale  shares  had declined 16 percent in U.S. dollar terms
since reaching a nine-month high on Jan. 2, compared with a 4.3
percent drop for Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s largest mining
company, and 11 percent for London-based Rio, the second
biggest. Vale is trading at 7.25 times estimated earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with a ratio
of 13.3 for BHP and 11 for Rio. Vale  rose  2.5 percent to 35.15
reais at the close in Sao Paulo today, the most since Feb. 19.  Iron-ore  prices  have rebounded 75 percent from September to
reach a 16-month high on Feb. 20, as growth in  China , the
biggest metals consumer, accelerates. Prices averaged $120 a ton
in the fourth quarter, a 7.2 percent increase from the previous
quarter and 15 percent lower than a year earlier, according to a
price index compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. Rates may tumble to
$70 a ton in the three months ending September, UBS AG analyst
Tom Price said by telephone today.  Vale’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization will drop 37 percent from a year earlier to $4.79
billion, the average of 14 estimates, after iron-ore prices
declined. Nickel and copper output also fell. The estimated
fourth-quarter loss will be the largest on record since at least
1997, when the company was privatized.  Assets Review  Vale is wrapping up an annual review of asset values. The
company said on Dec. 20 it would book a $4.2 billion fourth-
quarter pre-tax charge after lowering the valuation of its Onca
Puma nickel project in Brazil and its stake in aluminum producer
 Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY)  Another writedown of between $50 million and
$100 million for several assets will be announced along with the
earnings, Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said Dec. 6.  “Our intention is to clean up the balance sheet quite
soon,” he said in a  presentation  to investors in  London .  Vale’s press office in Rio declined to comment on earnings
before the quarterly release.  Failed deals in aluminum and coal caused $14 billion in
writedowns at Rio and led CEO Tom Albanese to lose his job last
month. Cost overruns at  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s flagship Minas-Rio
iron-ore project in Brazil were followed by Cynthia Carroll’s
announced departure as the company’s top executive. Anglo
slashed $4 billion from the value of Minas Rio.  At the helm of Vale since 2011, Ferreira is the only CEO of
the top five miners who isn’t leaving.  Mine Sales  Ferreira began reversing predecessor Roger Agnelli’s
acquisition strategy a year after he took charge. Vale announced
$1.47 billion of asset sales last year, including a coal mine in
Colombia, while putting potash projects on hold in Argentina and
 Canada .  “Too many acquisitions, too much overspending on capital -
- this is something of an industry-wide phenomenon,” Leo Larkin, a metals and mining analyst at S&P Capital IQ, said by
telephone from New York. “Companies get carried away.”  Ferreira is also cleaning up liabilities from tax disputes
that have led Vale shares to trail those of its main rivals. In
December it agreed to pay about $560 million to settle Swiss and
Brazilian tax disputes, of which about $460 million will be
booked in the fourth quarter.  While analysts anticipate the impact of Vale’s writedowns
on its earnings, the company is set to report an improving
operating performance, Banco Santander SA analysts Felipe Reis
and Alex Sciacio said.  Operating Profit  “We expect higher iron-ore sales volume and realized
prices to be the main drivers of the operating performance
recovery,” the Sao Paulo-based analysts wrote in a Feb. 20
research note. “This trend is set to continue in the first
quarter of 2013, as iron-ore spot prices have been surprisingly
high since the start of the year.”  Vale on Feb. 1 posted a 3.1 percent increase in fourth
quarter iron-ore output, beating analysts’ estimates, because of
less rain in  Brazil . Nickel and copper production declined
compared with the previous year.  After having increased its investments for several years
and overpaid for acquisitions, Vale is now adapting to a new
reality, S&P Capital IQ’s Larkin said.  “Vale has made it very clear that they are going to be
more disciplined about the capital allocation process,” he
said. “Everybody is retrenching.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  