-- Vitro Reaches Highest Price Since 1998 on Legal Cases
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-02-26T21:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/vitro-at-highest-since-1997-on-legal-cases-mexico-city-mover.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA)  closed at the highest
level in almost 15 years after the company said a court upheld a
ruling in a commercial case and speculation mounted that
Mexico’s largest glassmaker would settle a separate legal
dispute tied to its 2009 default.  The shares climbed 7.4 percent to 32.77 pesos in Mexico
City, the highest closing price since March 23, 1998. Vitro has
advanced 96 percent  this year , while the benchmark IPC index of
the Mexican stock exchange was little changed.  A Mexican appeals court ratified a favorable ruling in a
dispute with Pilkington Group Ltd. over a 2006 transaction,
Vitro said today. The court ordered legal costs to be paid by
Pilkington, a unit of Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Vitro said.  Earlier this month, Vitro said it was in talks to settle a
different legal battle with hedge funds including billionaire
Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. over debt from the San
Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based glassmaker’s $1.2 billion bond
default.  “It’s both” the Pilkington ruling and the possible
settlement with hedge funds bolstering Vitro shares today, said
Rafael Escobar, an analyst with Vector Casa de Bolsa SA in
 Mexico  City. The stock may also be rising as investors
anticipate improved financial results, Escobar said.  Vitro said third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 25 percent to $105 million
buoyed by higher capacity utilization and lower fees from debt
restructuring. Sales rose 4.7 percent to $455 million.  U.S. Rulings  While Vitro exited bankruptcy in Mexico a year ago, the
company has struggled to gain recognition for that
reorganization from courts in the U.S., its largest market.  A U.S. judge in  Dallas  rejected the company’s restructuring
plan in June, saying it improperly extinguished bondholder
claims against company units not in bankruptcy that guaranteed
Vitro debt. In November, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans upheld that decision.  The glassmaker is in talks with holdout creditors,
according to a company statement to the Mexican stock exchange
on Feb. 11, pushing the shares to a 19 percent gain that day.  “The company’s financial situation has improved in the
last few quarters,”  Gerardo Copca , an analyst at Metanalisis
SA, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “The
restructuring process seems to be evolving well and there’s
greater certainty that Vitro can get to a good settlement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  