-- Vivendi Biding Time on Brazil, Morocco Asset Disposals
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-26T20:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/vivendi-2012-revenue-beats-analysts-estimates-on-music-games.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , the French company
seeking buyers for telecommunications assets to refocus on media
businesses, will bide its time on divesting the phone divisions
in  Brazil  and Morocco.  GVT in Brazil and  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM)  both reported increases
in 2012 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding currency fluctuations, and that trend
will probably continue, making it more difficult for Vivendi to
accept a lesser offer, Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron
said after a press conference in Paris.  While “ideally we should dispose of one of the two this
year,” Capron said today, “we don’t have a knife on the throat
and therefore a fire sale doesn’t make sense.”  Vivendi, whose assets include record company  Universal
Music  Group, video-game maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , pay-
television business Canal+ as well as phone companies in  France ,
Brazil and Morocco, is studying options for its structure. Its
French mobile-phone unit SFR posted a fourth-quarter loss before
some items as call prices dropped, while revenue from TV, gaming
and music assets rose.  The company didn’t give a group-wide forecast, saying it’s
waiting on the results of a strategic review and that all units
met their 2012 objectives. Net debt came to 13.4 billion euros
($17.5 billion), less than the expected 14 billion euros, also
making it easier to wait for better offers, Capron said.  GVT Value  Vivendi is seeking 8 billion euros for GVT, with  DirecTV (DTV) 
among parties that have expressed interested, people with
knowledge of the talks have said.  The French company’s stake in Maroc Telecom so far has
attracted interest from  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , the
carrier also known as Etisalat, Qatar Telecom QSC and  Korea ’s  KT
Corp. (030200)  Vivendi’s 53 percent stake in the carrier has a market
value of about $5.8 billion.  Should Vivendi wait too long to sell assets, “investors
will progressively lose faith,” Sanford C. Bernstein analyst
Claudio Aspesi said by phone. “It’s not clear why you’ll get a
much better price next year than today.’  Vivendi reported a fourth-quarter  net loss  of 1.5 billion
euros, hurt by impairment costs at Canal+ France, for music
catalogs at Universal Music, as well as money set aside after
losing a lawsuit filed by  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)   Lagardere Suit  Vivendi is also in a legal battle with  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  over
jointly owned Canal+ France, a unit of Vivendi’s Canal+ Group.
Lagardere, which holds 20 percent of Canal+ France, sued its
partner this month. Capron said today Vivendi feels ‘‘legally
very strong” in fighting the suit.  Sales rose 0.6 percent last year to 29 billion euros,
Vivendi said today. Analysts had projected 28.5 billion euros,
the average of estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Vivendi will pay
a  dividend  of 1 euro a share.  The stock closed down 1.8 percent at 15.67 euros in Paris.
It has dropped 7.6 percent this year through today.  SFR posted a fourth-quarter loss of 50 million euros,
excluding interest, taxes and amortization, compared with profit
a year earlier. Revenue fell 8.7 percent as the carrier reduced
prices to fend off competitors. SFR’s Ebitda will probably drop
to “close to” 2.9 billion euros this year from 3.3 billion
euros in 2012.  “SFR is not for sale,” interim Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Francois Dubos reiterated today. The board’s immediate plan
for the company is to maximize SFR’s value and continue
Vivendi’s media and content growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  