-- Vodafone Said to Put Kabel Deutschland Approach on Hold
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-27T19:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/vodafone-said-to-put-kabel-deutschland-approach-on-hold.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has put on hold
plans to approach  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  about a takeover
bid after leaks of a potential offer complicated internal
discussions, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Vodafone, which had intended to contact Kabel Deutschland
after the cable provider’s earnings report last week, no longer
has a time frame for a possible approach, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the deliberations are
private. Kabel Deutschland shares fell 3.7 percent in Frankfurt,
valuing the company at 5.9 billion euros ($7.7 billion).  Vodafone had intensified internal talks about increasing
its share of the German market with Kabel Deutschland as  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  made a $16 billion offer to buy
 Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  Newbury, England-based Vodafone may still
decide to make a bid at some point, two of the people said.  “This leaves Vodafone in an awkward situation,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London, wrote
in a note to clients. It opens the possibility that Kabel
Deutschland will “enter a partnership relationship or more with
another wireless player. This could leave Vodafone counter-
bidding or simply marginalized.”  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, which
both have German wireless operations, are potential candidates
to partner with Kabel Deutschland, Bienenstock said.  Offloading Traffic  Representatives of Vodafone and Kabel Deutschland, which is
based near Munich, declined to comment.  Vodafone rose 2 percent to 165.1 pence in London. Kabel
Deutschland shares had climbed 9 percent through yesterday since
Manager Magazin reported an imminent Vodafone bid Feb. 13.  Credit default swaps insuring  Kabel Deutschland ’s bonds
jumped 21 basis points to 183 basis points, indicating a higher
perceived risk of default, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Bundled Packages  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless carrier
behind  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  is building up fixed-line assets to
offload surging traffic from its mobile-phone networks. Kabel
Deutschland, which provides television, Internet and phone
services to more than 8 million German households, would help
Vodafone protect its market share from other cable rivals, which
are increasingly offering mobile packages.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said at the
Mobile World Congress in Barcelona this week that he wants to
offer bundled TV, Internet, phone and mobile services across
Europe to consumers and businesses.  He isn’t alone in exploring how to expand fixed-line
offerings, as mobile carriers across Europe look to deepen their
relationships with customers through so-called quadruple play
offerings. Vivendi SA’s SFR, France’s second-largest mobile
provider, has held merger discussions with cable group
Numericable SAS about a merger that would put the combined group
in more French homes, people familiar with the matter have said.  Kabel Deutschland has an enterprise value, which includes
debt, of about 9 billion euros. It is Germany’s biggest cable
operator and competes with Liberty Global units in the country.  Deals involving telecommunications and media companies have
totalled more than $60 billion so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in Barcelona at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  