-- Vodka Maker CEDC Touts Bond-Equity Swap to Reduce Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-26T21:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/vodka-maker-cedc-touts-bond-equity-swap-to-reduce-debt.html
Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC) ,
the Polish vodka distiller rescued by Russian billionaire
Roustam Tariko last year, proposed swapping bonds for equity to
cut its debt by more than $750 million.  The company, which made a deal in December to get as much
as $107 million in new capital from Tariko five months after he
bought its debt, extended the offer to bondholders yesterday
after convertible notes due next month sank and its stock
plunged as much as 65 percent in New York. CEDC, maker of the
Zubrowka and Parliament vodka brands, said it’s also considering
a pre-packaged bankruptcy plan in  Delaware , according to a
 filing  yesterday.  Tariko, who  owns  19.5 percent of CEDC, signed an agreement
Dec. 28 giving him operational control in exchange for the
capital after Moody’s Investors Service cut the company’s credit
rating on concern over losses for bond investors. Yields on
CEDC’s dollar-denominated bonds due 2016 doubled to 33.76
percent between May and November last year, and have fallen 361
basis points since the December deal with Tariko.  “The company believes that a successful restructuring of
both the convertible senior notes and the senior secured notes
will improve its financial strength and flexibility,” Warsaw-
based CEDC said in PRNewswire statement issued yesterday. Should
the plan not find support among bond and shareholders the
company may decide to file for bankruptcy, according to the
statement.  The offer, which expires March 22, would give holders of
CEDC’s 3 percent convertible bonds due next month 8.86 new
 shares (CDC)  in exchange for each $1,000 principal amount of their
notes, the company said.  Bonds Slide  Investors in the 9.125 percent 2016 bonds issued by CEDC
Finance Corporation International Inc. will receive 16.52 new
shares and $508.21 principal of the company’s 2020 debt. On the
8.875 percent 2016 bonds, holders are being offered 22.18 new
shares for each 1,000 euro principal amount and $682.37
principal of the 6.5 percent 2020 bonds, according to the
statement.  CEDC added 5.1 percent to 65 cents in New York today,
paring back yesterday’s record 55 percent drop. Shares in Warsaw
sank a third trading day, sliding 42 percent to a record-low
2.18 zloty, or 68 cents. CEDC’s Polish stock fell 20 percent
yesterday.  The price on the convertible dollar notes due March 15 fell
37 percent to an all-time low of 15 cents on the dollar today,
down from as high as 97 cents in July, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Other Alternatives  Should the exchange plan fail to win sufficient creditor
support, CEDC asked for a vote on a pre-packaged bankruptcy in
Delaware that would produce a similar outcome while requiring
fewer backers, regulatory filings show.  Should both votes fail, “the company may be forced to
explore other immediate alternatives,” CEDC said in filings.  The company also disclosed alternative proposals yesterday
submitted by investors, including one backed by Tariko that
would give him and some other creditors 85 percent of the
company, and another from shareholder  Mark Kaufman  offering $75
million to support a different restructuring plan.  “The final direction of the restructuring will be based on
the outcome of the solicitation process,” CEDC said in
yesterday’s statement. “If sufficient notes are tendered in the
exchange and shareholders approve the plan, CEDC will consummate
the exchange offers.”  Executive Resignation  James Archbold, CEDC’s head of  investor relations , resigned
Feb. 22, according to a report posted Feb. 24 by GPWInfoStrefa,
a news portal run by the Polish Press Agency in cooperation with
the  Warsaw Stock Exchange. (GPW)  An e-mail sent yesterday to CEDC’s
investor relations address wasn’t returned.  CEDC erased about 50 percent of its market value in 2012
amid slumping sales, rising liabilities and management
transitions. Revenue fell 8.7 percent in the third quarter to
$191.3 million, after shrinking in the previous two quarters,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Chief Executive Officer William Carey stepped down in July.  Moody’s cut CEDC’s  bond rating  by one level in January to
Caa3, nine steps below investment grade, on concern the company
hadn’t secured “adequate financing” to repay the convertible
notes maturing next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  