-- VTB Biggest Micex Gainer on Qatar UBS Hire Report: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-26T12:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/vtb-biggest-micex-gainer-on-qatar-ubs-hire-report-moscow-mover.html
VTB Group rebounded, headed for the
biggest gain on  Russia ’s benchmark stock gauge, after Reuters
reported Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund hired  UBS AG (UBSN)  for advice
on a possible $3 billion investment in the bank.  The bank gained as much as 1.7 percent after falling 2.4
percent earlier and traded up 1.3 percent at 5.56 kopeks by 3:24
p.m. in Moscow. The amount of shares traded was 48 billion,
equivalent to about 1.4 times the three-month average. The Micex
tumbled 1.2 percent.  Talks between Qatar and VTB are “very advanced,” Reuters
reported. The Telegraph reported earlier this month that VTB
will issue $1.5 billion in new equity and $1.5 billion of
mandatory convertible bonds to the wealth fund. VTB is meeting
sovereign wealth funds and other investors to sell new shares
totaling at least $3 billion, Russia’s First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an interview last month. VTB
hasn’t received an investment offer from Qatar, RIA Novosti
cited him as saying Feb. 21.  “If this deal happens, it’ll be very positive, because
then VTB won’t have to sell as many shares to the general
market, creating an overhang,” Natalia Berezina, an analyst at
UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  Russia’s second-biggest bank is working on a capital
increase with Citigroup Inc., Reuters reported today, citing two
people with knowledge of the matter who it didn’t identify.
VTB’s press office declined to comment on today’s report by
phone.  In February 2011 VTB raised $3.3 billion by selling a 10
percent stake at 9.1468 kopeks a share, below its 2007 initial
public offering price. Shuvalov said last month VTB will not
issue shares at a price less than what it secured in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  