-- Wagon Makers Irked as No. 1 Buyer Mulls Plants: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-27T04:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/wagon-makers-irked-as-no-1-buyer-plans-units-corporate-india.html
A proposal by Indian Railways,
Asia’s oldest network, to step up wagon production with at least
seven new factories is raising concerns at suppliers  Titagarh
Wagons Ltd. (TWL)  and  Texmaco Rail & Engineering Ltd. (TXMRE)   The state-owned rail operator is setting up more units to
ensure adequate and timely supply of stock and components,
Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said yesterday while presenting the
budget for the next fiscal year, after signaling no increase in
orders. That triggered the biggest slide in the vendors’ stocks
in two years yesterday, prompting Texmaco’s Chief Financial
Officer A.K. Vijay to say that Indian Railways should deploy
funds to improve infrastructure rather than in manufacturing.  Titagarh, backed by General Electric Co., and Texmaco are
counting on the world’s third-largest network’s plan to spend as
much as 14 trillion rupees ($259 billion) by 2020 to upgrade and
expand its facilities as  India ’s $1.8 trillion economy expands
at the slowest pace in a decade. Bansal announced a 21 percent
increase in investment for the year starting April 1, most of it
to pay wages and meet fuel costs, while saying wagon procurement
target will be around the same as the current year’s 16,000 and
less than about 18,000 last year.  “The one thing that raises a bit of a concern is the
announcement of new manufacturing facilities,” Umesh Chowdhary,
managing director of Kolkata-based Titagarh, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t know whether the Railways with its limited
resources should actually put money there.”  Shares Plunge  Titagarh  shares  extended their losses today, slumping 4.9
percent to 232.25 rupees as of 9:33 a.m. in Mumbai, after
dropping 8.3 percent yesterday, the most since Feb. 25, 2011.
Texmaco declined 0.7 percent to 54.40 rupees following an 11
percent plunge, the most since it began trading two years ago.  “There were expectations that wagon acquisition will
increase next year, and that didn’t happen,” said Chetan Kapoor, an analyst with IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd. “If
these new factories see the light of the day, they will have a
negative impact as the share of orders to existing companies
will decrease.”  Titagarh, which is the nation’s biggest non-state wagon
maker and has an annual capacity of 10,000 units, supplies about
85 percent of the cars its builds to  Indian Railways , while
business from the state-owned operator accounts for about 80
percent for Texmaco, which is also based in Kolkata.  Sales Growth  Sales growth at Titagarh slowed to 23 percent in the year
ended March 31, 2012, from almost 30 percent in the previous 12
months. Texmaco’s revenue fell 18 percent in the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian Railways’ new wagon manufacturing plants include two
that will make high-capacity cars for a dedicated freight link,
according to the ministry’s budget document.  “We have suffered a lot in the current fiscal year,”
Texmaco’s Vijay said in a telephone interview. “With railway
finances in real stress, their funds shouldn’t be deployed in
projects that aren’t related to infrastructure.”  Indian Railways, which ferries 23 million passengers every
day, is set to report a loss of 246 billion rupees in the year
to March 31 from subsidized services, Bansal said yesterday. It
plans to spend 634 billion rupees to expand services and
renovate stations across the country.  “The Railways’ plan fell short of investor expectations
and there’s no initiative on the part of the government to fast
track delayed targets,” said Kamlesh Kotak, head of research at
Asian Markets Securities Pvt. “No wonder the stocks fell.”  Reducing Dependence  Titagarh, which is 12.7 percent  owned  by GE Capital
International (Mauritius), and Texmaco are exploring overseas
markets to rely less on its home market amid slowing sales.  Texmaco said in September that it is targeting exports of
rolling stock and steel castings to  Australia ,  Southeast Asia 
and  Africa  to account for 8 percent of its sales in the year
ending March 31. Titagarh’s Chowdhary said in an interview in
December that he is seeking railroad orders in Africa as an
acquisition in  France  two years ago helps win contracts.  In November, the board of Titagarh approved separating its
rail coaches division into an existing unit and demerging its
heavy earth moving and mining equipment division into another
subsidiary.  The changes will help increase the contribution of business
from non-state companies to about 40 percent of total revenue
over the next two to three years, from about 15 percent now,
Chowdhary said.  “All these new projects will have a gestation period,”
Texmaco’s Vijay said. “Whether these projects will happen or
not is a big question mark. Ultimately, everyone has to
compete.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  