-- Wal-Mart Sued by Wisconsin Women for Gender Bias
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-26T21:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/wal-mart-sued-by-five-wisconsin-women-for-gender-discrimination.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, was sued by five  Wisconsin  women who claim the
company denied them and other female employees equal pay and
equal opportunities.  “Women at Wal-Mart were told by management that women
deserved less pay and fewer promotions than men because men had
families to support,” Jim Kaster of Minneapolis-based Nichols
Kaster PLLP, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement
announcing the filing.  Their complaint, on behalf of workers at stores in parts of
Wisconsin,  Illinois , Indiana and  Michigan , was filed in federal
court in Madison, Wisconsin, on Feb. 20. The same day, a federal
judge in Nashville,  Tennessee , dismissed a similar case as
untimely.  Those cases and two more like them were filed after a 2011
U.S.  Supreme Court  decision rejecting a national gender-
discrimination class action, or group lawsuit. The high court’s
majority in that case found “no convincing proof” of a
companywide discriminatory pay and promotion policy.  “A Tennessee court last week came to the same conclusion
as a Texas court ruling last October -- that these class action
claims are not appropriate,” Randy Hargrove, a spokesman for
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Paid More  Sandra Ladik, the lead plaintiff in the Wisconsin case,
worked at the company’s Portage store from 1992 to 2006,
according to the complaint.  She claims that while serving as a maintenance department
manager, she learned that a male co-worker, whom she had trained
to become a maintenance supervisor, was being paid more than she
was. Ladik had more experience and responsibility than her
colleague, she alleged.  She and the other women who joined in her case are seeking
to proceed on behalf of all women now working in the stores in
Wal-Mart’s region 14, or who have worked there since Dec. 26,
1998. They are seeking compensatory awards of back-pay, front-
pay and punitive damages, plus other relief.  A federal judge in  Dallas  threw out another of the regional
cases in October. U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor also
concluded the plaintiffs’ claims were untimely. Dukes v. Wal-
Mart, the case in which the Supreme Court issued its decision,
is still pending in San Francisco federal court. A fifth federal
case was filed last year in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida .  Individual Claims  “We’ve said all along that if someone believes they have
been treated unfairly, they deserve to have their timely,
individual, claims heard in court,” Hargrove said in his e-
mailed statement.  “Wal-Mart has been successful in making technical legal
arguments preventing courts from reaching the merits of women’s
claims, and we expect more of these arguments here,” the
plaintiffs’ lawyer, Kaster, said. “Nevertheless, we hope that
the court in Wisconsin will, after this long period of waiting,
finally allow their claims to be heard by a jury.”  The case is Ladik v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 13-cv-123, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  