-- West Texas Sour Oil Strongest Since October as Holly Work Ends
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-02-26T20:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/west-texas-sour-oil-strongest-since-october-as-holly-work-ends.html
West  Texas  Sour strengthened to the
highest level versus domestic benchmark West Texas Intermediate
 since Oct. 3  after HollyFrontier Corp. executives said
maintenance at the Navajo,  New Mexico , refinery is complete.  HollyFrontier finished work on a crude unit, fluid
catalytic cracker and alkylation unit at its 115,000-barrel-a-
day refinery with units in Artesia and Lovington, David Lamp,
the company’s chief operating officer, said in a conference call
with analysts. The refinery processes heavy, sour and light,
sweet crude and runs Permian Basin crudes, according to the
company’s website.  West Texas Sour, a low-density, high-sulfur crude oil
delivered in Midland, Texas, strengthened by $4 to a discount of
$2.75 a barrel against WTI at 2 p.m. in New York, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap has  narrowed by $16.25  since
Jan. 11.  “Refinery maintenance still has a way to go, but the
people who are coming up are more likely to use WTS than they
are to use WTI right now,” said Carl Larry, president of
Houston-based Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC. “If I have an
opportunity to buy WTS now, I buy it now. I see my WTI prices
are going to be low for the next month.”  Crudes produced in the  Gulf of Mexico  weakened as spot
price assessments switched over to April-delivery oil.  Light Louisiana Sweet’s premium to WTI narrowed 60 cents to
$20.55 a barrel for April delivery, and Heavy Louisiana Sweet’s
premium fell 80 cents to $21.35.  Mars Blend’s premium fell 60 cents a barrel to $16.25.
 Thunder Horse , a sour crude with lower sulfur content than Mars,
weakened $1.25 to a premium of $19.  Western Canada Select, a blend of oil-sands bitumen,
weakened by 50 cents against WTI to a $25-a-barrel discount,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Syncrude, a synthetic
light, sweet oil upgraded from bitumen, was unchanged at a
$2.50-a-barrel premium to WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  