-- Westfield to Boost Overseas Investments on Retail Growth
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-02-27T05:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/westfield-profit-jumps-on-property-income-retail-trust-declines.html
Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s biggest
shopping mall operator by assets, plans to increase investments
in the U.S. and U.K. to take advantage of rising retail demand,
Co-chief Executive Officer  Peter Lowy  said.  The  company  expects 60 percent of its interests in projects
to be in the U.S. and U.K. in about four years, from about 55
percent now, Lowy said in a telephone interview from Sydney.
Westfield is also on the hunt for a new “unique” market in
Western  Europe , similar to Milan, where it will next year start
building one of the region’s biggest shopping malls, he said.  “You’ll see a bigger increase coming out of the other
markets as Australian developments slow down a little bit,”
Lowy said. “What we’re doing in Europe is trying to see if we
can find other sites that have the characteristics of Milan,
where the customer is underserved but has large amounts of
disposable income, and the real estate is in the right place.”  Westfield, which is seeking to boost higher-return
activities such as property development globally, today reported
an 18 percent jump in 2012  net income  to A$1.72 billion ($1.76
billion), driven by an increase in real estate management fees
and project income. The company recorded net operating income
growth of 4.2 percent in the U.S., 2.9 percent in  Australia  and
0.4 percent in the U.K., it said.  The  shares  rose 0.5 percent to A$11.14 at the close of
trading in Sydney, extending this year’s gain to 5.5 percent.
The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.7 percent, bringing its
year-to-date advance to 8.3 percent.  Australia Slowdown  Westfield, which had 45 percent of assets under management
outside Australia as of Dec. 31, saw weaker sales at home offset
by three consecutive months of retail sales growth in the U.S.
and a surge in  job creation  in the U.K. Retail sales in
Australia fell for a third month in December, the longest
stretch of declines in 13 years, as consumers spent less in an
economy grappling with a weaker employment outlook.  The Sydney-based company expects property net operating
income to climb as much as 5 percent in the U.S. and U.K. in
2013 and about 2 percent in Australia, it said. It also expects
to start as much as A$1.5 billion of developments this year.  Westfield in August 2011 agreed to invest 115 million euro
($150 million) to buy a 50 percent stake in a site in Milan. The
company is developing a mall in partnership with Italian firm
Gruppo Stilo to capitalize on the city’s position as a European
fashion hub, it said then.  The move was a “site-specific investment,” and Westfield
has no plans to use the development to expand further in  Italy ,
Lowy said today. Instead, the company is looking across Europe
for a city and site with similar characteristics, he said.  Brazil Mall  In  Brazil , where Westfield agreed to buy a 50 percent stake
in Sao Paulo-based mall owner Almeida Junior Shopping Centers in
August 2011, the company doesn’t foresee further investments
soon, Lowy said.  “We’re still in the learning phase there,” Lowy said.
“We need to learn to crawl before we can walk.”  Westfield had A$64.4 billion of assets under management as
of Dec. 31, it said today. The company has A$12 billion of
planned projects in the U.S., U.K., Australia,  New Zealand ,
Brazil and Milan in partnership with groups including London-
based  Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.
Westfield will invest A$5 billion in the projects, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  