-- Wienerberger Loss Triples as European Brick Business Sinks
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-02-26T12:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/wienerberger-loss-triples-on-writedown-and-restructuring-charges.html
Wienerberger AG (WIE) , the world’s biggest
brickmaker, said its fourth-quarter loss almost tripled as it
wrote down the value of some units and booked expenses for a
cost-cutting program. The shares dropped.  Wienerberger’s net loss widened to 93.7 million euros ($122
million), compared with a restated loss of 33.1 million euros a
year earlier, spokesman Klaus Ofner said by phone. The company
had 43 million euros of one-time charges last year for measures
that will reduce future costs, Wienerberger said in a statement.
The shares dropped as much as 5.6 percent in Vienna, the biggest
intraday decline in seven months.  “Lower revenues and earnings in the Bricks & Tiles  Europe 
division due to a decline in residential construction throughout
Europe” weighed on last year’s result, Chief Executive Officer
Heimo Scheuch said in the statement. A “modest recovery” in
the U.S. and Wienerberger’s newly acquired plastic pipe unit
helped offset that impact, he said.  Wienerberger’s main business depends on European  home
construction , which shrank 3.5 percent last year and may decline
further this year, according to  Euroconstruct . New residential
construction, the main driver for brick sales, is on a downturn
in nearly all European countries, Vienna-based Wienerberger said
in November.  The stock traded 3 percent lower at 7.46 euros as of 12:30
p.m. local time.  Beautiful Europe  “We constructed the cost-cutting program that we feel is
necessary for this year,” Scheuch said today at a press
conference in Vienna. “But I have to say: Who knows what the
future brings for beautiful Europe?” .  Since 2009, the company has closed 60 plants, according to
the CEO. It currently operates 226 factories. About 630 of its
13,000 employees are being fired in the latest cost-cut program,
he said. The company took a charge of 10 million euros for the
amortization of goodwill in units in Croatia and  Lithuania  last
year.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization rose 10 percent to 43.9 million euros, while
revenue gained 40 percent to 611.4 million euros, as the
consolidation of pipe unit Pipelife and the recovery of
residential construction in  North America  helped, Wienerberger
said. The company expects 2013 Ebitda to rise 14 percent to
about 280 million euros, even as its European bricks business
shrinks again this year.  ’Disappointing’ Guidance  “Guidance is disappointing with outlook comments
suggesting markets in Europe remain challenging,” Flor O’Donoghue, an analyst at Dublin-based Davy, said in a note.
“We remain cautious on the group.” Analysts  expect 
Wienerberger to report an Ebitda of 283.8 million euros for
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wienerberger restated its 2011 results to reflect changes
in accounting rules.  By 2016, the brickmaker plans on selling assets such as
shut-down plants and buildings no longer needed worth 100
million euros. Chief Financial Officer Willy Van Riet said
Wienerberger is not targeting any big purchases at the moment.  The company is proposing a  dividend  of 12 cents per share,
unchanged from last year. “This is a sign to shareholders that
we are confident about future development,” Scheuch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  