-- Wiretapping-Law Challenges Barred by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-26T19:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/wiretapping-law-challenges-barred-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
Lawyers and civil rights activists
can’t challenge a federal law that allows government
surveillance of international phone calls and e-mail, the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled in a victory for the Obama administration.  The justices, voting 5-4 along ideological lines, today
said groups and people represented by the American Civil
Liberties Union hadn’t shown they were being harmed by the
surveillance. The ACLU’s clients include Amnesty International,
lawyers, international rights activists and journalists.  The activists contended that the 2008 law violates the
Constitution by allowing the monitoring, with minimal court
supervision, of international communications by Americans who
aren’t suspected of criminal or terrorist activities.  “It is speculative whether the government will imminently
target communications to which respondents are parties,”
Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote for the majority.  Today’s ruling didn’t address the lawfulness of the
wiretapping law itself, saying only that the ACLU and its allies
lack legal “standing” to pursue their suit. The standing
requirement stems from the constitutional limit on federal
courts’ authority to decide “cases” and “controversies.”  The administration argued that the law is aimed at
monitoring communications by non-Americans outside the country,
not the people on the U.S. end of a phone call or e-mail.  ‘Commonsense Inference’  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  dissented. Writing for the group,
Breyer said the people and organizations that sued probably
would be involved in at least some of the conversations that are
intercepted.  “It is as likely to take place as are most future events
that commonsense inference and ordinary knowledge of human
nature tell us will happen,” Breyer wrote.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Antonin Scalia,
 Clarence Thomas  and Anthony Kennedy joined Alito in the
majority.  The law was enacted following the public disclosure in 2005
that President  George W. Bush , after the 2001 terrorist attacks,
ordered the National Security Agency to intercept telephone
calls between suspected terrorists overseas and their comrades
in the U.S. The surveillance was conducted without court review.  ‘Sweeping Surveillance’  The law “is a sweeping surveillance statute with far-
reaching implications for Americans’ privacy,” Jameel Jaffer,
the ACLU lawyer who argued the case, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This ruling insulates the statute from meaningful
judicial review and leaves Americans’ privacy rights to the
mercy of the political branches.”  A separate provision in the law protects telecommunications
companies, including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
from lawsuits claiming they let the government use their
networks for improper wiretaps.  The ACLU sued, and the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
New York said the suit could proceed.  The 2008 law requires the government to get authorization
from a special body, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court, to establish wiretaps.  The ACLU says the law’s requirements are so minimal that an
order from the special court can authorize surveillance of
thousands or millions of communications. Barring the lawsuit may
mean people can never challenge the law because they won’t know
they were under surveillance, it says.  The case is Clapper v.  Amnesty International  USA, 11-1025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  