-- Won Weakens on Yen Drop, Foreigners Selling Shares
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-02-26T06:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/won-weakens-on-yen-drop-foreigners-selling-shares.html
South Korea ’s won fell for a second
day as  Italy ’s election results stoked concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen. Government bonds rose, pushing the
three-year yield to a record low.  Asian stocks dropped and the euro sank to a six-week low as
candidates opposing austerity measures demanded by European
leaders scored about 55 percent of the popular vote in Italy.
Another election may be needed after partial results suggested
the four-way race may end in a divided parliament, an aide to
Democratic Party candidate Pier Luigi Bersani said. South Korean
central bank chief Kim Choong Soo said today the authority won’t
tolerate volatile currency moves.  “Political uncertainty in Italy is making investors
concerned, reducing appetite for riskier assets,” said Sun Sung
In, an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. in  Seoul . “Governor
Kim’s renewed remarks on the currency are also keeping the won
low, while exporters look to sell dollars to take profit.”  The won dropped 0.2 percent to close at 1,088 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.38 percent.  South Korea’s economic growth relies more on exports than
domestic demand, Governor Kim said at a meeting with lawmakers
in Seoul today. The central bank will ensure  price stability ,
while looking out for possible delays in economic recovery due
to the recent Japanese expansionary policy and fiscal
consolidation in advanced countries, Kim said.  Japanese policies that have weakened the yen by 11 percent
against the dollar in the past three months are threatening the
competitiveness of Korean companies such as Samsung Electronics
Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. The won declined 2.3 percent against
its Japanese counterpart to 11.82 per yen today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due 2015 dropped four basis points to 2.64 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. That is the lowest yield for a
benchmark three-year note since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  