-- WTI Drops to Seven-Week Low; U.S. Supplies Seen Rising
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-02-26T13:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/wti-drops-to-seven-week-low-stockpiles-seen-rising-a-sixth-week.html
Oil fell to a seven-week low in  New
York  amid estimates that U.S. crude inventories rose. Futures
slid with stocks and the euro as  Italy ’s inconclusive elections
spurred concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may worsen.  West Texas Intermediate declined as much as 1.3 percent to
$91.92 a barrel, the lowest intraday price since Jan. 4. U.S.
crude supplies probably climbed to the highest in seven months,
a Bloomberg News survey showed before Energy Department data
tomorrow. The U.S. and its partners urged Iran to accept an
updated offer at talks on the country’s nuclear program today.
Early results suggested Italy’s election would lead to a hung
parliament and another vote.  “Regardless of the election results in Italy, core Europe
is in recession,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-based
commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd., who predicts that
the European benchmark, Brent, will trade in a range of $100 to
$125 a barrel next month. “Markets are capped at the top end by
the demand destruction they cause, yet supported by reasonable
fundamentals.”  WTI for April delivery was down 65 cents, or 0.7 percent,
at $92.46 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 1:01 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 18 percent lower than the 100-day average.  Brent for April settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange decreased as much as $1.44, or 1.3 percent, to
$113 a barrel, the lowest since Jan. 28. The volume was 10
percent higher than the 100-day average. The North Sea crude was
at a premium of $20.91 to WTI contracts, compared with $21.33
yesterday.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. crude inventories probably rose  2.5 million barrels 
last week to 378.9 million, the highest level since July 20,
according to the median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That would be a sixth weekly gain, the longest rising
streak since May. Gasoline supplies fell 1 million barrels while
distillate fuels, including heating oil and diesel, dropped by
1.55 million, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  is
scheduled to release separate inventory data today. The API
collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistics unit, for its weekly survey.  Iran Talks  WTI is accelerating losses as a measure of technical
momentum declines. The moving-average convergence divergence
indicator yesterday fell below zero for the first time since
Dec. 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drop may
extend to the 100-day moving average, around $90.80 today. Buy
orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  The U.S. and its partners are offering to ease banking,
petrochemical and gold sanctions if  Iran  agrees to cease its
output of 20 percent enriched uranium, according to two
officials close to negotiations that started today in Almaty,
 Kazakhstan .  Iranian officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to comment publicly, said they
had returned to talks in a listening mode. They stipulated that
Iran will reject any offer that doesn’t recognize its right, as
a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, to enrich
uranium for peaceful civilian use.  Italy Elections  In Italy’s election, Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, having campaigned to maintain budget rigor, won control
of the lower house but not the Senate, and rival  Silvio Berlusconi  called for a recount. Berlusconi, who served
previously as premier, won a blocking minority in the Senate,
and former comedian Beppe Grillo’s party secured 25 percent
support in its first national contest. Both men campaigned to
reverse austerity measures taken by incumbent Premier  Mario Monti .  “The markets were somewhat over-bought and needed a
break,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “But the underlying positive
economic recovery tenor is still supporting, and we are likely
to recover after this breather.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  