-- Hyundai Agrees to Settle U.S. Lawsuits Over Fuel Efficiency
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-26T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-26/hyundai-agrees-to-settle-u-s-lawsuits-over-fuel-efficiency-1-.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  agreed to settle a
group of lawsuits by U.S. customers who said they were misled
into buying the South Korean carmakers’ vehicles because it
overstated their fuel economy.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs said in a filing today in
federal court in Los Angeles that Hyundai agreed in principle on
terms of a settlement. The actual amount Hyundai would pay
wasn’t disclosed.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , which was also sued for
misstating its cars’ miles-per-gallon, is evaluating whether to
join the settlement, according to the filing.  Hyundai and Kia, South Korea’s largest and second-largest
automakers respectively, said in November they would issue debit
cards to buyers of about 900,000 vehicles sold in the U.S. in
the past two years to reimburse them for higher-than-expected
fuel expenses.  “Procedural errors” at a joint testing facility in  South
Korea  led to the inaccurate fuel-economy ratings, the Seoul-
based affiliates said last year.  Hyundai and Kia, which share engines, model platforms and a
chairman, said in a Nov. 2 statement that its fuel
economy level for the 2012 fleet would be reduced by an average
of 3 percent.  Payment Option  The class-action settlement would give buyers the option of
a lump-sum payment, according to the filing.  Thirty-eight lawsuits were filed in federal court in the
U.S. against Hyundai and Kia over the fuel-efficiency
correction. In February, the cases were consolidated in Los
Angeles.  Robert Carey, a lawyer with Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro
LLP, the firm that has led the negotiations with Hyundai,
declined to comment on the settlement. Scott McKee, a spokesman
for Kia Motors America had no immediate comment, and Chris Hosford, a spokesman for Hyundai Motor America, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office.  The case is Hyundai and Kia Fuel Economy Litigation, 13-ML-
02424, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  ( Los
Angeles .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 