-- 
IMF’s Lagarde Warns on World Economy

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-28T14:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/lagarde-urges-mandatory-recapitalization-of-eu-banks-to-avert-contagion.html
Christine Lagarde , the new managing
director of the International Monetary Fund chief, warned that
the world economy is in a “dangerous new phase” and that
officials must take new steps to strengthen growth.  Lagarde, speaking to international finance officials and
economists in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , said the U.S. should arrest
a slide in house prices and European banks must be required to
boost capital to prevent the continent’s debt crisis from
infecting more countries. The U.S. and European Union should
enforce long-term budget discipline to free up cash for short-
term stimulus, she said.  “We risk seeing the fragile recovery derailed,” Lagarde,
55, said. “So we must act now.”  Lagarde spoke near the end of a month when the value of
global equities dropped by $5.7 trillion on concern global
growth is slowing and governments will be unable to tackle
sovereign debt burdens. UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. cut their
forecasts for expansion of the world economy and predicted major
central banks will leave interest rates on hold through 2012.  “Risks have been aggravated further by a deterioration in
confidence and a growing sense that policymakers do not have the
conviction, or simply are not willing, to take the decisions
that are needed,” Lagarde said.  ‘Stakes are High’  The slowdown provided the impetus for three days of debate
at the conference, with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
saying the U.S. central bank still has tools to boost its
economy, without specifying what they were or whether they would
be deployed.  “The stakes for the world economy are high,” said  Allen Sinai , president of Decision Economics in  New York , who put the
odds of another global recession at 30 percent.  Europe  is struggling to contain a sovereign debt crisis
that is nearing its third year and has left many banks from
 Spain  to  Greece  in or close to insolvency. Stress tests on 90
European banks published on July 15 showed eight lenders had a
combined 2.5 billion-euro ($3.6 billion) capital shortfall,
failing to ease concern that many of them remain vulnerable to a
potential sovereign default.  Without an “urgent” recapitalization, “we could easily
see the further spread of economic weakness to core countries,
or even a debilitating liquidity crisis,” Lagarde said.
Bolstering banks’ balance sheets “is key to cutting the chains
of contagion.”  ‘Substantial’ Recapitalization  The former French finance minister, who took the helm at
the Washington-based IMF in July, said recapitalization should
be “substantial” and called a mandatory move “the most
efficient solution.” Banks should seek funds in financial
markets first and later public money if necessary, including
from the 440-billion euro European bailout fund, she said.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  echoed
Lagarde’s call for banks to strengthen their balance sheets,
while saying any talk of a liquidity crisis is “plain wrong”
because his institution has taken steps to aid banks, offering
them unlimited cash for up to six months.  Attending his final  Jackson Hole  conference before retiring
in October, Trichet, 68, avoided mentioning the debt crisis at
length, preferring instead to defend the euro against critics
who say its members are too diverse to unite under a single
currency. He used new research to show how the U.S. has regional
divergences similar to the euro area’s and noted how Europe has
grown almost as quickly and generated more jobs as the U.S. in
the past decade.  Job Creation  While Lagarde urged lawmakers to shrink budget deficits
over time, she said they could still take steps now to stimulate
expansion. Making European budgets more sustainable “does not
necessarily mean drastic upfront belt-tightening” because by
addressing long-term risks such as rising pension costs,
governments will have more leeway in the short term to fund
policies that support job creation, she said.  That’s also true in the U.S, where Lagarde called for
“decisions on future consolidation -- involving both revenue
and expenditure.” She also called for more aggressive policies
on housing to halt “the downward spiral of foreclosures,
falling  house prices  and deteriorating household spending.”
These could include reducing principal payments for homeowners
or helping them refinance mortgages at lower interest rates, she
said.  ‘Accomodative’ Monetary Policy  Central bankers should also keep monetary policy “highly
accommodative, as the risk of recession outweighs the risk of
inflation” and should stand ready “to dive back into
unconventional waters.” The Fed this month pledged to keep its
key  interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013.  Emerging economies have a part to play too, Lagarde said,
adding that some “key” nations are curbing domestic demand and
preventing their currencies from strengthening. Such steps
prevent emerging markets from making a bigger contribution to
global growth.  “Everyone should recognize that decoupling is a myth,”
she said. “If the advanced countries succumb to recession, the
emerging markets will not escape.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  