-- 
Airlines Cancel More Than 9,500 Flights as Irene Makes Way Up East Coast

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-08-27T20:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/airlines-gird-for-more-cancellations-as-irene-threatens-new-york.html
U.S. carriers including  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  scrubbed more
than 9,500 flights as Hurricane Irene churned up the East Coast
and shuttered airports in  New York , the nation’s busiest travel
market.  American Airlines  halted New York City-area flights as of
10 a.m. local time, while United and Delta earlier scrubbed
their full schedules. The Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey closed John F. Kennedy and LaGuardia airports and three
smaller facilities to arriving flights as of noon local time as
the city awaited heavy rain and wind.  “We need to make sure that we give our customers and our
employees ample time to get home” before mass transit systems
are closed, said  Andrea Huguely , an American spokeswoman.  Philadelphia’s airport remains open, although airlines have
reduced arrivals and departures throughout the day and none are
scheduled for tomorrow, said Victoria Lupica, an airport
spokeswoman. The airport terminals will remain open for
passengers who may be stuck at the facility.  The six biggest U.S. airlines canceled at least 9,570
flights today through Aug. 29 because of the storm. Another 334
were scrubbed earlier in the week as the hurricane approached.
New York officials suspended train, bus and subway service at
noon today, making it harder for workers and passengers to reach
airports. More than 370,000 people were ordered to evacuate low-
lying areas.  International Flights  Delta and United are the biggest airlines in the New York
market, while American operates both domestic and international
hubs from the city.  International carriers, including Air France, British
Airways, Deutsche Lufthansa, Virgin Atlantic and Aer Lingus,
grounded 128 flights to and from the U.S. Northeast today and
tomorrow, according to spokesmen and carrier websites.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  canceled 2,333 flights through Aug.
29, including 1,655 tomorrow, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman.
The airline scrubbed its full schedules in New York,
Philadelphia,  Washington  and  Boston  tomorrow.  “We’re stressing for customers flying on  US Airways  not to
show up at those airports because there won’t be any flights,”
Lehmacher said in an interview. “Our focus is not only on
keeping our employees safe, but also our customers.”  United Continental  United Continental scrubbed 2,300 flights today and
tomorrow, and Delta is dropping 1,505 flights through Aug. 29.
Delta stopped service at three  Virginia  airports today and won’t
make flights tomorrow to New York, Philadelphia, Boston and four
other smaller northeast cities, said Morgan Durrant, a
spokesman.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , the first major carrier to cancel
weekend flights, is dropping 1,272 over the same period, said
Mateo Lleras, a spokesman. The airline halted operations at its
biggest base in Kennedy and will do the same in Boston at 10
p.m., he said.  American, a unit of  AMR Corp. (AMR) , is grounding 1,103 flights
and suspended service at Washington-area airports for about 24
hours starting at noon today, said Tim Smith, a spokesman.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  suspended service today in Norfolk,
Virginia, and scrapped 740 flights, in addition to 322 flights
at its AirTran unit, through Aug. 29. Southwest suspended
flights in Philadelphia starting at 2 p.m. local time today
through tomorrow, and at LaGuardia and Newark all weekend.  Irene may cause $6.5 billion in overall economic losses,
according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp. A more easterly
track and less intensity puts the company’s projected insured
losses at $3.1 billion.  Busiest Market  The last storm of this magnitude to menace the Northeast was
1985’s  Hurricane Gloria , which killed 11 people and caused $900
million in damage. Irene is on a similar track.  Like JetBlue, Delta has a hub at Kennedy, and United’s
Continental Airlines flies from  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty.
Together with LaGuardia, the three airports form the busiest
U.S. aviation market with almost 104 million passengers last
year, according to Airports Council International.  Sandwiching that airspace is Philadelphia, where US Airways
has a hub and Southwest is the second-biggest operator;
Washington, home to United’s hub at Dulles airport and a US
Airways base at Ronald Reagan National; and Boston, where
JetBlue is the largest tenant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  