-- 
Al-Qaeda Second-in-Command Killed in Pakistan

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-27T21:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/al-qaeda-no-2-al-rahman-killed-in-pakistan-on-aug-22-u-s-official-says.html
Al-Qaeda’s second-in-command was 
killed in  Pakistan  earlier this week, according to a U.S.
administration official.  Atiyah Abd al-Rahman was killed Aug. 22 in Waziristan, a
tribal area of Pakistan along the border with Afghanistan,
according to the official, who wasn’t authorized to comment
publicly on the matter.  No information was immediately available on how al-Rahman
died. A strike by an unmanned drone aircraft in Waziristan was
reported that same day. CIA drones are used by the U.S. to hit
terrorist targets in the mountainous and lawless border area.  A Libyan national, al-Rahman rose to the number two
position -- behind Egyptian  Ayman al-Zawahiri  -- after the May
killing of  Osama bin Laden  and was deeply involved in directing
al-Qaeda’s operations even before bin Laden was killed, the
official said.  Documents pulled from the bin Laden compound after he was
killed by a U.S. military team showed that al-Rahman had
multiple responsibilities in the organization, making his death
a significant blow to al-Qaeda as he will be difficult to
replace, the official said.  Link to Affiliates  A second official said al-Rahman had run daily operations
for the group since another leader was killed last year, and
functioned as a liaison between al-Qaeda affiliates and bin
Laden and Zawahiri. The second official also spoke on condition
of anonymity because the official was not permitted to speak on
the record.  Without al-Rahman, it will be even harder for Zawahiri to
consolidate control of al-Qaeda, the second official said.  Al-Rahman joined bin Laden in  Afghanistan  as a teenager in
the 1980s, according to biographic information posted on the
U.S. State Department website. He gained stature in al-Qaeda as
an explosives expert and Islamic scholar, according to that
information.  The U.S. had offered a reward of as much as $1 million for
any information leading to al-Rahman’s arrest or capture. The
killing was earlier reported by the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  