-- 
Mantega’s ‘Populist’ Taxes Harm Exporters, Franco Says

-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-08-27T00:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/mantega-s-populist-taxes-harm-exporters-franco-says-1-.html
Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s “populist” measures to contain the appreciation of
the real are harming exporters, former central bank Governor
Gustavo Franco said in an event in Campos do Jordao.  The tax Brazil’s government levied on currency derivatives
was an “unhappy measure,” said Franco, Rio Bravo Investimentos
founder and partner.  “I consider it legitimate to use measures such as the
IOF,” Franco said, referring to the taxes on foreign investors’
local bond purchases. “I used them myself. But try to apply it
to derivatives short positions is an unhappy measure.”  The real has risen 44 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2008, the best performance among the 25 emerging markets
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil  needs to increase its
primary surplus and cut more government expenses to reduce
benchmark interest rates, Franco said.  “The government won’t have external help, either from
commodities or from foreign  exchange rate ,” Franco said. It
will have to increase fiscal tightening to cut rates “the hard
way,” he said.  Mantega said on Aug. 23 in a speech at Brazil’s Senate that
the government is making an effort to cut costs and allow
interest rates to fall. To cut the benchmark  interest rate  is a
priority, Mantega said.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini have increased rates five times this year by a total of
175 basis points, or 1.75 percentage point. The futures yields
indicate traders anticipate the central bank will cut the
benchmark Selic rate, currently at 12.50 percent, by at least 75
basis points this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  