-- 
Wallabies Beat All Blacks to Win Their First Tri-Nations Title Since 2001

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-28T03:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/australia-beats-new-zealand-25-20-wins-first-tri-nations-title-since-2001.html
Australia defeated  New Zealand  25-20
to win its first Tri-Nations rugby union title in 10 years and
send the top-ranked All Blacks into the  World Cup  with back-to-
back losses.  Kurtley Beale  scored the match-winning try in the 61st
minute at Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium last night after New
Zealand fought back from 20-3 down at halftime to tie the game.
Will Genia and Radike Samo also touched down for the Wallabies,
with fly-half  Quade Cooper  kicking the other 10 points.  “That was a big effort, it took everything we had to beat
them,” Wallabies captain James Horwill said in a televised
interview. “We’ve got our hands on a trophy we haven’t had in
10 years so that’s sweet.”  Australia  topped the standings with 13 points from four
matches to take its third southern hemisphere championship,
which was truncated this year because of the World Cup starting
next month in New Zealand. The Wallabies, who previously won the
title in 2000 and 2001, were the only one of the three teams to
win on the road, beating South Africa 14-9 in Durban.  Yesterday’s victory gives Australian teams both of the
southern hemisphere’s major trophies this year after the
 Queensland Reds  secured their first Super Rugby title in July.
Six Reds players, including Genia, Samo and Cooper, were in the
Wallabies’ starting 15.  New Zealand, which lost in South Africa last week, had been
seeking its 11th title in the tournament’s 16 editions.  Conrad Smith  and  Ma’a Nonu  scored tries and  Dan Carter  kicked 10 points
for the All Blacks, who open the World Cup on Sept. 9 against
Tonga at Auckland’s Eden Park.  ‘Wasn’t Good Enough’  “Everyone realizes that it wasn’t good enough tonight,
especially that first 40,” All Blacks captain Richie McCaw said
in a televised interview. “It’s tough to play when you’re
behind like that. We’ve got to learn from that.”  U.K. Bookmaker William Hill lengthened its odds on World
Cup favorite New Zealand winning its first global championship
since 1987 to 4-7 from 8-15 after Australia’s victory. The
Wallabies were cut to a 7-2 chance from 4-1.  Australia dominated the physical exchanges in the first
half last night to establish a 17-point advantage at the break,
just as New Zealand had in the Aug. 6 meeting between the teams
at Eden Park. It was the Wallabies’ biggest halftime lead in
their 108-year rivalry with the All Blacks.  Genia Spots Gap  Cooper put Australia ahead with a fifth-minute penalty and
scrum-half Genia went over for the game’s first try when he
darted through a gap between two defenders. Cooper added the
conversion to make it 10-0.  All Blacks fly-half Carter made it 10-3 with a penalty
before Cooper lifted the lead to 13-3 in the 33rd minute.
Moments later, Wallabies No. 8 Samo took a pass from Dan Vickerman and brushed off one tackle before sprinting about 60
meters to score his first international try at the age of 35.
Cooper converted for the final score of the first half.  New Zealand hit back with 17 points in 19 minutes after the
break. Carter kicked a penalty and then converted Smith’s try
after the center went over following 26 phases of continuous
possession for the All Blacks.  Nonu exchanged passes with midfield partner Smith in the
58th minute to burst through the home team’s defense and Carter
added the extra points to tie the game at 20-20 with 21 minutes
left to play.  Game Breaker  Two minutes later, Genia made a break and passed to Digby Ioane, who evaded one tackler in a sprint down center field
before offloading for full-back Beale to run in a try.  Although Cooper missed the conversion and failed with a
penalty attempt with eight minutes remaining, the Wallabies held
on to end their title drought.  “It was an outstanding effort,” said Genia, who was named
man of the match. “It’s the first time in 10 years we get to
touch the trophy. I think the last time we had it I was 13.”  Wallabies playmaker Cooper escaped a suspension today after
being cited for foul play for allegedly striking McCaw in the
face with his knee during the second half of the match.  Cooper admitted at a  South Africa , New Zealand and
Australia Rugby judicial hearing that his knee made contact with
McCaw’s face, but testified that it was accidental as he was in
the process of getting up from the ground and he had no
intention of striking his opponent with the knee. SANZAR
judicial officer Jannie Lubbe dismissed the charge after
reviewing a videotape of the incident.  “There were bodies everywhere,” Cooper said in televised
comments. “It’s a contact sport and blokes are going to come
into contact with each other. I’m just looking forward to
getting on with rugby and focusing on the World Cup.”  The Wallabies open their bid for a third world championship
Sept. 11 against Italy in Auckland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  