-- 
Bonds’s Obstruction Conviction in Steroids Probe Upheld by Federal Judge

-- B y   P e t e r   B l u m b e r g
-- 
2011-08-27T04:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/barry-bonds-s-obstruction-conviction-upheld-by-federal-judge.html
Barry Bonds ,  Major League Baseball ’s
home-run record holder, lost a bid to overturn his conviction
for obstruction of justice in a government probe of steroid use
by athletes, according to a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco issued a
ruling yesterday denying the slugger’s request for an acquittal
and refusing to grant a new trial.  Illston rejected Bonds’s argument that there was no crime
in his 146-word answer to a grand jury about whether his trainer
 Greg Anderson  ever gave him anything that required an injection
with a syringe. His attorney, Dennis Riordan, said at an Aug. 25
hearing before Illston that the former San Francisco Giants
outfielder took about 75 seconds to respond to prosecutors’
direct question and eventually answered “no.”  “Defendant repeatedly provided nonresponsive answers to
questions about whether Anderson had ever provided him with
injectables, resulting in the prosecuting attorneys asking
clarifying question after clarifying question, and even once
resulting in one prosecutor interrupting another who was about
to move on to a new topic in order to clarify defendant’s mixed
responses,” Illston wrote in her ruling. “An evasive answer
about an issue material to the grand jury is not necessarily
rendered immaterial by the later provision of a direct answer,
even if that direct answer is true.”  Convicted in April  Bonds, 47, was convicted in April by a federal jury in  San
Francisco  of obstructing a U.S. probe of steroid use by
professional athletes. Jurors were unable to agree on whether
Bonds lied when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t
knowingly take steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone and
didn’t receive injections by Anderson. A mistrial was declared
on those counts.  Riordan didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
seeking comment on the ruling after regular business hours.  Bonds broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted in November of that year for
allegedly lying to a 2003 grand jury about steroids use. He was
the first Major League ballplayer to be charged in a years-long
federal probe of steroid use in professional sports.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  In the grand jury proceedings, Bonds didn’t say yes or no
when asked if Anderson ever gave him anything “that required a
syringe to inject yourself with.”  ‘One Doctor’  He responded that he “only had one doctor touch me” and
he didn’t talk baseball with his trainer or “get into other
people’s business.” Bonds said that’s what kept his friendship
with Anderson going.  “I became a celebrity child with a famous father,” Bonds
told the grand jury, referring to his father,  Bobby Bonds , a
three-time All-Star who played for eight teams including the
Giants and the  New York Yankees . “I just don’t get into other
people’s business because of my father’s situation, you see.”  At the Aug. 25 hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Merry Jean
Chan argued that Bonds could have answered yes or no, “but
instead went on this exploration of his relationship with Greg
Anderson” and engaged in “rambling that the jury found was
given to evade.”  Bonds’s eventual answer of “no” to the question was
untruthful “in light of all the evidence at trial” including
testimony from his former personal shopper who said she saw
Bonds receiving an injection from Anderson, Chan said.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in San Francisco at  
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  