-- 
Bernanke May Seek Consensus on Easing

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-27T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/bernanke-may-use-longer-meeting-to-forge-consensus-on-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s decision to extend next month’s policy meeting to two
days stoked speculation the extra time may allow him to forge a
stronger consensus on monetary easing.  Bernanke, in a speech yesterday at the Fed’s annual forum
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , said adding a second day to the
September gathering would “allow a fuller discussion” of the
slowing economy and the central bank’s possible response. He
said the Fed still has tools to boost growth, without specifying
what they were or whether they would be deployed.  “The move to a two-day meeting means he’ll work to build
consensus” after confronting the most dissent during his tenure
last month,  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Chicago-based
Mesirow Financial Inc., which oversees about $57 billion in
assets, said in an interview at  Jackson Hole . “They will end up
with QE3, but probably not in September,” she said, referring
to a third round of bond purchases, also known as quantitative
easing. “They will edge closer to it in the September
statement.”  U.S. stocks rose yesterday after initially extending losses
following Bernanke’s lack of a clear signal of additional
stimulus measures. Bernanke said the recovery is likely to
improve in the second half of this year, and he sought to
reassure investors and the public that U.S. growth is safe in
the long run.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.5 percent to
1,176.80 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in  New York . Yields on
10-year Treasuries declined to 2.19 percent from 2.23 percent
the day before.  Higher Probability  Previous two-day meetings have seen a higher probability of
steps to cut borrowing costs, economists at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  said. St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said adding a
second day to the September meeting allows more time to review
easing options, though rising inflation may prevent action in
the near term.  “If the economy is weaker and the inflation picture
moderates, we could consider more action,” Bullard said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview in Jackson Hole. “The
call is much more difficult this year than last year. We have a
much different inflation situation than last year.”  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which excludes food
and energy prices, rose 1.3 percent for the 12 months ending in
June. That’s up from a record low increase of 0.9 percent for
the 12 months ending in December.  Laying the Groundwork  Last year, the Fed chief used his Jackson Hole speech to
lay the groundwork for a second round of bond purchases. The
central bank decided in November to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June 2011.  Now, the Fed “needs to discuss the issue of bond buying
and figure out how to frame and sell it,” Swonk said.  Less than two hours before Bernanke’s speech, the
government reported that the world’s largest economy grew less
than previously estimated in the second quarter, capping the
weakest six months of the recovery that began in mid 2009. Gross
domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate, compared
with an initial estimate of 1.3 percent growth.  The next Federal Open Market Committee session, previously
scheduled to start and end Sept. 20, will now conclude Sept. 21.
The change adds a fifth two-day meeting to this year’s calendar,
leaving three one-day sessions in March, August and December.  Bernanke’s practice each year starting in 2007 has been to
hold four two-day sessions, where Fed governors and regional
presidents present updated economic projections, and four one-
day meetings. The committee meets about every six weeks.  Treasury Purchases  The Fed chief expanded the December 2008 meeting to two
days from one and proceeded to lower the benchmark  interest rate 
to near-zero from 1 percent. In February 2009, he added a second
day to the four one-day sessions that year; the Fed then agreed
at a two-day meeting in March 2009, originally scheduled for one
day, to more than double purchases of mortgage debt and start
buying $300 billion of Treasuries.  After its last meeting on Aug. 9, the FOMC pledged for the
first time to keep its key rate at a record low at least through
mid-2013 to energize a recovery it said was  “considerably
slower” than anticipated. Three of the panel’s 10 members voted
against that decision, preferring to maintain a previous pledge
to keep rates low for an “extended period” without a specific
timeframe.  Bernanke yesterday said that while the slumping housing
market and financial-market volatility still pose challenges for
the economy, his view of the long-term outlook is “more
optimistic.”  ‘Growth Fundamentals’  “The growth fundamentals of the  United States  do not
appear to have been permanently altered by the shocks of the
past four years,” Bernanke said at the mountainside symposium
hosted by the Kansas City Fed.  Bernanke, 57, a former Princeton University economist, said
the debate over raising the U.S. debt limit “disrupted
financial markets and probably the economy as well, and similar
events in the future could, over time, seriously jeopardize the
willingness of investors around the world to hold U.S. financial
assets or to make direct investments in job-creating U.S.
businesses.”  The move to a two-day September meeting was yesterday’s
“one bombshell” from Bernanke and may give the Fed more time
to discuss current or new policy tools, said John Canally, who
helps oversee $340.8 billion as an economist and investment
strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston .  The FOMC this month said that it was “prepared to employ”
additional tools “as appropriate” to aid the economy.  Several Tools  Bernanke yesterday repeated that line from the statement
without elaborating on the options, in contrast to last year’s
talk at Jackson Hole, when he discussed several tools, including
asset purchases.  “We discussed the relative merits and costs of such tools
at our August meeting,” Bernanke said yesterday.  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said he heard Bernanke stress the
September meeting while delivering the remarks. The forum was
open only to invited guests and wasn’t broadcast.  “There was particular emphasis on the September meeting”
in Bernanke’s voice, Silvia, who attended, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom
Keene .  The Jackson Hole symposium concludes today with talks from
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and
 Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund . They will participate in a session on setting
policy priorities for long-run economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  