-- 
Bolt’s False Start Eliminates Him From World 100-Meter Final; Blake Wins

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-28T19:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/bolt-wins-100m-heat-at-world-championships-kenyans-sweep-medals.html
Dethroned champion Usain Bolt said
he needs time to come to terms with his disqualification
yesterday in the 100-meter final at the world athletics
championships.  Jamaican compatriot Yohan Blake won after Bolt false-
started in Daegu,  South Korea . Bolt, 25, pulled his running
jersey off and clutched his head as he realized he’d left the
blocks before the starting gun. No second chances are allowed
for the offense.  Blake, 21, won in 9.92 seconds ahead of Walter Dix of the
U.S. in 10.08. Ex-world champion Kim Collins of St Kitts and
Nevis was third in 10.09.  “I have nothing to say right now, I need some time,” Bolt
was cited as saying by  Agence France-Presse . As for the defense
of his 200-meter title, starting Sept. 2, he said, “How will I
go? It’s on a Friday right? Then we’ll have to see on Friday.”  Blake said he could hardly believe his own success.  “I can’t find words to explain it. Usain Bolt has been
there for me. I feel like I want to cry, this is all like a
dream for me now,” Blake told Channel 4 television.  Bolt won the Olympic 100 meters in Beijing in 2008 in a
record and set a new mark of 9.58 seconds at the following
year’s world championships in Berlin. He also won 200-meter gold
medals in record times at those Olympic and world events.  Powell, Tyson Out  “I thought ‘The champion is out, you’ve got to take
advantage of that,’” said Collins, 35, who has competed at
every world championships since 1997 and is aiming for next
year’s Olympics in  London . “I’m on the podium and I’m happy.”  Bolt was an overwhelming favorite to win the 100 meters in
Daegu after the withdrawals of  Jamaica ’s Asafa Powell and Tyson
Gay of the U.S. through injury.  The International Association of Athletics Federations has
tightened the rules on false starts, after athletes were at one
time given two chances.  “I don’t think the false-start rule is the right one but
as the IAAF think it is good for TV it will probably stay,”
Collins said. “I know what I can do to make it to London next
year.”  Dix, 25, said the ejection of Bolt was “surreal.”  “It’s great to put the U.S. back to the medals stand but
it was a terrible race for me,” he said. “It was a sloppy
race, it was nerve-breaking. I didn’t really think they would
kick him out.”  Jeilan Victory  Earlier yesterday, Ibrahim Jeilan of  Ethiopia  won the men’s
10,000-meter final.  Jeilan overhauled Mo Farah of Britain in the closing
strides to win in a time of 27 minutes, 13.81 seconds. Farah
clocked 27:14.07 and Ethiopian Imane Merga came third in
27:19.14.  Valeriy Borchin of  Russia  retained his title in the 20-
kilometer race walk. American Brittney Reese successfully
defended her long jump crown.  Trey Hardee of the U.S. retained his world decathlon title
and  China ’s Li Yanfeng won the women’s discus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  