-- 
Contest for Kan’s Successor Begins in Japan as Kaieda Wins Ozawa’s Support

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-28T03:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/bout-for-kan-s-successor-begins-as-kaieda-wins-powerbroker-ozawa-s-support.html
Five candidates to succeed Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  began campaigning as Trade Minister
 Banri Kaieda  won key backing from a ruling party powerbroker.  Kaieda and former Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , who polls
show is the public’s preferred choice, agreed at a forum in
Tokyo yesterday that raising taxes to fund rebuilding from the
March earthquake and tsunami isn’t feasible now. The party faces
a divide over how to finance reconstruction, days after Japan’s
credit rating was cut on concerns over the world’s largest debt.  The candidates are scheduled to hold a debate today, and
the  Democratic Party  of Japan will select its new leader
tomorrow, with the winner almost certain to become the nation’s
sixth prime minister in five years. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano and Transport Minister
Sumio Mabuchi are also vying for stewardship of a country beset
by deflation, three quarters of economic contraction and the
world’s worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  Kan announced his resignation two days ago, undone by a
backlash over his handling of the quake and crisis at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. His successor will
inherit an economy threatened by a potential exodus of companies
facing a  currency trading  near a postwar high against the dollar
as well as power and supply-chain challenges following the quake.  “Japan’s economy is in a critical situation faced with the
sharp appreciation of the yen and hollowing out of industries,”
Kaieda said in a policy statement after declaring his candidacy.
“Japan must regain vitality to support the disaster-hit areas
and help reconstruction efforts.”  Ozawa’s Support  Kaieda, 62, earned support from  Ichiro Ozawa , a party
heavyweight who attempted to oust Kan in June and who retains
the loyalty of more than 100 of the 407 DPJ legislators.  “Ozawa may hold the balance of power,” said Steven R. Reed, a professor of political science at Chuo University in
Tokyo. Maehara must try to placate Ozawa’s followers without
seeming under his influence or risk losing public support, Reed
added.  Maehara was the most popular choice to become the next
prime minister according to a Yomiuri poll published Aug. 8,
with 21 percent support, while Noda had 5 percent. One voter in
five had no preference.  No New Taxes  Maehara, who at 49 would be the youngest premier since
World War II, called for a “large-scale” third extra budget to
stimulate the economy, while adding that financing for
reconstruction efforts shouldn’t come from tax increases. Kaieda,
62, said he favors the issuance of construction bonds or no-
interest bonds to fund rebuilding rather than higher taxes.  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Japan ’s credit rating last
week for the first time in nine years, citing “weak” prospects
for economic growth that will make it difficult for the
government to contain its record debt burden.  Kaieda and Maehara both said Japan should reduce its
dependence on nuclear energy over time, after the crippled power
plant in Fukushima spewed radiation into the water, air and food.
Maehara said the country should stop building reactors and
improve the safety of existing ones. Kaieda, who is head of the
Trade Ministry that oversees nuclear policy, said Japan should
increase the use of renewable energy.  Coalition  One point of difference between the two centered on whether
the DPJ should form a grand coalition with the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party . Maehara said an alignment would help
the government respond to the disaster, while Kaieda said the
question requires more debate within the DPJ.  “The people in the disaster-hit areas are having a hard
time,” Maehara said at yesterday’s forum. “Politicians should
be united to deal with the situation.”  Kan, 64, had made overtures to the opposition to form a
coalition in the days after the quake, only to have them
rejected by LDP head  Sadakazu Tanigaki .  The DPJ won power for the first time in August 2009, ending
the LDP’s half-century of almost continuous rule. Its victory
came with pledges to restore a country burdened by falling
prices, an aging population and a swelling fiscal deficit.  Maehara pledged to defeat deflation and stimulate economic
growth through fiscal policy and monetary easing. Kaieda said
the government should work closely with the central bank, while
adding that the  Bank of Japan  must remain unable to underwrite
 government bonds .  Noda, 54, reiterated that Japan will take “decisive”
action if necessary to counter speculative trades that drive the
yen higher. As finance minister, he authorized three currency
interventions in the past year to weaken the yen.  Japan’s currency has gained 19 percent against the dollar
since Kan took office on June 8, 2010. It closed at 76.64 per
dollar last week, close to a postwar record of 75.95 reached on
Aug. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  