-- 
BTA Bank Provisions Reached $8 Billion in July

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-08-31T13:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/bta-bank-adds-1-5-billion-in-provisions-in-july-regulator-says.html
(Corrects headline, first, second, fourth, fifth paragraphs
to remove comparisons after regulator says July report is in
accordance with international standards in story published on
Aug. 27.)  BTA Bank, Kazakhstan’s biggest
lender before it defaulted in 2009, had provisions of 1.169
billion tenge ($8 billion) in July, the nation’s financial
regulator said.  BTA calculated provisions, or cash the lender sets aside
against bad loans, in accordance with international reporting
standards in July, the Almaty-based central bank’s financial
oversight committee said in a  monthly report  on its website. The
lender allocated 943 billion tenge in June, based on Kazakh
accounting standards.  BTA was taken over by the state in 2009 when credit markets
froze and Kazakhstan’s property bubble burst. Last year, the
bank restructured $16.7 billion of debt, when its creditors,
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Plc, agreed to reduce the bank’s debt to $4.2 billion
in exchange for cash and a stake in the company.  BTA’s loan portfolio was 1.908 trillion tenge in July, and
assets were 1.795 trillion tenge in the period, the regulator
said.  Its liabilities exceeded assets by 40 billion tenge as of
Aug. 1, the regulator said.  BTA Bank press office didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mailed request for comments.  The following table shows the seven-month performance of
 Kazakhstan ’s six largest lenders by assets, along with 13th-
ranked Temirbank, and their position as of Aug. 1. The data from
the oversight committee are in billions of tenge:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  