-- 
Canadian Dollar Rises for the First Time Since July on Bernanke’s Remarks

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-27T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/canadian-dollar-rises-for-first-time-since-july-after-bernanke-s-remarks.html
Canada ’s dollar rose for the first
time in five weeks as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the economy of Canada’s largest trading partner isn’t weak
enough to warrant immediate additional stimulus.  The currency, sometimes known as the loonie for the aquatic
bird on the dollar coin, rallied this week versus the greenback
as equities gained on Bernanke’s comment that the U.S. economy
is likely to recover in the second half of this year. Canada’s
gross domestic product stagnated in the second quarter, a
government report is forecast to show next week.  “Equities have been the primary driver of the Canadian
dollar,” said  Michael Leavitt , a institutional-derivatives
broker at  MF Global Canada Co . in  Montreal . “I’d expect the
same for the most part until we get GDP in Canada next week.
We’re in a wait-and-see mode. It’s not the time to be sticking
your neck out.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 98.14
cents per U.S. dollar, from 99.01 cents on Aug. 19. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0190.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 4.7 percent. The
S&P/TSX Composite Index climbed 2.7 percent. Crude oil for
September delivery gained 4.1 percent to $85.60 a barrel in New
York trading.  Raw materials  including crude account for about
half of Canada’s export revenue.  Bonds Fall  Benchmark 10-year government bonds dropped for the first
time in five weeks, pushing the yields up nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 2.39 percent. The price of the 3.25
percent securities maturing in June 2021 decreased 85 cents to
C$107.41. The yield fell on Aug. 18 to 2.25 percent, the lowest
in Bloomberg data beginning in 198.  Canada’s dollar rose to a three-year high of 94.07 cents on
July 26 before plunging to below parity on Aug. 9 on mounting
concern the  U.S. economy , the consumer of three-quarters of
Canada’s exports and the primary market for its energy products,
may be heading into another recession. The loonie has also
fallen on speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will sap
risk demand.  The currency has traded within a two-cent range of 97.67
cents to 99.69 since Aug. 9, the day the Fed announced it would
hold its target lending rate at a record low through at least
the mid-2013.  Fed Action  While Bernanke sought in his address yesterday in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , to reassure investors and the public that U.S.
growth is safe in the long run and that the Fed still has tools
to aid the recovery if needed, he stopped short of indicating
that the central bank will move ahead with a third round of
government bond-buying.  “The Fed is taking a timeout, and Bernanke is passing the
buck,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “We have to wait until
Monday to gauge the real market attitude, and by then dealers
will have shifted their attention back to  Europe ’s woes.”  Canada’s economy was unchanged in the three months through
June after expanding 3.9 percent in the first quarter, according
to the median forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The report from  Statistics Canada  is due Aug. 31.  Popplewell said appreciation in the Canadian dollar to
about 98 cents would encounter resistance, meaning buyers of
U.S. dollars would emerge at that level.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 5 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-market currencies. Only the greenback has
performed worse, dropping 6.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  