-- 
Capital One’s ING Deal Will Face Federal Reserve Hearings, Extended Review

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-27T00:24:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/capital-one-s-proposed-ing-purchase-to-face-fed-hearings-extended-review.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ’s
proposed purchase of the ING Direct USA online bank faces public
hearings and an extended comment period as the Federal Reserve
decides whether to approve the $9 billion transaction.  Hearings on the combination will be held in  Washington ,
 Chicago  and  San Francisco  and the comment period was extended to
Oct. 12, the central bank said today in a  statement . The Fed is
working under a mandate from last year’s Dodd-Frank Act to
prevent risk to the  U.S. economy  from large financial firms.  “This annoys the people doing the deals because it slows
things up and may direct attention in unexpected areas, but it’s
part of what you bite off when you are a regulated enterprise
and want to do a merger,” said Ellen Marshall, a banking lawyer
and partner at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP in  Costa Mesa ,
 California . “The Fed does not want to appear cavalier about
doing whatever  Wall Street  thinks is best.’  Capital One, based in McLean,  Virginia , has said the
transaction would make it the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
deposits. The central bank said it will examine whether the
acquisition creates benefits to the public and risk to the
stability of the U.S. banking or financial system.  Capital One, which derives more than half its revenue from
credit cards, agreed in June to buy Amsterdam-based ING Groep
NV’s U.S. online bank to gain about $80 billion in deposits and
access to 7 million customers. Earlier this month, the lender
agreed to purchase HSBC Holdings Plc’s U.S. credit-card
business, adding about $30 billion in assets.  Consumer Advocates  Advocates for consumer rights and affordable housing have
pushed to halt the ING deal. The National Community Reinvestment
Coalition said the transaction may create another bank whose
collapse could imperil the financial system. House Financial
Services Committee ranking member  Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts 
had asked the Fed to extend the public comment period and hold
public hearings.  “We respect the board’s decision to extend the comment
period and hold hearings to ensure that all interested parties
have a chance to express their views,” Tatiana Stead, Capital
One spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Our history clearly
demonstrates that our customers and communities will see
numerous benefits from this acquisition.”  The comment period had been set to expire by Aug. 22,
Capital One said in a statement earlier this month. The bank had
said it opposed public hearings and an extended comment period.  The Dodd-Frank law says the Fed Board must consider whether
mergers will result in “greater or more concentrated risks” to
the banking or financial system.  New World Order  “This application is the first test of the  Federal Reserve 
and their approach to the new world banking order,” John Taylor, president and CEO of the NCRC, said today in a phone
interview. “What they have to show is the public benefit of
allowing these kinds of mergers is so clear, so convincing that
creating even bigger systemic institutions makes sense.”  Under rules that predate Dodd-Frank and govern bank holding
companies, the Fed is required to consider the economic and
community impact of mergers. Hearings aren’t mandatory and the
central bank has ignored requests of community groups to hold
them in the past.  The Fed held a hearing in April 2008 on Bank of America
Corp.’s acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp. In April
2004,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s purchase of Bank One Corp. was the
subject of a Fed public meeting. The central bank also had a
hearing in January 2004 on Bank of America’s proposal to merge
with FleetBoston Financial Corp.  “The Federal Reserve is taking a middle-of-the-road
approach in responding to the request for hearings,” L. Richard Fischer, a partner for Morrison & Foerster LLP in Washington,
said in an e-mail. “The factors to be considered appear to be
traditional holding-company-acquisition criteria, rather than a
more expansive Dodd-Frank too-big-to-fail criteria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  