-- 
China’s Industrial Profits Rise 28.3%

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-27T02:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/china-s-industrial-profits-increase-28-3-supporting-economic-expansion.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits rose 28.3 percent in the first seven months from a year
earlier, helping to support the expansion of the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  Net income climbed to 2.8 trillion yuan ($438 billion), the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website today. That
compares with a 28.7 percent gain from January through June.
Profit for the nation’s industrial companies was 2.4 trillion
yuan in the first half.  Demand for  China ’s exports is under threat as the U.S.
recovery weakens and European officials grapple with a
sovereign-debt crisis. Higher profits may help to sustain
investment, preventing a deeper slowdown in an economy that grew
9.5 percent in the second quarter.  “China is on track for a soft-landing, barring any black-
swan scenarios such as a breakup of the  euro zone ,” said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch. “The country has become less dependent on exports
compared with the financial crisis years.”  Industrial companies’ revenue rose 29.8 percent to 45.9
trillion yuan in the seven months through July, according to
today’s statement. Revenue was 38.9 trillion yuan for the first
half of this year.  Commodity Prices  Declines in some commodity prices since April may ease cost
pressures that have pared some companies’ profits. Crude in  New
York  has fallen more than 25 percent since reaching a 31-month
high above $114 a barrel in late April.  Angang Steel Co., the largest Hong Kong-traded Chinese
steelmaker by market value, and Li Ning Co., China’s largest
maker and retailer of sportswear, are among companies to have
reported rising costs and weaker profits.  UBS AG this week reduced a forecast for China’s economic
growth this year to 9 percent from a previous estimate of 9.3
percent, citing weakness in developed economies.  Growth may be supported by investment as manufacturers
shift production to inland provinces and the government spends
more on public housing and infrastructure.  The statistics bureau’s data covers companies with annual
sales of at least 20 million yuan in 39 industries, including
oil and gas exploration, chemicals, transportation equipment
manufacturing, telecommunications, and power generation.  --Li Yanping. With assistance from Tian Ying and  John Liu  in
Beijing, Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  