-- 
Bernanke Outlook Revives Risk Appettite

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-27T04:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/dollar-weakens-versus-most-peers-as-bernanke-outlook-revives-risk-appetite.html
The dollar slid versus the majority
of its most-traded peers as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy hasn’t deteriorated enough to need
immediate stimulus, fueling appetite for higher-risk assets.  Switzerland ’s franc had the biggest weekly drop against the
euro since July 1 on speculation policy makers will take new
steps to curb its strength. The greenback fell for a second week
versus the 17-nation currency as Bernanke said yesterday the Fed
still has tools to stimulate the economy, spurring bets it may
yet take action and damping the currency’s refuge appeal. Data
next week may show U.S. employers added fewer jobs this month.  “Bernanke doesn’t want anyone to think that his finger
isn’t on the big red button to do more,” said  Stephen Gallo ,
head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London .
“September could bring the trigger for whatever more is going
to be.”  The dollar fell against 10 of its 16 major counterparts,
dropping 0.7 percent versus the euro to $1.4499 yesterday in New
York, from $1.4397 on Aug. 19. It was little changed versus the
yen at 76.64, compared with 76.55 a week earlier. Europe’s
shared currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 111.17 yen, from
110.20 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar gained the most against the greenback
as stocks climbed after Bernanke, in a speech in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , sought to reassure investors that U.S. growth is safe
in the long run and the Fed can aid the recovery if needed. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent yesterday.  The South Pacific currency strengthened 1.7 percent
yesterday to end the week at 84.07 U.S. cents, up 2.8 percent
over five days, the most since May.  Canada’s Dollar  The Canadian dollar, another currency of a commodities
exporter, rose for the first time in five weeks, gaining 0.9
percent to 98.14 cents per  U.S. dollar .  The greenback traded within a two-cent range against the
euro this week before Bernanke’s speech at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual conference in Jackson Hole, between $1.4328 and $1.45, as
investors speculated what the Fed chief would say.  At last year’s conference, Bernanke foreshadowed the second
round of quantitative easing to spur growth, the purchase of
$600 billion of Treasuries from November through June.  The Fed still “has a range of tools that could be used to
provide additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said yesterday,
without specifying when or whether it might deploy them.  A second day has been added to the bank’s next policy
meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the
economy and possible responses, Bernanke said.  ‘Continue to Ease’  “The Fed will continue to ease, most likely at its next
meeting,”  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial
Holdings Inc. in  Chicago ,  wrote  on the firm’s website. “Ben
didn’t specify what they would do at their next meeting, as he
still needs to deal with internal opposition to additional
easing, but that will not stop him.”  The  U.S. economy  grew more slowly from April through June
than first estimated, Commerce Department data showed yesterday
90 minutes before the Fed chief’s address. That capped the
weakest six months of the economic recovery that began in mid-
2009. Gross domestic product gained at a 1 percent annual rate,
versus the earlier estimate of 1.3 percent.  U.S. payroll growth slowed in August to 75,000 jobs, from
117,000 in July, economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast
before the Labor Department reports the data Sept. 2.  European Crisis  The euro gained this week versus the yen and greenback even
amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening. Greek
government two-year note yields climbed 46 percent, a euro-era
record. The  European Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish
government bonds, according to people familiar with the
transactions, to hold down borrowing costs and keep the crisis
from spreading to the two countries.  The shared currency dropped against most major counterparts
on Aug. 25 as French, Italian and Spanish stock-market
regulators extended temporary short-selling bans they introduced
this month in a bid to stem stock-market volatility.  Short investors sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  The euro appreciated 0.6 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, while the dollar declined
2.1 percent. The Swiss franc strengthened the most, 5.9 percent,
and the yen gained 4.5 percent as investors sought refuge amid
the slowing U.S. economy and Europe’s debt crisis.  Yen Trading  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he’s
examining how much speculative trading is influencing the yen,
which surged to a post-World War II record of 75.95 per dollar
on Aug. 19.  Japan  last intervened in the  currency market , selling yen
to try to curb its climb, on Aug. 4, when it touched 76.97 to
the dollar. The yen weakened as much as 4.1 percent that day. It
was trading at pre-intervention levels within a week.  The franc tumbled versus all of its 16 most-traded peers
this week amid speculation the  Swiss National Bank  will
introduce new measures to damp demand for the currency. Policy
makers cut borrowing costs to zero earlier this month, increased
bank sight deposits almost sevenfold and left the door open for
additional measures.  The Swiss currency fell against the euro and the dollar for
a third week, sliding 3.4 percent to 1.1690 per euro in the
biggest drop in almost two months, and weakening 2.7 percent to
80.63 centimes per greenback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  