-- 
ECB’s Nowotny Sees No Upward Pressure on Inflation Expectations in Europe

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-27T18:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/ecb-s-nowotny-sees-no-upward-pressure-on-inflation-expectations-in-europe.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said he sees no upward pressure on
inflation expectations in the euro-area, indicating policy
makers may have scope to keep their key  interest rate  on hold
after two increases this year.  “What we see is that inflation expectations are stable,”
Nowotny said in an interview yesterday at a conference of
central bankers in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. “For the time being,
looking at  oil prices  and general demand, I do not see specific
issues that could contribute to an increase in inflation
expectations.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank raised its benchmark
interest rate to 1.5 percent this year before keeping it
unchanged this month. The region’s sovereign-debt crisis and
signs of a global economic slowdown and this week prompted
economists from Citigroup Inc. to UBS AG to predict the ECB will
leave its key rate on hold until 2013.  While Nowotny declined to comment on the outlook for
monetary policy, he said it was “very premature” to make such
forecasts. The “growth perspective is intact,” and the
expansion this year will provide a “rather strong base” for
2012, he said.  “Even if there is a slowdown, it won’t mean recession,”
he said.  Inflation slowed in July to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent in
June, breaching the ECB’s 2 percent limit for an eighth month. A
gauge of inflation expectations used by economists at HSBC
Holdings Plc and based on inflation-indexed bonds of  Germany ,
France, Italy and Greece has declined to about 1.66 percent from
about 2.4 percent in April.  Losing Momentum  Adding to signs the euro-region recovery is losing
momentum, growth in loans to households and companies in the
euro area slowed in July, data showed this week. Meantime,
European services and manufacturing industries are expanding at
the slowest pace in almost two years, and investor confidence in
Germany fell this month to its lowest in 2 1/2 years.  Nowotny urged European governments to ratify agreements to
increase the size of their rescue facility to 440 billion euros
($638 billion) and to allow it to buy bonds and aid banks,
relieving pressure on the ECB to do so after it began purchasing
Spanish and Italian  government securities  this month to contain
the debt crisis.  “The main challenge is to turn these decisions into
actions,” he said. “I am concerned by the delays we’ve seen in
the political field.”  Lehman Comparison  The ECB official played down signs that lending between
European banks is freezing again as it did in late 2008 after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “One should not
over-estimate the situation,” he said. “We are away from a
situation like that after Lehman. It is something to be
observed, but not an immediate challenge.”  Nowotny defended the ECB’s earlier shift toward tighter
monetary policy against criticism from economists including
Nouriel Roubini, chairman and co-founder of Roubini Global
Economics LLC in  New York , and  Paul Krugman  of  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey . The rate increases “clearly
emphasized the prime concern of the ECB is to maintain  price
stability ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  