-- 
EFG Eurobank, Alpha Said to Plan Merger Creating Biggest Lender in Greece

-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-08-27T18:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/efg-eurobank-alpha-said-to-plan-merger-creating-biggest-lender-in-greece.html
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and Alpha
Bank SA, Greece’s second and third-biggest banks, plan to merge
to become the country’s biggest lender, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The boards of both institutions will meet to approve the
terms of the friendly deal on Aug. 29, one of the people said,
declining to be named. The meetings, and plans for a news
conference at 2 p.m. that day, were confirmed by the other
person.  The team-up between the two lenders would create Greece’s
biggest bank with assets of 150 billion euros ($217 billion),
more than 2,000 branches and about 80 billion euros in deposits.
Qatar private investors who already have a stake in Alpha will
participate in the new entity, according to one person. Chairman
of the new lender will be Yannis Costopoulos, the present
chairman of Alpha Bank, one person said.  Alpha Bank and Eurobank have lost at least 92 percent in
Athens trading since the start of 2008 as the global financial
crisis and  Greece ’s debt woes eroded the value of the
businesses. The two Athens-based banks ended this week with a
combined market capitalization of almost 2 billion euros,
according to Bloomberg data, down from about 23 billion euros at
the end of 2007.  Eurobank Deputy Chief Executive Nikolaos Karamouzis and
George Aronis, a general manager at Alpha and member of the
board, declined to comment on the report.  Shares in Alpha have plummeted 50 percent this year while
Eurobank’s stock has dropped 54 percent as Greece received a
second bailout from its European Union partners. Alpha Bank fell
26 percent this week to 1.9 euros and Eurobank declined 22
percent in the five days to 1.73 euros.  Bank Mergers  The government and the country’s central bank chief  George Provopoulos  are pushing the country’s banks to combine after
their capital was depleted by the sovereign debt crisis and
mounting loan losses, arguing that fewer and stronger banks can
ride out the crisis, and extend loans to businesses and
households to get credit flowing through to the economy again.  Greece’s banks were weakened as the debt crisis led to a
slump in bond prices, a shrinking economy and forced the
industry to turn to emergency funding from the ECB. With the
country in a third year of recession and the government
receiving a second bailout to avert default, Greece’s lenders
face increasing loan losses.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the nation’s largest lender,
made an unsolicited 2.8 billion-euro offer for Alpha in February
in a bid to create a stronger banking group that would cut its
reliance on emergency funding from the  European Central Bank ,.
Alpha spurned that approach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  