-- 
Everton Beats Blackburn 1-0 With Late Penalty in Premier League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-27T18:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/everton-beats-blackburn-1-0-with-late-penalty-in-premier-league.html
A Mikel Arteta penalty kick in
stoppage time gave Everton a 1-0 victory over Blackburn Rovers,
which missed two spot kicks, in English soccer’s Premier League.  Chelsea and Liverpool both won 3-1 to tie Wolverhampton,
which drew 0-0 at  Aston Villa , with seven points atop the
standings. Wigan defeated Queens Park Rangers 2-0 for its first
win, while Swansea and Sunderland finished scoreless.  Arteta converted after Christopher Samba fouled Marouane
Fellaini at Blackburn’s  Ewood Park . Junior Hoilett and Mauro
Formica missed penalties in the second half for the home side.  Blackburn’s first penalty came two minutes into the second
half after Ross Barkley tripped Formica. Hoilett, however, was
stopped by diving Everton goalkeeper  Tim Howard .  Blackburn’s David Goodwillie hit the crossbar in the 74th
minute. Rovers was awarded a second penalty nine minutes later
and Formica hit the post.  Everton’s winner came in the second of three added minutes
when Arteta sent his kick into the bottom corner of the net.  Frank Lampard  and new signing Juan Mata scored in the final
eight minutes to give Chelsea a home win over promoted Norwich.  Jose Bosingwa put the Blues in front after six minutes
before Grant Holt drew Norwich even in the second half. Norwich
goalkeeper John Ruddy was sent off in the 82nd minute for taking
down Ramires in the area and Lampard scored from the penalty.  Mata, who joined Chelsea this week from Valencia, clinched
the victory with a stoppage-time goal.  Jordan Henderson ,  Martin Skrtel  and  Charlie Adam  had the
goals in Liverpool’s home win over Bolton.  Henderseon opened the scoring in the 15th minute before
goals from Skrtel and Adam a minute apart early in the second
half. Ivan Klasnic scored for Bolton in stoppage time.  Villa Challenge  Wolverhampton held off an Aston Villa challenge to keep its
unbeaten start. Villa had a 14-4 shot advantage but failed to
beat Wolves goalkeeper Wayne Hennessey.  Franco Di Santo scored in each half as Wigan beat newly
promoted QPR at home for its first win. Promoted Swansea is
still seeking its first victory following a draw with
Sunderland, which is also winless.  Manchester United hosts Arsenal, Manchester City visits
Tottenham, Fulham is at Newcastle and West Brom hosts Stoke in
tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 