-- 
Georgia Demands International Reaction to Abkhazian Vote

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-08-27T16:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/georgia-demands-international-reaction-to-abkhazian-vote-1-.html
Georgia  demanded an international
reaction after its separatist region of Abkhazia elected a new
president for the second time since Russia recognized it as an
independent state three years ago.  Vice President Alexander Ankvab won the former Georgian
province’s presidential poll after securing 55 percent of the
vote, the Abkhaz state news agency  Apsnypress  said today, citing
Election Commission data.  The European Union and NATO issued statements saying they
do not recognise the result and support the sovereignty of
Georgia. The Abkhaz elections are “a stage farce,” Georgia’s
foreign ministry said in the statement today on its website.  Abkhaz Foreign Minister Sergei Shamba and former vice
president Raul Khajimba were rivals to Ankvab in the election
called following the death of PresidentSergei Bagapsh in a
Moscow hospital in May. Bagapsh won a second term as president
in a 2009 vote.  Abkhazia declared independence from Georgia after a war in
the early 1990s that left hundreds of thousands displaced. In
August 2008,  Russia  routed Georgia’s army in a war over another
breakaway region,  South Ossetia , and then recognized both
regions’ independence, agreeing to defend their borders. Georgia
considers both regions part of its territory.  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s High Representative, said the EU
“does not recognize the constitutional and legal framework
within which these elections have taken place.” The EU
reiterates its support to the “territorial integrity and
sovereignty of Georgia,” Ashton said in an e-mailed statement.  Anders Fogh Rasmussen, secretary-general of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization,  said  the “holding of such
elections does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting
settlement in Georgia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  