-- 
Global Insurance Pool Would Reduce Financial Risks, Prasad Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-08-27T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/global-insurance-pool-would-reduce-financial-risks-prasad-says.html
Countries around the world should
establish an “insurance pool” to lower the risks caused by
emerging-market countries’ hoarding of foreign exchange
reserves, according to Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at
 Brookings Institution  and a professor at  Cornell University .  “Given the deteriorating public debt trajectories of
reserve currency economic areas, the long-term risk on emerging
markets’ external balance sheets is shifting to the asset
side,” Prasad, a former head of the China division at the
 International Monetary Fund , said in a paper presented today to
the  Federal Reserve ’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “These countries may be forced to rethink the notion of
advanced economy sovereign assets as being ‘safe’ assets,
although they are certainly highly liquid,” Prasad said. The
U.S. this month lost its top AAA credit rating from  Standard &
Poor’s .  Under the proposal, a country would “pay a modest entry
fee” of up to $10 billion, and an annual premium for
“insurance that it could call upon in the event of a crisis,”
the paper said. The cost would depend on both the level of
insurance and “the quality of a country’s policies,” which
would “strengthen moral suasion and get a country to at least
partially internalize the effects of its own policies on global
risks,” Prasad said.  The premiums would be used to buy a portfolio of  government
bonds  from the U.S, Europe and  Japan , with central banks from
those areas “obliged to backstop the pool’s lines of credit,”
the paper said.  Bond Holdings  Emerging market nations’ accumulation of developed
countries’ bonds “allows advanced economies to get easy
financing for their fiscal profligacy,” Prasad said. The size
of their stakes also caused concern during the crisis that
“financial markets could be further destabilized” if they
dumped their holdings of Treasuries, he said.  “Thus, in many ways, massive reserve accumulation makes
those reserves less valuable at a time of global crisis and in
fact reduces the value of insurance as it heightens global
risks,” Prasad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  