-- 
Libyan Rebels Pursue Qaddafi Loyalists in Sirte

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-28T19:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/libyan-rebels-pursue-qaddafi-loyalists-believed-to-be-hiding-in-beni-walid.html
Libyan rebels said Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces used civilians as human shields in an attempt to block
opposition fighters from taking Sirte, one of the last remaining
loyalist strongholds.  Rebel units pushed toward the leader’s hometown from the
east and west along the coastal highway today, Commander Ali
Ahmed of the rebel Sidra Brigade said in an interview. Advances
from the west were stalled because Qaddafi forces are holding
hostages in the village of Heesh, he said.  “The Qaddafi brigade came there and stayed with them,”
said Ahmed. “The people cannot leave.”  The rebels will need about 10 days to capture Sirte “if
negotiations fail to enter the town without fight,” Colonel
Salim Miftah, one of the rebel commanders, told  Al-Jazeera .
“Our main goal is liberation not blood.”  Rebels have been trying to find Qaddafi, consolidate gains
and bring stability to the country since entering Tripoli last
week, backed by airstrikes from the  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization . The rebel National Transitional Council moved its
headquarters to the capital from Benghazi on Aug. 24.  Rebel forces say they suspect a number of Qaddafi loyalists
are hiding in Sirte. At least four Scud missiles have been
launched from there at the rebel stronghold of Misrata in the
past two weeks, said Abdullah Maiteeg, a rebel fighter.  Libyan rebel units have also moved closer to the town of
Beni Walid, a loyalist holdout 100 miles southwest of Misrata.
Sirte is “an operating base from where pro-Qaddafi troops are
projecting hostile forces,” a spokesman for NATO said today.  ‘Delusional’ Offer  Qaddafi is still in  Libya , Moussa Ibrahim, his chief
spokesman, said in a phone call to the  Associated Press  in New
York yesterday from Tripoli, without saying where the Libyan
leader was located. Qaddafi is offering to negotiate with the
rebels to form a transitional government, AP cited Ibrahim as
saying. British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  called any such
offer “delusional,” the  BBC  reported today.  The opposition council yesterday claimed full control of
Libya’s oil fields. Nouri Balroin, the head of the NTC’s oil
production unit, said output will resume within three weeks, Al
Jazeera reported. Oil experts will follow a three-stage plan to
restore the flow of oil to 1.6 million barrels a day within 15
months, he said, according to the Qatar-based network. Ras Lanuf
refinery is able to restart operations at any time,  Al Arabiya 
reported, citing the director of the facility.  Standing Ovation  Officials with the NTC were given a standing ovation by
members of the  Arab League  who readmitted Libya at a foreign
ministers’ meeting yesterday in Cairo. Council Prime Minister
Mahmoud Jibril told members that the crumbling of the Qaddafi
regime put more responsibility on the rebel leadership. The Arab
League suspended Libya after Qaddafi began his efforts to crush
the opposition.  “Before we gained legitimacy by resisting that regime,
while today our legitimacy is measured by our ability to provide
services for Libyan people making the financial issue an
essential one,” Jibril said in remarks to the ministers.  He appealed to league members for help in unfreezing Libyan
assets, saying the NTC’s inability to provide services would
lead to instability. The transition council may seek help from
Arab nations to “restore and keep order,” he said.  “We will ask you for help if the NTC fails to establish
security,” Jibril said as the new Libyan flag was raised next
to the flags of other Arab nations in front of  Arab League 
headquarters in Cairo.  The foreign ministers, in a statement, asked the  United
Nations  to let the NTC take Libya’s seat at the world body.  Civilian Deaths  Evidence of atrocities emerged at a former regime military
base, where the handcuffed bodies of 130 Libyan rebels and the
remains of 20 civilians were found, a Libyan activist and
journalist in Tripoli, Numedia al-Trabulsi, told Al Jazeera in a
telephone interview yesterday.  The bodies were found in the Khamis Camp in Tripoli, now
under rebel control. The Khamis Brigade is a special forces
military unit led by Qaddafi’s youngest son, Khamis.  Amnesty International  said it has uncovered evidence that
loyalist forces killed detainees at two military camps in
Tripoli on Aug. 23 and 24. Rebels have also targeted suspected
African mercenaries in retribution killings in the capital,   The
Independent  based in  London  said yesterday, citing its
correspondent.  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has urged international
organizations to help Libyan authorities deliver immediate
emergency aid and support a democratic transition.  Humanitarian Aid   The U.K. announced plans for “urgent humanitarian
support,” including medical help and food, for people affected
by the conflict in Libya, International Development Secretary
 Andrew Mitchell  said yesterday. The support will include
surgical teams and medicine for the treatment of up to 5,000
war-wounded patients and food for nearly 690,000 people,
Mitchell said in an e-mailed statement.  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Crude oil for October delivery rose 7 cents to settle at
$85.37 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange two days
ago. Futures increased 3.8 percent this week, the first weekly
gain since July, and are up 16 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  