-- 
Power Disruptions Rise as a Weakening Irene Rakes New York

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-08-28T13:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/irene-knocks-out-power-to-420-000-in-north-carolina-virginia.html
More than 3 million homes and
businesses along the U.S. East Coast were without power today as
a weakening Hurricane Irene lashed  New York  with winds and rain.  Tumbling trees and debris dragged down  power lines  and
winds blew over electrical poles, cutting off power to more than
340,000 customers on  Long Island , where the storm made its
second landfall, according to Long Island Power Authority.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek nuclear plant in New Jersey
shut down its reactor as a precaution ahead of the storm, and
other reactors reduced power.  One of the nuclear reactors at  Constellation Energy Group
Inc. (CEG) ’s Calvert Cliffs nuclear station in Lusby,  Maryland , shut
down automatically after the plant’s main transformer was hit by
wind-driven debris, the company said in a statement. The plant
remains safe, the company said.  Consolidated Edison said it will decide by 10 a.m. today
whether to cut power to a swath of Lower  Manhattan  because of
possible flooding from the torrential rains expected from the
storm. Power may be cut from south of the Brooklyn Bridge, to
Broadway, said John Miksad, the company’s senior vice president
of electric operations.  Nuclear reactors near the coast in  New Jersey  and
 Connecticut  began powering down as a precaution, said  David McIntyre , a spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. Reducing power will allow the plants to shut down
faster and more efficiently if it becomes necessary.  Reducing Power  Exelon shut down its Oyster Creek nuclear reactor in New
Jersey as of 5 p.m. local time in anticipation of hurricane-
force winds at the plant, the company said in a statement.  “Although we cannot predict with certainty whether we will
see those wind speeds on the plant site, based on current
weather projections and because of Oyster Creek’s proximity to
Barnegat Bay and the Atlantic Ocean, it is prudent to safely
shut down the plant in advance,” Exelon’s vice president at the
site, Michael Massaro, said in the statement.  Constellation said its Unit 1 reactor at Calvert Cliffs
remains safely offline.  No Public Threat  There is no threat to staff or the public and “the
facility’s Unit 2 is stable and operating at 100 percent
power,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Dominion Resources Inc. is reducing power to 70 percent at
one of its reactors at its Millstone plant near New London,
Connecticut, and to 50 percent for the second reactor.  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point plant, about 35 miles from
midtown Manhattan, and Pilgrim plant in  Massachusetts , continue
to operate at full capacity.  Entergy’s procedures call for Pilgrim to begin powering
down if the plant sees sustained winds of 75 miles (120
kilometers) per hour or more, said Carol Wightman, spokeswoman
for Pilgrim Nuclear Power station.  Near the coastline where Irene came ashore, Progress
Energy’s Brunswick reactors in North Carolina were powered down
to 70 percent. Dominion’s Surry reactors in  Virginia  were
operating at full power, MacIntyre said.  PJM Interconnection LLC, the grid operator that coordinates
electricity transmission across much of the region in Irene’s
anticipated path, does not expect any disruptions to the grid
even with some nuclear plants shutting down, Ray Dotter, a
spokesman, said in an interview.  Keeping Grid Powered  The grid can pull power from other generators, and demand
also will be lower during the Saturday-Sunday weekend and
because of storm outages, he said.  “We’ve taken into account the plants that were likely to
shut down and scheduled additional generation,” said Dotter,
whose organization coordinates the movement of wholesale power
across 13 states and the  District of Columbia . “We don’t want
to lose generation from Oyster Creek, but we have other plants
ready to increase their output.”  Progress has about 1,000 line and tree workers staged
across its service area in the Carolinas prepared to tackle
outages, three times the normal number, Julia Milstead, a
Progress spokeswoman, said. Dominion has 2,300 line workers
standing by for repairs across  North Carolina , Karl Neddenien, a
spokesman, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  