-- 
Irene Is Large, Dangerous Storm, Napolitano Says

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-27T16:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/irene-remains-large-dangerous-as-u-s-officials-ready-disaster-response.html
Hurricane Irene may cause 5 inches 
to 15 inches of rain, a storm surge of 4 feet to 8 feet and 
hurricane-force winds along the East Coast up to  New
England , U.S. emergency officials said at a news conference.  “Irene remains a large and dangerous storm,” Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told reporters in
Washington. “We anticipate heavy rain, potential flooding,
significant power outages.”  The hurricane made landfall on the North Carolina coast
this morning and is projected to move near or over the mid-
Atlantic coast before reaching southern New England tomorrow,
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center. Irene poses the
most serious threat to the Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in
1985, and about 65 million people may be in the storm’s path.  President Barack Obama has signed a federal emergency
declaration for North Carolina, authorizing the Homeland
Security Department and  Federal Emergency Management Agency  to
coordinate disaster response and mobilize resources. Senior
members of the administration’s emergency management team
briefed Obama on the storm’s intensity, track and response plans
this morning, the White House said in a statement.  The governors of  New York ,  New Jersey , Maryland, Rhode
Island, Connecticut and Virginia declared emergencies. New York
City began moving people from low-lying areas, and evacuations
have been ordered in Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and Atlantic
City in New Jersey.  During the immediate aftermath of the storm, when emergency
workers are assessing damage, “the best thing people can do is
stay at home, stay inside,”  Craig Fugate , head of FEMA, said
today in Washington.  “We don’t see it strengthening anymore,” Bill Read, U.S.
National Hurricane Center director, said at today’s news
conference. At the same time, he warned that “the folks in the
high rises could experience considerably higher winds than the
folks down low.”  As many as 13,000 evacuated residents spent last night at
Red Cross shelters, Gail McGovern, the group’s chief executive
officer, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 