-- 
Japan to Spend $2.9 Billion to Clean Up Tepco Radiation Spills, Kyodo Says

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-08-27T03:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/japan-to-spend-2-9-billion-to-clean-up-tepco-radiation-spills-kyodo-says.html
Japan will allocate 220 billion yen
($2.87 billion) to clean up in areas contaminated by radiation
spewed from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant,  Kyodo News  reported.  The government aims to reduce the level of  radiation
exposure  to less than 1 millisievert per year soon, Kyodo News
reported yesterday, citing Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano.
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who said yesterday he’s stepping down
from office, will visit Fukushima today to explain the
government’s decontamination plans for the region, according to
a separate Kyodo report.  The meltdown of the nuclear plant following the March 11
earthquake and tsunami forced thousands of Fukushima prefecture
residents to evacuate. Prolonged exposure to radiation in the
air, ground and food may cause leukemia and other cancers,
according to the London-based  World Nuclear Association .  The government set targets yesterday for reducing radiation
near the Fukushima plant, including cutting the exposure for
children by 60 percent within two years.  Annual exposure for the general public will be reduced by
50 percent within the same period,  Japan ’s nuclear task force
said yesterday. The central government will decontaminate areas
where radiation exceeds 20 millisieverts a year, while local
authorities will clear less toxic areas, it said.  Ash from 16 garbage incinerating facilities out of 22
places in Fukushima was found to contain levels exceeding the
standard set by the environment ministry, the Asahi newspaper
reported today. Abukuma Clean Center found 95,300 becquerels per
kilogram of cesium, the newspaper said.  Levels of cesium exceeding the standard were found in
compost from farms in Chiba, Ibaraki and Tochigi prefectures,
according to the Kyodo reports yesterday. The products didn’t
infect the distribution chain, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  