-- 
Johnson Beats Kuchar by Two Strokes at Shortened Barclays Golf Tournament

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/johnson-beats-kuchar-by-two-strokes-at-shortened-barclays-golf-tournament.html
Dustin Johnson shot a 6-under-par
65 to win the Barclays golf tournament, the U.S. PGA Tour’s
playoff opener which was shortened to 54 holes to avoid
disruption by Hurricane Irene.  Johnson finished 19-under at Plainfield Country Club in
Edison,  New Jersey , yesterday topping defending champion  Matt Kuchar  by two shots for his first win of the year. Brandt Snedeker and  Vijay Singh  tied for third at 16-under.  “It feels great,” Johnson told reporters. “I feel like
I’ve played pretty well all year but just haven’t quite been
able to get that win.”  Tournament officials decided to shorten the tournament to
54 holes from 72 because of the threat of Hurricane Irene.
Players started early yesterday at 7 a.m., teeing off on both
the first and 10th holes in groups of three instead of the
normal two.  “I think the tour definitely did the right thing in
putting this to a 54-hole event, teeing us off early today,”
Kuchar said yesterday. “I thought we were going to be playing
in a lot of rain. It turned out to be a good day of golf. Just
a few small showers out there.”  Johnson made an eagle, five birdies and a bogey in
shooting 29 on the front nine for the second straight day. He
then finished with nine consecutive pars for his fifth career
victory.  “I played the front pretty well,” Johnson said. “I wish
we could have just kept playing the front nine.”  Kuchar, who led Johnson and Singh by one shot going into
today’s round, finished with a 68. He had five birdies over the
first 11 holes, made bogeys on the 12th and 13th and finished
with five straight pars.  Snedeker had 11 birdies and one bogey in shooting the
day’s lowest score of 61, while Singh finished with a 68.  The PGA Tour’s postseason continues next week with the
100-player Deutsche Bank Championship, from which 70 advance to
the BMW Championship. After that, the top 30 players contest
the Tour Championship, with the winner of the FedEx Cup
receiving a $10 million bonus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 