-- 
New York Faces Evacuation Orders as Transit Shutdown Looms

-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-08-27T01:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/new-york-city-residents-face-evacuation-orders-as-transit-shutdown-looms.html
New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  issued a mandatory evacuation order for low-lying
areas, including Battery Park City and Coney Island, while
airports, trains, buses and subways prepared to shut tomorrow as
Hurricane Irene approached.  All New Jersey rail service will be suspended from noon
tomorrow, Governor  Chris Christie  said. New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  will
institute a shutdown of trains and buses starting at about noon
local time. The suspension will include subways, buses, the Long
Island Rail Road, Metro-North Railroad and Access-A-Ride.  John F. Kennedy International, Newark Liberty International
and LaGuardia airports will close to arrivals at noon tomorrow,
the Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey  said in a
statement. The authority also will suspend PATH train service
and close Stewart International Airport near Newburgh, New York,
and the Teterboro, New Jersey, airfield.  Hurricane Irene, a Category 2 storm currently forecast to
make landfall in North Carolina tomorrow, threatens to inflict
the worst destruction in the Northeast since Hurricane Gloria in
1985. It may affect more than 65 million people, or one in five
Americans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Get the hell off the beach in Asbury Park,” Christie
said at a news conference at state police headquarters in West
Trenton. “Get out. You’re done. You’ve maximized your tan.”  More Evacuations  Christie widened mandatory evacuations to include towns in
Monmouth County north of Manasquan Inlet, the terminus of the
Intracoastal Waterway. Early evacuation orders included Atlantic
County, home of  Atlantic City , the second-largest U.S. gambling
center.  Cuomo said in an e-mailed statement that he is calling out
as many as 900 members of the Army and Air National Guard. He
also said bridges, including the George Washington span over the
 Hudson River , would be closed if wind speeds exceed 60 miles per
hour.  New York City residents in the affected neighborhoods must
leave by 5 p.m. tomorrow, Bloomberg said during a City Hall news
briefing. It’s the first time New York residents have been
ordered to leave their homes ahead of a storm, he said.  The evacuation order would affect about 270,000 New
Yorkers, said  Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral spokesman. Battery Park
City is home to almost 40,000 people. More than 64,000 live in
 Manhattan  Beach and parts of Sheepshead Bay, which are also in
the evacuation area, known as Zone A. About 70,000 live in Far
Rockaway and Rockaway Park in Queens.  “This is a mandatory evacuation,” Bloomberg said. “By
five o’clock tomorrow you have to be out. Waiting for the last
minute is not a smart thing to do. This is life threatening.”  Not Leaving  Adam Pratt, a Battery Park City resident for 24 years, said
he isn’t going anywhere.  “It’s just going to be a huge crush,” he said while
walking his dog. “It’s just going to be a big bottleneck
getting to a shelter or getting out of the city.”  Pratt, a 39-year-old consultant for a natural-food company,
was living in the complex in 2001, when the World Trade Center
was attacked.  “Since 9/11 I’ve been very prepared for all emergencies,”
he said.  Taking a different view was Julie Kuehndorf, a 51-year-old
movie publicist, who plans to leave and said everyone she has
spoken to is doing the same.  “We evacuated once before almost 10 years ago, so we know
what to do, what to bring,” she said in an e-mail. “At least
this time we have more time to prepare, and know better what to
expect -- i.e. wind and rain. One of the worst things about 9/11
from the residents’ point of view was the uncertainty. Was it
safe to move back, and could we face living there after such a
calamity occurred in our backyard?”  Coney Island  In Coney Island, Haim Haddad, a 61-year-old operator of a
T-shirt store, said he would comply with the evacuation order.  “We’ll leave before tomorrow night and put the merchandise
two to three feet above the floor,” he said. “If the water
goes higher, I don’t have a second floor. If it’s 10 feet deep,
then maybe on Tuesday I open a swimming pool.”  MTA Chairman  Jay Walder  said it would take at least eight
hours to shut down the transit system and store equipment in
locations that don’t run the risk of being inundated by water.
To get the system up and running on Monday morning will also
take hours, and it probably won’t be available for rush hour,
Walder said.  The storm has the potential to shut the New York Stock
Exchange, a company executive said.  Stock Exchange  “If we can open here but none of our customers can get to
their desks, it really doesn’t make a lot of sense to open the
exchange,” Louis Pastina, senior vice president for NYSE
Euronext, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’ll have
to gauge that in coordination with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the other stock exchanges and our member firms.”  At the  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  store in midtown Manhattan, signs
alerted customers that batteries and generators may sell out as
shoppers prepare for the storm. Flashlights were already gone at
a nearby Duane Reade Inc. drugstore, and the online grocer Fresh
Direct said it won’t make any deliveries Aug. 28 or Aug. 29.  Christie, Cuomo and Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy
declared states of emergency yesterday, which freed up state
resources to be spent on storm-related expenses. President Obama
granted Cuomo’s request for a federal emergency declaration.  Yesterday, Bloomberg ordered hospital patients and people
in nursing homes and senior housing in coastal areas moved to
shelter on higher ground. Nassau Executive Edward P. Mangano
closed all the county’s parks and canceled events effective 10
p.m. today through Aug. 29.  Airports Stocked  Hundreds of heavy-duty vehicles and dozens of police cars,
including mobile command centers and rescue equipment, are
stationed at the metropolitan region’s five airports, the  Port
Authority  of New York and New Jersey said. The airports have
been stocked with hundreds of cases of bottled water, diapers,
cots, blankets and pillows, the agency said in a statement.  In New Jersey, Trump Entertainment Resorts has begun
telling guests to leave and will shut down both its 39-story
Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino and the 2,000-room Taj Mahal Casino
Resort as of 8 p.m. New York time, said Brian Cahill, a
spokesman.  People were also being told to leave in Cape May County, a
low-lying coastal area with a population of 97,000 that sits at
New Jersey’s southern tip; on Long Beach Island, an 18-mile
barrier island along the Intracoastal.  Seaside Heights  Access to some area islands will be restricted as of this
afternoon. Officials lifted all tolls at county bridges and the
Garden State Parkway in the area, according to a posting on the
county website. The highway will be closed south of Exit 98 in
Wall Township as of 8 p.m. tomorrow, Christie said today.  Tom Whalen, 60, surveyed the half-empty boardwalk in
Seaside Heights, where he owns 1-1/2 blocks of amusement games.
He said he expected to lose at least three days of business
during the prime summer season.  “It’ll be a good hit for me,” said Whalen, who said he
spent winters in South Florida as a kid and has experienced
several hurricanes.  “There’s nobody here.”  Irene, the strongest Atlantic storm to threaten the U.S.
since 2005, battered the Bahamas yesterday with winds of 115
miles (185 kilometers) an hour on a course expected to take it
near  North Carolina  tomorrow, according to the  National
Hurricane Center .  More than 25 million workers at 1.7 million businesses in
310 counties are in the storm’s path into  New England , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New York’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  