-- 
Nigeria Investigating UN Attack as Death Toll Rises, Police Say

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-08-27T13:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/nigeria-investigating-un-attack-as-death-toll-rises-police-say.html
Nigeria  is investigating claims by
Islamic militant group Boko Haram that it was responsible for
yesterday’s suicide car-bomb attack on a United Nations office
complex in Abuja that killed at least 19, police said.  “The investigation has started, that’s all I can tell you
for now,” Abuja police spokesman Moshood Jimoh said today in a
phone interview from the capital city.  The number casualties rose to 19 by last night with more
than 30 injured, said Yushau Shuaib, a spokesman for the
National Emergency Management Agency, in an e-mailed statement.  The explosion took place after a Honda CR-V crashed into the
main UN building on Independence Avenue in the central business
district, Abuja Police Commissioner Mike Zuokumor told reporters
yesterday. The blast destroyed the reception area and tore out
the first floor of the four-story building, leaving concrete
beams exposed and shattered glass strewn over the compound.  At least 12 UN agencies operated in the building, UN
spokeswoman Corinne Momal-Vanian said by phone from Geneva.  Boko Haram claimed responsibility for yesterday’s attack,
Daily Trust newspaper reported today, citing Imam Shekau, a
spokesman for the group. The  BBC  reported on its website
yesterday that it received a phone call by an unidentified Boko
Haram spokesman.  ‘Barbaric, Senseless’  The blast was “barbaric, senseless and cowardly,”
President  Goodluck Jonathan  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Boko Haram has been blamed by Nigerian authorities for a
series of bomb attacks and killings since last year. Gunmen
suspected to be members of the group attacked a police station
and a bank on Aug. 25 in the northeastern town of Gombi, killing
16 people, including five police officers, a soldier and 10 bank
customers, said Ahmed Isa, a local official.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with more than 140
million people, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north
and a predominantly Christian south. More than 14,000 people
died in ethnic and religious clashes in the West African nation
between 1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 