-- 
Nobel Economists Back Austerity Amid Budget Cuts

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-27T15:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/nobel-economists-back-austerity-as-europe-u-s-slash-budgets.html
(Corrects to make clear not all laureates attending
conference agree on measures.)  Nobel-prize winning economists
including Robert Mundell, Reinhard Selten and  Myron Scholes 
favor tough austerity measures to tackle deficits in  Europe  and
the U.S. amid debt crises that shook the euro and saw the
world’s largest economy lose a triple-A rating.  The Nobel winners, meeting in Lindau, Germany and  St.
Gallen , Switzerland at a four-day symposium, said “draconian”
measures were needed in economies from the U.S. to  Greece , to
tame debt levels even as global growth cools.  While U.S.  Federal Reserve  Chairman Bernanke signaled
yesterday that the central bank still has the tools to stimulate
the domestic economy, he stopped short of saying when or if
policy makers would deploy them. Instead, Bernanke said fiscal
sustainability must be “urgently addressed” while not
endangering the fragile economic recovery.  “We need a real discussion over entitlements,” said
Scholes, who won the prize in Economic Sciences in 1997 for his
work on derivatives pricing. “If Obama had gotten on his bus
the day he was elected and said ‘these are the things we are
going to do,’ then it would have been a lot better.”  The U.S. economy grew more slowly from April through June
than first estimated, Commerce Department data showed yesterday
90 minutes before the Fed chief’s address. That capped the
weakest six months of the economic recovery that began in mid-
2009. Gross domestic product gained at a 1 percent annual rate,
versus the earlier estimate of 1.3 percent.  ‘Credible Plan’  President  Barack Obama  signed a plan to raise the federal
debt limit on Aug. 2, the deadline to avoid a possible default,
after months of wrangling with Congress. The deal would make
$2.4 trillion in deficit cuts over 10 years.  “Acting now to put in place a credible plan for reducing
future deficits over the longer term, while being attentive to
the implications of fiscal choices for the recovery in the near
term,” serves the objectives of stimulating growth and reducing
debt, Bernanke said in Jackson Hole yesterday.  In Europe, Spain’s two main political parties agreed to
enshrine the principle of budget discipline in the constitution
amid a debt crisis that has seen three EU-IMF funded bailouts,
engulfed Spain and Italy and menaced France.  Robert Mundell , whose work on currency areas aided the
foundation of the Euro, said the situation in Europe is “very
dangerous” and the single currency could “go down the drain”
if politicians didn’t act to contain the crisis.  ‘Draconian Methods’  Greece, Mundell said, now needs “draconian methods to
attack entitlements in welfare spending, to cut back on things
that cause the problem.”  “In the short and medium term I don’t deny it might be
easier to have high deficits,” Selten said in an interview.
“But I think that the difficulties are greater in the long run
than if you restrict it now. At some time it has to be
stopped.”  At the same time, fellow Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz 
argued that as the chances the  U.S. economy  will go back into
recession are “very high,” austerity policies are misguided,
and go “exactly in the wrong direction.”  “The most important way to address the deficit is to get
America back to work, to get the economy back to full
employment,” Stiglitz told journalists on August 25.  “There has to be stimulus, there has to be spending.
 Monetary policy  is not likely to be very effective,” Stiglitz
said, countering calls for further rounds of Quantitative Easing
by the Federal Reserve.  Expansionary Activity  Stiglitz, a professor of economics at  Columbia University ,
also argued that countries in the euro area including Germany
should reverse their budget-cutting drives or risk falling back
into recession.  “If  Germany  and other countries which have the capacity to
engage in expansionary activity would do it, that would help
those parts of Europe where they face constraints,” he said.  With the yields on Spanish and Italian bonds rising to
records this month, prompting the  European Central Bank  to
reactivate its bond-buying program, austerity in Europe has in
the last month received renewed impetus.  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi pledged to balance
the budget in 2013, a year earlier than planned, to bolster
confidence in his country’s 1.8 trillion euro ($2.6 billion
dollars) debt load.  “For too long we have forsaken long-term gains for short-
term gratification,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said at the close of the  event . “Our economies are in the
process of deleveraging, to be put back on the path of
sustainable growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in St Gallen at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  