-- 
North Carolina Village Bets on Wall to Protect Itself From Hurricane Irene

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/north-carolina-village-bets-on-wall-to-protect-itself-from-irene.html
Hurricanes have been clobbering the
seaside village of Swan Quarter,  North Carolina , for
generations, and Irene, packing 85 mph winds and heavy rain,
isn’t expected to give the fishing port a pass this weekend.  This time, though, the village is trying to defend itself
with a 6.2 mile, six-foot-high earthen and plastic dike that
encircles the town 150 miles (241 kilometers) east of Raleigh in
the northeastern lowlands. Completed this year, it is a rebuttal
to hurricanes and an engineering wager that the wall will
minimize the misery for Swan Quarter’s 850 residents, who live
about three feet above  sea level .  Not everyone is a believer. The wall is too short, some
residents say, and would be powerless to stop a big hurricane’s
storm surge.  “It’ll turn Swan Quarter into a swimming pool,” said
Richard Blanks, who works at a fishery on the coastal edge of
town and says the water will spill over the dike and have no
place to go.  Irene poses the most serious threat to the Northeast since
Hurricane Gloria in 1985, and more than 65 million people from
North Carolina to  Maine  may be in the storm’s path. The storm is
expected to scream through about 20 North Carolina counties,
where about 3.5 million people live.  Securing Swan Quarter  Up and down the state’s coast, residents and businesses
have been covering windows and doors with plywood, placing
valuables on higher levels and tying down machinery so it
doesn’t float away in post-hurricane flooding.  All this and more has been done in Swan Quarter, where an
1876 flood picked up Providence Church and moved it to its
current location on Main Street.  Residents talked for years about a wall, and after
Hurricane Isabel in 2003, construction began with the aid of
federal and state dollars. From the start it was a point of
controversy. A new brick courthouse on the south end of town
would be among the first structures hit if the wall fails, or if
the water goes over the top. Even supporters acknowledge the
wall’s limitations.  “It’ll work if the water isn’t high enough,” said Jeffrey
Stotesberry, the chief of the volunteer fire department. “If
it’s higher, then there’s a problem. Personally, I think it will
help us.”  Stotesberry said more residents, weary of hurricanes, are
leaving in spite of the wall.  Vile Wall  Jimmy Williams, a retired engineer, is staying put with his
wife, Ellen, in their 108-year-old wood-frame house across from
Providence Church.  Williams, 73, is a native of Swan Quarter and returned to
the village from  Virginia  in 1990. He said he hasn’t left during
hurricanes. The wall provides no comfort, he said.  “It will do a good job of holding the water in, not
keeping it out,” Williams said. “They didn’t do anything to
get rid of the water.”  Swan Quarter is a ferry port to Ocracoke Island, 27 miles
away on the  Outer Banks , across Pamlico Sound. Traffic moved
north through the village this week as travelers moved to get
away from Irene. There are three churches, two thrift shops, a
funeral home, a Masonic lodge, bank and some county government
offices. The town’s convenience store was gutted by fire
yesterday.  Residents here record the damage from previous hurricanes -
- Ida in 2009, Dennis in 2005, Isabel in 2003, Floyd in 1999 --
with markings on inside walls of their homes or businesses, like
parents noting the growth of their children.  Up to Here  Others talk in terms of knee-high, waist-high and chin-high
floods. Pat Spencer, who runs a gas station he describes as
“the highest gas in town and the only gas in town,” believes a
chin-high flood is imminent.  While the dike “is bound to help,” he said, Spencer left
town yesterday for Raleigh, after removing the inner workings of
two gas pumps, placing machinery and tires on the garage’s
hydraulic lifts and tying down heavy items he found floating
more than a mile away in the wake of Hurricane Isabel.  “You never can do enough,” Spencer said, as the skies
darkened yesterday and it started to rain.  At Hobo’s Seafood, where Madge Williams helps run the
fishery with a fleet of shrimp trawlers, workers moved freezers
and other machinery to higher levels. Williams said she is
reluctant to leave.  “You can’t fight Mother Nature,” she said with a shrug.  And you never know what a hurricane will do, Stotesberry
said.  “I’m staying because I’m the fire chief, and I should be
here,” Stotesberry said. “I ain’t trying to be no hero. I just
hope I’m making the right decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Swan Quarter at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  