-- 
U.S. Stock Exchanges Study Irene Damage as Brokers Anticipate Regular Open

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-28T15:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/nyse-still-plans-regular-trading-session-aug-29-following-hurricane-irene.html
The biggest U.S. exchanges and
federal regulators were assessing damage as Tropical Storm Irene
passed over  New York City , while brokerage executives said they
expected markets to open tomorrow.  Irene struck New York City with winds of 65 miles (105
kilometers) an hour, the National Hurricane Center said in a
special advisory at 9 a.m. local time. A storm surge of 3.8 feet
was reported at New York Harbor, while total water levels near
8.6 feet, or moderate-stage flooding, were reported at Battery
Park City in lower Manhattan, the hurricane center said.  NYSE Euronext  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the two biggest
operators of U.S. stock exchanges, said yesterday they were
prepared to open as Irene threatened the first market shutdown
due to weather since 1985. While fallen  power lines  and winds
cut power to more than 340,000 customers on  Long Island ,
brokerage executives anticipated reporting for work.  “I think the exchanges will definitely be open because the
storm was downgraded,” said Brian Pfeffer, chief operating
officer at Direct Access Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
with about 20 employees that work on the NYSE trading floor.
“It wasn’t as bad as expected,” he said in a phone interview
today. “I don’t see a problem with trading tomorrow at all.”  System Evaluation  Direct Access tested systems last night and was told by the
management company that its office building where 60 more
employees work, 40  Wall Street , would be open, Pfeffer said. 
He expects to drive to work tomorrow from Manalapan,  New
Jersey , or take a ferry if the Holland Tunnel isn’t operating
normally.  Eric Noll , an executive vice president for transaction
services at Nasdaq OMX, said yesterday that a decision on whether 
to open exchanges Aug. 29 isn’t likely until midday in New York,
following an assessment of conditions today. Noll said the
decision to open will be made jointly by markets and the SEC.  “As for Monday, my plans are to leave around 3 a.m. to be
sure to get in early and check with NYSE and our systems
people,” Doreen Mogavero, chief executive officer of Mogavero
Lee & Co., who trades on the NYSE floor, said in an e-mail
today. “As long as systems are good and phone lines are up it
should be business as usual.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission planned to stay in
contact with exchanges over the weekend on the status of
markets,  John Nester , a spokesman, said on Aug. 26.  “Discussions will continue Saturday and Sunday as
appropriate,” he said in a statement. “The markets will make the
decision whether to open in consultation with the SEC.”  ‘Lightly Affected’  Consolidated Edison Inc., New York’s electric power
supplier, said  Manhattan  was “lightly affected” by Irene.  “We’re pretty certain we’re going to open on Monday,”
Noll said in a phone interview yesterday. “It will be a
coordinated effort between us and the other markets and the SEC.
It’s in none of our interest to have a non-coordinated open. To
the extent we all agree we can be functional on Monday morning
and the SEC is prepared to open, we are prepared to open.”  The storm forced New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  to shut New
York City’s transportation system and prompted Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, to
evacuate low-lying areas.  While the public face of U.S. equity trading is the New
York Stock Exchange in Manhattan, about 13 percent of the
nation’s volume took place on that venue in the past year. The
rest is handled electronically, with orders matched in data
centers in New Jersey and elsewhere.  Getting to Work  Louis Pastina, an  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  executive, said Aug. 26
that opening a day after the storm may depend on whether traders
could get to work in Manhattan.  “If we can open here but none of our customers can get to
their desks, it really doesn’t make a lot of sense to open the
exchange,” Pastina, a senior vice president for NYSE Euronext,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  NYSE Euronext said yesterday in an e-mail to customers that
it has completed preparations for the storm at its Manhattan
headquarters and its data centers.  Hurricane Gloria, on Sept. 27, 1985, was the last time
weather shut U.S. equities markets for an entire day. On Jan. 8,
1996, the  New York  Stock Exchange opened late and closed early
after a snowstorm dumped 22 inches (55.9 centimeters) of snow on
the city by dawn.  Trading Halts  Stock trading  stopped for four days after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in Manhattan.
The most recent  shutdown  was on Jan. 2, 2007, to observe a
national day of mourning for former President Gerald R. Ford,
who died on Dec. 26, 2006.  “Post 9/11, we and other markets spent a great deal of
time getting ready and building emergency disaster recovery-type
functionality,” Noll said. Nasdaq OMX’s two disaster recovery
sites “have ample sources of electricity, both public,
generator and battery,” he said. “We can operate the markets
fully without power for many days and are prepared to do so.”  Noll said key personnel were moved to the company’s two
disaster recovery sites today as a precaution.  U.S. stock and option exchanges have held conference calls
over the last few days among themselves, the SEC, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority and the Depository Trust and
Clearing Corp. about the likely impact of Hurricane Irene and
whether the markets could operate, Noll said. Finra, based in
 Washington , oversees more than 4,500 brokers, while DTCC clears
and settles stocks, corporate and municipal bonds, government
and mortgage-backed debt and other products.  “It’s very unlikely we’ll have a situation on Monday where
only some markets would open,” Noll said. “Even though there
are public transportation issues in Manhattan and there’s a
chance lower Manhattan may be closed, that doesn’t necessarily
mean the markets won’t open on Monday,” Noll said. “They’d
operate remotely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  