-- 
Obama Calls for Americans to Mark 9/11 With Service Projects

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/obama-calls-for-americans-to-mark-9-11-with-service-projects.html
President  Barack Obama  is asking
Americans in the next two weeks to mark the 10th anniversary of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks by participating in local charity
and service projects.  “Even the smallest act of service, the simplest act of
kindness, is a way to honor those we lost, a way to reclaim that
spirit of unity that followed 9/11,” the president said in his
weekly  radio and Internet address . He directed people to the
website www.serve.gov for volunteer opportunities.  Senator Dean Heller of  Nevada  used the weekly Republican
 address  to criticize Obama’s policies as a “big, wet blanket”
on the economy. Heller renewed Republican calls for Congress to
pass a balanced budget amendment, which Obama and congressional
Democrats oppose. Heller also called for repeal of Obama’s
health-care expansion, increased domestic energy exploration and
less federal regulation.  The addresses are being released as Hurricane Irene headed
for landfall in  North Carolina  today. It is expected to remain a
hurricane as it moves along the Mid-Atlantic coast tomorrow, the
National Hurricane Center in Miami said yesterday.  Irene may cause $10 billion in overall economic losses,
according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis Corp. A more easterly
track and less intensity puts the company’s projected insured
losses at $5.6 billion.  More than 65 million people, or about one in five
Americans, from North Carolina to  Maine  may be in the way of the
hurricane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Obama Urges Common Purpose  A decade after the terrorist attacks, Obama said, the U.S.
is “working to rebuild the foundation of our national strength
here at home. None of this will be easy. And it can’t be the
work of government alone.  As we saw after 9/11, the strength of
America has always been the character and compassion of our
people.”  “So as we mark this solemn anniversary, let’s summon that
spirit once more,” he said. “And let’s show that the sense of
common purpose that we need in America doesn’t have to be a
fleeting moment; it can be a lasting virtue -- not just on one
day, but every day.”  Heller said in his address that Congress should support
“pro-growth policies that place more money in the pockets of
Americans” and assist those “who have lost their jobs and need
help.”  He called for a tax-code overhaul to eliminate “special-
interest loopholes” and reduce “the overall tax burden on all
Americans.” He didn’t offer additional details.  “I believe our best days are still ahead, but we need to
change course now,” Heller said.  He said Democrats should support changes to reduce the
growth of Medicare and Social Security spending and “stop the
lies about who wants to end Medicare or eliminate Social
Security and fix both programs now. Every member of Congress
knows these programs are unsustainable in their current state.”  “They can be fixed, but the lies have to stop,” Heller
said. “Nobody is proposing that we end Medicare or Social
Security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Vineyard Haven,  Massachusetts , at 
1923 or  mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 