-- 
Tony Tan Wins Singapore Presidential Race

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-28T02:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/tony-tan-wins-singapore-presidential-race-with-vote-margin-of-less-than-1-.html
Singapore ’s former Deputy Prime
Minister Tony Tan won the island’s presidential election in a
recount with a margin of victory of about 0.3 percent.  Tan defeated his closest opponent, Tan Cheng Bock, a former
Singapore lawmaker, in the recount after his margin of victory
in a four-way race was smaller than 2 percent. He garnered 35.19
percent of the votes cast compared with 34.85 percent for the
second-place candidate. The president holds office for a six-
year term.  The president-elect, who served in the cabinet of all three
Singapore prime ministers and was a member of the ruling party
until June, won 744,397 votes of 2,115,188 valid ballots cast,
Returning Officer Yam Ah Mee said in a nationally televised
announcement at 4:25 a.m. local time. Tan takes office Sept. 1.  “I pledge to work for each and every one of you,” Tan
said in his victory speech broadcast on the Straits Times
 website . “The real work begins straightaway. In the next six
years, I will work very hard to strive to be the best possible
president that I can be, to work for all of you and to represent
our country and all Singaporeans.”  Tan was the contender most closely associated with the
People’s Action Party and received the backing of Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong even as he ran as an independent. His narrow
winning margin suggests Lee still has more to do to appease
citizens after the PAP retained power in the May general
election with the lowest support since independence in 1965,
said economist Song Seng-Wun.  ‘Winds of Change’  “The winds of change will still be pushing through and the
pressure on the PAP to relook at how it governs the country
remains” even after Tony Tan’s win, said Song of CIMB Research
Pte in Singapore. “The question is whether the change will be
accelerated or gradual.”  Tan, 71, will be the city-state’s third president since the
constitution was amended 20 years ago to allow elections for
what had been a largely ceremonial role. Citizens in the former
British colony voted for a replacement for President S.R. Nathan
from the biggest field of contenders since polls for the office
were allowed in 1991. Because Nathan was uncontested for his two
terms, no votes were held.  While Singapore’s  laws  don’t allow the publication of pre-
election surveys or exit polls, Tan was endorsed by several
labor unions and was regarded as the front runner.  Wealth Fund  The president-elect was deputy chairman of Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. before he resigned last month to run
for president. The sovereign wealth fund manages more than $100
billion of the city-state’s reserves. He stepped down from
politics in 2006 after serving as a minister and member of
parliament for 27 years.  Singapore’s president can veto government budgets and key
public appointments. Those decisions may be overturned by a
majority on the eight-member  Council of Presidential Advisers 
and a two-thirds vote in Parliament -- where the PAP still holds
81 of 87 seats. The president is also responsible for
safeguarding the national reserves.  Of the other candidates, Tan Kin Lian was chief executive
officer of insurer NTUC Income and a PAP member, and Tan Cheng Bock was a ruling party lawmaker. Tan Jee Say was a former civil
servant and, most recently, an opposition politician.  A win by Tan Jee Say would have been a “real shock to the
ruling elite” and victory for Tan Cheng Bock, while more
palatable to the PAP, would still be “a slap in the face,”
said Manu Bhaskaran, Singapore-based head of economic research
at Centennial Group Holdings, which advises on emerging markets.  More Responsive  Prime Minister Lee vowed to be more responsive to public
criticism after support for his party fell to a record low of 60
percent in the May general election and the number of opposition
members in parliament tripled.  A more vocal electorate had stoked debate on the role of
the president, with some candidates pledging to consult the
public and act as a check on the government, which says such
moves would be unconstitutional.  A president would be “acting unconstitutionally” by
engaging publicly on political issues or contradicting the
government, Law Minister K. Shanmugam said in an Aug. 5  speech .
“Direct elections do not give the elected president the right
to speak independently.”  The president must follow the Cabinet’s advice and cannot
act or speak publicly on issues of the day except as advised by
the Cabinet, he said, adding that this followed principles
adopted from English, Indian and Malaysian constitutional law.  Tax Cuts  Singapore, ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to
do business, cut taxes in recent years to spur investment,
prompting companies to hire hundreds of thousands of foreigners
to fill positions. The island was among the top 20 destinations
for international investment last year, according to the  United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development .  Citizens have expressed discontent over rising costs and
competition with foreigners for jobs and housing, prompting the
government to tighten curbs on workers from overseas and allow
more Singaporeans to buy apartments at subsidized prices.  “There’s still a lot of unhappiness about various
issues,” Bhaskaran said. “The sting of that unhappiness hasn’t
quite been removed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  