-- 
Tougher Market Discipline Needed for Banks, Brown’s Levine Says

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-08-27T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/tougher-market-discipline-needed-for-banks-brown-s-levine-says.html
Regulators aiming to improve
financial systems through tougher capital rules should also
focus on strengthening market discipline, Brown University
economist Ross Levine said in a paper for the Kansas City
Federal Reserve Bank’s conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “Financial regulation is a dynamic game, not a static
one,” Levine said in his paper titled “Regulating Finance and
Regulators to Promote Growth” released today at the annual
meeting.  The Fed and global banking regulators agreed in Basel,
 Switzerland , in June to set capital surcharges for 28 of the
world’s largest, systemically important banks. Sometime in the
next five weeks, the Fed will also publish a set of proposals
designed to reign in systemic risks of all U.S. banks with
assets of $50 billion or more.  The Basel agreements seem “to take the view that one size
fits,” Levine said. “The absence of empirical support for
these beliefs should be sufficient to persuade the authorities
who are driving the  Basel  process that it is time not for Basel
III, IV or V, but time for Basel to go back to the drawing board
and rethink its strategy.”  Levine said regulators need to “incentivize” debt holders
and small shareholders to monitor and influence bank behavior.  When a large, systemically important bank “is owned by
diffuse shareholders with limited tools to monitor and govern
the bank’s executives, who will constrain those executives whose
incentives too often do not align with shareholders, debt
holders, or the public at large?” Levine wrote.  More Discipline  Improving the accessibility of information on banks would
strengthen market discipline, he said.  When governments insure debt holders, it weakens their
incentive to monitor the activity of firms, Levine said. Higher
 capital requirements , he noted, may also drive bank management
to take more risks to boost returns.  “Enhancing the market monitoring and discipline of banks
is essential for improving the incentives of bank executives,”
Levine said.  The theme of this year’s Jackson Hole conference is
“Achieving Maximum Long-Run Growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  