-- 
Pound Weakens as Slowing U.K. Growth Damps Rate-Increase Bets

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-27T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/pound-weakens-as-slowing-u-k-growth-damps-rate-increase-bets.html
The pound had its steepest weekly
drop against the euro in almost two months as reports added to
signs the recovery is faltering, damping the case for higher
 interest rates  from the Bank of England.  Sterling fell for a third week in four against the dollar.
Gross domestic product growth cooled to 0.2 percent in the
second quarter, from 0.5 percent in the previous three months,
the Office for National Statistics said yesterday.  Consumer
confidence  dropped to a three-month low in July, Nationwide
Building Society said a day earlier.  “Sterling’s weakness is a function of anemic growth
numbers and the market’s expectations of low interest rates,”
said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. in London. “The bad run of data supports the
Bank of England’s view that rates will remain low for a really
long time.”  Britain’s currency depreciated 1.4 percent this week to
88.61 pence per euro at 4:42 p.m. in  London  yesterday. That’s
the steepest loss since the five days through July 1. The pound
was at $1.6299 yesterday, after falling as low as $1.6208, the
least since Aug. 12.  The pound depreciated 1.5 percent this week, the second-
worst performer after the Swiss franc among a basket of 10
developed-market currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. Sterling has weakened 8.3 percent in
the past year. Only the  U.S. dollar  has fallen more in the
period.  House-Price Data  Sterling may extend its drop next week amid speculation a
report on Sept. 1 will show house prices stagnated this month.
The average cost of a home was unchanged in August, after rising
0.2 percent in July,  Nationwide Building Society  will say,
according to the median estimate of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Central bank policy maker Martin Weale said while he
doesn’t see the need for the central bank to expand its 200
billion-pound bond-purchase plan, he would change his mind
should the U.K. economy weaken “substantially,” the Yorkshire
Post reported yesterday.  U.K. bonds fell in the week, pushing the 10-year gilt yield
up 11 basis points to 2.49 percent. Ten-year rates have tumbled
this year as investors sought the perceived safety of government
debt amid Europe’s debt crisis and the possibility of renewed
recession.  Gilts have handed investors an 8.6 percent return so far in
2011 through Aug. 25, compared with 5.5 percent from German debt
and 7.1 percent from  U.S. Treasuries , according to the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  