-- 
Treasury Yields at Almost Record Lows as Fed’s Bernanke Eschews Action

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-27T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/treasury-yields-at-almost-record-lows-as-fed-s-bernanke-eschews-action.html
Treasury yields rose from almost
record lows as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
economy will accelerate after the weakest six months of its
recovery without immediate additional stimulus.  U.S. debt  pared weekly losses yesterday as Bernanke said at
a conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming  that the central bank has
tools to stimulate the economy without signaling when or whether
policy makers might deploy them. The U.S. sold $99 billion of
two-, five- and seven-year notes this week at all-time low
auction yields. A government payrolls report Sept. 2 is forecast
to show the U.S. gained 75,000 jobs in August, down from 117,000
added the previous month.  “Any weakness in the economy is good for Treasuries,”
said  David Coard , head of fixed-income trading in  New York  at
Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for institutional investors.
Bernanke “wasn’t going to commit to any further accommodation
or quantitative easing.  We would have to see more weakness to
get more accommodation.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose 13 basis points on the week to
2.19 percent yesterday in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities maturing in August
2021 fell 1 1/8, or $11.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 13/32.  Thirty-year bonds yields increased 15 basis points to 3.54
percent.  Treasury Returns  U.S. government securities have returned 2.9 percent in
August in their best monthly performance since the depths of the
financial crisis in December 2008, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Investors sought the security of
debt while stocks tumbled, sending the MSCI All Country World
Index of shares down 11 percent.  A plunge in world stock markets in August coupled with
concern the pace of U.S. growth was slowing led to speculation
earlier in the month that the Fed chief would use yesterday’s
speech to announce another round of bond buying. In his  Jackson
Hole  speech last year he announced the Fed would “do all that
it can” to spur the economic recovery. He went on to implement
a $600 billion debt-purchase plan in November.  As this year’s speech date approached, focus shifted to
signs of higher inflation as dimming the chances for more debt
purchases by the central bank.  Fed Tools  “In addition to refining our forward guidance, the Federal
Reserve has a range of tools that could be used to provide
additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said in the speech. He
said a second day has been added to the next policy meeting in
September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and
the Fed’s possible response.  The Fed will release minutes of this month’s policy makers
meeting on Aug. 30. The next Fed meeting will be held on Sept.
21.  Fed officials on Aug. 9 pledged to keep benchmark  interest
rates  at all-time lows through mid-2013 in a bid to revive
economic growth, sending yields on two- and 10-year notes to
then record lows.  A government report Aug. 25 showed initial jobless claims
unexpectedly increased last week, fueling concern the economic
recovery is slowing. A report on Sept. 2 is forecast to show the
 unemployment rate  remained at 9.1 percent, near the highest this
year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 63 economists.  Debt Appeals  “Unless the economy recovers a little bit, a lot of people
will continue to buy Treasuries,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York.  Commerce Department figures showed yesterday the economy
grew at a 1 percent annual pace in the second quarter. The
figure is down from the 1.3 percent the government estimated
last month. The median forecast of 80 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 1.1 percent annual pace. GDP grew by 0.4
percent in the first quarter.  Bernanke, a former Princeton University economist,
yesterday repeated his call for Congress to adopt a “credible
plan for reducing future deficits over the longer term” without
harming U.S. growth in the near term.  Deficit Watch  The  U.S. budget deficit  is projected to be $1.3 trillion in
the year ending Sept. 30, down from $1.4 trillion forecast in
April, because of curbs on federal spending and increased
income-tax collections, the  Congressional Budget Office  said
Aug. 24.  The nonpartisan CBO, in its semiannual look at the nation’s
fiscal health, projected the deficit for the subsequent 12-month
period through Sept. 30, 2012, at $973 billion, rather than the
$1.1 trillion forecast in April.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. to AA+ from AAA on
Aug. 5, saying the U.S. government is becoming “less stable,
less effective and less predictable.”  Treasury yields have dropped to record lows since the
downgrade amid turmoil in global markets. The 10-year note yield
fell on Aug. 18 to the historical low of 1.97 percent, while the
yield on the five-year note fell that day to a record of 0.79
percent. Two-year note yields reached a record low of 0.1568
percent on Aug. 9.  The Treasury sold $35 billion of two-year securities on
Aug. 23 at 0.222 percent and the same amount of five-year debt
the next day at a yield of 1.029 percent, both record auction
lows. It sold $29 billion in seven-year debt at a record low
yield of 1.58 percent.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, touched 2.09
percentage points yesterday, compared with as low as 2
percentage points a week ago. The average this year is 2.61
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  