-- 
Rebecca Parrett’s Husband to Plead Guilty to Helping Her Flee

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/rebecca-parrett-s-husband-to-plead-guilty-to-helping-her-flee.html
The husband of Rebecca Parrett, a
former National Century Financial Enterprises Inc. executive who
hid in  Mexico  after her U.S. conviction in a $2.9 billion fraud,
agreed to plead guilty for lying about her flight.  Gary Green, 51, will admit lying to investigators about the
location of his wife, according to records made public yesterday
in federal court in Columbus,  Ohio . Parrett fled days after her
conviction in March 2008 for her role in a fraud at National
Century, a defunct health-care financing company.  Parrett, 62, was arrested Oct. 26 by Mexican immigration
authorities in the resort town of Ajijic, Jalisco, more than 2
1/2 years after disappearing. She was convicted in Columbus and
was on bail when she fled her home in Carefree,  Arizona , where
she lived with Green, her sixth husband. He was arrested Jan. 6
in southern  California  and released on $5,000 bond.  “We anticipate that he will plead guilty and be sentenced
in  Los Angeles ,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas Squires
in a telephone interview. “Under the plea agreement, he’ll
serve five months in jail and five months of house arrest.”  Green attorney Steven Scott Nolder, an assistant federal
public defender, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Denied Contact  A U.S. Marshal’s arrest complaint said Green talked by
phone with Parrett and denied to investigators in 2008 and 2009
that he had any contact with her. Green also misled
investigators about giving $10,000 in cash and clothes to a
Mexican woman to deliver to his wife, according to the
complaint. The woman, who didn’t know Parrett’s identity at the
time, later helped investigators.  Parrett appeared Dec. 23 before U.S. District Judge Algenon
Marbley, who had sentenced her in absentia in March 2009 and
imposed a $2.38 billion restitution order. Parrett said she had
been sick and on medication when she was convicted.  “When you said guilty, I just felt like my body went into
a black hole,” Parrett told the judge. “I just did not want to
live anymore. So my course to Mexico was not to escape. My
course to Mexico was to die, your honor. But that didn’t happen
either.”  After Parrett’s arrest, Deputy U.S. Marshal Brian Babtist
said she was “living in the lap of luxury” in Ajijic on the
north shore of Lake Chapala.  Went Dancing  She used an alias and told people she was an American who
testified against others in a large white-collar crime case, he
said. She went out dancing and got treatments from a Mexican
anti-aging doctor, Babtist said.  Parrett was convicted with four other executives of fraud,
 money laundering  and conspiracy. A former vice chairman,
secretary and treasurer, she is one of 10 executives who were
convicted at trial or pleaded guilty. On the day he sentenced
Parrett, Marbley imposed a 30-year term on former Chief
Executive Officer Lance Poulsen.  A federal appeals court two days ago upheld the conviction
and sentence of Poulsen.  The case is U.S. v. Poulsen, 06-129, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 