-- 
Trichet Says Regional Economic Diversity in U.S. Is Similar to Euro Area’s

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-27T19:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/trichet-says-regional-economic-diversity-in-u-s-is-similar-to-euro-area-s.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the  U.S. economy  features regional
diversity similar to that of the euro area, urging policy makers
to restructure their economies to promote smoother growth.  It is “often assumed that the U.S. economy would be
significantly more homogenous than the economy of the euro
area,” Trichet said today to a forum of central bankers and
economists in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “Looking more closely at
the regional dispersion across U.S. regions and euro area
economies does not confirm this.”  The speech, based on new analysis from the Frankfurt-based
ECB of 14 U.S. cities, sounds a rejoinder to economists such as
 Harvard University ’s  Martin Feldstein , who said before the
euro’s 1999 birth that it would prove tough to unite individual
economies under the umbrella of a single currency and interest
rate.  “The dispersion of many of the key indicators is
surprisingly similar,” Trichet said of the U.S. and euro-area.  The speech contained no comment on near-term monetary
policy or economics other than to say the ECB’s efforts to end
the credit and debt crises “do not in any way impinge” on its
ability to deliver  price stability . Trichet urged governments,
companies and households to strengthen their balance sheets.  The central bank chief said that before the recent global
financial turmoil, the range of growth rates was about 2 percent
in both the euro-area and U.S. It rose during the turmoil in
both economies before returning to its long-term rates, he said.  Boom and Bust  Both currency blocs also had regions that witnessed
significant boom and busts over the past decade, as well as
areas which face long-term structural challenges, he said. In
the U.S., he noted Nevada,  Arizona ,  Florida  and  California 
witnessed house price increases that outpaced the national
average just as Spain and Ireland experienced.  At the same time, onetime manufacturing U.S. powerhouses
Michigan and  Ohio  have seen a long period of below-average
growth, as have European countries such as  Portugal , while there
are also similar disparities in income growth, he said.  “The effect of the crisis on the different euro-area
economies follows a similar pattern to those of comparable U.S.
states,” he said. “The countries in the euro area that have
been hardest hit are those in which either large asset-bubble
driven imbalances unwound or structural problems were left
unaddressed before the crisis.”  The lesson is that economies should pursue structural
reforms to make themselves more competitive and efficient as
 Germany  did in the 1990s, Trichet said.  Growth Potential  “This inherent diversity of advanced economies of large
size is an additional reason to resolutely engage in structural
reforms that would permit to accelerate the completion of the
European single market in all sectors and to enhance the growth
potential of each individual European economy and of the euro
area as a whole,” he said.  Trichet also defended his economy’s performance, noting how
since its 1999 introduction, the euro-area has experienced per
capita growth of about 1 percent, comparable to the 1.1 percent
growth in the U.S., and that  Europe  has generated 14 million
jobs, as opposed to America’s 8 million.  Trichet is attending his last  Jackson Hole  conference
before his non-renewable eight year term ends Oct. 31. He
yesterday posed for photographs with Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke , who told the conference his counterpart was an
“exemplary” central banker and an “admirable captain” during
the financial crisis.  Academic View  Having attended the forum in five of the past six years,
Trichet has often used the gathering as he did today, to flesh
out a more academic view of economics.  Last year he pressed governments to tackle their debt
burdens and in 2009 defended the ECB against criticism that it
acted more slowly than other central banks to fight the credit
crisis. In 2005 Trichet outlined his theory of “credible
alertness,” arguing that central banks should commit to anchor
inflation expectations and then take resolute action if price
stability is then threatened.  Today he said policy makers must show alertness against
savings and trade disparities. “Such imbalances -- if unchecked
or conveniently rationalized away -- make our entire,
interconnected economies more fragile and more risk prone,” he
said. “We have seen how rapidly negative financial impulses can
transmit through the global economy and pull down economic
activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  