-- 
Sudanese Court Sentences Rebel Leader Al-Tom Hamed to Death by Hanging

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-08-27T00:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/sudan-court-sentences-rebel-leader-hamed-to-death-by-hanging-1-.html
A Sudanese court sentenced to death
by hanging a leader in the rebel Justice and Equality Movement,
which carried out attacks against the army in Southern Kordofan,
state-run SUNA news agency  reported  late yesterday.  The ruling against Al-Tom Hamed was issued by a court in
Kadugli, the capital of Southern Kordofan state for
“undermining the constitutional order, stirring up war against
the state and wearing the military uniform”, SUNA said.  Hamed was captured by the Sudanese army when JEM, the
biggest rebel group in  Sudan ’s western region of  Darfur , carried
out joint military operations in July for the first time with
rebels from the northern branch of South Sudan’s ruling party,
the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, against the Sudanese
army. Southern Kordofan borders the war-torn region of Darfur.  Fighting broke out in Southern Kordofan a month before
South Sudan’s July 9 independence from Sudan, a move that capped
the 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war
between north and south Sudan. Southern Kordofan is Sudan’s only
oil-producing state, accounting for 115,000 barrels a day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  The Khartoum-based agency said al-Tom admitted receiving
“financial and logistic support from the government of South
Sudan,” which also helped him enter Southern Kordofan through
the newly independent region.  War Crime  ”We are sad that the Sudanese government reaches this
level,” El Taher El Feki, chairman of JEM’s legislative
council, said in a telephone interview from a West African
country he didn’t want to identify. ”Brother Hamed is a
prisoner of war, and the government will be committing another
war crime if they implement that ruling.”  JEM and the SPLM’s northern branch had urged the Sudanese
government to treat three rebel commanders who were captured in
that assault, including Hamed, as prisoners of war, the groups
said in a July 20  statement  on JEM’s website.  Following the operation, the two groups pledged to
”continue to defend the innocent people” in Southern Kordofan
”against the genocide regime in Khartoum,” according to the
July 20 statement.  A wider war may erupt in Sudan if clashes in Southern
Kordofan aren’t resolved, and it would be “coordinated”
against the Sudanese army, Malik Agar, governor of Sudan’s
border Blue Nile state and the head of the northern branch of
South Sudan’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, said on
July 3.  Spreading War  The war could spread from Blue Nile state on the Ethiopian
border in the east to Darfur in the west, Agar said.  The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for
Human Rights called in an Aug. 15  report  for an investigation
into possible crimes against humanity and  war crimes , allegedly
committed mainly by government forces, during clashes in the
state with insurgents from the SPLM’s northern branch.  Both Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and his governor in
Southern Kordofan,  Ahmed Haroun , are wanted by the  International
Criminal Court  over allegations they were involved in war crimes
in the western region of Darfur, where insurgents took arms
against the government in 2003.  Clashes and airstrikes by the Sudanese army in Southern
Kordofan forced more than 73,000 people to flee their homes,
according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 