-- 
Hurricane Irene Set to Slam New York, Long Island

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-28T13:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/hurricane-irene-may-remain-category-1-storm-as-it-hits-new-york-on-sunday.html
Hurricane Irene weakened to a
tropical storm and made landfall in  New York  City with winds of
65 miles (105 kilometers) an hour after knocking out power on
Long Island and causing flooding in New Jersey.  The storm, so large that its winds and rain began lashing
New York late yesterday, moved over the city at about 9 a.m.,
according to a special National Hurricane Center advisory. The
exact location of landfall will be determined by analysis later,
the  National Weather Service  said.  The storm is packing as much as 15 inches of rain, hitting
near the time when tides are high across much of the region,
according to the weather service. A storm surge of 3.8 feet was
reported at New York Harbor, while total water levels near 8.6
feet, or moderate-stage flooding, were reported at Battery Park
City in lower  Manhattan , the hurricane center said.  “With the storm surge and the amount of water it brings,
the most important aspect is to just evacuate,” said Scott
Little, vice president and general manager of  CoreLogic Inc.
Spatial Solutions  in Austin,  Texas . “Obviously, the lower the
storm surge, the lower the damage.”  As of 7 a.m., 72,000 customers were without power in New
York and Westchester County, according to Consolidated Edison,
and “as the weather system continues to move toward New York,
the number of affected customers is expected to grow.” More
than 800,000 homes and businesses were blacked out on Long
Island and in New Jersey, local utilities reported.  Possible Losses  Irene may become the most powerful storm to strike New York
since Hurricane Gloria in 1985. It may inflict $6.5 billion in
overall economic losses on the U.S. before being absorbed in
other weather systems somewhere over Canada or the Atlantic
early next week, according to estimates by Kinetic Analysis
Corp., of  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , which estimates the impacts
of various hazards. Gloria’s strength was between categories 1
and 2 when it made landfall on Long Island.  Hurricane Irene made its first landfall early yesterday on
North Carolina’s outer banks, flooding roads and knocking out
power to more than a million homes and businesses in the
Carolinas and Maryland, according to local utilities. At least
nine people have died.  It made another landfall about 5:30 a.m. today near Little
Egg Inlet in New Jersey, the first time on record a hurricane
has hit the Jersey shore, according to AccuWeather Inc.  Tumbling trees and debris dragged down power lines and
winds blew over electrical poles, cutting off power to homes and
businesses from South Carolina to New York, with worse expected
today as the storm rakes  New York City .  Tornadoes Reported  Tornadoes have been reported in Delaware and  Virginia ,
where they have damaged homes, according to the  U.S. Storm
Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma . Tornadoes are possible
throughout Irene’s path, according to the hurricane center.  In Long Beach, a Long Island city of about 35,000 on a
nine-mile barrier island, the surge may be 6 to 10 feet above
normal, said Kara Guy, a spokeswoman for Nassau Country. Waves
higher than 10 feet (3 meters) crashed down on the wide beach of
131-year-old Long Island City, about 25 miles from midtown
Manhattan.  CoreLogic , a business risk information provider based in
Santa Ana,  California , estimates 80,861 homes in New York City
and Long Island valued at $35 billion are vulnerable to damage
from a Catetory 1 storm surge. Irene may have caused between
$500 million and $1.1 billion in damage to the Bahamas earlier
this week, according to estimates by  AIR Worldwide  in  Boston .  City Dangers  Irene’s winds will be stronger at higher elevations, so
high-rises in New York and other major cities will experience
more intense buffeting than lower structures, according to the
hurricane center.  “So you have to worry about falling glass and windows
being blown out,” said Bill Leatham, a meteorologist with
 Hometown Forecast Services  in Nashua, New Hampshire.  Rivers and creeks throughout the Northeast are rising,
according to weather service river gauges.  Water rose to 8.12 feet at the Sandy Hook,  New Jersey ,
flood gauge as of 7:36 a.m., which is higher than the 7.7-foot
threshold for moderate flooding.  The Millstone River in Blackwells Mills, New Jersey, rose
14.37 feet in the past 12 hours and is now considered at major
stage flooding, according to the  National Weather Service . The
Raritan River’s south and north branches are also at major flood
stage. The south branch rose 10.79 feet in the past 12 hours,
while the north branch in Raritan has risen 12.26, according to
weather service river gauges.  High Water  Brandywine Creek at Chadds Ford,  Pennsylvania , rose 10.5
feet in the last 24 hours and is expected to surpass its all-
time high flood stage of 17.15 feet, set in September 1999, when
Hurricane Floyd swept through the Northeast, according to the
weather service. Chadds Ford is about 25 miles west of
Philadelphia.  Many records set in the region when Floyd came through may
be broken today, Bill Deger, a meteorologist for private
forecaster AccuWeather in  State College , Pennsylvania, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The Northeast is also experiencing higher tides because of
a new moon, so a storm surge now will be higher than it would at
other times of the month, said Michael Schlacter, chief
meteorologist at Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  If Irene’s losses exceed $1 billion, it will be the 10th
such costly natural disaster in the U.S. this year, a record,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration . The U.S. has suffered $35 billion in losses due
to nine separate events so far in 2011, according to NOAA.  Warnings Posted  Hurricane warnings were posted from Chincoteague, Virginia,
northward to Sagamore Beach in  Massachusetts , including New York
City, according to the hurricane center. Tropical storm warnings
are in effect north of Sagamore Beach to Eastport,  Maine  and
into  Canada .  Wind and rain warnings were issued for parts of  Quebec , New
Brunswick and Newfoundland, according to  Environment Canada .  Irene’s hurricane-strength winds stretch 125 miles from its
center. Tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph extend 320
miles from the core.  Elsewhere, Tropical Storm Jose formed 115 miles south-
southwest of  Bermuda , where a storm warning has been issued,
according to the hurricane center. Jose is expected to move
north and start to deteriorate tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 