-- 
Irene Lashes North Carolina, Threatens New York, New England

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-27T19:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/hurricane-irene-lashes-north-carolina-coast-as-new-york-girds-for-landfall.html
Hurricane Irene, a Category 1 storm
with 85-mile-an-hour winds, flooded streets and damaged
buildings in  North Carolina  as it began to move up the East
Coast toward landfall in New York.  Evacuations are under way in  Virginia , New York, New
Jersey, Long Island’s Nassau County and Rhode Island, all places
where there is a 30 percent to 60 percent chance of a coastal
storm surge of at least 3 feet, according to a  National
Hurricane Center  projection. Irene’s winds may begin to batter
New York late today.  “We may start to see some rain from this storm by this
afternoon and the winds will start to pick up with some tropical
storm strength gusts around midnight,” said David Stark, a
 National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton,  New York . “By
about 6 a.m. tomorrow, it looks like it will be off the Jersey
coast and we still think it is going to be a Category 1
hurricane.”  Irene may become the most powerful storm to strike New York
since Hurricane Gloria in 1985. The storm may inflict $6.5
billion in overall economic losses on the U.S. before it is
absorbed in other weather systems somewhere over  Canada  or the
Atlantic early next week, according to estimates by Kinetic
Analysis Corp. Gloria was between categories 1 and 2 when it
made landfall.  Costly Year  If Irene’s losses exceed $1 billion, it will be the 10th
such costly natural disaster in the U.S. this year, a record,
according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. The U.S. has suffered $35 billion in losses due
to nine separate events so far in 2011, according to NOAA.  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  estimates at least $35 billion in damage to
residential property in New York and Long Island if Irene hits
those areas at Category 1 strength with winds of 74 mph or more.
At least 80,861 properties on Long Island and in New York City
may be at risk, according to the Santa Ana, California-based
analytics company.  At least three deaths in North Carolina were linked to the
storm, authorities said. The  Associated Press  said an 11-year-
old boy was killed by a tree that fell into his apartment
building in Newport News, Virginia.  Emergencies Declared  President  Barack Obama  declared emergencies for North
Carolina, Virginia,  Connecticut , New York, New Jersey,  New
Hampshire ,  Rhode Island  and  Massachusetts , while New York Mayor
Michael Bloomberg ordered the first mandatory evacuation in the
city’s history. The last hurricane to prompt a warning in New
York was 1985’s Gloria, the hurricane center said.  In North Carolina, 10 major roads were flooded after Irene
made landfall near Cape Lookout, on the Outer Banks. Irene has
weakened from a Category 3 storm with 120-mph winds, and North
Carolina Governor Bev Perdue said the storm wasn’t as powerful
as first expected.  The storm still needs to be respected, said  Tom Kines ,
senior expert meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  “If a thunderstorm rolls through with 50- to 60-mile-per-
hour winds, we know what kind of damage that can do,” Kines
said by telephone today. “It can knock a tree over or damage a
house and that is just a gust. Imagine what it can do over more
of a prolonged period?”  No one should discount the storm “just because they’re not
getting 100-mile-per-hour winds,” Kines said.  Wind Outlook  Stark said hurricane-force winds and gusts of at least 74
mph are likely to spread across New York and Long Island early
tomorrow. The storm will pick up forward speed as it moves
north, and the weather may actually clear by late tomorrow.  Aside from the wind and the  storm surge , Stark said people
in Irene’s path need to be careful of flooding caused by as much
as 6 to 12 inches of rain.  Flood and flash-flood watches are in effect from North
Carolina to  Maine , according to the weather service. Tornado
watches are also posted along much of the coast.  As of 2 p.m., Irene was 45 miles west-northwest of Cape
Hatteras, North Carolina, and moving north-northeast at 13 mph,
according to the hurricane center.  Power was out to 730,000 customers in South Carolina, North
Carolina and Virginia, according to regional power companies.  Remains Hurricane  While Irene should weaken as it moves up the coast, “the
cyclone is expected to remain a hurricane with a very large wind
field until after landfall in New England,” the center said in
an  advisory .  The Port of Authority of New York and  New Jersey  closed its
five airports to all arriving passenger flights beginning at
noon today.  Governor  Chris Christie  ordered all rail service in New
Jersey suspended as of noon today. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the Metropolitan Transit Authority would close New
York’s subways, buses and trains at noon, the same time the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey was to suspend all PATH
services, according to a statement.  Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick said Entergy’s Pilgrim
Nuclear Power Station in Plymouth and the Sagamore and Bourne
bridges, the only roadway connections to Cape Cod, probably will
close tomorrow as Hurricane Irene brings sustained winds of 70
to 90 miles an hour to eastern and central Massachusetts.  Manhattan  Power  Consolidated Edison said it will decide early tomorrow
whether to cut power to part of Lower Manhattan because of
possible flooding while Hurricane Irene lashes the city.  The area that may be affected is south of the Brooklyn
Bridge, to Broadway, John Miksad, the company’s senior vice
president of electric operations, said in a conference call with
reporters.  On Lexington Avenue in Manhattan, Bloomingdale’s boarded up
window displays. New York firefighters helped 7,000 nursing home
and hospital patients evacuate, Mayor Bloomberg said. The mayor
is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of
Bloomberg News.  Hurricane warnings are posted from Little River Inlet,
North Carolina, to Sagamore Beach in Massachusetts, including
New York City, according to the hurricane center. Tropical storm
warnings are in effect from Sagamore Beach to Eastport, Maine,
according to the weather service.  Wind and rain warnings were issued for parts of  Quebec , New
Brunswick and Newfoundland, according to  Environment Canada .  Irene’s hurricane-strength winds stretch 90 miles from its
center, about the distance from Philadelphia to New York.
Tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph extend 260 miles
from the core.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 