-- 
Irene Crosses North Carolina Coast as Winds Weaken

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e ,   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-08-28T11:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/hurricane-irene-crosses-north-carolina-coast-as-winds-slow-to-category-one.html
At least nine people died,  North
Carolina ’s Outer Banks flooded and more than 1 million homes and
businesses were without power after Hurricane Irene started on
its collision course with New York today.  States as far north as  Maine  are evacuating residents and
preparing for outages from the hurricane, with tropical storm-
force winds extending outward from the center as much as 290
miles (465 kilometers), according to the U.S. National Hurricane
Center. Residents in the New York metropolitan area and beyond
were forced to stay close to home as trains and subways stopped.  Firefighters in Chocowinity, North Carolina, could hardly
walk as they battled winds of 60 miles per hour to rescue people
from homes whose roofs had been blown off.  “Everybody’s talking  New York City , New York City, and
they forgot about North Carolina,” Fire Chief Tommy Pendley
said in an interview. “I’ll tell you, if New York City gets
this, they’re screwed.”  Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell said the storm may push
waters up by as much as eight feet as it rolls through at high
tide this evening, and the flooding is “going to be
significant.” A hundred roads have been closed, as well as
tunnels in the southeast part of the state, and cities including
Newport News have established curfews, McDonnell said in a
conference call with reporters at 8 p.m. yesterday.  The governor spoke of numerous houses and cars crushed by
trees, though the extent won’t be known until today.  “This is a very dangerous time,” McDonnell said.  Deadly Cyclone  There were at least five storm-related fatalities in North
Carolina, with three more in  Virginia  and one in  Maryland . In
North Carolina, a woman was killed when a tree struck the car in
which she was driving with her husband and child shortly after 5
p.m. in Sampson County, First Sgt. Tony Gibson of the State
Highway Patrol said in a telephone interview. The husband and
child survived, he said.  A 15-year-old Virginia girl vacationing at the beach was
killed in a two-car accident in Wayne County shortly before 6
p.m. at an intersection that had lost power, Brad Deen, a
spokesman at the state’s Joint Information Center, said by
telephone.  Another North Carolina man was discovered in Pitt County in
a vehicle that struck a tree, and a Nash County man was killed
by a falling tree, Deen said. An Onslow County man also died of
a heart attack Aug. 25 putting up plywood in preparation for
Irene, he said.  Shattered Building  In  Newport News , Virginia, an 11-year-old boy was killed
shortly after noon when a tree crashed onto the two-story
apartment complex where he was with his mother, Kim Lee, a city
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. The mother escaped,
and a crane was needed to lift the tree, she said.  Another man died in Brunswick County, Virginia, when a tree
fell on his vehicle, Maribeth Brewster, a spokeswoman for the
state’s Emergency Operations Center, said in a telephone
interview. A Chesterfield County man also died yesterday when a
tree fell on a house, Beth Singer, a spokeswoman for the
Virginia Emergency Operations Center said in a telephone
interview, as did a woman in Queen Anne’s County, Maryland,
after a tree hit a house there late yesterday, Danielle Lueking,
a spokeswoman for the state’s Emergency Management Agency, said
by telephone.  Shaken Virginia  Virginia and Washington-area residents are still collecting
themselves after a 5.8-magnitude earthquake Aug. 23 centered in
Virginia and now must deal with the hurricane.  The  District of Columbia  distributed about 5,000 sandbags
at RFK Stadium to residents Aug. 26 until they were gone,
according to the city’s website. The city handed out about 6,000
more before shutting down distribution at 3 p.m. yesterday after
they ran out of sandbags.  Irene made landfall near Cape Lookout in North Carolina
about 7:30 a.m. eastern time with maximum sustained winds of 85
mph (140 kph), according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.
Flooding closed several major roads, breached wastewater
treatment plants and felled trees throughout the eastern part of
the state, Governor Bev Perdue said.  “There is widespread damage to property and infrastructure
along the coast,” Perdue said during a 6 p.m. news briefing in
Raleigh.  Outer Banks  Scene  On the Outer Banks, winds approaching 90 mph pushed water
west out of the Pamlico Sound, leaving boats stranded on the mud
at Scott Boatyard in Buxton. The ocean washed over a highway in
Rodanthe, making that section of road impassible.  About 10 groups were stranded in vehicles or homes in
Pamlico County in coastal North Carolina, including people
taking refuge in attics to escape rising water, said David
Spruill, the county’s emergency services director.  At Atlantic Beach, about 15 miles from Cape Lookout, the
end of the wooden pier at the Sheraton Hotel was washed away,
with waves slamming into the remaining section.  Dominion Resources Inc., which covers parts of North
Carolina and Virginia, said 773,552 of its customers had lost
electricity as of 5:45 p.m., with the heaviest concentration of
outages in the Norfolk and Richmond, Virginia, areas. Three-
quarters of its Richmond customers were without power, according
to the company’s website.  Power Outages  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  reported about 247,000 customers had
lost power in North and South Carolina.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  said
about 11,250 of its customers in North Carolina were without
electricity.  Some utilities farther north serving the Maryland,
Washington and Delaware region, including  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) ’s
Delmarva Power & Light and Constellation’s Baltimore Gas &
Electric, were reporting outages rapidly climbing above 56,000
as the storm moved through.  Constellation Energy Group Inc. said the Unit 1 reactor at
its Calvert Cliffs nuclear power station in Maryland has gone
offline, while posing no threat to staff or the public.  “Due to heavy gusts of winds caused by Hurricane Irene, a
large piece of aluminum siding dislodged from a building,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. “The siding came
into contact with our main transformer.”  Nuclear Shutdown  It declared an “unusual event,” which is the lowest of
four emergency classifications. The facility’s Unit 2 is stable
and operating normally, it said.  The National Hurricane Center’s forecast shows Irene’s core
reaching southern  New England  today.  Cape Cod couple Ryan Mann and Adrian Green, scheduled to be
married in a beach ceremony in the town of Harwich,
 Massachusetts  yesterday, moved the event up to 12:30 p.m. from 4
p.m. That gave their 60 out-of-town guests time to get off the
cape ahead of “our uninvited guest, Irene,” Mann, 29, said in
a telephone interview.  More than 1 million people left the New Jersey shore in
response to orders to evacuate, and 1,500 National Guard troops
were deployed, Governor  Chris Christie  said at a news
conference.  Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  issued a prepare-to-
deploy order for 6,500 active duty troops from all the services
to support hurricane relief efforts if ordered.  New York City opened shelters after ordering 370,000
residents to leave low-lying neighborhoods and began an
unprecedented shutdown of all mass transit. The Southeastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority halted buses, subways, and
trains in five counties around Philadelphia. No Amtrak trains
will operate in the Northeast today, the company said in a
release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chocowinity at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Atlantic Beach at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  