-- 
Washington Steels Itself for Hurricane Irene’s Arrival After Earthquake

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-08-28T00:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-27/washington-prepares-for-irene-after-quake-rattled-capital-earlier-in-week.html
Washington-area residents who are
still collecting themselves after a 5.8-magnitude earthquake are
bracing for the arrival of Hurricane Irene tonight and into
tomorrow as they stock up on food and water and prepare for
extended power outages.  The hurricane, a Category 1 storm with 85-mile-an-hour
winds, will be the second blow to the U.S. capital in the past
week. The earthquake, centered in neighboring  Virginia  rattled
the region on Aug. 23, damaged tourist destinations such as the
 Washington  Monument and the Washington National Cathedral.  “We have just had an earthquake and now we have to prepare
for the storm,” Merni Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman for Fairfax
County in Northern Virginia, who heads the regional response
group said. “But we’ve had storms before and people know where
the low-lying areas are and what to do.”  Emergency Operations Centers staffed by local authorities
are open around the national capital region to coordinate safety
and response information, according to Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald
said heavy winds and rain were expected to be strongest between
8 p.m. today and 2 a.m. Sunday.  The  National Weather Service  issued a flash-flood warning
for the Washington area.  North Carolina Landfall  Irene made landfall on the North Carolina coast this
morning and is projected to move near or over the mid-Atlantic
coast before reaching southern  New England  tomorrow, according
to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  “We got lots of food for the kids,” said Heather Bruskin,
33, a mother of two who lives in Kensington,  Maryland , a suburb
of Washington. “Then we just charged everything. We have Pepco,
so we’ll probably lose power.”  Pepco, a unit of Pepco Holdings Inc., serves 778,000
customers in Washington and Maryland. In February, U.S. Senator
Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, asked federal regulators
to investigate Pepco for possible failure to comply with
national standards for electric reliability before the winter
storms.  A late January snowstorm knocked out power for more than
200,000 customers. The Maryland Public Service Commission last
year began investigating reliability issues at Pepco.  ‘All-Hands Event’  “Restoring power in the wake of Hurricane Irene will be an
all-hands event for Pepco,” Thomas H. Graham, region president
for the Washington-based company, said in a statement. The
utility is preparing for widespread power failures that could
last for days, according to a message posted on its website. As
of 8 p.m., about 22,000 Pepco customers were without power, the
company website said.  District of Columbia  Mayor Vincent Gray declared a state of
emergency for the city and ordered homeless shelters to stay
open until the storm was over. Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell
told  CNN  in an afternoon interview that two people, one a young
boy, had been killed in his state by falling trees.  The District of Columbia distributed about 5,000 sandbags
at RFK Stadium to residents yesterday until they were gone,
according to the city’s website. The city handed out about 6,000
more today before shutting down distribution at 3 p.m. after
they ran out of sandbags.  Sandbags in Alexandria  Alexandria, Virginia, about 7 miles southeast of
Washington, said it distributed more than 10,000 sandbags in
preparation for Irene’s arrival before running out, the city
government said in an e-mailed statement. The city’s low
elevation and proximity to the Potomac River makes it
susceptible to flooding from heavy rains, hurricanes or quick
snow melts.  Metro, the Washington area’s transit system, is staying
open and planned to maintain a regular weekend schedule,
according to its website.  Organizers postponed a planned weekend dedication of the
 Martin Luther King Jr . Memorial on the National Mall, a tribute
to the civil rights leader on the 48th anniversary of his “I
Have a Dream” speech.  The hurricane may cause 5 inches to 15 inches of rain, a
storm surge of 4 feet to 8 feet and hurricane-force winds along
the East Coast up to New England, U.S. emergency officials said
at a news conference today in Washington.  Bay Bridge Closed  The Bay Bridge over the Chesapeake Bay to Maryland’s
Eastern Shore was closed after wind gusts reached 80 miles per
hour, Washington-area WTOP radio reported.  Amy Oates and her family had to evacuate their house near
the coastal town of Ocean City, Maryland.  The 39-year-old mother of two said she and her husband are
most concerned about their house and the high level of rainfall
forecast. “We’re expecting it to be flooded,” she said. “We
removed everything from the floor.”  Waleska Garcia, who was in  New Orleans  when  Hurricane
Katrina  hit in 2005, said, “I’m not too worried about it
because we’re not too close to the coast.”  The 30-year-old mother who lives in Washington’s Dupont
Circle neighborhood, said she didn’t do much beyond buying extra
food and batteries for her second-floor apartment.  “It’s best just to have a little hurricane party, and
that’s what we’re going to do,” Garcia said. “I’m making a
tropical storm cocktail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 