-- ’Vanya’ In Your Face; Jell-O Shot Tragedy: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-18T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/-vanya-in-your-face-jell-o-shot-tragedy-jeremy-gerard.html
If you want to see why directors
around the world want to work with young American talent, spend
$20 and a couple of hours with Sarah Steele in “ Slowgirl .”  Steele plays 17-year-old Becky, who has arrived from
 California  at her uncle’s isolated jungle house in  Costa Rica 
when the play opens. Sterling (Zeljko Ivanek) hasn’t seen his
sister’s daughter for nearly a decade, but a crisis has brought
the girl for a weeklong visit.  Once Becky overcomes her squeamishness about the sounds of
birdcalls and iguanas scrabbling on the roof at night, she eases
into a growing bond with Sterling.  Piece by piece she reveals the story of a party to which
her friends invited the girl whose nickname gives the play its
title. Group cruelty turned to tragedy when Slowgirl, drunk on
Jell-O shots, tried to fly from the second story of the house
where the party had gotten out of control. Becky’s mother has
sent her to Sterling for a week’s rest before she faces possible
charges as Slowgirl lies in a coma in the hospital.  Playwright Greg Pierce has a fine command of precisely how
Becky and Sterling would speak to each other. Becky’s funny
casual vulgarisms reveal not just the jitterbug angst of a kid
in serious trouble, but of a young woman unexpectedly forced to
confront the moral consequences of her actions.  Body Language  Steele plays Becky with empathy and nuance. Watch her eyes
and body language for subtle -- and, later, not-so-subtle --
access to the panic building just below the struggling girl’s
surface.  Sterling will, of course, have his own issues to deal with.
Ivanek, who has grown on  New York  stages into one of our finest
actors, invests him with a voice cracking with emotion and eyes
sunken with regret even as he claims to be happy in his odd
environs.  Pierce parcels out the information a bit too formulaically
but Anne Kauffman’s sensitive staging steers the action away
from heavy-handedness. Rachel Hauck’s rough-hewn set is a marvel
of simplicity and Japhy Weideman’s lighting and Leah Gelpe’s
sounds bring the jungle to life.  This new one-act drama inaugurates the handsome 112-seat
Claire Tow Theater, which sits atop the Vivian Beaumont on the
 Lincoln Center  campus. It’s the permanent home of  Lincoln Center
Theater ’s LCT3 program for developing new playwrights and
audiences. “4,000 Miles,” one of last season’s best plays, began
at LCT3 (it’s running downstairs, in the Mitzi E. Newhouse,
through the end of the month).  Through July 15 at 150 W. 65th St. Information: +1-212-239-
6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ***  ‘Uncle Vanya’  Next month,  New Yorkers  will get to see Cate Blanchett’s
feral Yelena when the  Sydney Theatre Company ’s knockout
production of “Uncle Vanya” comes to the  Lincoln Center
Festival .  But an extraordinary and very different “Vanya” is running
now at the tiny  Soho Rep , where director Sam Gold’s living-room
production is the most intimate and engaging exploration of
Chekhov’s bleak comedy since Andre Gregory’s  “ Vanya on 42nd
Street ” more than 20 years ago.  Using a breezy adaptation by playwright Annie Baker
(“Circle Mirror Transformation”), the production features Maria
Dizzia as Yelena, the beautiful young wife of the pompous
academic Serebryakov (Peter Friedman) with whom she has
reluctantly returned to the family estate.  For 25 years, Reed Birney’s embittered Vanya has managed
the farm, sending its profits to the professor to support his
urbane lifestyle. Vanya is smitten with Yelena, which only
increases his depression.  Also lovestruck is Astrov, the local doctor and proto-
environmentalist, played by the extraordinary  Michael Shannon  as
an impassioned drunk who bores Yelena only slightly less than
the others. Vanya’s plain jane niece Sonya (Merritt Wever) loves
Astrov, who isn’t interested.  Dizzia is not the trapped animal Blanchett plays. Yelena’s
howl, “I’m so bored!” is here more a sulky whine than a threat
that worlds are about to be turned inside-out.  Yet the small scale of this production brings out the
comedy with which many Chekhov stagings are uncomfortable.
Andrew Lieberman’s plywood A-frame set has the audience sitting
on carpeted bleachers around the action unfolding inches away.
They’re not very comfortable; bring a pillow.  Through July 22 at 46 Walker St. Information: +1-212-352-
3101;  http://www.sohorep.org .
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 