-- Adidas Reebok Revival Depends on CrossFit for New Sales: Retail
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-06-18T22:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/adidas-reebok-revival-depends-on-crossfit-for-new-sales-retail.html
At a  CrossFit gym  in Nuremberg,
 Germany , plastered with the logos of shoemaker Reebok, customers
sweat through a workout dubbed “A Fight Gone Bad.” The same
could be said for  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s effort to turn around the flailing
Reebok, which it bought in 2006.  “It’s a competitive atmosphere, but everyone knows the
ultimate person we’re competing against is ourselves,” said
Ginger Sladky, 40, who set up the gym with her husband in March
with advertising support from Reebok, which sponsors CrossFit
worldwide. The workouts require people “to keep up the
intensity, each and every time.”  As  CrossFit  Inc. expands in  Europe  and the U.S., Adidas
expects sponsoring the circuit exercise routine to restore some
intensity to Reebok, helping it reclaim its place in the fitness
pantheon.  The brand that helped make step aerobics a staple in gyms
around the world two decades ago has posted sales declines for
three of the five full years since Adidas purchased it for $3.7
billion. Adidas, which won’t say how much it’s paying for the
arrangement, has splashed the Reebok name across CrossFit
equipment, gyms and trainers’ clothing.  After a brief bounce in sales due to the popularity of its
``toning’’ shoes-- which the company claimed help strengthen leg
and butt muscles-- Reebok has forecast another  decline in
revenue  this year.  Lost NFL Contract  Adidas is wrestling with a fraud investigation at its
Reebok unit in  India  and in the U.S. in April it lost a contract
to outfit the  National Football League , which may cost the
world’s second-biggest maker of sporting goods more than 200
million euros in lost revenue a year. Reebok is facing a
slowdown in the market for toning shoes and last September
agreed to pay $25 million in a settlement that will be used for
consumer refunds after the U.S. Federal Trade Commission accused
the company of deceptive health claims about its EasyTone and
RunTone footwear.  Reebok said at the time that it stood behind its EasyTone
technology and that the company didn’t agree with the FTC’s
allegations, despite the settlement.  Given the bad news, analysts say Reebok won’t meet its
 long-term sales targets . The unit will post revenue of 2.6
billion euros in 2015, the median estimate of three surveyed
shows, short of the 3 billion euros  Reebok  has pledged. Adidas
says it stands by the goal, despite the lost NFL license.  Fit in 20 Minutes  Reebok aims to help close the gap via its two-year-old deal
with CrossFit. Reebok is “very satisfied with the
development,” after an increase in registrations last year at
Reebok CrossFit centers last year, said Adidas spokeswoman Katja Schreiber.  “We want to change the way the world perceives and
experiences fitness and make it possible for people to improve
their physical, mental and social fitness,” Chris Froio,
Reebok’s global head of fitness, said in an e-mailed statement.  CrossFit promises a complete fitness routine in less than
20 minutes. Its popularity has swelled in the U.S. in recent
years as people get hooked on both its speed and being pitted
against others. Participants compare their scores on a
whiteboard and use Facebook and Twitter to challenge each other.
At the annual CrossFit Games competition, men and women compete
to be crowned the “Fittest on Earth.”  “It’s an excellent fit for Reebok, which has been in the
woods for a while as it’s struggled to decide what it wants to
be,” said John Birnsteel, head of strategy at  FutureBrand , a
branding consultancy. ``It was appearing to box itself in as a
very female-oriented fitness brand.’’  Sumo Deadlift  In Nuremberg, CrossFit enthusiasts power their way through
a circuit of push ups, ``sumo deadlift highpulls’’ and ``glute-
ham developer hip extensions’’ with only one-minute breaks
before repeating a workout. There are more than 3,000 CrossFit
``boxes’’ -- what the company calls its gyms -- in dozens of
countries, and about 300,000 people around the world participate
in the routine, according to Adidas.  The partnership with CrossFit will help boost sales by
making consumers think of Reebok as a brand with deep roots in
fitness, said Mark Josefson, an analyst at Silvia Quandt
Research GmbH in  Frankfurt . It ``will give credence to Reebok,’’
he said.  Reebok will open one more box in the U.S. this summer for a
total of four and plans to collaborate with about 10 boxes in
Germany by the end of this year. Reebok currently sponsors about
70 boxes in 30 countries.  `Sport of Fitness'  “CrossFit is very addictive,” said Neil Pugsley, 31, from
Port Talbot, Wales, who dedicates an hour a day, six days a
week, to his CrossFit training. “I have seen the best gains in
my strength and fitness in the past year since I started
training.”  The CrossFit partnership won’t do much to offset the lost
NFL contract anytime soon, said Manfred Abraham, head of
consulting at London-based Interbrand. The NFL deal went to
rival  Nike Inc. (NKE)  after Reebok had held it for more than a decade.  “I would see this more as a long-term strategy for growth
rather than a switch-and-swap revenue tactic,” Abraham said.  Reebok, which in January introduced the motto “the sport
of fitness has arrived,” has already struggled. The brand’s
sales dropped 5.5 percent in the first quarter compared with a
17 percent sales increase for the Adidas brand. Last year,
Reebok’s revenue rose 2.6 percent to 1.96 billion euros.  “Reebok was probably not a good investment and will never
be,” said Sebastian Frericks, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in
Frankfurt. He estimates its value may have dropped by as much as
half since the purchase. “Profitability at the brand is still
an issue, and Adidas can’t be happy with the margin
development.”  -- With assistance from  Andrew Roberts  in Paris. Editors: Thomas
Mulier, Celeste Perri  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  