-- Tesco Set to End Nine-Year Japanese Foray With Sale to Aeon
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-06-18T12:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/aeon-agrees-to-buy-50-of-tesco-s-japan-unit-for-nominal-sum-.html
Tesco Plc, (TSCO)  the U.K.’s largest
retailer, said it will sell a 50 percent share in its Japanese
unit to  Aeon Co. (8267)  and invest 40 million pounds ($63 million) in
the business to end a nine-year foray into the Asian nation.  Aeon,  Japan ’s biggest retailer, will pay a “nominal sum”
for joint control of Tesco Japan in a deal that the U.K. company
said will leave it with no further financial exposure to the
country. Tesco’s investment will help fund restructuring and is
the second part of a process that will lead to its exit of the
country, it said today.  “Without some serious M&A, they were never going to reach
the scale required to create a profitable business in what
remains one of the most competitive markets on earth,” said
 Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail. “It makes sense to
pull out and this seems a dignified way of doing it.”  Global retailers are jettisoning peripheral assets as a
slump in  consumer spending  linked to the debt-crisis leads them
to focus on their main regions.  Carrefour SA (CA)  last week agreed to
sell its stake in a Greek joint venture and new Chief Executive
Officer Georges Plassat said today it may exit  Turkey  and cede
control in Indonesia.  The Japanese division, which includes the Tsurakame format,
is Tesco’s smallest international retail business and has a
market share in Japan of 0.1 percent. Tesco entered Japan with
76 stores after the purchase of the C Two-Network Co. grocery
chain in July 2003 and now has has 117 outlets in the area of
Greater Tokyo. The retailer said in August last year that it
planned to exit the country to concentrate on winning back
consumers in its home market, where same-store sales have
declined for four straight quarters.  ‘Most Attractive’  Aeon will probably buy the stake in the joint venture in
Japan’s autumn, Koji Tsusue, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based
company, told reporters today, without disclosing terms.  The acquisition adds to two regional grocers Aeon bought
last year amid a recovery in demand after the 2011 earthquake.
The purchases of Marunaka Co. and Sanyo Marunaka KK helped the
company expand in the western part of the country.  “Tesco Japan’s stores in metropolitan areas are the part
that looked most attractive,” Tsusue told reporters in  Tokyo .
“Aeon sees metropolitan areas as a pillar of growth.”  The purchase probably won’t have much impact on Aeon’s
sales and profit, said Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research
for JI  Asia  in Tokyo.  In 2010, Tesco wrote down the goodwill for the Japanese
assets to zero on an impairment loss, compared with 55 million
pounds a year earlier, its annual report showed.  Taiwan Exit  Today’s move isn’t the first time Tesco has pulled out of
an Asian nation. The company exited  Taiwan  in 2006 as part of an
asset swap with French grocer Carrefour SA for outlets in the
Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Slovak government later banned
Tesco from buying the assets on the grounds that it would have
given the U.K. retailer excessive market power.  Tesco will now focus on its larger businesses in Asia,
where it has stores in India, China, Thailand, Malaysia and
 South Korea , its second-largest market after the U.K.  The grocer generates about a third of revenue outside the
U.K., with Asia accounting for 16.8 percent of sales last year.  “The exit from Japan leads to the removal of a distraction
and a potential source of substantial capital absorption,”
Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital, said in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  