-- AIG Plane Unit Swaps Narrow on Moody’s Upgrade
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-18T13:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/aig-plane-unit-swaps-narrow-on-moody-s-upgrade.html
The cost to protect International
Lease Finance Corp. debt fell after Moody’s Investors Service
upgraded the airplane lender, citing improved liquidity.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the unit of bailed-out
insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  declined 6.3 basis
points to a mid-price of 467.7 basis points at 9:07 a.m. in  New
York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default
swaps typically fall as investor confidence improves and rise
as it deteriorates.  ILFC’s credit rating was raised to Ba3 from B1 after the
Los Angeles-based company reduced leverage and improved its
access to cash by extending the maturity of its debt, the
ratings company said in a June 15 note. New York-based AIG is
seeking to sell a stake in ILFC through a public offering as the
insurer raises cash to repay a government rescue.  “The upgrade of ILFC’s rating is based on the progress the
company has made in recent quarters to enhance its liquidity and
capital position,” Moody’s analysts including Mark Wasden wrote
in the report. “ILFC’s rating continues to be supported by its
position as an industry leader in aircraft finance.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  A benchmark of U.S. corporate credit risk rose as Spanish
bond yields climbed above 7 percent for the first time since the
creation of the Euro and dimmed optimism that a pro-bailout
victory in  Greece  will stave off a crisis in the euro area. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a benchmark
used to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate
on creditworthiness, increased 3.9 basis points to a mid-price
of 121.6 basis points at 9:18 a.m., Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  