-- Air Canada Pact Maintains Pension Plan for Current Workers
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-06-18T15:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/air-canada-pact-maintains-pension-plan-for-current-workers-1-.html
Air Canada (AC/B)  said the arbitrator in
its dispute with the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers union chose the company’s final offer that
maintains a defined-benefit pension plan for current employees.  The five-year agreement introduces a multi-employer pension
plan for employees hired after yesterday, Canada’s biggest
airline said in a statement. It also reduces the pension plan’s
deficit and “establishes a protocol for the sustainability of
the pension plan.”  The offer selected by arbitrator Michel Picher follows
months of labor unrest at Air Canada. Canadian Labor Minister
Lisa Raitt blocked a planned lockout of pilots in March, after
more than a year of unsuccessful contract talks, by referring it
to Picher. Simultaneously, a strike by the Machinists union,
which had accused the carrier of doing too little to bolster its
pension program, was blocked by the government.  Air Canada (AC/A) ’s Class B  shares  rose 6.9 percent to C$1.06 at
11:08 a.m. in Toronto. Earlier, they gained as much 7.1 percent,
the most intraday since April 27.  Peter Fitzpatrick , a spokesman for Air Canada, and Bill Trbovich, a spokesman for the Machinists union, didn’t return
voice mails requesting comment.  The agreement is in effect until March 31, 2016. As part of
the arbitration process, the union presented Picher with a plan
of its own.  The Machinists union represents 8,600 mechanics, baggage
handlers and cargo agents employed by Air Canada.  The two sides held negotiations and mediated talks for 14
months, the company said. The arbitration process was legislated
under  Canada ’s Protecting Air Service Act.  Air Canada has been working to regain profitability after
four straight annual losses. In May, the carrier posted a first-
quarter loss of C$210 million ($205 million), or 76 cents a
share, as fuel expenses rose and it booked costs tied to the
restructuring of a former maintenance unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  