-- Talanx Said to Consider Rescheduling $950 Million IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-06-18T16:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/talanx-said-to-consider-rescheduling-950-million-ipo.html
Talanx AG,  Germany ’s third-biggest
insurer, may in the coming days decide against selling shares to
the public in July as market volatility continues following
 Greece ’s election, said people with knowledge of the
deliberations.  The Frankfurt initial public offering, which was expected
to raise about 750 million euros ($950 million) in the first
half, could be rescheduled for September, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the plans are private. A final
decision about the timing and valuation hasn’t been made, the
people said.  Talanx may follow Evonik Industries AG, whose main
shareholder RAG-Stiftung announced today that its IPO will be
delayed due to market “insecurity.” Evonik was seeking to
raise between 2 billion and 4 billion euros, a person with
knowledge of the transaction said yesterday.  “We are carefully observing the markets and are very well
prepared for a possible IPO,” said Thomas von Mallinckrodt, a
spokesman for Talanx, based in Hanover, Germany.  The Vstoxx Index, a gauge of European stocks’ volatility,
has climbed 60 percent from its March low this year. On June 4,
the index rose to its peak of 36. IPOs typically proceed when
the index trades below 25.  Other German IPOs, including HC Starck GmbH and  Rheinmetall
AG (RHM) ’s car-part unit Kolbenschmidt Pierburg AG, may also be
affected as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens. While Greece’s pro-
bailout parties won enough seats to control parliament, Spanish
10-year bond yields climbed to more than 7 percent for the first
time since the creation of the euro as bad loans rose.  Avio SpA, the Italian aerospace supplier owned by U.K.
buyout firm Cinven Ltd., may opt for a sale instead of an IPO
after private equity companies CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and
Clessidra SGR SpA submitted an offer valuing the company at more
than 3 billion euros including debt, a person with knowledge of
the matter said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  