-- Allen & Overy, Freshfields, O’Melveny: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/allen-overy-freshfields-o-melveny-business-of-law.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
host to the world’s fifth-largest equity market, agreed to pay
1.39 billion pounds ($2.15 billion) for the London Metal
Exchange, which handles more than 80 percent of global trade in
industrial-metal futures.  Allen & Overy  LLP served as legal counsel to Hong Kong
Exchanges. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP handled the
corporate work for LME while  Jones Day  acted as antitrust
counsel.  Christine Wong, Hong Kong Exchanges’ general counsel,
played key role in the transaction, Allen & Overy said in an
e-mail. Outside counsel at Allen & Overy was led by London
corporate partner Alistair Asher and regulatory advice was
provided by partner Damian Carolan. The Hong Kong team was led
by corporate partners Bernadine Lam and Gary McLean and
regulatory partner Alan Ewins. Partner Ian Powell handled the
financing aspects in Hong Kong.  The Freshfields team assisting Tom Hine, LME general
counsel, was led in  London  by Sundeep Kapila, global head of the
firm’s market infrastructure practice. U.K. partners Michael
Raffan, Simon Evans, Colin Hargreaves and Ian Frost also were
involved.  The Jones Day team was led by Frances Murphy, a London
partner in antitrust and competition law.  The deal would be Hong Kong Exchanges’ first overseas
acquisition. The 135-year-old LME sets global benchmark prices
for metals including copper, aluminum and nickel, of which  China 
consumes more than any other nation. Its network of warehouses
doesn’t currently extend into the country.  “Hong Kong Exchanges can be positive for LME if it can
enhance its China exposure,” said Jonas Kan, the head of Hong
Kong research at Daiwa Capital Markets.  For more, click here.  News  Gupta Convicted of Insider Trading for Tipping Rajaratnam  Rajat Gupta , who reached the pinnacle of corporate America
as managing partner of McKinsey & Co. and director at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was convicted by a
federal jury of leaking inside information to hedge-fund manager
Raj Rajaratnam.  The outcome is a victory for the U.S. government in a
nationwide crackdown on insider trading at  hedge funds .  “We continue to feel that Mr. Gupta is innocent of all
charges,” defense lawyer  Gary Naftalis  said after the verdict.
“We will be making a motion to set aside the verdict and appeal
if necessary.”  Gupta “didn’t trade,” Naftalis said. “He didn’t tip Mr.
Rajaratnam. He didn’t receive a dishonest dime.”  Gupta, 63, was found guilty of three counts of  securities
fraud  and one count of conspiracy June 15 by a federal jury in
 Manhattan  in its second day of deliberations. Securities fraud
carries a maximum prison sentence of 20 years, and conspiracy
carries a five-year maximum. U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said
Gupta can remain free on bail until sentencing on Oct. 18.  “Having fallen from respected insider to convicted inside
trader, Mr. Gupta has now exchanged the lofty board room for the
prospect of a lowly jail cell,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. “Violating clear and sacrosanct
duties of confidentiality, Mr. Gupta illegally provided a
virtual open line into the board room for his benefactor and
business partner,  Raj Rajaratnam .”  Gupta, who was also acquitted of two counts, is the most
prominent of the 62 people convicted since the nationwide
crackdown began. To date, the U.S. has brought cases against 68
traders and their sources from  Wall Street  to Silicon Valley. No
one has won an acquittal; six cases are pending.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-SEC Enforcement Attorney Pleads Not Guilty to Wire Fraud  Daryl Hudson III, a former senior counsel in the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement division,
pleaded not guilty in federal court after being charged with
seven counts of wire fraud.  Hudson, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
Hampden Kent Group LLC, was arraigned June 14 in U.S. District
Court in  Albuquerque , New Mexico. He was indicted May 23 and
faces as long as 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine on
each charge if convicted.  Hudson, 59, of the  District of Columbia , is accused of
engaging in a scheme to defraud Santa Fe-based Bluenergy
Solarwind Inc. by falsely representing that he could secure debt
funding to help the company grow, according to a statement by
New Mexico U.S. Attorney Kenneth J. Gonzales. He worked at the
SEC from 1982 to 1985, according to the indictment.  In July 2011, Hudson accepted $85,000 as a partial retainer
payment from Bluenergy, which hired him to secure about $80
million in debt funding for the company’s effort to begin
manufacturing solar  wind turbines . Hudson provided Bluenergy
with a falsified receipt showing that investor funding was
available, according to the indictment.  When Hudson was fired in August 2011 after the company
raised questions about the legitimacy of the receipt, he refused
to return the retainer, according to the indictment.  “The allegations in the indictment concern one disgruntled
client who, over a three-week period, misled my client about its
business and in fact could not demonstrate any product or
revenues to obtain financing,” David A. Streubel, a lawyer for
Hudson, said in an e-mail June 15.  When the full story is explained in court, he said, “Mr.
Hudson will be completely exonerated.”  The case is U.S. v. Hudson, 12-01250, U.S. District Court,
District of New Mexico (Albuquerque).  Moves Round-Up  Lateral Hires in Orange County, Boston, New York and Oversees  K&L Gates LLP hired Ellen L. Darling and Brendan M. Ford as
partners in the firm’s Orange County office. Darling, Ford, and
three associates join K&L Gates’s product liability practice
from Snell & Wilmer LLP, the firm said.  Darling focuses on product liability litigation involving
pharmaceutical, medical device and other life sciences
companies. Ford represents pharmaceutical and medical-device
manufacturers in product liability cases.  Greenberg Traurig  LLP said Ronan P. O’Brien joined its
Boston office as a shareholder in the corporate and securities
practice group. O’Brien will focus on mergers and acquisitions
while serving as outside general counsel to several clients.
Before joining Greenberg Traurig, O’Brien was a partner in the
corporate practice group of Seyfarth Shaw LLP, the firm said.  Harris & Houghteling LLP said that former Dechert LLP
litigation partner Kevin O’Brien joined the  New York  City firm
as a name partner. The firm changed its name to  Harris, O’Brien,
St. Laurent & Houghteling LLP  to reflect O’Brien’s arrival and
the elevation to name partner of Andrew St. Laurent, a partner
with the firm since 2009.  Dickstein Shapiro LLP hired Jeffrey Mitchell and another
lawyer from the New York office of Gibbons PC, the firm said.
Mitchell, a commercial litigator, represents banks, securities
firms, and accounting firms, among others.  Cooley LLP announced that it hired intellectual property
partners DeAnna D. Allen in the Washington office and Joseph M. Drayton in New York.  Allen, who focuses on patent litigation, was most recently
a partner at Dickstein Shapiro, the firm said. Drayton joins
from Kaye Scholer LLP and has experience in intellectual
property litigation, as well as complex commercial and antitrust
matters.  In lateral moves oversees, U.K. entertainment transactions
lawyer Lisbeth Savill will join  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  in August
as a partner in the entertainment, sports and media practice in
London. Savill is the former head of Olswang LLP’s film and
television team, the firm said.  Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP hired James McNally as a partner
in London. McNally was a part of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s global
private equity team and advises on corporate transactional and
private equity fund matters, including mergers and acquisitions,
joint ventures, fund formation and financings.  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP announced that Olivier
Chambord, a mergers and acquisitions energy transactions lawyer
will relocate to London from Paris to join the firm as a partner
in its business and finance practice.  Trials  Ex-BP Engineer Faces February Trial in Spill Criminal Case  A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged with destroying evidence
sought for a U.S probe of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill  will
face a Feb. 25 trial, a judge said.  Kurt Mix, who worked on internal BP efforts to estimate the
amount of oil leaking from the well, was charged with two counts
of obstruction of justice for allegedly deleting text message
strings from his mobile phone. Mix has pleaded not guilty.  “Kurt Mix looks forward to his day in court,” Joan McPhee, Mix’s attorney, who is a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP,
said in a phone interview.  U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval in New Orleans set the
trial date at a scheduling conference with lawyers for the U.S.,
BP and Mix on June 13. His order was filed with the court June
14. The judge also directed the government to “provide all non-
expert and expert” evidence to Mix by June 29.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. The Mix prosecution is the first criminal
case to arise from the 2010 spill.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-0017, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans). The civil
case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the
Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 