-- Alvarez Says Fed Hasn’t Seen Other JPMorgan Risk Problems
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-18T22:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/alvarez-says-fed-hasn-t-found-other-risk-weaknesses-at-jpmorgan.html
The Federal Reserve’s chief attorney
said central bank supervisors reviewing a trading loss of at
least $2 billion at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  haven’t found other
weaknesses, such as handling of risk, at the firm.  “The Federal Reserve continues to evaluate whether the
governance, risk management and control weaknesses exposed by
this incident may be present in other parts of the firm,”  Scott Alvarez , general counsel for the Board of Governors, said in
remarks prepared for testimony tomorrow to a U.S. House panel.
The text was by obtained by Bloomberg News.  “To date, we have found no evidence that they are, but
this work is not yet complete,” Alvarez said in comments to the
Financial Services Committee.  New York-based JPMorgan announced its chief investment
office’s trading loss in May, prompting scrutiny among lawmakers
and regulators seeking to curb speculation by lenders with
federally insured deposits. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
is scheduled to testify to the same House panel tomorrow after
saying last week that the bank’s switch to a new risk model may
have helped bring about the losses.  JPMorgan’s shares  have tumbled 15 percent since Dimon
announced the bank’s flawed positions on May 10. The “egregious
mistakes” made by the chief investment office, which oversees
about $360 billion, may cost JPMorgan an additional $1 billion,
Dimon said at the time.  Large Losses  Alvarez said in his testimony that while the bank’s losses
were large, the incident also underscored the importance of bank
capital in averting taxpayer-funded bailouts.  “Every dollar of these losses will be borne by JPMorgan
Chase’s shareholders, and not by depositors or taxpayers, a
result that is a function of the substantial amounts of high-
quality capital that JPMorgan holds,” Alvarez said. “The
 Federal Reserve  and other federal banking regulators continue to
take important steps to strengthen bank capital regulation,
especially for the largest, most complex firms.”  In his testimony to Congress last week, Dimon said a new
formula for estimating possible losses, implemented in January,
failed to properly account for risk.  On April 13, when Dimon downplayed the risks of trades on a
call with analysts, “we were still unaware that the model might
have contributed to the problem,” he said. “So when we found
out later on, we went back to the old model,” he said.  The U.S. central bank is “working closely” with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is the
regulator of the national bank, to “manage and de-risk the
portfolio in question,” Alvarez said in his prepared testimony.  The Fed is also cooperating with the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation  to “fully assess any risk-management
failures” and ensure that such issues are “promptly and
appropriately addressed,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Los Cabos,  Mexico  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  