-- Man. City Opens Premier League Title Defense Against Southampton
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-18T09:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/manchester-city-opens-league-title-defense-against-southampton.html
Manchester City  will open the
defense of its English Premier League soccer title at home
against newly promoted Southampton on Aug. 18.  Manchester United , the runner-up last season, will start
the 2012-13 campaign at Everton, while Arsenal hosts Sunderland
and manager-less Tottenham Hotspur travels to Newcastle United,
according to the schedule released by the league today.  City won its first English league championship in 44 years
on May 13 by scoring twice in stoppage time to beat Queens Park
Rangers 3-2 and deny United a record-extending 20th title on
goal difference. Next season’s first Manchester derby takes
place Dec. 8 at City’s Etihad Stadium with the return game at
Old Trafford scheduled for April 6.  Brendan Rodgers  will begin his tenure as Liverpool manager
at West Bromwich Albion, which last week hired former Reds
first-team coach Steve Clarke to replace Roy Hodgson, who left
to run England’s national team.  Liverpool, whose eighth-place finish last season was a
factor in the firing of Rodgers’s predecessor Kenny Dalglish,
faces both Manchester clubs and Arsenal, which finished third
last season, in its first three home games.  Michael Laudrup, who took over from Rodgers at Swansea,
faces a trip to QPR in his first match, while  Aston Villa  opens
Paul Lambert’s managerial reign at West Ham.  Roberto di Matteo’s stint as Chelsea’s permanent manager
begins with the Champions League winner visiting Wigan, and
 Chris Hughton ’s Norwich travels to Fulham.  Manchester City hosts Norwich in the final round of matches
on May 19, with United traveling to West Brom. Arsenal finishes
its season at Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  