-- Anglo American Says Court Orders May Affect Minas Timeframe
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-06-18T18:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/anglo-american-says-court-orders-may-affect-minas-timeframe-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the world’s
fourth-largest iron ore producer, said two rulings by local
courts in  Brazil  may have “some sort” of impact on the
timeframe of its Minas Rio iron-ore project.  “They didn’t impact at this point and we continue working
to mitigate these actions but depending on how long it would
take for these actions to be lifted, we may have some sort of
impact,” Paulo Castellari, head of Anglo’s iron-ore operations
in Brazil, told reporters in Rio de Janeiro yesterday.  Minas Rio has had time and budget overruns since Anglo
bought the assets in 2008. Anglo revised costs for the project,
its largest, for at least a fourth time, to as much as $5.8
billion in December. Anglo is still scheduled to start
production at Minas Rio in the second half of 2013.  Court action is affecting power transmission for the
beneficiation plant and “certain areas” in the barrier and dam
area, Castellari said. Material dug out of mine pits is
processed in plants that separate the ore.  A  Minas Gerais (USIM5)  state court suspended a license required to
install a power line, according to an April 11 e-mailed
statement by the state prosecutor’s office. Prosecutor Francisco
Chaves Generoso told the court that Anglo failed to meet some of
the conditions to obtain the permit, it said.  Three Days  In March, work was suspended for three days at part of the
beneficiation plant, following a legal challenge to allow
archaeological studies to take place, Anglo said April 19. In
all cases except one, activities were able to continue or were
suspended for “just a few days.”  “There is one of the cave areas at the mine site where
work is still restricted, despite the rest of the restrictions
there being lifted some weeks ago,” Anglo said in an e-mailed
response to a query today.  The project includes a mine in Minas Gerais state, a
processing plant and a 326-mile (525 kilometer) pipeline to Acu
port in  Rio de Janeiro  state. It will have an initial capacity
of 26.5 million metric tons a year.  Anglo  lost  0.1 percent to 2,128.5 pence at the close in
 London  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  