-- Hanoi Hilton Wants Viet Yuppies, Not G.I. Joes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-18T17:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/hanoi-hilton-wants-viet-yuppies-not-g-i-joes.html
The name “Hilton” has been through
a few incarnations in Hanoi: sarcastic moniker for the jail that
held U.S. prisoners of war in the 1960s and ’70s, then a luxury
hotel which since 1999 has targeted foreign investors and well-
heeled tourists.  Now a key target is Vietnamese yuppies.  Hilton Worldwide Inc. will expand its brand in Vietnam into
what it calls the “mid-market,” opening  Southeast Asia ’s first
Hilton Garden Inn in Hanoi’s historic French Quarter in October.  “This is a market where domestic consumers are
aspirational about using international brands,” said Guy Phillips, the hotel’s Singapore-based vice president of
development for Asia, adding that the company sees potential for
Garden Inns in as many as 10 Vietnamese locales.  Hilton, controlled by Blackstone Group, joins  Accor (AC)  SA,
 InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  and  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  in having opened or considering expanding into
mid-tier hotels in Vietnam. The moves come as a growing
Vietnamese middle class begins to travel for business and
leisure, boosting demand for a fully developed industry with a
range of choices for every travel budget.  “The hotel market has changed,” said Marc Townsend, Ho Chi
Minh City-based managing director at the Vietnam unit of  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s biggest commercial property broker.
“The Vietnamese guests are moving from one star to three stars,
and in some cases to five stars.”  Vietnam Transformed  Vietnam has transformed from one of the world’s poorest
countries during the days of the  Vietnam War , when American
soldiers such as  John McCain  were captured and held in Hoa Lo
Prison, which they dubbed the “Hanoi Hilton.” There is no
association between the hotel chain and the prison -- which is
now closed -- and references linking the two are “completely
inappropriate,” said Anne Marie Chua, a spokeswoman for Hilton
based in  Singapore .  Vietnam has now reached a level that the World Bank calls
“ lower middle-income ,” with annual per-capita gross domestic
product more than tripling over the last decade to  $1,374  last
year, based on International Monetary Fund figures. The  poverty
rate  tumbled from 58 percent in 1993 to 11 percent in 2010, a
statement from the U.S. Embassy in  Hanoi  said.  “You need lower-level hotels only when local demand starts
increasing,” said Ian Gamse, a director of London-based Otus &
Co., which advises hotels including Hilton. “You’ve got to be
sure of the level of that demand to make the case for putting in
these mid-market and economy hotels.”  No Banquets  Upmarket hotels such as the  Hilton Hanoi Opera , listed as
4.5 stars and $185 per night on  Expedia.com , typically offer
features such as a concierge, banquet facilities, a separate
bathtub and shower, a range of restaurants and bars, and 24-hour
room service. A  Hilton Garden Inn  in Costa Rica, by comparison,
is listed as three stars on Expedia and priced at $129 a night,
with a single restaurant and limited hours for room service.  Accor, whose range in Vietnam includes the high-end Sofitel
and mid-range Novotel, plans to debut its budget Ibis brand in
 Ho Chi Minh City  as early as this month. The chain operates
widely in Southeast Asia, including in Indonesia and  Thailand ,
as well as in  China  and  Hong Kong .  The Paris-based company plans three Ibis hotels among its
range of about 20 in Vietnam by 2015, according to Patrick
Basset, its Bangkok-based vice president for Vietnam, the
 Philippines ,  South Korea  and  Japan . Accor plans to charge $50
per night as a promotional rate at the first Ibis, in a newly
developed part of Ho Chi Minh City known as  Saigon South , and
increase it to $70 within a couple of years, he said.  Vietnamese Clientele  Initially, most Ibis customers are expected to be non-
Vietnamese because of its location in an area where
international companies are based, said Basset, who expects
local guests to catch up to foreigners within three years.
Accor’s Novotel-brand hotels outside Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City
have 40 percent to 50 percent Vietnamese clientele, paying about
$100 a night, Basset said.  International visitors  to  Vietnam  grew 25 percent in the
first quarter of 2012, topping last year’s 19 percent increase,
based on data from the General Statistics Office in Hanoi. Last
year’s visitors surpassed 6 million for the first time, and this
year the number may surpass 7 million.  The average occupancy rate in Vietnamese hotels was 63.5
percent in 2011, higher than in China, India or Thailand,
according to Asia-Pacific Hotel Review by London-based research
group  STR Global . The number fell from 65 percent in 2010.
Hanoi’s 71 percent occupancy rate in the first four months of
2012 beat Bangkok, Beijing, Jakarta, Mumbai, New Delhi and
Shanghai, ranking 12th out of 20 Asia-Pacific markets, STR
Global said.  InterContinental, Starwood  “There is room in the market for mid-scale hotels,” said
Phil Kasselis, a Singapore-based vice president for development
for InterContinental Hotels Group, who said the company is
considering bringing its Holiday Inn mid-tier brand to Vietnam
and is assessing the market for Holiday Inn Express. The U.K.-
based chain operates two Crowne Plazas and three
InterContinentals in Vietnam.  Starwood, which has three Sheratons in Vietnam and plans to
open a luxury Le Meridien in Ho Chi Minh City this year, is in
talks to debut its mid-tier Four Points by Sheraton and Aloft
brands in Vietnam, according to Lothar Pehl, a Tokyo-based
regional vice president for the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
company.  “Rising  domestic demand  and wealth creation are driving
continued growth in the country’s lodging sector,” Pehl wrote
in an e-mail. “We have seen a constant rise in our domestic
segment across all our three hotels.”  Staying Positive  Vietnam’s hotel sector has “managed to stay positive,”
according to hotel consultants  Horwath HTL , in spite of an
 inflation rate  that peaked at 23 percent in August 2011, when it
was the highest in Asia.  “In a market like Vietnam, where you have a lot of people
going back and forth between Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, there
is enough domestic movement to create demand,” said Robert Hecker, Singapore-based managing director of Horwath HTL Asia
Pacific.  Domestic tourism rose 7 percent last year to 30 million,
according to the  Vietnam National Administration of Tourism .  “I suspect that many Vietnamese are not yet familiar with
the international mid-scale hotel brands,” said Kasselis. “It
will take a couple of years to educate the market.”  International hotels in Vietnam seek to take advantage of a
premium associated with foreign brands and products, according
to New York-based analytics and information company  Nielsen
Holdings NV. (NLSN)   “Branding does make a difference in Vietnam, particularly
in the hospitality area,” said Darin Williams, Nielsen’s
managing director in Ho Chi Minh City. “In hospitality, it’s
both about prestige as well as a certain level of quality and
standards.”  Hilton expects foreign guests to “initially” predominate
at the 86-room Garden Inn, located a few blocks away from its
current Hilton Hanoi Opera, Phillips said.  “But there will be a very healthy domestic component as
well,” he said.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City, with assistance from Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Sheridan Prasso, Lars Klemming  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  