-- Apax CEO Says Confident in Euro as Firm Steps Up Investments
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-06-18T17:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/apax-ceo-says-confident-in-euro-as-firm-steps-up-investments-1-.html
Apax Partners LLP Chief Executive
Officer Martin Halusa said he doesn’t expect the single European
currency to break up as the British private-equity firm stepped
up the pace of investments last year.  The firm, based in  London , spent 2.7 billion euros ($3.4
billion) last year, up from 2.2 billion euros in 2010, according
to its annual report released today. The company reaped 2.1
billion euros from selling assets in 2011, down from 3 billion
euros in the year-earlier period.  “The economic fundamentals of the core euro zone countries
remain strong,” Halusa wrote. “A collapse of the euro is
extremely unlikely. The more likely scenario is the emergence of
a more unified political entity. This will be a painful process,
but I am sure that in the longer term this market of 350 million
consumers will return to being an economic powerhouse.”  Apax, which is raising a 9 billion-euro leveraged buyout
fund, has sought to diversify its investments away from  Europe ,
which accounts for 57 percent of its funds, and into the U.S.
and  Asia . The firm invested in U.S. wound-care specialist
Kinetic Concepts Inc. and Shanghai-based restaurant chain Golden
Jaguar last year. It also bought France Telecom SA’s Orange
Swiss mobile-phone unit for 1.6 billion euros in December.  Private-equity firms have led about $63 billion of
acquisitions in Europe this year, down from $115 billion in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
There were about $200 billion of such transactions at the peak
of the buyout boom in 2007. Buyout firms like Apax pool money
from investors including pension plans and endowments with a
mandate to spend it within five to six years and return it with
a profit after about 10 years.  `Less Capital'  Apax, which has raised a little less than half of the
amount it’s seeking for its latest fund, said fundraising is
tough as an increasing number of firms chase a diminishing
amount of money.  “Many of our investors have had less capital to invest
this time round, because they are still feeling the effects of
the downturn,” Halusa said. “Others, such as banks, have been
prevented from investing in private equity for regulatory
reasons. At the same time we are faced with a very competitive
market in which many of our peers are competing for the same
shrinking pool of capital.”  Permira Advisers LLP and Cinven Ltd., two London-based
competitors, are already raising funds. CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. is preparing to seek as much as 10.75 billion euros later
this year, people briefed on the matter said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  