-- Harry Winston Sees Diamond M&A as Prices Fall: Corporate Canada
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-06-18T20:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/harry-winston-sees-diamond-m-a-as-prices-fall-corporate-canada.html
Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW) , the
only gem producer and jewelry retailer in  Canada , is seeking
more mining assets including Rio Tinto Group’s share of a joint
venture as two of the world’s largest miners consider quitting
diamonds.  Rio and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are weighing a sale of their
respective diamond interests as commodity prices decline and the
companies turn their attention to investing in other materials
such as  iron ore  and copper. That may offer an opportunity for
Toronto-based  Harry Winston  to boost production ahead of what
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bob Gannicott sees as a
looming shortage.  “There are opportunities on the mining side where there
haven’t been reasonable opportunities in my view for the last 15
years or so,” Gannicott said in a June 13 telephone interview
from  London .  Prices for rough diamonds on average have declined about 15
percent this year, according to Gannicott, 65. Demand for
higher-value stones has weakened as polishers who use European
banks find it more difficult to obtain credit, he said. While
the outlook for the rest of year is “pretty chaotic” as Europe
is gripped by economic turmoil, demand will outpace supply in
the longer term, Gannicott said.  “I think that when things do start to improve it’s
actually likely to look a lot better perhaps faster than people
might be expecting now,” he said. “The beginnings of this
recession, if you like, are a long time behind us now.”  Strategic Review  Harry Winston slipped 0.1 percent to C$12.29 at the close
in Toronto. The shares have gained 13 percent this year compared
with the 3 percent decline in the S&P/TSX Composite Index. That
was also the biggest gain among six Canadian diamond companies
with a market value of $50 million or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Harry Winston posted net  income  of $11.6 million on sales
of $192.5 million in the quarter through April 30. Profit
excluding one-time items has  missed  analysts’ estimates four of
the last five quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  De Beers, 45 percent-owned by London-based  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , is the largest diamond producer, with output of 31.3
million carats in 2011. Harry Winston’s share of production at
Diavik, its only source of rough gems, was 2.7 million carats
last year.  Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, said in
March that as part of a strategic review it’s weighing a sale of
 diamond mines  including the Diavik mine in Canada’s Northwest
Territory.  BHP Bids  Harry Winston, which owns 40 percent of Diavik, has the
right of first refusal on Rio’s 60 percent stake and would “be
interested in putting that to work,” Gannicott said. Illtud Harri, a spokesman for London-based Rio, declined to comment.  BHP, the world’s biggest miner, has sought bids for its
diamond assets including the Ekati mine, which is also in the
 Northwest Territories . Harry Winston and groups led by private-
equity firms KKR & Co. and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  were in
talks to buy Ekati, two people with knowledge of the matter said
in March. Gannicott declined to comment on Ekati.  BHP and Rio together accounted for about 16 percent of
global production by value in 2010.  “They tried to build a critical mass in the diamond
space,” Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said
in a phone interview from London. “Rio’s been more successful
than BHP, but they just haven’t been able to gain the market
share that they have in other commodities.”  Merger Opportunities  Exploration companies searching for deposits and developers
of existing diamond projects find it difficult to raise funds as
investors stay away from risky investments, Gannicott said.  Shares of junior diamond stocks are lower than they have
been for some time, which could create potential merger and
acquisition opportunities in the sector, Sterck said.  “Uncertainty around Europe does seem to be weighing on
sentiment in the diamond space and we’ll probably see prices
remain at current levels throughout the rest of 2012,” he said.  In the longer term, a lack of new supply and strong demand
growth for diamonds, particularly from developing markets
including India and  China , mean that the outlook is “extremely
positive,” Sterck said. Diamond production probably peaked in
2006 at 162 million carats, he said in a report dated June 7.  “There’s simply been no significant discovery since the
early 90s really, and that’s despite an awful lot of effort
going into exploration,” Sterck said in the interview.  Retail Unit  Like  De Beers , Harry Winston is a consumer brand as well as
a miner. The Canadian company sells luxury jewelry and watches
through a separate retail unit, which operates stores from Paris
to Dubai.  Gannicott, a geologist, was appointed CEO of Canada’s Aber
Resources Ltd. in 1999 and renamed the company in 2007 after
acquiring the Harry Winston jewelry brand. While the mining and
retail operations run as separate units, the involvement on both
sides of the business means Harry Winston has insight into
pricing and market conditions for both rough and polished gems,
Gannicott said.  Retail demand for polished-diamond products remains
“generally very good” although  Italy , an important European
market for diamonds, has contracted, Gannicott said.  “The Italian economy is really feeling the pain and so
there isn’t really much domestic consumption of diamond products
in Italy at the moment,” he said. “Although it’s not one of
the bigger ones in the world it’s certainly the biggest consumer
in  Europe ,” he said.  Bank Loans  The difficulties diamond polishers face in obtaining loans
mirrors the situation during the financial crisis in 2008 and
2009, according to Oliver Chen, a New York-based Citigroup Inc.
analyst, said in a telephone interview. The situation is
probably more temporary though, especially as demand for diamond
jewelry has held up relatively well, he said.  Polished-diamond prices declined 13 percent in 2008 and
2009, according to an  index  from data provider
PolishedPrices.com. Lack of credit is delaying purchases by
polishers, Gannicott said.  “That’s thrown them into a fair bit of chaos so they’re
really trying to minimize the amount that they are taking
through their system while they sell their stock,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  