-- Asia Stocks Rise Toward Month High on Greek Pro-Euro Vote
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2012-06-18T10:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/asia-stocks-rise-as-vote-signals-greece-will-stay-in-euro.html
Asian  stocks  jumped, driving the
regional benchmark index toward a one-month high, after
projected election victories for pro-bailout parties eased
concern Greece would leave the euro. Shares pared gains after
India’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets 31 percent of sales in
 Europe , rose 1.4 percent in Tokyo. Lynas Corp. surged 6.3
percent in Sydney after  Malaysia  upheld the Australian miner’s
license to run a rare-earths refining facility in the face of
protest. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s
second-largest bourse operator, slipped 4.5 percent after
agreeing to pay 1.39 billion pounds ($2.18 billion) for the
London Metal Exchange.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.4 percent to 115.71
as of 7:26 p.m. in Tokyo, paring gains of as much as 1.8
percent. About four shares rose for each that fell in the gauge,
which is heading for its highest close since May 15. Over $5
trillion has been erased from global equities since March amid
concern growth is slowing in the U.S. and China, and as Europe’s
debt crisis intensified.  “There’s a short-term sigh of relief,” said Belinda Allen, senior investment analyst at Colonial First State Global
Asset Management in Sydney, which oversees about $145 billion.
“It removes the tail risk event that we were concerned about in
terms of Greece leaving the European Union immediately. We all
know there’s still a long and hard road ahead for Greece and the
problems of Europe aren’t solved by this election.”  Sensex Drops  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  and South Korea’s Kospi
Index advanced 1.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 2
percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 1 percent, while
China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.4 percent.  The Sensex dropped 1.4 percent in Mumbai, erasing gains of
as much as 0.9 percent, after India left interest rates
unchanged at 8 percent, citing inflation. Only four of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the outcome,
with 19 expecting a quarter-point cut. DLF Ltd., an Indian real
estate company, led declines, falling 4.8 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent, reversing earlier gains of as much as 0.7 percent.  Asian stocks rose after  Greece ’s pro-bailout New Democracy
and Pasok parties took a majority in the 300-member parliament,
according to the official projection by the  Interior Ministry  in
 Athens . The results eased concern that Alex Tsipras’s Syriza
party would take control of the Greek government and reject
austerity measures needed to qualify for international aid.  ‘Good Result’  “Greece’s election is a good result and will provide some
short-term relief,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of
dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages almost $100 billion. “This will put to rest for a
little while the prospect of Greece leaving the euro.”  Companies that do business in Europe advanced. Canon rose
1.4 percent to 3,240 yen in Tokyo. Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., which
operates ports in  Spain  and Germany, added 1.6 percent to
HK$66.85 in  Hong Kong .  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s largest
lender by market value, increased 1 percent to HK$67.45.  Europe’s debt crisis has spurred the three biggest declines
in global equities since March 2009. The  MSCI All-Country World
Index (MXWD)  tumbled 16 percent between April and July 2010 as Greek
borrowing costs surged to record even after the  International
Monetary Fund  approved a bailout package.  The measure fell 24 percent from May through October 2011
as Greece struggled to strike a deal with creditors on debt
writedowns. The gauge declined 9.3 percent from the 2012 peak as
a backlash against budget cuts stoked concern Greece would exit
the euro as the crisis spread to Spain.  Lynas Jumps  Lynas, the mining company building the world’s largest
rare-earths refinery in Malaysia, jumped 6.3 percent to 93.5
Australian cents. Malaysia’s minister of innovation, science and
technology on June 15 rejected an appeal by local residents
against the company’s temporary operating permit, while imposing
extra conditions on the plant.  Raw-material producers  led  the gains among the 10 industry
groups in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  as oil and copper futures
advanced.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
climbed 2.5 percent to A$32.64 in Sydney. Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s No. 1 producer of the metal, rose 2.1 percent to
HK$17.44 in Hong Kong. Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil
producer  increased 2.1 percent to HK$15.52.  ‘Extremely Expensive’  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index, which lost 11 percent from
this year’s highest level in February through June 15, is
trading at 1.2 times book  value , compared with 2.1 times for the
S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the Stoxx 600, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A number below one means companies can be
bought for less than value of their assets.  Among stocks that fell, Hong Kong Exchanges dropped 4.5
percent to HK$107.40. The bourse’s bid for the London Metal
Exchange is “extremely expensive,” according to a client note
from Morgan Stanley written by  Anil Agarwal  and Isabella He.  The offer of 107.6 pounds a share, or 180 times LME’s 2011
net income, requires approvals from LME’s shareholders and the
U.K. Financial Services Authority. The most expensive bourse
merger over $1 billion doesn’t need shareholder approval in Hong
Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Clenfield in  Tokyo  at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  