-- Asia Fuel-Oil Premium Drops; BP Buys Gasoil Cargo: Oil Products
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2012-06-18T09:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/asia-fuel-oil-premium-drops-bp-buys-gasoil-cargo-oil-products.html
Asia  fuel oil ’s premium to crude
slid, signaling reduced profit for refiners turning oil into
residual products. BP Plc paid more than Singapore prices for a
shipment of gasoil.  Fuel Oil  Fuel oil’s  premium  to benchmark Dubai crude declined 26
cents to $1.03 a barrel at 2:02 p.m. Singapore time, according
to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a broker. The difference
shrank for the first time in nine days.  The premium of 180-centistoke fuel oil to 380-centistoke
grade, or the  viscosity spread , was unchanged after decreasing
to $10.75 a metric ton, PVM said. This means marine fuel moved
in tandem with fuel oil used in power stations.  Middle Distillates  BP bought 150,000 barrels of  gasoil , or diesel, with 0.5
percent sulfur from China International United Petroleum &
Chemical Co. for loading July 6 to July 10, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of traders who monitored transactions on
the Platts window. Unipec, as the seller is known, received 10
cents a barrel over July prices.  Gasoil’s premium to Dubai crude fell 70 cents to $15.21 a
barrel at 2:02 p.m. Singapore time, according to PVM. This  crack
spread , a measure of refining profit, narrowed the most since
May 10.  Jet fuel ’s premium to gasoil rose 10 cents to $1.10 a
barrel, PVM said. A wider  regrade  indicates it is more
profitable to make  aviation fuel  over diesel.  Light Distillates  Japan naphtha’s premium to London-traded Brent crude
futures climbed $9.92, or 34 percent, to $39.53 a ton, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on PVM data. The gap, also known
as the crack spread, is the widest since June 11.  BP sold 25,000 tons of open-specification  naphtha  for
first-half September delivery to Lukoil OAO at $762 a ton,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Refinery News  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. started its No. 3 naphtha
cracker in Mailiao on June 15 after unplanned repairs, said a
company official who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak to the media. The 1.2 million ton-a-year
unit was shut at the end of May.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. extinguished a fire near a
pipeline at its Muroran refinery in Hokkaido prefecture,
according to a company statement. There were no injuries or oil
spills to the ocean.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., or Sinopec, started all
22 units at its Zhanjiang Dongxing refinery after 50 days’
maintenance, China Petrochemical Corp., its parent company, said
in an online newsletter. The 5 million ton-a-year plant was shut
April 19.  PetroChina Co. completed a crude distillation unit at its
Hohhot refinery, the first of 11 upgraded units to be handed
over by a contractor, China National Petroleum Corp., its parent
company, said in an online newsletter. The facility has a
capacity of 5 million tons a year.  Nansei Sekiyu K.K. halted berthing operations at its
Nishihara refinery on Okinawa island yesterday as typhoon Guchol
approached, said an official who asked not to be identified
because of company policy.  Tenders  Korea East-West Power Co. bought a total of 100,000 tons of
high-sulfur fuel oil from Mercuria Energy Ltd. and Mitsui & Co.
for July delivery to Ulsan, according to a company e-mail.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. offered to sell 35,000 tons of
naphtha for July loading from Mumbai, according to a document e-
mailed to potential buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at   wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  