-- Asmussen Says ECB Prepared for Liquidity Exit When Time Is Right
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/asmussen-says-ecb-prepared-for-liquidity-exit-when-time-is-right.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said policy makers are prepared to
reduce excess liquidity in financial markets when the time is
right.  “Conceptually and practically we are prepared for an
exit,” Asmussen said in a speech in Berlin today. “But in
light of increasing tensions in financial markets, it is too
soon to start the exit.”  The ECB has provided financial institutions with more than
1 trillion euros ($1.26 trillion) of cheap three-year loans to
unlock markets after the sovereign debt crisis eroded confidence
in the region’s governments and banks. As the economic outlook
deteriorates, speculation has increased that policy makers may
add to stimulus as soon as next month.  “ECB measures can’t replace what governments have to do to
solve the crisis: budget consolidation, structural reforms for
growth and employment, strengthening of the banking sector,”
Asmussen said. “The ECB has made its contribution and will
continue to do so, for example by developing a vision for where
we want to be in  Europe  in 10 years. But now it’s above all up
to governments.”  Asmussen said the ECB’s non-standard measures are temporary
and can’t be a substitute for government action.  “We can provide liquidity and have done that,” Asmussen
said. “What we can’t do is give banks capital to recapitalize;
we can’t clean up their balance sheets and repair or unwind
them. That’s not part of our mandate and we’re lacking the
instruments. That’s for others to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  