-- Aussie Dollar Rises on Treasury Secretary’s Euro Comments
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-18T21:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/aussie-dollar-rises-on-treasury-secretary-s-euro-comments.html
The Australian currency rose against
most of its major counterparts, as investors sought the South
Pacific nation’s assets amid the uncertainty on how the euro
region’s debt crisis will affect the global economy.  The Aussie reached its highest point in more than a month
after Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson said the country has
scope to respond to an economic shock from Europe. German
Chancellor Angel Merkel said yesterday the next Greek government
shouldn’t be granted additional budget leeway amid surging 10-
year yields on Spanish bonds. The  New Zealand dollar 
strengthened for a third day.  “We can see the Australian economy hasn’t been dealt as
much of a blow as currencies that traded a lot more frequently
with the  euro zone ,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “It’s
probably just a case of the currency starting to reflect its
domestic economic developments.”  Australia’s dollar gained 0.7 percent to $1.0124 yesterday
in  New York . The currency traded 0.9 percent stronger at 80.09
yen.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed 0.5 percent to 79.19 U.S.
cents. It rose 1 percent to 62.66 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
decreased 0.2 percent after Spanish 10-year yields rose as much
as 41 basis points to 7.29 percent. Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
sought bailouts when their benchmark borrowing costs topped 7
percent.  Parkinson said Australia can cope with economic shocks from
Europe as “our banks are well-capitalized and have sufficient
resources to withstand a freeze in international  capital markets 
for several months” and “our main trade links are with the
emerging Asian economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  