-- Australian Bonds Gain, Currency Drops on Europe Crisis
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-19T06:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/australian-bonds-gain-currency-drops-on-europe-crisis.html
Australia ’s bonds advanced and its
currency halted a three-day gain as surging borrowing costs for
Spain reignited speculation that European leaders are struggling
to contain their debt crisis.  The so-called Aussie fell against most of its 16 major
peers before a Spanish bill sale today as Group of 20 nations
prepare to urge euro-area governments to take all steps
necessary to protect the currency union. The local dollar held
losses after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia released minutes of
this month’s meeting, when it cut  interest rates  a second-
straight time. New Zealand’s currency failed to extend a three-
day advance as Asian stocks declined.  “Spain’s got some fairly material structural issues that
can’t be solved overnight, and markets are reluctant to lend at
the moment,” said  Michael Turner , a Sydney-based strategist at
 RBC Capital Markets . “I could see the Aussie trade a little bit
lower.”  Australian bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield down by 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 2.98 percent as of
3:55 p.m. in Sydney. The Australian dollar was at $1.0128 from
$1.0124 yesterday after advancing 1.9 percent over the past
three days. It fell 0.1 percent to 80 yen.  New Zealand’s currency bought 79.23 U.S. cents after
gaining 0.5 percent to 79.19 yesterday. It lost 0.1 percent to
62.60 yen. The nation’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, dropped 1 1/2 basis points to 2.655
percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares declined 0.3 percent.  Yields Surge  Spanish 10-year yields rose 28 basis points to 7.16 percent
yesterday. Greece, Ireland and Portugal sought bailouts when
their benchmark borrowing costs topped 7 percent. Spain is
scheduled to sell 12- and 18-month bills today and will offer
bonds on June 21.  G-20 leaders are set to issue a statement at the end of
their summit in Mexico encouraging European governments to
“safeguard the integrity and stability” of the euro area,
according to the draft provided to Bloomberg News. The excerpt
was provided by an official from a G-20 government who declined
to be identified because the statement is not yet public.  The  International Monetary Fund  has commitments for $456
billion to be used as a “second line of defense” to resolve
and prevent financial crises, according to Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde , which she said almost doubles the fund’s
lending capacity. Lagarde made the announcement in an e-mailed
statement during the G-20 summit.  The Aussie has lost 1.7 percent in the past three months,
the worst performance after the euro among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The  New Zealand  dollar, known as the kiwi, declined 1.3
percent.  ‘Finely Balanced’  The RBA reduced benchmark borrowing costs by 25 basis
points to 3.5 percent this month after a “finely balanced”
discussion that the domestic economy was holding up as global
prospects worsened,  minutes  of its June 5 meeting showed.  “What the minutes say is that easing is probably going to
be more on global issues rather than domestic issues,” said
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  There’s still a risk “that we see a move back
below parity at some stage for the second half of this year,
particularly into the third quarter,” he said in reference to
the Aussie’s performance versus the  U.S. dollar .  The Australian dollar touched its strongest level in three
months against the euro yesterday on speculation investors sold
the shared currency against the Aussie.  “We believe it was driven by a large, real money euro-
Aussie sale,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency strategist
at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)   The Aussie was at A$1.2446 per euro after reaching A$1.2396
yesterday, the strongest level since March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  