-- Australia Has Scope to Respond to Europe Turmoil, Parkinson Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-18T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/australia-has-scope-to-respond-to-europe-turmoil-parkinson-says.html
Australia  has scope to respond to an
economic shock emanating from Europe, where “the absence of
political will” is a key barrier to fixing the region’s fiscal
problems, Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson said.  “The  euro-zone  crisis is unlikely to be resolved for some
considerable time to come,” Parkinson, the Treasury’s top
bureaucrat, said in a speech late yesterday in Canberra. “While
the Greek election has been  grabbing  headlines and attention, we
should not over-dramatize these events, but nor should we
believe the election eliminates the risks emanating from  Greece 
or from the euro zone more broadly.”  Concern that Greece, in a fifth year of recession, will
reject austerity measures needed to qualify for international
aid and risk the turmoil of exiting the 17-nation euro currency
is easing after pro-bailout parties won enough seats to form
government in weekend elections. Turmoil in  Europe  contrasts
with Australia, where the economy under Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government has delivered low  unemployment  and moderate
inflation. In May her government forecast it will end four years
of deficits with an A$1.54 billion ($1.5 billion) surplus for
the year starting July 1.  “Australia is well-placed to cope with whatever emanates
from Europe,” Parkinson said. “We have significant flexibility
and capacity at our disposal to cope with a range of different
global scenarios.”  Sound Banks  He said that that “our banks are well-capitalized and have
sufficient resources to withstand a freeze in international
 capital markets  for several months” and “our main trade links
are with the emerging Asian economies.”  Gillard has said balancing the budget would give the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia “maximum room” to lower  interest
rates  if needed to boost growth. While the RBA has cut the
overnight  cash rate  target four times in eight months to 3.5
percent, the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost is still the
highest among major developed economies.  “In the event that a demand or confidence shock emanating
from Europe affects us via our Asian markets, macroeconomic
policy is well-placed to respond and we would expect the
exchange rate to adjust in ways that help buffer the impacts,”
said Parkinson, who also sits on the central bank’s board.  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since New South Wales prospectors set off a gold rush in
the 1850s. The latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas -- is bringing investment projects the government estimates
to be worth A$500 billion and helped keep the  unemployment rate 
at 5.1 percent last month. That’s lower than 8.2 percent in the
U.S. and 11 percent in the euro area.  Chinese Demand  Mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto
Group are benefiting from surging demand for steel and
electricity in emerging economies including China and India.  Australia’s gross domestic product expanded 1.3 percent in
the first quarter this year from the final three months of 2011,
making it one of the fastest-growing developed economies. The
number of people employed rose by 38,900 in May, capping the
best January-May period in five years, government figures showed
this month.  European nations could learn from Australia’s economic
policies, Gillard said in a speech yesterday ahead of the two-
day Group of 20 summit in Los Cabos, Mexico.  “Austerity measures -- measures which we freely
acknowledge have been followed in response to well-grounded
concerns about sovereign debt -- need to be accompanied by a
commitment to growth which is equally urgent and strong,” she
said. “Australia’s economic strength can be an important sign
of optimism to countries of the world.”  Sagging Confidence  Still,  consumer confidence  in Australia has stagnated in
recent months as households remained concerned that Europe’s
fiscal crisis will derail the global economy. A local currency
that’s advanced about 44 percent since the start of 2009 against
the  U.S. dollar  has hurt businesses and workers in the tourism,
education and manufacturing industries.  The nation must maintain macroeconomic “pillars” that
have supported the economy, including a floating  exchange rate ,
independent monetary policy through the central bank and fiscal
policy aimed at running budget surpluses, Parkinson said.  “It is important that we maintain and build on these
assets,” Parkinson said. “In the current environment of
volatility and uncertainty, with what can seem overwhelming
global and domestic pressures, some have been tempted to suggest
dismantling or undermining this framework.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  