-- Austerity Doesn’t Pay as Debt Markets Ignore Rating Cuts
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e ,   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-06-19T19:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/austerity-doesn-t-pay-as-debt-markets-ignore-rating-cuts.html
Britain is forcing Stephen Jobling
and his stroke patients to defend the nation’s AAA credit
rating.  Staffing at the National Health Service hospital ward where
Jobling works was reduced by about half in the U.K.’s deepest
drive since World War II to shrink its deficit. The goal was to
avoid losing the top credit score, which might risk higher
interest expenses, according to the government of Conservative
Prime Minister  David Cameron .  “If they could see these people suffering while we have
two members of nursing staff running round trying to wash, dress
and feed 20 patients, they would think twice,” says Jobling,
27, a nurse at Lincoln County Hospital in eastern England. “You
should be looking after your people. You shouldn’t be bothering
about some credit agency from somewhere else.”  The bond market says he’s right. After Moody’s Investors
Service issued a “negative” outlook for U.K. debt on Feb. 13,
 yields  on government securities relative to benchmark U.S.
Treasury debt fell over the next month, instead of rising.  “I don’t think we should be slaves to the ratings
agencies,” Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, told
lawmakers on Feb. 29. “What we’ve seen is, the action they took
recently did actually have no impact on the yield that people in
the market were willing to lend to the U.K. government at.”  Market Rejection  It’s not just Britain. After  Standard & Poor’s  stripped
France and the U.S. of AAA grades,  interest rates  paid by the
countries to finance their deficits dropped rather than rose.
For investors and policy makers, predicting the consequences of
a rating change by S&P or Moody’s -- the dominant issuers of
debt scores -- may be little different from flipping a coin.  (For an interactive graphic, click  here .)  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for S&P. The
data measured yields after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  The rating companies are still warning of downgrades while
defending their assessments against critics. Moody’s said June 8
that all sovereign ratings in Europe would be reviewed,
including Germany’s Aaa, if Greece leaves the region’s monetary
union. The credit standings of Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland, Italy
and Spain are deteriorating, the company said. The U.S. may have
another downgrade by 2014, S&P said June 8.  Big Influence  The ratings “have more potential to do harm than good,”
said John Hund, a finance professor at Rice University in
Houston, in an interview. Hund wrote his doctoral dissertation
on sovereign debt-market volatility and measures of sovereign
risk. “It’s hard for me to see their value.”  Credit grades on  government bonds  have influence far beyond
their technical role of describing the likelihood a nation will
fail to service its debts. S&P’s downgrade of the U.S. last year
contributed to a global stock-market rout that erased $6.1
trillion in value between July 26 and Aug. 12. In response to
the lowered rating, the market sent yields on Treasury bonds to
record lows rather than driving up rates.  They’ve stayed there. The U.S. government sold $29 billion
of seven-year notes at a record low yield of 1.203 percent on
May 24. The  Federal Reserve  has helped drive down yields by
selling short-term U.S. bonds while buying longer-term
securities.  Austerity Hurts  The austerity policies prized by the rating companies have
the global economy on the brink of renewed recession, according
to Paul Krugman, the Nobel laureate economics professor at
 Princeton University . As government funding shortfalls from the
U.S. to France to Spain widened during the recession, S&P and
Moody’s stepped up warnings and downgrades of sovereign debt.  “Their austerity is leading to depressed economies, which
is worsening fiscal prospects,” Krugman said in an interview
May 9. “You’re kind of in an endless downward loop here, where
you cut and the fiscal prospect looks worse, so to keep the
rating agencies happy, you cut more.”  As part of the deal that raised the U.S. debt limit three
days before S&P’s downgrade, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending
cuts over the next decade will begin to take effect at the end
of this year unless Congress and President Barack Obama block
them. The tax cuts enacted by George W. Bush in 2001 are set to
expire Jan. 1. That fiscal cliff may send the U.S. into
recession again, the Congressional Budget Office said in May.  Economies Stagnate  The U.K. scaled back  public spending  over the next four
years by 81 billion pounds ($127 billion) while raising taxes,
including what critics called a “granny tax” on the elderly.
The austerity moves eliminating thousands of government jobs
helped push the British economy back into recession in the
fourth quarter, according to David Blanchflower, a former Bank
of  England  policy maker. France and Spain took similar steps to
shrink deficits even as the global economy stagnated.  The U.K. economy may grow 0.8 percent this year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund , while euro-area output
contracts 0.3 percent and the U.S. expands at a 2.1 percent
rate. The IMF has lowered its forecast for every EU country
since last year.  The U.S., even with little likelihood of a default, fought
the prospect of a downgrade. Treasury officials exchanged at
least 158 e-mails with S&P from April 2011 until the rating
change last August, according to materials obtained by Bloomberg
under the Freedom of Information Act.  U.S. Downgrade  John Chambers, managing director of sovereign ratings at
S&P, sent a draft of the company’s first-ever downgrade of the
U.S. to the Treasury at 1:42 p.m. on Aug. 5, according to
documents obtained by Bloomberg. Chambers e-mailed  Matthew Rutherford , then the Treasury’s deputy assistant secretary for
federal finance, less than three hours later to say that the
company was rechecking the fiscal scenario baseline and would
call in a moment. S&P downgraded the U.S. at about 8:20 p.m.  S&P’s decision was flawed by a $2 trillion error, according
to the Treasury Department. Moritz Kraemer, S&P’s head of
sovereign ratings for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said
April 24 that “there was no mistake” and that the discussion
hinged on which nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office fiscal
scenario baseline to use in the rating company’s credit
analysis. S&P said using the department’s preferred spending
measures in its analysis didn’t affect its credit grade.  AAA Subprime  Moody’s and S&P were already controversial after they
helped fuel a global housing bubble by awarding AAA scores to
subprime mortgage investments, creating demand for the flawed
issues, which led to more bad mortgages being made. The rating
companies engaged in a “race to the bottom,” inflating credit
grades to win business from Wall Street banks, a Senate panel
reported last year.  Thousands of these bonds plunged in value in 2008, which
led to worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Those
soured securities were part of the reason the U.S. set up a $700
billion program in 2008 to bolster the financial industry. The
crisis also spurred $787 billion of tax cuts and spending to
help the  U.S. economy . The U.K. created a 500 billion pound
package to rescue its banks, and the European Union started a
200 billion euro ($252 billion) stimulus program.  Now, after governments widened their deficits to stem the
crisis, their credit grades are under pressure from the same
rating companies whose actions helped cause the financial
turmoil.  “How do you have any faith in them given they were part
problem?” Blanchflower said.  Special Standing  S&P’s roots go back to 1860, when Henry Varnum Poor
published a comprehensive report on the financials of U.S.
railroads. Journalist John Moody published his first railroad
ratings in 1909.  In 1936, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency banned banks
from holding bonds that were below investment grade. In 1975,
the Securities and Exchange Commission began using credit
ratings in its rules, specifying that the only companies whose
grades qualified were S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings. The SEC
designated them as nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations, or NRSROs. There are now nine of them.  “That increased the monopoly power of Moody’s and Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch,” said  Richard Sylla , a financial historian
at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business, in an April
27 telephone interview. “It was a bad move on the part of the
government. It was a big favor to the rating agencies.”  Now S&P provides 42 percent of all credit ratings, and
Moody’s, 37 percent, according to the SEC. The firms are for-
profit units of publicly traded companies. S&P is part of
 McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and Moody’s is a unit of  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  Fitch is
half-owned by Hearst Corp., the publishing company.  Germany’s Yield  S&P and Moody’s rate thousands of sovereign debt issues
from the top score of AAA down, 21 steps lower to D for S&P and
20 levels to C for Moody’s. Germany, with a top ranking, can
borrow for 10 years at 1.4 percent. Greece, with an S&P rating
17 steps lower and a bottom-rung Moody’s grade of C, has to pay
18 times as much.  Investors also sometimes disregard ratings on corporate
debt. For example, after Moody’s lowered its assessments last
month on DNB Bank ASA of Norway and Nordea Bank AB and Svenska
Handelsbanken of Sweden, yields on their bonds fell rather than
rose. Investors said they were relying more on their own
analysis than the credit scores.  Voter Unrest  Deficit-cutting policies have fueled Occupy protest
movements, contributed to the election defeats of governments in
Greece and France and eroded support for German Chancellor
Angela Merkel. Newly elected French President  Francois Hollande 
in May pressed European Union leaders to abandon austerity and
fuel growth.  Regulators and politicians in the U.S. and Europe are
considering proposals to replace ratings by S&P and Moody’s on
sovereign debt. In April, Bertelsmann Foundation, a private
organization founded by the former head of Europe’s largest
media company, proposed a “blueprint” for creating a nonprofit
sovereign credit-rating entity.  U.S. regulators, required by Congress to remove credit
ratings from banking rules, devised a plan in December that
would base bank capitalization requirements on classifications
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
That intergovernmental group, two-thirds of whose members are
European Union countries, considers most EU sovereign bonds
risk-free.  The European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee voted today in Brussels to scrap most of a proposal to
force businesses to rotate the credit-ratings company they hire
to assess their debt, while backing tighter restrictions on
sovereign-debt ratings.  European Alternative  France has led calls to create a European alternative to
S&P and Moody’s. Hollande advocated a government-funded agency
as he campaigned against Nicolas Sarkozy, who watched as France
lost its AAA rating even after his push for austerity. Denmark,
which holds the rotating European Union presidency, said May 21
that it won backing in the 27-nation bloc to curtail the
influence of rating companies and pledged to push for more
competition in the industry.  “It’s almost as if they’re trying to admonish the
countries to get their financial books in order,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. “They’re really doing the world a huge disservice by
frightening financial markets.”  The rating companies say they aren’t prescribing policy.
S&P says its sovereign ratings have a “robust long-term track
record.” Moody’s bills its grades as a “credit passport” for
capital.  Moody’s Comment  “The rating agency is not trying to predict the direction
that credit spreads will move over the next few months,” said
Richard Cantor, chief credit officer at Moody’s, in an e-mail.
“We have only one objective, which is to assign ratings that
are indicative of the relative risk of default and losses.”  Market reactions to rating moves can involve “non-rational
behavior,” said Peter Rigby, director of rating services at
S&P. For example, if S&P issues a “negative” outlook,
investors may drive the yield up too far because they don’t know
how many steps a country’s debt may be downgraded, he said.
Rates may then ease after the company issues its new credit
assessment.  “If we do change a rating -- lower a rating -- that in
essence maybe sets a floor,” Rigby said. “So actually prices
would tighten up to the new level.” Comparing market reactions
with outlook and rating changes “would completely miss that
phenomena,” he said.  Growth Threat  S&P’s credit downgrades in Europe reflected threats to
economic growth as well as risks including “tightening credit
conditions,” the company  said in January . It warned that “a
reform process based on a pillar of fiscal austerity alone risks
becoming self-defeating, as domestic demand falls.”  Bloomberg compiled data on changes in credit outlook and
ratings along with bond yields for 30 countries as far back as
1974. They are Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, China, Columbia, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, The
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Russia,  South Korea ,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, the U.K. and the U.S.  To adjust for variations in market sentiment, the data
compared yields with U.S. Treasuries. American debt serves as a
benchmark because it is issued in the global reserve currency.
In the case of the U.S., absolute yields fell. Measuring
variations after 30 days allowed time for markets to adjust to
assessment changes while minimizing the effects of subsequent
unrelated events.  Credit Derivatives  Other organizations have also used market prices to study
the effectiveness of credit grades, including the International
Monetary Fund, the  European Central Bank  and academics at Rice
University, Indiana University and American University. In a
January analysis of Moody’s rating changes, researchers at the
IMF used credit derivatives to show that prices moved in the
expected direction 45 percent of the time for developed
countries and 51 percent for emerging economies. For outlook
changes, the ratios were 67 percent and 63 percent.  Like Cameron, France’s Sarkozy in June 2010 made protecting
the country’s top credit rating a priority. His government
raised the national retirement age to 62 from 60. That
September, he announced the deepest budget cuts in two decades,
citing the need to defend the credit ranking.  Sarkozy’s Austerity  S&P rewarded those moves on Dec. 23, 2010, affirming
France’s AAA rating because of the “wealth and depth” of the
economy and the view that Sarkozy’s government would narrow its
budget gap. Within the next year, the credit rating became a
sideshow as the Greek credit crisis put the stability of the
euro and the country’s banks in play.  By last December, Sarkozy was saying a downgrade “would be
an additional difficulty, but it’s not insurmountable,” in an
interview with Le Monde. S&P cut its rating to AA+ from AAA on
Jan. 13, saying policy initiatives “may be insufficient” to
address “systemic stresses in the euro zone.”  The  bond market  balked at the ruling, making it cheaper for
France to borrow after the downgrade. Sarkozy’s budget cuts
contributed to his defeat last month as French voters elected
Hollande, an advocate of growth rather than austerity. The new
president is moving to reinstate retirement at age 60 for some
workers.  Spain’s Struggle  Spanish Prime Minster Mariano Rajoy on June 9 accepted a
100 billion euro bailout from the European Union to defend the
country’s banks and the government’s ability to finance its
deficit. Since his election last November after promising not to
raise taxes, not to make firing workers cheaper and not to cut
spending on education and health, he did all of those things in
Spain’s deepest austerity drive in more than three decades. The
economy is heading for a decline of 1.7 percent this year.  The goal is to convince investors the country won’t default
as borrowing costs exceed 7 percent, Rajoy said. The yield on
10-year Spanish bonds jumped to 7.29 percent yesterday after
declining to 6.1 percent on June 7.  Spain paid 0.18 percentage point less to borrow than the
U.S. as recently as April 2010, even after S&P cut the country’s
top grade in January 2009. Moody’s stripped Spain of its Aaa
rating in September 2010.  Moody’s has downgraded Spain four times since then, most
recently by three steps to Baa3 from A3 last week, and S&P cut
its rating to BBB+ in April, citing the risk that the government
might not meet its deficit-cutting targets.  ‘Falling Apart’  Spaniards are paying higher taxes and losing government
services. In Valencia, 50-year-old Palmira Castellano says she
can’t get out of the house since the end of a benefit that
enabled her to hire someone to care for her disabled daughter
Sara a few hours at a time.  “Everything is falling apart -- look at the health system,
education,” Castellano says. “All the rights that were
acquired over so many years are put into question.”  Austerity came to Britain after elections in May 2010
brought a coalition led by Cameron to power. Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne set out to reduce the national deficit
to 1.1 percent of economic output by 2015-16 from more than 10
percent in 2010. The government delayed and reduced future
pensions for workers like Jobling and tripled university fees.  Revenue increases include freezing a tax allowance for
people over 65 which was introduced in the 1920s by Winston
Churchill, according to Osborne’s most recent budget in March.
The Office for Budget Responsibility says the government’s plan
will cut more than 700,000 public jobs --including teachers,
nurses, prison officers and police.  Austerity Drive  Protecting Britain’s credit rating “was the be-all and
end-all” for Osborne, said Blanchflower, who is now an
economics professor at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New
Hampshire, and a contributing editor for Bloomberg Television.
Credit ratings are “making everything more difficult than it
could be without them.”  Osborne said April 13 that S&P’s AAA rating on British
gilts “is a reminder that Britain is weathering the
international debt storms because of the policies we have
adopted and stuck to in tough times.”  Britain’s austerity drive has made the stroke ward at
Lincoln County Hospital seem “like a battlefield” at times,
says nurse Jobling. During some shifts, staff reductions have
left 20 patients in the care of himself and two assistants, down
from seven or eight workers, he said.  Choosing Patients  One night last winter, one of the wards ran out of space
for patients, and two octogenarian women were left unattended at
2 a.m. in a waiting area pending their discharge the next day,
Jobling says. In another case, he and two assistants struggled
to care for a patient who had stopped breathing while another
one was choking on dinner, he says.  “It’s just crazy,” Jobling says. “We had to choose which
patients to save.”  Under the Cameron-Osborne austerity program, he says, his
pay probably won’t rise from 21,000 pounds annually, after a 250
pound raise in April, and he fears losing his job. According to
the  Royal College of Nursing , as many as 61,000 National Health
Service positions may be eliminated. The Department of Health
disputes that estimate.  “The U.K. shouldn’t care at all what its rating is,” says
Vincent Truglia, managing director of New York-based Granite
Springs Asset Management LLP and a former head of the sovereign
risk unit at Moody’s. “A rating is not what you’re supposed to
be interested in. You’re supposed to be interested in the right
public policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 