-- Lazard Rallies as Peltz’s Trian Discloses 5.1% Stake
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-06-18T20:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/lazard-rallies-as-peltz-s-trian-discloses-5-1-stake.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the largest independent
merger adviser, surged in New York trading after  Nelson Peltz ’s
Trian Fund Management LP disclosed a stake of about 5.1 percent
and said the company is “significantly undervalued.”  Trian controls about 6.3 million shares, Peltz’s firm said
today in a statement, making it the largest stakeholder
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A  fee-based model  and
plans to focus on margin improvement make Bermuda-based Lazard
attractive compared with rivals in more capital-intensive
businesses, Trian said.  “Successful execution of Lazard’s plan could result in the
company increasing earnings per share to slightly more than
$3.50 in 2014,” Trian said in the statement. “This would imply
a target value per share more than double the  current price .”  Lazard advanced $1.16, or 5 percent, to $24.25, the most
since Dec. 22. The shares have dropped 7.1 percent this year.  Peltz previously took stakes in companies and pushed for
changes to boost their share prices. He made investments in
consumer-products companies such as  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , ketchup
maker H.J. Heinz Co. and luxury retailer Tiffany & Co., and made
a foray into financial services by joining Legg Mason Inc.’s
board in 2009.  Lazard Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Jacobs , who has run
the firm since 2009, is transforming it from a private
partnership to a “transparent, shareholder-friendly” company,
Trian said in a  slide presentation . He’s planning to widen
margins, return capital to shareholders and improve governance
and transparency, Trian said.  Earnings Projection  Cost cuts and revenue growth could lead to almost a 75
percent increase in earnings before interest and taxes by 2014,
Trian said in the presentation. Lazard posted full-year profit
of $179 million in 2011, or $1.31 a share, compared with $281
million, or $2.06, a year earlier. The average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for adjusted earnings per
share of $2.61 in 2014.  “Trian Partners are experienced and successful investors,
and we appreciate their confidence in Lazard’s franchise and
strategy,” Judi Mackey, a Lazard spokeswoman, said today in an
e-mailed statement. Trian declined to make Peltz available for
an interview.  The financial crisis reduced compensation, leading bankers
to move to independent advisory firms, according to the slide
presentation. Larger Wall Street companies, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp., are
also facing regulatory “distractions” and “impaired brands,”
Trian said in the presentation.  Lazard shares are trading at more than 8 times tangible
book value, a measure of what investors are willing to pay for a
company’s equity after removing intangible items such as
goodwill and brand names that would have little value if the
company went out of business. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
are among firms trading at less than tangible book.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Norton in New York at 
 Snorton7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  