-- Bacteria Work Shows Profit in Openness From Novozymes to Pepsi
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-19T00:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/bacteria-work-shows-profit-in-openness-from-novozymes-to-pepsi.html
It was an experiment with bacteria
that emboldened  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  into stepping up disclosures about
its work to pressure groups. The openness paid off, and now the
manufacturer is part of a growing club pushing transparency
worldwide.  The maker of enzymes for chemical reactions was using
microbes that show resistance to antibiotics. Greenpeace and WWF
wanted changes, saying genes might escape the lab and make
harmful bacteria such as salmonella immune to medicines. The
Danish company relented and spent $17 million on a new process.  “We were forced to find an alternative,” Chief Executive
Officer Steen Riisgaard said in an interview today. “That
proved to be much better, so it turned out to be a good
investment.”  Companies from beverage maker  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  to sporting
goods maker  Puma SE (PUM)  are finding that lowering their impact on
the environment can also boost earnings. Their efforts mean
lower fuel and water use and savings on waste disposal, or in
the case of Novozymes, just doing things differently.  Executives from those companies are at a United Nations
conference in Rio de Janeiro this week, where business lobby
groups and non-profits are pushing 130 world leaders to make
sustainability reporting standard practice, especially for
companies listed on the world’s main  stock exchanges .  “What gets measured gets managed,” said Mindy Lubber,
president of Ceres, a Boston-based non-profit group that works
to make business more sustainable. “When a company puts their
position with detail and data and goals all in the public
domain, they’re much more likely to meet those goals.”  Pepsi’s Effort  That’s the approach taken by PepsiCo, which has published
sustainability reports since 2007 and measures progress against
so-called key performance indicators to help drive down fuel,
electricity and water use.  The indicators “are critically important so we can run our
business in the best, most sustainable way possible,” PepsiCo
Director of Environmental Sustainability Robert ter Kuile said
in an interview. “The initial spur was the recognition that our
reliance on water, energy and fuel was something we needed to
have a very clear understanding of to run the business in the
best way and to reduce our reliance on those commodities.”  Global Savings  The focus on sustainability is yielding results. PepsiCo’s
Frito-Lay North America unit  saved  as much as $120 million over
the past decade in reduced fuel, power and water bills, ter
Kuile said. In its  Asia ,  Middle East  and Africa unit, savings
have totaled $30 million since 2007.  A May 23  survey  by the consulting company  Accenture Plc (ACN)  of
250 executives in eight countries including the U.S.,  China ,
 Japan  and  Germany , found that 78 percent of those interviewed
said sustainability was vital to the growth of their business.  Corporate reporting on sustainability is a patchwork of
efforts ranging from press releases and glossy brochures to
detailed analysis such as Puma’s environmental profit and loss
account, presented last year as the first detailed attempt by a
corporation to quantify the ecological impact of its operations.  Puma in May 2011 calculated that it had an ecological
impact valued at 94.4 million euros ($119 million), split almost
equally between its depletion of water and greenhouse-gas
emissions. The company valued each ton of carbon dioxide at 66
euros and each cubic meter of water at 81 cents. Only 7.2
million euros was attributable to Puma, with the rest to its
suppliers. In November, it said its total impact was 145 million
euros, after including 51 million euros of damage from air
pollution, land use and waste.  Shares Impact  “If you believe in creating long-term value then you have
to ultimately manage your business sustainably,” Jochen Zeitz,
Puma’s supervisory board chairman, said in an interview.
“Companies that take sustainability into the center of their
operation manage their business better. That, we believe, in the
long run will have an impact on the share price.”  Deutsche Bank AG last week published a report examining 100
academic studies into sustainable investing. It found 85 percent
showed companies with high ratings for environmental, social and
governance policies did better financially than other firms.  “These are things that financial analysts need to be
studying when they’re deciding to recommend a company as a
strong company for investors to buy,” said Lubber.  From  Sao Paulo  to Johannesburg to  Singapore , stock
exchanges have begun requiring listed companies to provide
information on their environmental and social impacts that may
be compared.  Push for Reports  About 3,000 multinational companies now report on
sustainability using guidelines from the Global Reporting
Initiative, which was set up in 1997 by Ceres, up from virtually
none in the mid 1990s, according to Lubber.  “Nearly all companies need to be doing more,” Lubber
said. “We’re only seeing early stage uptake for the kind of
systemic sustainability performance and governance changes that
we think are essential.”  In Rio de Janeiro, the 200-member World Business Council
for  Sustainable Development  along with its Brazilian branch and
the Global Reporting Initiative are calling for UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon to set a timeline that would lead to wider
sustainability reporting.  Summit in Rio  More than 50,000 delegates from 190 nations are due to
attend the Rio+20 summit on sustainability marking the 20th
anniversary of the first Earth Summit in the city. On the agenda
are 50 pages of recommendations on how to preserve plants and
animals, eradicate poverty and protect the oceans as the
population swells 29 percent to 9 billion by 2050, from about 7
billion now.  The declaration that country delegates are negotiating as
an outcome for the Rio summit recognizes the need for “global
best practices on sustainability reporting” and encourages
companies and “interested governments” to develop them.  For Pavan Sukhdev, a former Deutsche Bank economist who in
2010 led a UN study of the Economics of Ecosystems and
Biodiversity, there’s “more greenwash than I’d like to see” in
company reporting, a term describing corporate policy that’s
presented as environmentally friendly while having little
impact.  Companies need to “evolve” into what he calls corporation
2020 by measuring their impacts on the environment and
publishing them in statutory annual reports, Sukhdev said.  “If company A and company B are identical on all other
accounts -- profit and return on capital and so on -- but one
has a higher ecological impact than the other, then the one that
has the less impact is the better company,” he said.  Water and Energy  Water scarcity will be an important concern in the next
decade for 78 percent of the 141 CEOs surveyed by the accounting
firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on May 21. Eighty-nine percent
said affordable energy will be a worry, and 78 percent said
 climate change  will be a issue. More than 90 percent of the
business leaders said regional and national regulations and
taxes are the most effective mechanisms to drive change,
according to the survey.  If companies were forced to internalize damage to the
environment in their accounts, it would cost 41 cents per dollar
of earnings, according to a report this year by the global
accountant and consultant KPMG International. For food
producers, environmental costs were more than double earnings.  ‘Serious Action’  “You will only see serious action on sustainability if we
manage to reflect the cost of being unsustainable in the price
of products,” Yvo  de Boer , global adviser on sustainability at
 KPMG  and formerly the UN’s chief climate diplomat, said in an
interview. “Government policy needs to take us there, through
taxation, regulations and market-based mechanisms.”  Still, de Boer and PepsiCo’s ter Kuile said corporations
need to measure indicators that are relevant to their industry,
rather than developing a rigid approach to reporting for all
companies. That’s something European Union Climate Change
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  agrees with.  “How can you make this feasible for small and medium sized
companies, and how can you make it feasible for a startup in
 Nigeria ?” Hedegaard said in an interview. “It should not be
extremely prescriptive. It’s important when we do this that we
do it where it has the most influence and we don’t create
unnecessary administrative burdens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  