-- Bair-Led Group Says U.S. Must Speed Up Systemic Designations
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-06-18T18:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/bair-led-panel-says-u-s-must-move-quickly-on-systemic-nonbanks.html
U.S. financial regulators should
speed up designation of systemically important nonbank firms to
bolster efforts to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis,
according to members of the newly formed Systemic Risk Council.  The council, a group of former regulators, lawmakers and
business leaders holding an inaugural meeting in Washington
today, was formed to counter industry lobbying that members say
undermines the Dodd-Frank Act response to a collapse that led to
U.S. bailouts for the biggest banks and nonbank companies
including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   “There aren’t enough voices, frankly, on the other side
trying to cast the issues in the public interest,” said former
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , who is
leading the risk panel. “This is not a group that’s anti-
industry, but it’s independent of the industry,” Bair, now a
senior adviser to the Washington-based Pew Charitable Trusts,
said in an interview.  Council members, who have criticized delays in Dodd-Frank
implementation, plan to monitor the regulatory overhaul and
identify systemic risks to U.S. financial markets. They will
provide commentary on and release reports to the Financial
Stability Oversight Council and the Treasury Department’s Office
of Financial Research, both created by Dodd-Frank.  Volcker Rule  Members of the risk council, a joint effort of Pew and the
Charlottesville, Virginia-based  CFA Institute , say regulators
should immediately adopt tighter capital rules for the biggest
banks and simplify the so-called Volcker rule to ban banks’
proprietary trading in addition to designating systemically
important nonbanks.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and other leaders of
the FSOC should do more to speed their work, Bair said.  “I fault the FSOC leadership and the FSOC process,” said
Bair, who was a member of the FSOC when she ran the FDIC. “I
think there are a number of things that could be done, speaking
out more publicly, having more meetings, knocking more heads.”  In addition to Bair, the group’s members include former
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Paul O’Neill ; John S. Reed, former co-
chairman and co-chief executive officer of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ; and
Brooksley Born, former chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker 
will serve as the council’s senior adviser.  The group carries “a lot of gravitas” that makes it more
likely to be heard against the “relentless industry lobbying
against the rules,” Bair said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Fidel in  New York  at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  