-- Beer Beats Oil as AmBev Value Rises Toward Top: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-06-18T14:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/beer-beats-oil-as-ambev-value-rises-toward-top-corporate-brazil.html
Brewer  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas 
is climbing the ranks of Brazil’s largest companies by market
value as a growing consumer market in the world’s second-biggest
emerging economy swells sales of Brahma beer and Guarana soda.  AmBev’s stock capitalization rose 49 percent over the past
year to 209.3 billion reais ($101.4 billion) on June 15. The
Brazilian unit of  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  overtook  Vale SA (VALE3)  as
Brazil’s second-biggest company on March 26, and fell back
behind the iron-ore producer on June 15. It pared the gap with
front-runner  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to 33.7 billion reais as of
June 14, the narrowest in nine years.  The brewer is attracting investors seeking to avoid
companies, including commodity producers, whose business is more
tied to swings in the global economy. AmBev says it makes seven
out of 10 beers sold in Brazil, giving it control of a market
that’s resistant to slowing growth.  “AmBev is almost a defensive stock, as its sales aren’t
affected significantly by the external crisis,” said  Felipe
Casotti , a portfolio manager at Maxima Asset Management in  Rio
de Janeiro  who oversees 800 million reais in assets. “We can’t
say the same for commodities producers, which suffer the most in
times like now.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities has
 dropped  11 percent this year, and oil has declined 16 percent,
amid mounting concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will lead to a
global slump. Brazil’s retail  sales  of food, beverages and
tobacco haven’t posted an annual drop in any month since 2009.  Share Comparison  AmBev shares have  advanced  13 percent this year as it
reported  sales  rose 7.5 percent in 2011 to 27.1 billion reais.
Vale climbed 2.1 percent, Petrobras has tumbled 14 percent and
the benchmark Bovespa stock index has declined 1.4 percent.  The beer maker’s revenue will grow 12 percent this year,
according to the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company reported a 35 percent return on equity in
the first quarter, beating the average of 21 percent among the
100 biggest beverage companies by market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sao Paulo-based company was formed in 1999 after Cia.
Cervejaria Brahma bought competitor Cia. Antarctica Paulista,
creating Brazil’s biggest brewer. Its soft-drink division is
also the biggest bottler for PepsiCo Inc. outside the U.S.,
according to the company’s  website .  AmBev declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Buying on Credit  While sales of  consumer goods  such as cars and home
appliances may be curbed by  household debt  equal to a record 43
percent of annual income, beverages sales aren’t affected,
giving AmBev an edge over other consumer stocks, said Renato
Prado, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based Fator Corretora.  “Beverage sales don’t depend on credit growth, unlike
other goods, such as kitchen appliances, TV sets, or cars,”
said Prado, who rates the stock buy. “So slower credit growth
doesn’t make much difference for AmBev.”  Six out of 17  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg rate AmBev a
buy, and 10 recommend holding the stock. While the company has a
dominant position in an expanding industry, the share price
already reflects that growth potential, said Caue Pinheiro, a
consumer analyst at SLW Corretora brokerage.  AmBev’s Valuation  “The stock has performed well this year, partially because
its low indebtedness level and steady  cash flow  look more
appealing when the market is doing poorly,” Pinheiro, who rates
the stock hold, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“Shares wouldn’t have reached current prices so fast if it
weren’t for this environment, which is bad for the market in
general, but good for a company such as AmBev.”  Brazil’s economy expanded 2.7 percent last year, the
second-worst performance since 2003. Analysts surveyed by the
central bank have cut their 2012 growth forecasts for five
straight weeks, to 2.53 percent. Even as growth slows, Brazil’s
unemployment was 6 percent in April, down from as high as 10.8
percent in July 2006, and retail sales are up from a year ago.  AmBev’s  debt load  is equivalent to 0.28 times trailing 12-
month earnings, compared with an average ratio of 5.45 for the
68 companies on the Bovespa index.  The brewer’s shares trade at 26.6 times reported earnings,
after reaching 29 times on April 20, the highest in four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 24.7
for the nine members of the MSCI  Brazil /Consumer Staples Index.
Vale’s ratio is 6, while the gauge for Petrobras shares is 7.7.  Beverage Spending  “AmBev is not really a bargain right now,” Pinheiro said.  As AmBev benefits from growing consumer spending, Vale and
Petrobras must cope with increasing interference from the
government, said Wagner Salaverry, a partner at Porto Alegre-
Brazil based Geracao Futuro Corretora de Valores SA.  Petrobras shares have dropped this year as President  Dilma
Rousseff ’s administration pressures the company to limit fuel-
price increases to avoid adding to inflation, Salaverry said.
Vale, which has Brazil’s state-run development bank BNDES among
its controlling shareholders even after it was privatized in
1997, is in a tax dispute with Brazilian authorities, which has
contributed to the stock’s decline, Salaverry said.  Government Interference  “The government seems to be more concerned about its own
goals than about minority shareholders’ interests,” Salaverry
said in a phone interview.  Petrobras and Vale declined to comment, according to e-
mailed statements sent by the companies’ press offices. The
presidential press office also declined to comment.  Brazilian businesses partly owned by the government have
led the rankings of the country’s biggest companies for at least
12 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AmBev may surpass Petrobras in market capitalization in the
long run as spending on beverages rises, said Henrique Kleine,
the chief analyst at Magliano SA brokerage. Demand is increasing
after the country’s middle class, defined as households with
annual incomes of at least 12,000 reais, swelled by 31 million
in the past decade, according to the Strategic Affairs Ministry.  “The government is lowering  interest rates  and cutting
taxes to boost domestic consumption, which makes a company like
AmBev very attractive,” Klein, who recommends buying the stock,
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Given how well the company is
managed and how big its brands are in the Brazilian market,
shares can go even higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  