-- Biggest Bond Traders Divided on Fed With Yields Near Lows
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-18T13:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/biggest-bond-traders-see-worst-over-for-treasuries.html
As the U.S. recovery slows and
Federal Reserve efforts to boost growth expire, there’s no
consensus among the biggest bond dealers that the central bank
will begin a fourth round of economic stimulus with consumer and
corporate borrowing costs already at record lows.  Signs of faltering growth amid European debt turmoil,
combined with inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent
target, mean the Fed will announce new steps to boost the
economy as soon as a meeting this week, according to 12 of the
21 primary dealers who trade with the central bank. The
remainder don’t expect action and some of the nine firms say
that yields near all-time lows limit the effectiveness of more
measures by policy makers.  The Fed kept the economy growing for nine-straight quarters
by pumping $2.3 trillion into the financial system starting in
November 2008 and shifting $400 billion into longer-term debt.
With  Freddie Mac  reporting that the average 30-year  mortgage 
interest rate has fallen to 3.71 percent and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch bond indexes showing that yields on corporate
bonds have fallen to 3.44 percent from more than 8 percent in
early 2009, dealers say borrowing costs can’t fall much more.  “The bottom line is the Fed’s activity would have limited
effect, and there is a question of how much lower does the Fed
want to drive rates,” Larry Dyer, an interest rate strategist
with primary dealer HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , said in a
June 14 telephone interview.  Changing Views  HSBC didn’t make a forecast in a previous survey in March,
when 15 firms saw more stimulus coming. Bank of America Corp.,
BMO Capital Markets,  RBC Capital Markets  and Nomura Securities
International changed their views and expect no Fed action at
the June 19-20 meeting. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc
altered their expectations in favor of more steps by the Fed.  Ben S. Bernanke , the Fed chairman, testified to Congress
June 7 that further asset purchases could boost the economy, yet
may bring “diminishing returns” as  interest rates  are already
at about record lows. The  10-year note  had traded as low as
1.4387 percent on June 1, down from last year’s high of 3.77
percent in February and 4.27 percent in 2008.  The average 30-year mortgage rate fell to 3.67 percent June
7 from more than 6.5 percent in 2008, according to Freddie Mac.
Yields on high-quality corporate debt dropped to 3.33 percent in
May, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond indexes.  Lowest Coupons  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , the owner of the Warner Bros. movie
studio, raised $1 billion in a two-part offering this month at
its lowest coupons on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company sold $500 million of 3.4 percent 10-year
notes and an equal amount of 4.9 percent 30-year bonds.  The benchmark  10-year note  yield was little changed at 1.57
percent at 9:36 a.m. New York time, after rising as high as
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.65 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Thirty-year yields  fell
two basis points to 2.66 percent. They touched a record low of
2.51 percent on June 1.  “At these rate levels if you lower the 10-year yield much,
does it really change the economic outlook? No,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest rate strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in New York in a June 14 telephone interview.  Demand for  U.S. debt  shows no signs of slowing. The
government sold 10-year  notes  and 30-year  bonds  at record low
yields at auctions last week as concern mounted about the risk
to Spain’s sovereign debt even after agreeing to a $127 billion
package from the 17-nation euro area to bail out its banking
system.  Quarterly Return  Treasuries returned 3.3 percent this quarter through June
15 including reinvested interest as Spain became the fourth
country in the European Union to seek a bailout and speculation
rose that Greece may leave the euro, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Treasury Master index showed. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
stocks lost 7.1 percent including reinvested dividends.  Investors have bid $3.19 for each dollar of the $969
billion of notes and bonds auctioned by the U.S. Treasury
Department this year, above the record $3.04 in all of 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Demand has soared even as the
Treasury’s  outstanding debt  has climbed to $10.49 trillion from
$4.34 trillion in June 2007.  That means the cost to President  Barack Obama ’s
administration of financing a fourth-straight deficit exceeding
$1 trillion is declining. The U.S. spent $272 billion on
interest expense in fiscal 2012 through May, compared with
$275.3 billion at the same point in fiscal 2011.  Fed Assets  The Fed’s balance sheet now totals  $2.87 trillion , the
average since June 2011 when it allowed its $600 billion second
round of  U.S. government debt  purchases to expire, and up from
$901.3 billion in August 2008, before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Since its purchases ended in June 2011, the central bank
has said it would hold borrowing costs near zero through late
2014 and bought $400 billion of longer-term U.S. government
securities while selling a like amount of short-term debt. That
program, known as Operation Twist, expires this month, raising
speculation on whether policy makers will extend the measure.  Further action might have “diminishing impact, but if the
impact’s diminishing, that doesn’t mean they shouldn’t do it,”
said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut. RBS forecasts a 60
percent likelihood of additional Fed stimulus through more
buying of longer-maturity issues or additional asset purchases.  Jobs Stall  The  U.S. economy , which added 1.7 million positions to the
work force since July, has seen job growth stall. After boosting
jobs by 757,000 from December through February, only 289,000
people joined the rolls from March through May, Labor Department
data show. The  unemployment rate , which has fallen to 8.2
percent from 9.1 percent in July, is unchanged from March.  Consumer prices rose 1.7 percent for the 12 months ended
May, the Labor Department said June 14, below the Fed’s target
of 2 percent. Bond traders forecast inflation will average 2.14
percent during the next 10 years, based on the difference in 10-
year yields for Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities and
conventional government debt.  The Fed might keep exchanging shorter for longer term bonds
and add more  mortgages  to its purchases after the program ends
this month, according to New York-based Ward McCarthy, chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co.  ‘Modified Twist’  “A modified Twist is warranted because inflation is below
their target and the unemployment rate is above it,” McCarthy
said in an interview on June 12.  The U.S. will grow 2.2 percent this year, according to the
median forecast by 93 economists in a Bloomberg poll published
June 6, compared with a 2.3 percent projected growth rate in a
survey the month before. That’s still faster than the 1.9
percent pace of the first quarter.  Primary  dealers  boosted their holdings of U.S. government
debt to a record $136.4 billion as of June 6, according to
central bank data. Of those, $102.3 billion mature in three
years or less, matching the maturities the Fed is selling as
part of Operation Twist.  “They already have a lot invested in the easing programs
through all the various QEs, the Twist, and the low-rate
communication policy,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-
rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc. in a June 11 telephone
interview. “That is already an accommodative stance for the
Fed. They’d rather wait now and see what happens out of
 Europe .”  European Turmoil  Greece’s largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy and
Pasok, won enough seats yesterday to forge a parliamentary
majority, official projections showed, easing concern the
country was headed toward an imminent exit from the euro.
European governments indicated a willingness to adjust the terms
of Greece’s bailout package as long as a new government
“swiftly” emerges from the election, according to a statement
by finance chiefs in the euro area.  The yield on  Spain ’s benchmark 10-year notes reached a
euro-era record 6.92 percent June 14 after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its rating on the nation three levels to Baa3, one
step above junk. Investors  demanded  5.3 percentage points more
to hold its 10-year debt than that of  Germany , with which it
shared an AAA rating as recently as September 2010.  “Unless Greece is kicked out of the euro, the Fed is going
to sit on the sideline and keep their powder dry until things
get worse,” said  Scott Graham , head of government bond trading
at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in  Chicago , in a
June 14 telephone interview. “The Fed doesn’t have tons of
bullets left, but they can still be effective, and they know
that there won’t be much good to look at even if Europe is
resolved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  