-- Bimbo CEO Stops Through 2014 to Digest After Shopping Spree
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-18T21:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/bimbo-ceo-stops-through-2014-to-digest-after-shopping-spree-2-.html
Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA) , the world’s largest
breadmaker, doesn’t plan any major acquisitions until 2014 as
the company seeks to first obtain cost savings from its latest
purchases, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Servitje said.  “This year is going to be a year particularly focused
within the company on processing the integrations of the
acquisitions we did last year,” Servitje said in an interview
yesterday at a summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico . “There could be one
here or there, but of a relatively small size.”  Bimbo, based in Mexico City, bought  Argentina ’s Alimentos
Fargo SA, which had annual sales of about $150 million, in
September. In October, it won approval to buy  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) ’s
North American bakeries for $675 million and agreed to buy Sara
Lee’s bakery unit in Spain and  Portugal  for about $150 million.  Bimbo can reduce costs by requiring the factories it
acquired to use the same processes as their new owner, Servitje
said at the B-20 summit. That should improve profit margins in
the second-half 2012 compared with 2011, he said.  “In the long term, today we’re leading players worldwide
in breadmaking, and we want to continue that leadership, which
implies maintaining a level of organic growth and, here and
there, also important non-organic growth,” Servitje said.  Bimbo’s first-quarter profit margin, excluding interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, fell to 10.5 percent from
12.2 percent a year earlier, the company said April 26.  Wheat Prices  Profit margins were also hurt by prices for commodities
such as wheat that are priced in dollars, which prompted cost
increases as the peso weakened. The peso sank 9.5 percent
against the dollar last month, the most among major currencies,
as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening prompted investors
globally to avoid higher-yielding assets.  Wheat prices may fall as global supplies of the grain are
“adequate” and as economic concerns cut demand, Rabobank
International said today in a report.  “We’ll see an environment that will continue with
commodities at high prices relative to the past, but more stable
compared with the recent past,” Servitje said.  Wheat futures for December delivery surged 3.3 percent to
$6.725 a bushel today on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Bond Sales  After selling $800 million in dollar-denominated bonds in
January and 5 billion pesos ($361 million) in Mexican bonds in
February, Bimbo doesn’t need more debt sales, Servitje said.  “It’s our intention to reduce our leverage from what we
have today,” he said. “Our refinancing was very opportune, at
good rates, and that gives us a lot of security in the company’s
long-term plans.”  Mexican companies that are sound financially are still
attracting investment in the  debt market , he said.  “While before it was difficult to be a Latin American
company, now it’s an advantage,” he said.  Bimbo fell 0.6 percent to 30.79 pesos at the close in
Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  