-- BlackRock’s Rice to Stop Co-Managing Five Energy Mutual Funds
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/blackrock-s-rice-to-stop-co-managing-five-energy-mutual-funds.html
BlackRock Inc.’s (BLK)  Daniel Rice will
step down from co-managing five energy and natural resource
 mutual funds .  Rice will be stepping down as co-manager of  BlackRock
Energy & Resources Portfolio (SSGRX)  and four other funds, said Bobbie
Collins, a spokeswoman for the New York-based firm, which is the
world’s largest asset manager with $3.68 trillion. She declined
to provide more details.  Rice has been the lead manager for the $950 million
BlackRock Energy & Resources Portfolio since it was created in 1990.
He’s also one of the founders of Rice Energy, a company with a
subsidiary that has a joint venture with one of the mutual
fund’s top holdings,  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  The fund raised
its holding of Alpha Natural Resources since 2010, the Wall Street 
Journal reported June 1.  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  placed the rating of the 
fund under review earlier this month, citing a potential conflict 
of interest.  He “could easily be subjected to future conflicts of
interest,” analyst Rob Wherry wrote in a research note dated
June 6. “Stewardship issues are overshadowing this fund’s
merits,” he wrote.  The fund lost 19 percent this year, trailing 99 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past
five years, the fund has declined 4.7 percent on average 
annually, trailing 64 percent of peers. Alpha Natural Resources 
represented 4.9 percent of the fund’s assets, making it the 
third-largest holding as of April 30, Morningstar data show.  BlackRock acquired Rice’s former employer, Boston-based
State Street Research and Management Co., in 2005 and renamed
the fund.  Rice holds a bachelor’s degree from Bates College in
Lewiston, Maine, and an MBA from  New York  University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  