-- Bo Xilai Damaged Communist Party’s Image, Says Successor Zhang
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-18T03:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/bo-xilai-damaged-communist-party-s-image-says-successor-zhang.html
Ousted Chongqing Communist Party
Secretary Bo Xilai brought “great damage” to China and the
image of the party with his disciplinary violations surrounding
the death of a British businessman, Bo’s successor said today.  Chongqing’s achievements should be separated from Bo’s
“serious disciplinary violations,”  Zhang Dejiang , who replaced
Bo as Chongqing party secretary in March, told a party congress
in the city today.  “The party insists that everyone is equal in front of law,
and won’t allow anyone to be above law,” Zhang said.
“Officials must take the lead in compliance with the
constitution and laws, and resolutely prevent and oppose any
cases of abuse of power.”  Zhang’s remarks underscored the political challenge posed
by Bo’s case as the country heads into a leadership transition
later this year. The party is trying to distance itself from Bo
and to present his actions as an aberration and not a reflection
of how the senior leadership rules  China .  Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, was taken into custody for suspected
involvement in Heywood’s death, the state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported April 10. Bo hasn’t appeared in public since he was
accused of disciplinary violations over the case at the same
time.  Chongqing Model  Bo won national attention for cracking down on organized
crime and for his “Chongqing Model” of emphasizing state-led
investment to ease wealth gaps between urban and rural
residents. At the same time, the methods he adopted spurred
allegations of police brutality and abuse of the legal system.  The first public signs of trouble for Bo came in February
when Chongqing’s former police chief Wang Lijun fled to the U.S.
Consulate in Chengdu, 165 miles (266 kilometers) away, where he
outlined to American officials a plot of  money laundering ,
betrayal and murder involving Bo and his family, according to
current and former U.S. officials briefed on the matter. After
spending a night holed up in the consulate ringed by police,
Wang turned himself over to central authorities, according to
the officials.  Zhang said the party will deepen reform of its legal and
administrative system, and support the independence of
prosecutors and the court.  “The party will firmly prevent the abuse of power,
favoritism, torture and other illegal acts,” Zhang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7575 or
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  