-- Boeing, Lockheed, Eurofighter Bid for South Korean Fighter Deal
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-06-18T06:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/boeing-lockheed-eurofighter-bid-for-south-korean-fighter-deal.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and Eurofighter submitted bids in a $7 billion South Korean
fighter contest as U.S. and European defense contractors look to
Asian markets to counter slower spending at home.  Boeing’s F-15 Silent Eagle, Lockheed’s F-35 Lightning II
and the Eurofighter Typhoon will compete for the tender, South
Korea’s  Defense Acquisition Program Administration  said in an e-
mailed statement on its website. Today was the deadline for
submitting bids.  The contest follows similar contracts in India and Japan as
Asian nations step up defense spending amid rising wealth,
compared with cuts in the U.S. and Europe. The Asia-Pacific
region is expected to increase spending on defense products by
4.2 percent annually until 2016, according to  Frost & Sullivan .  South Korea plans to make a decision on the 60-fighter
order in October and has said it expects to spend about 8
trillion won ($7 billion) for the purchase of the new aircraft.
A Presidential election scheduled for December may cause a delay,
local newspaper Hankook Ilbo said on June 16, citing industry
officials it didn’t name.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , won an order from
Japan for 42 F-35 fighters in December. The jets may cost 1.6
trillion yen ($20 billion) to buy, operate and maintain over 20
years, according to the nation’s defense ministry. India picked
Dassault Aviation SA for exclusive negotiations on a deal for
126 fighters in January.  South Korea  ordered a total of 60 F-15s from Chicago-based
Boeing in 2002 and 2007.  In the U.S., the  defense budget  is due to cut by about $487
billion over the next 10 years. There may be an additional $500
billion in reductions if Congress and the White House don’t
agree by year-end on a plan to shrink the U.S. deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  