-- Bond-Swap Divide Deepens Amid Europe Distortion: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-06-18T15:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/bond-swap-divide-deepens-amid-europe-distortion-credit-markets.html
Investors seeking shelter from the
debt crisis that started in  Greece  and forced  Spain  to seek a
bailout are distorting credit markets by fueling record
disparities between bonds and derivatives.  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring investment-grade
European companies from steelmaker ArcelorMittal to cement maker
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  exceeded a measure of bond yields by as much as 61
basis points in May and 44 last week, according to Morgan
Stanley. That compares with an all-time low of minus 135 in
2008. There was almost no difference in January.  Traders are accumulating bond insurance on concern Greece’s
exit from the euro would traumatize  Europe ’s economy and as this
weekend’s elections leave the nation’s future in the balance. A
shortage of corporate bonds is at the same time driving down
yields as banks and investors take advantage of the liquidity
from the  European Central Bank ’s lending program to snap up the
notes as an alternative to government debt.  “The CDS view is much more realistic because it’s
correlated with sovereigns,” said Jochen Felsenheimer, a
managing director in Munich at Assenagon Credit Management,
which oversees 1.85 billion euros ($2.3 billion). “The
distortion provided by the ECB is fully reflected in cash bond
spreads, so cash is wrong.”  Euro-Era Record  The divergence between corporate bonds and credit-default
swaps is another example of disruption in markets as Europe’s
crisis deepens, with Spanish 10-year government note yields
surging to a euro-era record of 7 percent today.  Sales of investment-grade, non-financial company debt fell
to 27.6 billion euros this quarter from 73.7 billion euros in
the first three months of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yield premiums over benchmark  government securities  shrank
19 basis points since the start of the year to 174, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates, Non-Financial  index  of
872 bonds shows. The index has lost 0.72 percent this month.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of default swaps on 125
investment-grade companies has increased 61 basis points since
March 19 to 174 basis points.  “For many corporates, there is no euro crisis,”
Felsenheimer said. “This crisis is a sovereign debt crisis. The
new safe haven is the corporate segment.”  Market Stress  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing by 2.7 basis points to a mid-price of 120.4 basis
points as of 11:48 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, fell 0.7 basis point to 26.46 basis points
as of 11:48 a.m. in New York. That’s the lowest level on an
intra-day basis since April 4 for the gauge, which narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
31 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:51 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Positive Basis  The distortion in European credit markets is prompting
analysts at Morgan Stanley and Barclays Plc to recommend
positive basis trades in which investors sell bonds and default
swaps. The bets will pay out should the gap between the price of
swaps and the so-called z-spread on the bonds narrow.  When the cost of default swaps exceeds the z-spread, the
relationship is known as a positive basis, and the reverse is
called negative basis. The z-spread is the extra yield investors
demand to hold bonds over the swap rate.  The difference between credit-default swaps and the z-
spread on Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s $1.49 billion of
6.125 percent bonds due in June 2018 narrowed to 4.5 basis
points, from 184 basis points in May.  The positive basis on Holcim’s 600 million euros of 4.375
percent December 2014 bonds fell to 203 basis points, from 236
in May, the highest since October 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Structured Notes  The basis on other bonds remains elevated, and Barclays is
recommending a positive basis trade on ArcelorMittal’s 1 billion
euros of 4.625 percent notes due November 2017. The difference
between five-year default swaps and the z-spread on those was
225, up from 170 at the end of May and nine in August.  The dislocation is fueling a surge in the sale of debt-
linked structured notes, with securities linked to corporate or
sovereign bonds accounting for 52 percent of sales this year,
the most since at least 1999, Bloomberg data show. That compares
with a 34.6 percent share in the same period of 2011.  Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG issued $133 million of
structured notes linked to Holcim debt since May 18 and six
lenders sold 31 credit-linked notes totaling $235.6 million
referencing ArcelorMittal this year, Bloomberg data show.  “Many private banks and distributors in Europe who have
traditionally focused on equity investments have begun to look
at credit and foreign-exchange products in recent months as
equity markets continue to provide unattractive returns,” said
Benjamin Hammond, a credit derivatives structurer at BNP Paribas
SA in  London .  Lehman Collapse  The current positive basis contrasts with a negative basis
of as much as 135 basis points in November 2008, when the global
financial crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. caused corporate bond yields to rise at a faster
pace than the cost of credit-default swaps.  Unlike the resulting banking crisis, when panicked
investors dumped company bonds, the current supply shortage has
made some reluctant to sell securities in case they can’t buy
them back when sentiment improves.  “There is a risk of selling a bond and not getting it
back, but we think CDS often pays enough to offset this,” said
Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at Morgan
Stanley in London. “There are a number of reasons why CDS
should trade some amount wider than cash, but the basis is much
wider than that difference should be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  