-- Brainard Sees Need for More Time for Greece Bailout
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-18T23:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/brainard-sees-need-for-more-time-for-greece-bailout.html
Lael Brainard, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s chief international official, said that “we need
to give some more time” for  Greece ’s international financial
rescue to work.  “ Greece’s program  has gone off track for some period of
time in part because they had a protracted political process and
did not have a government,” Brainard said at a news briefing
today at the Group of 20 nations’ summit in Los Cabos, Mexico.
“There is always in stabilization programs, financial, fiscal
and structural reform programs, the ability to recognize that we
need to give some more time, recognizing that economic outcomes
didn’t come out quite the way was originally projected.”  Brainard, the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for
international affairs, spoke as Greek leaders rushed to forge a
new government that can negotiate changes to some of the
austerity measures linked to the 240 billion euros ($302
billion) pledged by international lenders. Greece will run out
of money in mid-July, the Syriza party, which placed second in
weekend elections, said on June 13.  Government Formation  Greek election winner Antonis Samaras has begun government-
formation talks, while German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
offered little flexibility on emergency loans needed to keep the
country in the euro and avert economic collapse.  Brainard is attending the G-20 summit along with Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and President  Barack Obama . She
said there is a “high degree of resolve” among leaders at the
meetings to address market tensions and support job growth.
Brainard said she doesn’t expect any decisions until a European
Union summit in Brussels on June 28-29.  “There’s ample room for both sides to sit back down,
recognizing the world has been somewhat more adverse and the
Greek government has not been in a position to be moving forward
in this period of time in which the government was unable to
form and find a way forward that is still very much consistent
with the reform commitments that were taken on,” Brainard said.  Group of 20 chiefs began their two-day meeting in  Mexico 
today as Spanish borrowing costs soared to a euro-era record.  Leaders Focused  Brainard said leaders are focused on creating a path for a
financial union that is a “necessary compliment to monetary
union” within the euro area. She said officials are considering
steps for bank supervision, resolution authority,
recapitalization and deposit insurance.  “This is critical for confidence,” she said. “In this
regard, you’ll see that they are noting their determination to
take the necessary steps to break the feedback loop between
banks and sovereigns.”  Brainard’s comments contrast with those of Merkel, who has
rejected calls for a deposit-insurance fund. In a speech on June
15, Merkel said she opposes “premature” proposals for pooling
debt to stem the euro area’s financial crisis.  “ Germany  will not be persuaded of all those quick
solutions such as euro bonds, stability bonds, a European
 deposit-insurance  fund,” Merkel said in a speech to a small-
business group in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  