-- BRICS to Announce IMF Contribution at G-20 Meeting, Brazil Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-06-18T20:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/brics-to-announce-imf-contribution-at-g-20-meeting-brazil-says.html
The world’s largest emerging-market
nations will announce contributions to the International 
Monetary Fund’s financial firewall at a Group of 20 meeting in 
 Mexico , Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  “We’re going to make an additional contribution to the IMF
that will be announced at the leaders’ meeting,” Mantega told
reporters today in the Mexican resort of Los Cabos.  He said the sum will be similar to the amount announced by
the IMF in April, when the Washington-based lender said it
received total pledges of $430 billion from members. Other
countries including Brazil, Russia, India and China agreed to
contribute about $70 billion to that total without detailing
their pledges.  The G-20 agreed earlier this year to boost IMF resources
that could be channeled to Europe if the crisis there spreads.
The leaders of the so-called BRICS group, including  South
Africa ’s President Jacob Zuma, met in Los Cabos today on the
first day of the G-20 summit and reaffirmed their decision to
add to IMF resources, according to an e-mailed statement.  “It’s going to be the first time the fund is capitalized
without the U.S., which reflects the importance of  emerging
markets ,” Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  said two days ago.  Even while emerging markets answer Germany’s call to do
more to help Europe, the BRICS will continue to push for faster
reform of the IMF, Mantega said. Brazil had threatened to
withhold its contribution until Europe grants the BRICS a bigger
say in how the multilateral lender is run.  As Europe’s debt crisis spreads, nations that have powered
the global economy since 2007 are seeing their outlook worsen.
 China  reduced its growth target this year to the lowest since
2004, Brazil is on pace to grow less than 3 percent for a second
straight year and  Standard & Poor’s  threatened to cut
India’sinvestment-grade  credit rating . The Brazilian real,
Russian ruble and Indian rupee are the three worst-performing
emerging market currencies this quarter  BRICS leaders in their meeting today also instructed
finance officials to  develop a plan to swap national
currencies. The plan will be presented at a BRICS summit next
year in South Africa.  Mantega said that countries would potentially be able to
tap into a joint fund when facing liquidity shocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Los Cabos at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  