-- Buffett Extends Real-Estate Bet With ResCap Pursuit: Mortgages
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-18T18:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/buffett-extends-real-estate-bet-with-rescap-pursuit-mortgages.html
Warren Buffett , whose prediction
last year of a housing recovery was premature, is raising his
bet on a rebound with his $3.85 billion bid for a mortgage
business and loan portfolio from bankrupt Residential Capital
LLC.  The offer “certainly indicates that he thinks the worst is
behind us,”  Jeff Matthews , author of “Secrets in Plain Sight:
Business & Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett,” said in a
phone interview. “Yes, he’s been wrong about housing before.
But if you look at any credit metric, if you look at any of the
banks and what’s happening in their loan portfolios, it’s
getting better.”  Foreclosure  filings  in the U.S. have fallen on an annual
basis for 20 straight months, according to RealtyTrac Inc., and
 home prices  jumped 1.8 percent in March, the biggest monthly
increase in at least two decades, as record-low  mortgage rates 
and a dwindling inventory of properties available for sale
strengthened demand.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has prepared for a
turnaround by buying a brickmaker, expanding its real estate
brokerage and wagering on commercial property through a company
jointly owned with  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  The venture, called
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, was formed from a loan-
servicing and mortgage business purchased out of bankruptcy in
2009 and once owned by ResCap’s parent.  Berkshire was little changed today at $123,656 as of 2:15
p.m. in New York trading. It’s risen 7.8 percent this year.  Auction Approval  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based auto lender majority
owned by U.S. taxpayers, put its ResCap unit into bankruptcy
last month to distance itself from the mortgage lenders’ losses
and help repay its 2008 bailout following the U.S. housing crash
and subsequent credit crisis.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Martin Glenn is considering
approving auctions for the assets at a hearing today in
 Manhattan . Berkshire said in a June 11 court filing that it’s
seeking to replace  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ’s Nationstar
Mortgage Holdings Inc. as the stalking-horse, or initial, bidder
at an auction for ResCap’s mortgage business. Berkshire has also
proposed replacing Ally as the first bidder for the lender’s
loan portfolio.  The billionaire’s Omaha, Nebraska-based firm, which is a
ResCap bondholder, offered to match Fortress’s price of about
$2.4 billion for the mortgage operations. It’s also proposing
fees that are about $60 million lower than Nationstar’s if it’s
outbid. Berkshire said it’s prepared to pay $1.45 billion for
the loan portfolio, compared with Ally’s $1.4 billion for a sale
outside the bankruptcy plan backed by the car lender.  ‘Real Offer’  At the hearing today, Glenn asked ResCap’s lawyers to
explain why an affiliate of Fortress deserves to be the lead
bidder when Berkshire’s offer has a lower breakup fee. ResCap,
Berkshire and Nationstar will return to court later today to
argue about who should be named the first bidder for a court-
supervised auction of ResCap’s mortgage-servicing unit.  The judge can either accept Nationstar as the stalking
horse for the mortgage unit, name Berkshire in its place, or
refuse to grant any company the protections, such as the breakup
fee, that come with being the initial bidder.  Buffett has “come out with what appears to be a very real
offer to buy the assets,” said John McKenna, a managing
director at Miller Buckfire & Co., a New York-based financial
advisory firm. “The court will ferret out whether it is a
tactic or a legitimate interest in acquiring the assets.” A
buyer can’t “just show up and feign interest in order to
generate a better return.”  Stalking Horse  Nationstar said Berkshire’s request shouldn’t be granted
because it may discourage potential investors in future
bankruptcies from devoting the time and money required to be a
stalking-horse, according to a June 14 court document. Susan
Fitzpatrick, a ResCap spokeswoman, Fortress’s Gordon Runte and
Ally’s Gina Proia declined to comment. Buffett didn’t respond to
a request for comment sent to an assistant.  ResCap rejected Buffett’s offer to be the initial bidder
and asked the court to approve the Nationstar and Ally proposal
on June 14. Should Glenn approve ResCap’s plan, Berkshire still
could bid in the auctions. It wouldn’t have the advantages given
to the stalking horse, including any breakup fee.  The court will probably affirm Nationstar as the initial
bidder for the mortgage assets, beginning a three-month auction
process, Douglas Harter, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst, wrote
in a June 13 note after meeting with the firm’s management. He
said he expects other bidders to emerge.  Funding Advantage  Acquiring ResCap’s mortgage business would give Berkshire
contracts to service loans, a function Berkadia provides for
commercial real-estate investors. It would also give Buffett
another platform to originate mortgages, which his firm already
does for buyers of its Clayton unit’s pre-fabricated homes.  Berkshire, which holds the second-highest  credit rating 
from  Standard & Poor’s , can access funding cheaper than almost
any company in the U.S. It sold $750 million of five-year bonds
paying a 1.6 percent coupon last month.  ResCap, once among the largest subprime mortgage
originators, reduced its assets to $15.7 billion in the first
quarter from more than $130 billion in 2006. The firm is the
fifth-largest U.S. mortgage servicer, handling the billing and
collections on about $369 billion mortgages in the first
quarter, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade journal.  Lenders Retreat  Some of the largest home lenders including  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  have retreated from servicing and underwriting loans as
new international rules designed to avert another financial
crisis force banks to raise capital. That’s creating an
opportunity for investors like Buffett to scoop up assets at
discounted prices and benefit from the rebound in housing, said
 David Lykken , the managing partner of consultant Mortgage
Banking Solutions.  Since the collapse of the housing market, investors have
been asking, “When’s the time to catch this falling knife?” he
said. If Berkshire wins the auction for the loan portfolio, the
firm may be able to increase the assets’ value by modifying some
of the mortgages, he said.  Buffett has said the real-estate market will rebound
because a growing number of households will need properties
while supply has dropped after builders retreated following the
collapse. U.S.  housing starts  have plunged about two-thirds
since 2006 and property prices are more than 35 percent below
their peak that year.  Market Rebound  “Housing will come back -- you can be sure of that,”
Buffett wrote in a February  letter  to Berkshire shareholders.
“Every day we are creating more households than housing units.
People may postpone hitching up during uncertain times, but
eventually hormones take over. And while ‘doubling-up’ may be
the initial reaction of some during a recession, living with in-
laws can quickly lose its allure.”  Berkshire is the  largest investor  in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
biggest U.S. home-loan originator, and has a preferred stake in
Bank of America, the fourth-largest U.S. mortgage lender.
Buffett’s firm also has subsidiaries that make carpet, building
insulation and roofing materials. Its subsidiary Acme Brick Co.
last year bought Montgomery, Alabama-based Jenkins Brick Co.  The HomeServices of America Inc. unit has struck deals to
acquire real-estate brokerages in  Connecticut ,  Oregon  and the
state of  Washington  this year on the expectation that home sales
will rebound as banks liquidate seized properties after settling
foreclosure-misconduct claims. The housing market is “starting
to show a pulse,” HomeServices Chief Executive Officer  Ron Peltier  said in an April interview.  $1 Offer  Berkshire attempted to buy ResCap for $1 before the
bankruptcy last month, the mortgage lender said in a June 14
court document. “Neither ResCap entering into bankruptcy nor a
sale of ResCap’s mortgage production platform is in the best
interests of Ally, the  U.S. Treasury , Berkshire and other
significant stakeholders in both Ally and ResCap,” Berkshire
said in a May 3 letter, according to the filing.  Buffett’s firm proposed taking on ResCap’s potential
liabilities, such as mounting litigation costs, according to
three people familiar with the matter who requested anonymity
because talks were private. Berkshire wanted to avoid a ResCap
bankruptcy because it held unsecured debt, the people said. Ally
rejected the proposal after deciding that a bankruptcy filing
and sale better protected the company from future liabilities,
the people said.  Debt Investments  Buffett’s firm invested in ResCap’s secured and unsecured
bonds more than two years ago, according to a June 4 court
filing, in which Berkshire called for a probe of the mortgage
lender’s pre-bankruptcy deals. Prices for three of ResCap’s
unsecured bonds climbed after the document was filed, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Two days later, Berkshire had sold its unsecured debt,
which had a face value of more than $500 million, according to
court documents. Berkshire said in a court filing it holds more
than $900 million in ResCap’s junior secured bonds. ResCap’s
9.625 percent junior secured notes, which Berkshire’s General Re
unit owned as of Dec. 31, added 0.3 cent to 95.3 cents on the
dollar at 1:48 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace. They’ve
risen from 56.9 cents in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  