-- Vodafone Gets Approval for C&W Bid as Orbis Drops Opposition
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-18T14:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cable-wireless-largest-owner-orbis-to-vote-for-vodafone-bid.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  won shareholder
approval for its 1.04 billion-pound ($1.6 billion) takeover
offer for  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  after the target’s
largest investor rescinded its opposition.  The bid was approved by 87.5 percent of Cable & Wireless
shareholders who voted at a shareholder meeting today, taking it
beyond a minimum threshold of 75 percent, the company said in a
statement. Orbis Holdings Ltd., which owns 19.1 percent of Cable
Wireless and earlier this year said the offer undervalues the
company, today accepted the bid. Cable & Wireless rose as much
as 8.5 percent in  London .  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
will use Cable & Wireless’s fiber network to boost its fixed-
line system in the U.K. and relieve the strain of surging data
traffic on its own mobile-phone network as customers
increasingly adopt smartphones including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
devices running Google Inc.’s Android. After initially keeping
Cable & Wireless separate, Vodafone will move to combine the
British network with its own infrastructure.  “Given the amount of synergies available to Vodafone, any
integration costs are likely to be more than offset by those
savings,” said  Nick Brown , an analyst at  Espirito Santo  in
London.  Orbis, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , in April said that the
deal is attractive for Vodafone shareholders as it doesn’t
reflect Cable & Wireless’ value. Today, the investors said the
Vodafone offer would eventually succeed, even if they were to
oppose it.  Not Turning Up  “Orbis to be able to block the bid was reliant on other
shareholders to turn up and vote no, and that wasn’t likely to
happen,” Espirito Santo’s Brown said.  The U.K. is Vodafone’s only major European market in which
it lacks a full fixed-line network. Vodafone on April 23 offered
38 pence a share in an offer recommended by Cable & Wireless
directors.  Cable & Wireless surged as much as 2.97 pence to 38 pence.
and traded at 37.79 pence as of 2:55 p.m., valuing the company
at 1.04 billion pounds. The stock never traded above 38 pence
since Vodafone made the offer. Separated from its parent company
in March 2010,  Cable & Wireless  was once worth 2.4 billion
pounds. Vodafone gained 0.4 percent to 174.30 pence.  Cable & Wireless shares will probably stop trading after
July 25, the company said today.  Cable & Wireless, which lost 58 percent of its market value
in the last two years, said in May that earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the year ended
March 31 fell 15 percent to 378 million pounds, missing
analysts’ estimate for 383 million pounds.  Enterprise Clients  Vodafone became the sole bidder for London-based Cable &
Wireless after Tata Communications Ltd. in April failed to agree
on a price and decided against making an offer. Newbury,
England-based Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line
acquisition for the first time since 2010, when it ended talks
to buy  Germany ’s Kabel Deutschland Holding AG.  Vodafone will double its revenue from enterprise customers
with the purchase, while also gaining the largest U.K. fiber
system for businesses. Cable & Wireless, tracing its roots to
1866 when the first submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean
was laid, has holdings in more than 60 global cable systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  