-- California Public Employees Win Concessions in New Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-18T19:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/california-public-employees-win-concessions-in-new-budget.html
The budget  California ’s Democratic-
controlled Legislature sent to Governor  Jerry Brown  last week
granted concessions to public employee unions even as talks
continue on cutting programs for the poor.  Democrats removed language that would have authorized the
governor to order unpaid days off, known as furloughs, if unions
balked at a proposed one-year, 5 percent payroll reduction. The
 $92 billion  spending plan, which counts on higher taxes and cuts
in health care and welfare to close a $15.7 billion deficit,
also prevents expanded use of private contractors for some
government jobs.  Unions  contributed  $76.7 million to California politicians
and ballot measures in 2010, when Brown and lawmakers were
running, according to data compiled by the  National Institute on
Money in State Politics , a nonpartisan group based in Helena,
 Montana . Labor represented the single largest interest group in
terms of contributions that year.  “It’s pretty clear who the winners in this budget plan
are,” Senate Republican Caucus Leader Tom Harman of Orange
County said during a floor debate June 15. “It’s the public-
employee unions and not students, beneficiaries of state
services or taxpayers.”  State workers were forced to take unpaid days off three
times a month beginning in 2009, in what amounted to a 14
percent pay cut, as California faced annual deficits of as much
as $42 billion. The unions agreed to pay more toward pension and
retiree health-care costs and gave up some paid holidays. Their
leaders have said any new concessions must come through
negotiations.  Sign or Veto  Brown, a Democrat, hasn’t said if he’ll sign the budget or
veto it over a welfare spending disagreement with legislators.  The budget adopted last week includes a $400 million
general-fund savings in state personnel costs. Brown has
proposed achieving that by having employees work 9.5 hours on
four days instead of 8 hours in five days.  The largest union representing state workers, Service
Employees International Union Local 1000, opposes use of
furloughs to get that savings. Yvonne Walker, president of the
95,000-member union,  wrote  May 23 that unpaid time off is “not
on the table.”  The SEIU wants any pay reduction to be linked to time off,
according to a June 14  update  on its website. The union wants to
reduce the number of state contracts with private vendors and
limit the number of retirees and student assistants the state
hires to save money.  Talks Continue  “The negotiations are still ongoing and we know there is
more work to do and we wanted to give some time for the governor
and the unions to finish their negotiations,” Senate President
Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento  said when asked
why he took the furlough language out of the budget.  Jim Zamora, a spokesman for Local 1000, declined to comment
on whether union leaders are satisfied with the budget, noting
that labor terms remain under negotiation.  Because some agencies must operate around the clock and
can’t shut down for a day, unions for those workers are in talks
to find the savings in other ways. Prison guards, forestry
firefighters, mental-health hospital staff and the California
Highway Patrol have already agreed to have their pay reduced by
the equivalent of eight hours a month, the Sacramento Bee
reported.  Leaders of the Professional Engineers in California
Government, a union of 13,000 workers, said they wouldn’t agree
to a 5 percent pay cut unless the state dropped a proposal for a
1-percentage-point increase in the number of private contractors
that can be hired by the Transportation Department.  Contractor Costs  While contractors can cost more per hour, they are only
paid when needed. State workers continue to draw pay even when
not on a project and also collect pensions and benefits.  “One of the things we talked to the administration about
initially was that outsourcing our jobs costs twice as much,”
Bruce Blanning, the union’s executive director, said in a
telephone interview. “We told them that if they would stop
wasting money on outsourcing, then we would talk about saving
some money through our members as well. Outsourcing costs money
and they should get rid of that first.”  Republican lawmakers also said that Democrats included in
the budget new language not proposed by Brown that prevents the
 University of California  from contracting out some services.  During budget committee hearings, the Democrats approved
Brown’s proposal to extend statewide collective bargaining to
county-level in-home service workers, something unions have
sought.  Cushion Cuts  Unions were also able to cushion cuts to that program, said
 Steve Smith , a spokesman for the California Labor Federation,
which represents 2.1 million employees, about half of them
working in government.  Unions continue to resist cuts to the state welfare-to-work
program and to subsidies for child care for the working poor,
both issues contained in supporting bills still to be voted on,
Smith said by telephone.  “In our view, there aren’t any winners,” he said of the
budget. “What small victories working people achieved here were
staving off even deeper blows.”  Even as pay reductions are negotiated, many state workers
are poised for raises in July 2013. During collective bargaining
in 2010, Brown’s predecessor, Republican Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger agreed to raises of 2 percent to 5 percent for
workers at the top of their pay scales in return for
concessions.  “Unions don’t exist to solve the state’s problems,” said
 Aaron McLear , Schwarzenegger’s former press secretary. “They
exist to get the best deal for their members, and in California,
they’re really good at what they do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  