-- Cameron at G-20 Urges Stronger ECB Action to Quell Euro Crisis
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-18T18:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cameron-at-g-20-urges-stronger-ecb-action-to-quell-euro-crisis.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
urged the  European Central Bank  and the euro area’s strongest
economies to do more to stamp out the region’s financial and
economic crisis.  Speaking at an event today in Los Cabos,  Mexico  before a
meeting of Group of 20 leaders, Cameron said nations need to
sustain their push for banking and fiscal reform because they
can’t spend their way out of the economic crisis. He urged
policy makers to address instability in the euro area and
government indebtedness by combining short-term monetary
“activism” with long-term reforms aimed at boosting
competitiveness, all the while avoiding protectionist trade
barriers that slow global growth.  It “won’t be easy” for Greece to take the steps required
to stay in the 17-nation euro zone even after the nation
yesterday elected a party that promises to keep bailout aid
flowing, Cameron said.  “The euro zone has two choices,” Cameron said. “Either
they try to force down wages and prices in the periphery as fast
as they can to restore competitiveness, with all the political
and economic tensions that will entail, or the core of the euro
zone has to do more to support the periphery through greater
fiscal burden sharing.”  Amid the U.K.’s first double-dip recession since the 1970s,
Cameron’s government is pushing ahead with the largest budget
cuts since World War II, pointing to  Greece  as a reason.  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
staked their reputations on creating jobs and investment in the
private sector to replace public spending. The Labour opposition
says the policy has failed and has urged the government to
switch course.  Budget cuts, a squeeze on households as inflation outpaces
wages and turmoil in the euro region -- the biggest market for
British goods -- are weighing on a U.K. economy that has
recovered barely half of the output lost in the recession of
2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Los Cabos at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  