-- Canada April International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-18T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/canada-april-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for April
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident investors acquired $10.2 billion of Canadian
securities in April, following a divestment in the previous
month. Canadian investors’ holdings of foreign securities
declined $2.7 billion, predominantly in bonds.  Non-residents resume their acquisitions of Canadian debt
instruments  Foreign investors acquired $9.0 billion of Canadian bonds
in April after a $1.2 billion divestment in March. Foreign
acquisitions were led by secondary market purchases of federal
bonds, mainly medium-term instruments. New issues of US dollar-
denominated bonds by provincial governments and private
corporations also contributed to the inflows during the month.  Non-resident purchases of Canadian money market securities
amounted to $2.1 billion in April and were focused on provincial
government paper. This activity followed three straight months
of divestment, largely of federal Treasury bills. The inflows in
April were moderated by retirements of paper issued by non-
financial corporations. Short-term yields in  Canada  increased 14
basis points during the month.  Foreign investors reduce their holdings of Canadian equities  Non-resident investors sold $941 million of Canadian stocks
in April, following two straight months of acquisitions. The
divestment in the month was led by secondary market sales of
Canadian shares by US residents. Canadian equity markets fell
for a second straight month, decreasing 0.8% in April. The
Canadian dollar appreciated relative to the US dollar to its
highest level since August 2011.  Canadians further reduce their holdings of foreign debt
instruments  Canadians divested an additional $2.9 billion of foreign
long-term debt securities in April, following a $3.0 billion
sale in the first quarter of 2012. The activity in April was
concentrated in US government medium-term bonds. The reduction
in holdings of US  government bonds  was the largest since June
2011. US long-term yields fell 20 basis points in April, leading
to an  interest rate  differential in favour of investment in
Canada.  Canadians also removed $388 million from their holdings of
foreign money market instruments in April, a sixth straight
month of divestment. The reduction was concentrated in European
government paper and was partially offset by investment in US
government Treasury bills.  Canadian investors acquire foreign stocks at a slower pace  Canadians added $578 million of foreign equities to their
portfolio in April, compared with a $6.3 billion purchase in
March. The investment was split almost evenly between US and
non-US shares. Despite the reduced activity, April marked the
12th straight monthly net investment in non-US foreign stocks by
Canadians, a period during which $14.0 billion of these
instruments were added to their holdings. US equity markets were
down 0.7% in April after four straight months of gains,
following a similar pattern in most major foreign stock markets.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money market
instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well as
warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  