-- Canadian Dollar Falls on Concern Data Will Show Economy Slowing
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-18T21:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/canadian-dollar-falls-on-concern-data-will-show-economy-slowing.html
Canada’s dollar dropped against its
U.S. counterpart on concern data this week will show growth in
the world’s 10th-largest economy is slowing.  The currency declined as crude oil, the nation’s largest
export, dropped. It rose for a third day versus the euro on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will embark on a new round of
monetary stimulus to support financial markets when it begins a
two-day meeting tomorrow.  “There’s more and more pressure on the Fed to do something
proactive,”  Dean Popplewell , chief strategist at the online
currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone
interview. “If we don’t have that, then the market will start
unwinding whatever risk is actually left out there.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, declined 0.3 percent to C$1.0243 per
U.S. dollar at the close of trading at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.63 cents.  Ten-year  government bonds  were little changed at 1.71
percent. The bonds rose last week, pushing yields down nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point. The yield touched 1.615
percent on June 1, the lowest since 1950, according to Bloomberg
and Bank of  Canada  data.  Foreign investors purchased C$8.99 billion of bonds in
April, compared with net divestments of C$1.20 billion the
previous month,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. Non-
residents purchased C$2.11 billion of money-market paper, the
first such accumulation in four months.  ‘Channel Top’  The loonie rallied to C$1.0193 when trading commenced today
and was unable for a third time to sustain the move below
C$1.0200, creating a so-called triple bottom, which should
attract “short-term buying interest” for the greenback against
the loonie. This sets up a potential test of the “channel top”
at C$1.0268, according to  George Davis , chief technical analyst
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  “An hourly close above this level would generate a bullish
trend reversal” for the  U.S. dollar  versus the Canadian, Davis
wrote in a note to clients today, “shifting the focus up to the
C$1.0325-to-C$1.0353 region next.”  The Canadian dollar fell as Spanish 10-year bond yields
rose above 7 percent, adding to concern the region’s economic
turmoil is spreading to the euro bloc’s largest economies.
Leaders from the Group of 20 richest nations gathered in  Mexico 
to discuss measures to bolster the global economy.  “There’s very little faith,” said Popplewell. “It looks
like policy breakdown rather than a resolution at the moment,
which is not shaping up to be anywhere positive for risk
taking.”  Economic Data  Concern  Greece  would be forced to leave the euro ebbed
after Antonis Samaras’s New Democracy party and the Pasok party
won enough seats in yesterday’s vote to control Greece’s 300-
member parliament should they join forces in a coalition
government.  “All eyes will be on  Spain ,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of
currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
 London , in a telephone interview. “There’s a lot of Canadian
dollar data to watch out for this week, which is another wild
card. If that follows the trend that we’ve been seeing in some
of the U.S. data, then that might keep the Canadian dollar a
little on the defensive.”  Economists predict Statistics Canada will release data this
week showing slowing growth in wholesale and retail sales.
Wholesale sales rose 0.2 percent in April, after a 0.4 percent
advance in the previous month, according to the median of 20
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Ottawa-based Statistics Canada
releases the report tomorrow, following that two days later with
retail sales data that forecasters see rising 0.2 percent in
April, after a March increase of 0.4 percent.  Oil Declines  Futures on crude oil dropped 1.2 percent $83.06 a barrel in
 New York  after dropping to $81.07 on June 12, the lowest since
October. Canada is the largest supplier of crude to the U.S.,
the world’s biggest consumer.  The Canadian dollar dropped 0.6 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The
greenback gained 3.6 percent, the most after the yen’s 9.7
percent. The euro declined 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  