-- Carroll’s Upturn Gives England Selection Dilemma at Euro 2012
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-18T23:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/carroll-s-upturn-gives-england-selection-dilemma-at-euro-2012.html
England  striker Andy Carroll says he
can hardly believe how his soccer fortunes have improved. The
turnaround poses a European Championship selection “headache”
tonight for national coach  Roy Hodgson .  He struggled to score for Liverpool after becoming the most
expensive British player in a 35 million-pound ($54.8 million)
transfer from Newcastle last year. Three goals in the team’s
final seven matches last season helped him secure a place on the
national squad for Euro 2012.  He’s already helped England at the tournament, scoring with
a powerful header in a 3-2 victory over Sweden four days ago. He
was engulfed by his teammates in the kind of celebration he’s
scarcely experienced at Liverpool, having scored six goals in 42
league games since joining in January 2011.  “Not really,” Carroll, 23, said in an interview when
asked if he could believe his career upturn. “Obviously I
didn’t have the best of seasons, but I’m here now and I’m giving
it my best.”  England plays tournament co-host Ukraine in its last Group
D match tonight. It’s alongside group leader  France  with four
points and needs to avoid defeat to reach the quarterfinals.
Ukraine, on three points, must win to advance.  Hodgson must decide whether to pick Carroll or  Danny Welbeck  to pair with  Wayne Rooney  in attack for the match in
Donetsk. Rooney is returning after being suspended for the two
opening games. Welbeck scored the winner with a flick of his
heel against Sweden.  ‘Manager’s Headache’  “It’s become a very difficult choice because both have
done so well both in friendly matches before we came to the
tournament, and the tournament itself,” Hodgson told reporters
last night. “They’ve given me the classic manager’s headache.
But it’s the headache we all want because it’s players who are
in form and playing well and competing for a place.”  Ukraine coach Oleg Blokhin said he’d love to have the same
dilemma as Hodgson. His leading striker Andriy Shevchenko is
only a “50-50” chance to recover from a knee injury to play in
the game and Ukraine doesn’t possess another player comparable
to the 35-year-old Dynamo Kiev striker, who took the Ballon d’Or
award as European soccer’s best player in 2004.  Against  Sweden , Carroll ran past right-back Andreas
Granqvist to power in Steven Gerrard’s deep cross in the 23rd
minute. Playing regularly with his Liverpool teammate and
captain meant that he knew where the ball would go.  “Steve’s got the ability to do that,” Carroll said. “So
as soon as he put his head up and looks at me, I know where I’m
going to make my move and he puts it in and I got on the end of
it.”  Offensive Spearhead  Granqvist said Carroll’s strength allowed England to play
further up the field than it does when relying on quick players
like Welbeck, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and  Ashley Young , who were
chosen for the 1-1 draw with France on June 11.  “They can push up the team and keep the ball a little
longer in the offense,” Granqvist said after the June 15 match
in Kiev. “The English will be happy with his game.”  Carroll’s difficulties at Liverpool meant he was benched by
former manager  Kenny Dalglish  at times last season. Club and
national teammate  Glen Johnson  said the striker should be cut
some slack until he’s had longer to settle with the 18-time
English champion.  “Maybe when he first came he didn’t have a lot of luck,”
Johnson said in an interview. “Things weren’t falling his way,
but it happens a lot with people who move clubs. You don’t
always turn up and start scoring goals or playing your best when
you move to a new club.”  Carroll is better with the ball at his feet than people
give him credit for, Johnson said. Still, his main attributes
relate to his 6-foot-3 (1.90-meter) frame.  “He’s a big physical presence and uses his body well,”
Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Donbass Arena in Donetsk at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  