-- CBS Signs Arsenio Hall to Develop Late-Night TV Program
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-19T20:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cbs-signs-arsenio-hall-to-develop-late-night-television-show-1-.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the network that
is home to  David Letterman ’s late-night program, agreed to
develop a syndicated talk show with Arsenio Hall that will debut
toward the end of next year.  The weeknight show featuring Hall, 56, will be introduced
on 17 stations owned by Tribune Co., including outlets in New
York, Los Angeles and Chicago, CBS Corp.’s Los Angeles-based
syndication division said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
None of Tribune’s stations are CBS affiliates.  The deal lets CBS offer a new late-night program to
stations with other affiliations, including Fox and CW. Airing
at 10 p.m. or 11 p.m., the hour-long show program by CBS
Television Distribution will compete in some regions with
Letterman, the network’s late-night star, and NBC’s  Jay Leno ,
62. Letterman, 65, agreed in April to a new contract through
2014 that beats  Johnny Carson ’s 30-year record.  Tom Keaney, a spokesman for Letterman, declined in an e-
mail to comment on the agreement with Hall.  CBS, owner of the most-watched TV network, gained
1 percent to $31.95 at the close of New York  trading . The stock
has gained 18 percent this year.  Hall, who recently won NBC’s “Celebrity Apprentice,” is
best known for hosting the “The Arsenio Hall Show,” a late-
night syndicated talk show produced by Paramount Domestic
Television, now CBS Television Distribution, which ran from 1989
to 1994, according to the statement.  Tribune, based in  Chicago , is a partner on the production,
CBS said. The show is already sold in the 10 largest U.S.
markets and 17 of the top 20, according to the company.  More Stations  Also signing on are major market stations from the CBS
Television Stations group including Boston, San Francisco,
Atlanta, Detroit, Tampa and Pittsburgh, plus Local TV LLC
stations including markets in Denver, Cleveland,  St. Louis ,
Kansas City, Milwaukee, Greensboro and Norfolk, CBS said.  Tribune, also owner of the namesake Chicago newspaper and
Los Angeles Times, is awaiting court approval of a plan to leave
 bankruptcy protection , lawyers involved in the case said this
month. A ruling may come in early July, they said.  The company is trying for the second time to win approval
of a reorganization plan that settles legal claims against the
senior lenders that funded the company’s 2007 buyout, which
critics said left the television and newspaper company
insolvent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  