-- CBS Billboard Unit Worth a Look, Clear Channel Exec Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-19T14:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cbs-outdoor-worth-a-look-not-6-billion-clear-channel-ceo-says.html
Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings
Inc. (CCO) ’s chief executive officer said the company will consider
buying  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s billboard division.  “We’ll look at it,” William Eccleshare, CEO of the
private-equity owned outdoor advertising company, said in an
interview at the Cannes Lions advertising festival in  France .
“Everyone is going to be looking at it and sizing it up, seeing
if there’s value to be had.”  A deal would boost sales at Clear Channel Outdoor, which
has almost 1 million ad displays in more than 40 countries,
including huge signs in  New York ’s Times Square, by almost two
thirds. CBS, owner of the most-watched U.S. TV network, was
approached by bankers interested in finding buyers for the
billboard unit and agreed to listen to proposals, a person
familiar with the matter said this month.  CBS is asking $6 billion for its outdoor advertising unit,
the Wall Street Journal reported this month, citing unidentified
people with knowledge of the operation.  Eccleshare, who became CEO of Clear Channel Outdoor this
year, said he’d be surprised if anyone agreed to pay that much.  “Relative to where stocks are trading today, it’s
difficult to get to a $6 billion valuation,”  Paul Sweeney , a
Bloomberg Industries analyst, said in an interview.  Lamar Advertising Co. (LAMR) , the  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based
owner of outdoor advertising displays, and Clear Channel Outdoor
are trading at about nine times 2012 earnings before interest,
depreciation, taxes and amortization, Sweeney said. Adding a 15
percent takeover premium, CBS could sell the billboard unit for
$4 billion, he said.  Interest  Dana McClintock, a spokesman for CBS in New York, declined
to comment on Eccleshare’s remarks.  Clear Channel Outdoor rose 1.5 percent to $6.09 in New York
trading as of 10:51 a.m. The stock has declined 51 percent this
year. CBS, based in New York, rose 1 percent to $31.93.  CBS Chief Financial Officer Joe Ianniello said at a May 30
investor conference that there has been interest in the outdoor
business. CEO Les Moonves has said he’d be willing to listen to
proposals from interested buyers.  In March 2011,  JCDecaux SA (DEC)  Chairman and co-CEO Jean- Francois Decaux said the French outdoor advertiser would be a
natural buyer of CBS Outdoor. In 2009, he said the company would
consider buying the division or Clear Channel Outdoor to become
the biggest outdoor advertising company in the world.  Strategic Buyers  “It’s nice to have more than one strategic buyer
interested,” Sweeney said. “Having two strategic buyers can
lead to a little bit of a price war.”  JCDecaux spokeswoman Agathe Albertini declined to comment.  Clear Channel Outdoor, based in  San Antonio , is controlled
by Clear Channel Communications Inc., the radio broadcaster
owned by Bain Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP. Clear
Channel Outdoor had sales of $3 billion in 2011, while CBS
Outdoor had $1.89 billion in revenue and JCDecaux had 2.46
billion euros ($3.1 billion) in sales.  In 2011, CBS Outdoor produced 13 percent of CBS’  total
sales . The unit is the third-biggest after entertainment, which
includes the CBS television network, and the Local Broadcasting
division that operates the company’s local TV and radio
stations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  