-- McCain Says U.S. Should Go Outside UN for Syria Action
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-06-18T20:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/mccain-says-u-s-should-go-outside-un-for-syria-action.html
President  Barack Obama  should go
outside the  United Nations  to lead a multilateral military
response to the violence in Syria, Senator  John McCain  said.  Obama should follow the approach that President  Bill Clinton , a fellow Democrat, took to intervene in Kosovo in 1999,
McCain said today. At the time, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization bombed Serbia until then-Serbian President  Slobodan Milosevic  withdrew troops from the Kosovo region, where they
were attempting to crush an independence movement.  “We should refuse to give Russia and China a veto over our
actions” in Syria and create a “coalition of willing states”
to intervene,’’ McCain of Arizona, the senior Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a speech at the
 American Enterprise Institute  in Washington.  In the UN Security Council, veto-wielding Russia and China
have blocked efforts by the U.S. and allies to impose
international sanctions and take other actions against  Syria .  The UN suspended its observer mission in Syria on June 16,
citing “significant risks” to its unarmed staff. More than
10,000 Syrians have been killed since the start of an uprising
against the rule of President Bashar al-Assad, according to the
UN.  McCain, who ran against Obama as the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, said he envisions an operation that
involves no U.S. “boots on the ground.” Instead, the U.S.
should aid opposition groups by establishing “safe havens” in
Syria using U.S. air power.  Intervention Risks  “Once Assad’s forces see that they, their tanks, their
artillery, their helicopters and their other aircraft will pay
an awful price if they try to threaten these opposition safe
havens, I suspect they will quickly lose their appetite for
it,” he said.  U.S. officials have said Syria has substantial air defenses
that would have to be destroyed for any sustained air operation,
such as establishing a protected area. The U.S. is also
uncertain about the leaders and attitudes of elements of the
fragmented opposition.  In addition to backing diplomatic moves to pressure Assad
to give up power, the U.S. is providing non-lethal aid, such as
communications equipment, to the opposition, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  has said.  Major General Robert Mood, head of the UN mission, said UN
observers won’t conduct further patrols and will stay in their
locations “until further notice.” He said the UN intends to
restart its observation work when possible, and will review the
suspension “on a daily basis.”  The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89 civilian
monitors in Syria to oversee a cease-fire plan crafted by UN-
Arab League envoy  Kofi Annan . The UN  Security Council 
established the observer mission in April. Mood is scheduled to
brief the Security Council tomorrow.  ‘Just Behind’  McCain today reiterated his criticism that the Obama
administration isn’t doing enough to stem the violence and build
relationships with leaders of an opposition that might one day
lead Syria.  “When it comes to the administration’s policy in Syria, to
say they are ‘leading from behind’ is too generous,” he said.
“That suggests they are leading. They are just behind.”  As the violence continues, tensions are rising between the
U.S. and Russia, Syria’s main Mideast ally. Last week, Clinton
said Syria is “spiraling toward civil war” and that Russia is
aiding the violence by continuing to arm Assad’s regime.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  has rejected U.S.
accusations that it’s sending arms for use against Syrian
civilians and said his country is simply fulfilling its
contractual obligations.  McCain said today that  Russia ’s backing of Assad stems
partly for a longing for the “old Russian empire” and concern
that the Arab spring will move beyond the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  