-- McGurk Withdraws Candidacy for U.S. Ambassador to Iraq
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-06-18T20:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/mcgurk-withdraws-candidacy-for-u-s-ambassador-to-iraq-1-.html
Brett McGurk has withdrawn his
candidacy to be U.S. ambassador to  Iraq , the Obama
administration said.  McGurk’s nomination by President  Barack Obama  had been
challenged by six Republicans on the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee who cited the release of documents they said showed
“unprofessional conduct” and “poor judgment.” E-mails that
became public after McGurk was nominated concerned his
relationship with a Wall Street Journal reporter in Iraq in
2008, during President George W. Bush’s administration  “While we regret to see Brett withdraw his candidacy,
there is no doubt that he will be called on again to serve the
country,” Tommy Vietor, spokesman for the National Security
Council, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Wall Street Journal said last week that the reporter,
Gina Chon, resigned because she violated its code of conduct by
“sharing certain unpublished news articles” with McGurk when
he was based in Iraq with the U.S. National Security Council.
The action followed what the newspaper has called “the
emergence of romantic e-mails” between the couple, who are now
married.  Chon said in a message to friends that “while I worked in
Iraq for the paper, Brett never gave me classified information,
nor did he trade his knowledge for my affection,” the
Washington Post reported June 16. Chon said her e-mail exchanges
with McGurk were no more than “flirtatious banter” and that
the e-mails were leaked by a “disgruntled” State Department
employee.  ‘Serve Ably’  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said as recently as last
week that Obama “supports his nomination. He put him forward.
He has a great deal of experience in Iraq not just in this
administration but in the prior administration, and thinks he
will serve ably as ambassador.”  Carney declined at the time to comment on the release of
the e-mails and whether they reflected a lack of
professionalism, referring questions to the State Department.
“I can tell you that the president put forward this nominee
because he is qualified for the job and will serve ably when
he’s confirmed,” Carney said.  The White House declined to release McGurk’s letter of
resignation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  