-- Chile Central Bank Sees Rates Stable as CPI Risks Persist
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-18T15:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/chile-central-bank-sees-rates-stable-as-cpi-risks-persist-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank indicated the
benchmark interest rate will remain unchanged in the “short
term” as faster-than-forecast growth in the first part of the
year maintains pressure on inflation.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
estimate inflation will end the year at 2.7 percent before
accelerating to 3 percent in 2013, according to the quarterly
monetary policy report released today. In April, the bank
estimated inflation would reach 3.5 percent this year. Policy
makers today didn´t change their 2012 economic growth forecast
of 4 percent to 5 percent.  Vergara has seen breakeven rates tumble in the past three
months as inflation slows, indicating that traders expect price-
growth to continue easing, even as economic expansion remains in
excess of 4.5 percent. Slowing inflation led traders surveyed by
the bank last week to bet on a second  interest rate  cut this
year, while economists polled separately expect the next move to
be an increase.  “In the forecast we use as a working supposition, in the
short term, the monetary policy rate will remain stable,”
Vergara said in prepared remarks distributed to reporters.
“There is a contrast between the weakened external outlook with
the performance of activity and internal demand in Chile.”  Policy makers have kept rates unchanged at 5 percent for
the past five monthly meetings following a surprise quarter-
point reduction in January.  Rate Forecast  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, declined 68 basis points, or 0.68
percentage point, to 4.75 percent on June 15 from April 3. One-
year breakevens, which are derived from the difference between
nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps, fell 65 basis
points to 2.71 percent over that same period.  Chile’s central bank targets 3 percent inflation, plus or
minus 1 percentage point over two years. Inflation slowed to 3.5
percent in April and 3.1 in May as the most volatile components
of the price-basket declined in price, the central bank said in
a statement accompanying its June 14 rate decision.  “Inflation has proved less persistent than feared,”
Cristobal Doberti, chief economist at Bice Inversiones, wrote in
a note e-mailed to investors June 15. “Although our projections
continue to indicate that activity will decelerate toward the
middle of this year, everything indicates that the deceleration
will be quite a bit more contained than initially thought.”  Limited Impact  The European sovereign-debt crisis so far has had a
“limited” impact on Chile´s financial markets, while reducing
demand for the Andean country´s exports, according to today’s
report. External financing conditions have become “somewhat”
more restrictive for Chile, the bank said in a separate paper on
the country´s financial stability.  The bank estimated that the price of copper, which accounts
for more than half of Chile´s exports, will average $3.55 a
pound this year and $3.40 in 2013. Prices already have dropped
below the April forecast of $3.70 a pound.  GDP expanded 5.6 percent in the first quarter -- the
fastest growth since the three months through June 2011 -- and
will expand 4.8 percent in the second, according to the median
estimate of 60 economists surveyed by the bank on June 11.  “The medium-term risks for inflation remain in effect,”
according to the report. “The growth rate of activity and
internal demand has eased, but at a slower rate than was
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 