-- Chile Peso Erases Loss on Federal Reserve Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-18T19:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/chilean-peso-drops-on-rising-spanish-yields-election-in-greece.html
Chile ’s peso erased its loss as
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce more monetary
stimulus overshadowed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
deepen.  The peso appreciated almost 0.1 percent to 499.63 per  U.S.
dollar . The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index was
little changed. Copper, Chile’s main export, gained 0.2 percent
to $3.3965 a pound after a report showed confidence among U.S.
homebuilders climbed to a five-year high.  The U.S. central bank’s meeting June 19-20 may extend a
program known as Operation Twist under which it sells short-term
debt and buys longer maturities to keep borrowing costs low,
according to economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Jefferies
Group Inc. The euro fell against the dollar, giving up the gain
that came after  Greece ’s election was won by parties that
support sticking to the terms of a bail-out agreement and
remaining in the single currency.  “The peso is at the whim of the external sector,” said
Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We got through Greece, and
the market didn’t really embrace that. We expect the Fed to do
something, whether it’s on Wednesday or not, and the market is
clearly expecting some kind of signal.”  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose above 7 percent for
the first time since the euro was introduced in 1999 as an
increase in bad loans fueled concern the country’s banking
crisis is worsening. Earlier this month  Spain  became the fourth
euro member to seek a bailout, asking for as much as 100 billion
euros ($126 billion) to support its banks. Bad loans increased
to 8.72 percent of total lending in April from 8.37 percent in
the previous month, the Bank of Spain reported today.  ‘Pretty Ugly’  “It’s pretty ugly,” said Alejandro Araya, a trader at
Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “The market hardly reacted
at all to the Greek elections, and Spain and Italy are an
evolving story. There’s a lot of uncertainty, and when things
are uncertain you buy the dollar.”  International investors in the Chilean forwards market had
the biggest bet against the peso on record on June 14, with a
$10.6 billion short peso position against the dollar, data
published by the central bank showed today.  Local institutional investors had a $17 billion bet on the
peso. Banks and brokers had a $6.3 billion short peso position
in the forwards market and a $7.3 billion long peso position in
the  spot market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  