-- China Home Prices Fall in More Than Half Cities Tracked
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-18T08:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/china-home-prices-fall-in-more-than-half-cities-tracked.html
China ’s home values fell in a record
54 of 70 cities tracked by the government in May as developers
cut prices to boost sales amid housing curbs.  The eastern city of Wenzhou led declines with a 14 percent
slump in values from a year earlier, while Beijing and Shanghai
recorded losses of as much as 1.6 percent, according to data
released by the statistics bureau today.  China has pledged to maintain its curbs on the housing
market even as economic growth is slowing, prompting the central
bank to cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 on
June 7. The Housing Ministry said this month that China will
steadfastly continue with its property curbs that have so far
included higher down payments and restrictions on the number of
homes being bought.  “China’s property market is approaching gently the bottom
of its decline path and I expect we’ll see a touchdown sometime
over the next three to four months,” Peter Churchouse, managing
director of Portwood Capital, a Hong Kong-based property
investment firm, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“They’ve definitely succeeded in slowing the market down.
They’ve engineered it pretty nicely so far.”  Today’s data compares with April, when 46 cities posted
declines in new  home prices .  Among the major cities,  Shanghai  and  Guangzhou  both
retreated 1.6 percent in May, while Shenzhen decreased by 2.3
percent from a year earlier.  Shares Fall  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.5 percent at the close, while the benchmark measure
climbed 0.4 percent.  “With further housing market corrections and sluggish land
sales, local governments have the incentive to introduce various
measures to circumvent the property tightening measures,”  Zhu Haibin , Hong Kong-based chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., wrote in a note to clients today. “The conflict of
interests between the central and local governments could
intensify in the coming quarters.”  Private data also showed the home market continued to cool.
May home prices fell to a 16-month low,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner, said on June 1.
Residential values dropped 0.3 percent last month from April,
the ninth month-on-month decrease, said SouFun, which began
compiling the figures in July 2010.  Beijing, Shanghai  Existing home prices in Beijing fell 3.1 percent last month
from a year ago, while those in Shanghai dropped 1.5 percent.  A total of 40 cities posted declines in new home prices in
May from the previous month. In April, 43 cities recorded lower
housing values from March, according to the data.  Home prices were unchanged in Beijing last month from April,
while values fell 0.1 percent in both Shanghai and Guangzhou.  “If the government carries on with the property measures
without any fine-tuning, that will lead to a big slump on land
and other asset prices,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in a
phone interview. “That will affect the collateral prices of
banks and lead to tighter credit.”  The central bank and China Banking Regulatory Commission
both clarified last week that they didn’t make any changes on
the mortgage rate floor and risk weighting.  China’s home sales rebounded for the first time this year,
rising 19 percent in May to 375.7 billion  yuan  ($59 billion)
from April, according to the statistics bureau data.  Local Easing  The eastern city of Yangzhou in Jiangsu province said last
month it will offer new buyers subsidies of as much as 0.6
percent of the total value of a home, Xinhua Daily reported,
citing the local finance bureau. The move followed other Chinese
cities that attempted to lift local property curbs in the past
year. Plans by Wuhu in Anhui province and Foshan in the south
were abandoned within days of their announcements.  Lenders in Beijing started offering mortgages to first-home
buyers at as much as 15 percent below the central bank’s
benchmark rate after the rate cut, said Wu Hao, a manager at the
loan brokerage of Bacic & 5i5j Group, Beijing’s second-biggest
real estate brokerage. In the second half of 2011, they paid 5
percent to 10 percent higher than the benchmark, she said.  “The rise in sales was mainly driven by first-time home
buyers,”  Liu Yuan , a Shanghai-based researcher at Centaline
Property Agency, China’s biggest brokerage, said in a report
last week. “But as the central government remained firm on its
stance on property tightening, it would be difficult to rely on
that group of buyers for a massive home price recovery.”  About 93 percent of homebuyers in China plan to live in
their purchased property, while only 7 percent are so-called
speculators, Alastair Hughes, Asia-Pacific chief executive
officer of  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview last week.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , the country’s second-
biggest developer, posted a 33 percent gain in sales to a record
10.4 billion yuan in May from a year earlier.  Agile Property
Holdings Ltd. (3383)  reported an 18 percent increase in sales last
month from a year ago.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  