-- China’s Stocks Rise as Greek Poll Overshadows Home Price Slump
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-18T07:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/china-stock-futures-rise-on-speculation-europe-crisis-is-easing.html
China’s stocks  rose for a second
day, extending last week’s advance for the benchmark index, as
easing concern that Greece will exit the euro overshadowed
slumping Chinese property prices.  BYD Co., the automaker backed by investor  Warren Buffett ,
advanced 1.9 percent after the Economic Information Daily
reported  China  will exempt new energy vehicles from a sales tax.
Jiangxi Copper Co. and coal producer China Shenhua Energy Co.
led gains for commodity producers after projections showed Greek
politicians that support a bailout won enough seats to control
parliament, bolstering the global economic outlook.  “The risk of Greece being removed from the euro has fallen
considerably and investors think this is positive for  emerging
markets  like China,” said Tang Yonggang, an analyst at Hongyuan
Securities Co. in Beijing.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 9.2 points, or 0.4
percent, to 2,316.05 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.5
percent to 2,581.21. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
advanced 1.6 percent at the June 15 close in  New York .  Concerns that a growth slowdown is deepening and Greece
will leave the euro area have pushed the Shanghai index down 5.9
percent from this year’s high set on March 2. Stocks in the
measure are valued at 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared
with the five-year average of 17.8, Bloomberg weekly  data 
showed.  Greek Poll  Energy and material stock gauges in the CSI 300 rose 0.8
percent and 0.6 percent respectively. PetroChina Co., the
biggest energy producer, climbed 0.3 percent to 9.24 yuan after
Nomura Holdings Inc. upgraded the Hong Kong-listed shares to
neutral from reduce. Shenhua Energy, the largest coal producer,
added 1.1 percent to 24.06  yuan .  Jiangxi Copper, China’s largest producer of the metal,
gained 0.9 percent to 25.19 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals
Group Co., the second-largest, added 0.3 percent to 21.27 yuan.
The metal rose as much as 1.4 percent to $7,615 a metric
ton, the highest price since May 30, on the London Metal
Exchange and traded at $7,558.25 by 3:15 p.m. in  Singapore .  The New Democracy and Pasok parties took 162 seats in the
300-member parliament, according to the official projection by
the  Interior Ministry  in  Athens  based on 95 percent of the
votes. The results eased concern that Alex Tsipras’s Syriza
party would take control of the Greek government and reject
austerity measures needed to qualify for international aid.  Europe  is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  Auto Tax Exemption  China will exempt new energy vehicles and plug-in hybrid
models from a  sales tax  under a development plan that will be
announced by the State Council in the near term, the Economic
Information Daily reported today, citing information from an
energy vehicle conference.  BYD, which started selling its e6 electric car to
individuals last October, gained 1.9 percent to 23.57 yuan.  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest economy are
shoring up expansion as Europe’s deepening debt crisis curtails
exports and foreign investment, and property curbs at home damp
demand.  China’s economy will bottom out this quarter and rebound in
the following three months as government measures to stabilize a
slowdown take effect, Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to the
nation’s central bank, said in an interview at a forum in
Beijing on June 16. Full-year growth “should be able to hold up
above 8 percent,” he said.  Falling Home Prices  The nation’s home prices fell in a record 54 of 70 cities
tracked by the government in May as developers cut prices to
boost sales amid housing curbs.  The eastern city of Wenzhou led declines with a 14 percent
slump in values from a year earlier, while Beijing and  Shanghai 
recorded losses of as much as 1.6 percent, according to data
released by the statistics bureau today.  Slumping property prices boosted speculation local
governments may seek to loosen real-estate curbs that are
dragging down the economy.  “With further housing market corrections and sluggish land
sales, local governments have the incentive to introduce various
measures to circumvent the property tightening measures,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report today.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, rose 0.9
percent to 9.19 yuan, while rival Poly Real Estate Group Co.
added 1.7 percent to 11.99 yuan.  Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group retreated 4.7 percent
to 20.82 yuan, headed for the lowest close since Feb. 1. The
company apologized for a recall of baby formula found with
“abnormal” levels of mercury, according to a statement from
the company to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange .  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, jumped 2.1 percent on June 15
to a one-month high, completing its third weekly advance.  -- Editor: Allen Wan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  