-- China Repo Rate Steady on Optimism G-20 to Tackle Europe Crisis
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-06-18T02:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/china-repo-rate-steady-on-optimism-g-20-to-tackle-europe-crisis.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
was steady on speculation global leaders will outline measures
to contain  Europe ’s debt crisis and revive the global economy.  Leaders from the Group of 20 economies, who are gathering
in  Mexico  for a two-day summit that starts today, are waiting
for policy makers from Europe to indicate what they are going to
do, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said. China’s economic
growth in the second quarter should be the “lowest” this year,
Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said at a forum in Beijing today.  “Expectations for further global efforts on growth are
likely to be positive for sentiment, at least temporarily,”
said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong . “The markets should be relieved and be back to risk-
on mode.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, was little changed at 2.70
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. It fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, earlier.  The central bank didn’t gauge demand for bill sales this
week, suggesting it won’t drain cash from the system, according
to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.
The monetary authority asked banks to submit orders for 28- and
91-day repurchase contracts this morning, according to the
trader, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  The PBOC hasn’t sold three-month and one-year bills since
Dec. 22 and Dec. 27, respectively.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, was little changed at 2.59
percent in  Shanghai  after increasing 20 basis points last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 2.87
percent government bonds due February 2013 rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.173 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  