-- China Mainstream to Invest $300 Million in 10 Movies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-19T00:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/china-mainstream-to-invest-300-million-in-10-movies.html
A Chinese film-finance group plans
to invest $300 million in 10 English-language films, starting
with “Ming: The Annihilator,” based on a character from
Spider-Man creator Stan Lee.  National Film Capital, a government-backed entertainment
company, is developing projects that will appeal to
international audiences, the Beijing-based company said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The company will also invest
in the Chinese theater business, to become a major player in
both the U.S. and in  China .  The company’s Beverly Hills, California-based unit, China
Mainstream Media National Film Capital, will produce and
distribute English-language pictures with major Hollywood
studios and independent moviemakers, according to the statement.
The parent company is run by Yang Bu Ting, former chairman of
the government-run China Film Group, the country’s largest
producer and distributor.  “The Chinese film industry needs Hollywood expertise and
Hollywood needs the Chinese market,” Liu  Yuan , co-chairman and
president of China Mainstream, said in the statement. “We are
the perfect one-stop China turn-key partner for Hollywood.”  The company plans to develop a 2,000-screen cinema presence
in China, through building locations, buying out owners or
forming partnerships with existing operators.  China Mainstream said in February that it planned to create
a film fund to focus on co-productions involving U.S. producers
and writers. Yang said in a March interview that National Film’s
U.S. outpost was looking to combine American talent with stories
that have a strong Chinese element.  U.S. Expansion  A number of other Chinese film companies are expanding into
U.S. entertainment markets.  DMG Entertainment, based in Beijing, is producing “Iron
Man 3” with Burbank, California-based  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  The
chairman of Beijing-based  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA) , Yu Dong, said in
April that his company was in talks with major studios,
including  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount, about
co-productions.  Dalian Wanda Group, controlled by billionaire real-estate
developer Wang Jianlin, agreed in May to buy  AMC Entertainment
Holdings Inc. (AMC) , to create the world’s biggest cinema owner.  Ticket sales in China rose about 30 percent to $2 billion
last year, making it the biggest market after the U.S. and
Japan, according to the Motion Picture Association of America.
By comparison, worldwide box-office revenue rose 3.2 percent.  The MPAA said that China surpassed Japan for second place
in the first quarter on a 12-month basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  