-- China Medical Slumps After Bondholders Ask for Liquidation
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-18T21:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/china-medical-slumps-after-bondholders-ask-court-for-liquidation.html
China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) 
posted the biggest two-day drop since April in  New York  after
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP said bondholders of the Beijing-
based medical device company filed a petition for liquidation.  American depositary receipts  of China Medical traded on the
U.S. over-the-counter market dropped 8.6 percent to $4.65  in
New York yesterday, after tumbling 14 percent on June 15.  Debt holders of China Medical directed Wilmington Trust to
file a so-called winding-up petition with the Grand Court of the
Cayman Islands on June 15, Jayme Goldstein, a lawyer at Stroock
& Stroock & Lavan said by phone yesterday, adding his firm
represents individual bond holders in the case. He declined to
name his clients or give further details, citing the firm’s
policy.  Eric Schaffer, a New York-based partner at  Reed Smith LLP ,
confirmed that he was the U.S. counselor for Wilmington Trust,
which acts under the direction of bond holders, while declining
to provide more information before getting consent from his
client.  China Medical, a Cayman Islands-registered company, raised
$110 million in its U.S. initial public offering in August 2005.
The Nasdaq stock exchange said March 14 it was delisting the
company’s ADRs, according to a statement from the bourse.  The company defaulted on the interest payment due Dec. 15,
2011, for its 6.25 percent convertible bonds which mature in
December 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The liquidation filing was not available yesterday as the
court system in the  Cayman Islands  was closed for a public
holiday.  E-mailed messages sent after hours to China Medical’s
investor relations manager and the company’s general information
address weren’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  