-- Christie Calls for More Inspections of Private Halfway Homes
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-18T19:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/christie-calls-for-more-inspections-of-private-halfway-homes-1-.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
ordered more inspections of privately run halfway houses after a
report that the facilities were rampant with sexual assaults,
drugs and a trail of violence, including homicide, by escapees.  The  New York Times (NYT)  cited a 10-month investigation in its
report on Community Education Centers Inc., a closely held
company with political connections to Christie, a Republican who
faces re-election in 2013. Since 2005, 5,100 former prison
inmates have escaped from the state’s privately run halfway
houses, including at least 1,300 since Christie took office in
2010, the Times said.  William J. Palatucci, a political adviser to Christie, is a
senior vice president at Community Education. The Times report
on the company was published as Christie, 49, negotiates a  tax
cut  with lawmakers and tries to win approval of his $32.1
billion budget before a July 1 deadline.  “While many of the disturbing accounts reported in today’s
 New York  Times documenting lax oversight and accountability in
some of New Jersey’s halfway houses took place prior to this
administration, we have an obligation to ensure the community
placements program is effectively and safely operating today,”
Christie, a former U.S. prosecutor, said in a statement.  Democratic Assemblyman  Joseph Cryan , an undersheriff from
Union County who serves on his chamber’s Law and Public Safety
Committee, said the operations of the West Caldwell-based
company should be suspended until an investigation determines
the validity of claims by the Times. He and Assemblyman Charles Mainor, a Democrat from  Jersey City  who heads the law committee,
called for hearings.  ‘Protecting the Public’  The Times reported that in 2010, David Goodell fled the
Logan Hall halfway house in  Newark  and killed his girlfriend,
who was from Garfield.  Brigid Harrison , a law and political
science professor at  Montclair State University , said the
reports may be “enormously damaging” for Christie.  “Any political opponent will seize on the very compelling
stories of the victims,” she said in a telephone interview.  Democratic Senator Barbara Buono criticized corrections
officials’ oversight of the centers, which handle as many as 
3,714 offenders at six locations, according to the company’s 
website.  “They should be protecting the public, not turning a
profit for a politically connected company,” she said in an e-
mail.  Privately Run  Reached by telephone today, Palatucci said the Times story
was an attempt to state a preference for a public policy and
bring about a change in the privatization of halfway houses. He
said the report overlooked independent data that didn’t bear out
assumptions made in the story.  “ New Jersey ’s got the best system in the country,” said
Palatucci, who was co-chairman of Christie’s inaugural
committee. “It can always be fine-tuned and improved, but let’s
focus first on acknowledging that the community corrections
system in New Jersey has worked well.”  ‘Hit-Job Journalism’  Palatucci said the state currently has 2,742 beds in so-
called community-corrections centers compared with 2,700 10
years ago. Under former Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine , New
Jersey increased funding to the facilities to $61.5 million from
$51.3 million, he said.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said the story
was “hit-job journalism at its absolute worst.”  “The Times paints a wantonly false and inflammatory story
that ignores the true successes of community corrections in our
state and a long bipartisan-supported approach that balances re-
entry services for those most amenable to rehabilitation
programs with traditional prison,” Drewniak said in an e-mail
earlier today.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, declined to
comment on the story when reached by telephone.  “The political threat to someone like  Chris Christie  is if
a major, heinous crime occurs by one of these escapees,” Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New Jersey
Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said in a
telephone interview.  In 1988, a crime spree by convicted murderer Willie R.
Horton, released from a Massachusetts prison on a weekend pass,
led to the political downfall of then-Governor  Michael Dukakis ,
who had supported such furloughs.  “No politician wants a Willie Horton story on their
record, and that’s the story here,” Dworkin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  