-- Cioffi, Tannin Settlement With SEC Approved by U.S. Judge
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-19T00:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cioffi-tannin-settlement-with-sec-approved-by-u-s-judge-1-.html
A $1.05 million settlement between
former Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund managers  Ralph Cioffi  and
 Matthew Tannin  and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
was approved by a U.S. judge in Brooklyn, New York.  Cioffi agreed to pay $800,000 to settle the suit and Tannin
agreed to pay $250,000. U.S. District Judge Frederic Block
initially had described the accord as “chump change.”  “Having carefully reviewed the parties’ submissions the
court is constrained to accept the settlement,” Block said in
his ruling today.  “In doing so it notes the limited powers that Congress has
afforded the SEC to recoup investor losses -- as well as
obstacles that it has placed in the path of litigation by the
private bar -- and invites Congress to consider whether more
should be done by the government to come to the aid of victims
of Wall Street predators,” Block said in his ruling.  In November 2009, a federal jury in  Brooklyn  acquitted
Cioffi and Tannin of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in
the first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. The men managed two
 hedge funds  that filed for bankruptcy in July 2007.  In addition to the criminal case, the SEC filed a related
civil suit. The parties told Block of their proposed settlement
on Feb. 13, the day the case was set to go to trial.  Misled Investors  The SEC alleged in their complaint that the two men misled
investors about the funds’ deepening financial troubles and
their own holdings in the investment pools.  Edward Little , Cioffi’s lawyer in the SEC case, said he was
pleased with the accord in which neither Cioffi or Tannin admits
or denies the allegations. Little said he doesn’t think Block
was referring to his client when he spoke of “predators.”  “This is a good settlement based upon what I think are the
realities of the case,” Little said in a telephone interview.
“I don’t think the judge is commenting on our client
specifically. I think he’s generally talking about the powers of
the SEC.”  Susan Brune , Tannin’s lawyer, said in a statement, “With
the swift jury verdict of acquittal in the criminal case and now
this SEC settlement, Mr. Tannin is pleased to have resolved
these matters.”  Cioffi and Tannin were indicted in June 2008, a year after
their hedge funds failed. Bear Stearns collapsed less than a
year later and was bought by New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Disgorgement, Penalties  As part of the accord, both men agreed, without admitting
or denying the SEC’s allegations to a consent judgment in which
Cioffi agreed to pay $700,000 in disgorgement and $100,000 in
penalties. Tannin agreed to pay $200,000 in disgorgement and
$50,000 in penalties.  Cioffi agreed to an administrative order that bars him from
participating in the securities industry for three years and
Tannin agreed to be barred for two years.  John Nestor, a spokesman for the SEC, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the judge’s approval of
the settlement.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cioffi,
08-cv-2457, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  