-- Citigroup Pushing Bond ADRs to Boost Local Market: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-18T12:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/citigroup-pushing-bond-adrs-to-boost-local-market-brazil-credit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is in talks with
Brazilian regulators to create global depositary notes tied to
local corporate bonds as the government seeks to boost trading
in the domestic market by luring foreign investors.  Average daily trading volume in Brazil’s local corporate
bond market was 1.25 billion reais ($609 million) in May,
according to the nation’s capital markets association. Daily
 trading volume  in the U.S. high-yield corporate debt market was
$3.3 billion on June 15, according to Trace.  Brazil’s efforts to stem gains in the real by imposing
taxes on foreign investors have hurt its push to wean companies
off subsidized loans from state banks and develop a local market
for long-term financing. The real has dropped 9 percent this
year as  Brazil  stepped up measures to protect manufacturers.
Global depositary notes, or GDNs, mirror the equity market’s
American depositary receipts by allowing foreigners to buy local
securities without moving money into the country.  GDNs “make it just as easy to trade a local-currency bond
as a hard currency bond,” Joe Kogan, head of emerging-market
strategy at  Scotia Capital , said in a telephone interview from
New York. For investors “who aren’t big enough or are new to a
particular market, it makes a lot of sense,” he said.  The discussions with Citigroup are in a preliminary phase,
according to the Rio de Janeiro-based markets regulator known as
CVM. Nina Das, a spokeswoman for Citigroup in  New York , declined
to comment.  Bond Yields  Brazil’s sovereign dollar bonds due in 2021 yielded 2.8
percent on June 15, while the yield on similar-maturity Mexican
dollar debt was 2.94 percent. The yield on the 10-year U.S.
Treasury bond was 1.58 percent.  Citigroup, which created the first GDN in 2007, has GDN
facilities in nine countries. It arranged a 10 billion peso
($723 million) offering by state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos last
November and three sales from the government of  Peru . Investors
can use global depositary notes to buy new bond issues or to
purchase existing local-currency bonds.  Citigroup is looking to expand its GDN business to Brazil
as the government seeks to attract foreign capital to help
finance 955 billion reais in infrastructure spending by 2014.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  removed a 6 percent levy on
overseas investment in corporate bonds tied to infrastructure in
December as part of a series of measures designed to spur growth
in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  IOF Tax Exemption  It is unclear whether corporate bonds sold in the GDN
format will be eligible for the IOF tax exemption, according to
Ricardo Russo, a partner at law firm Pinheiro Neto Advogados in
Sao Paulo.  “The best thing would be for the tax authorities to issue
a specific rule on GDNs,” Russo said in a telephone interview.
“The momentum seems to be quite right to do that, because now
we have the infrastructure debentures and this willingness of
the Brazilian government to promote long-term investments.”  In addition to CVM approval, the central bank would need to
expand its rule allowing traditional ADRs in Brazil to include
debt securities, Russo said.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is rolling back
measures implemented earlier this year to weaken the real and
protect local manufacturers as  Europe ’s debt crisis prompts
investors to shun developing-nation currencies.  Repeal of Levy  The government repealed a tax on overseas loans last week,
part of a series of measures unveiled in the past 19 months that
helped make the real the worst performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “If the main premise of GDNs is to expand the investor
base for local-currency denominated debt issuance, I think it
might serve as a temporary bridge,” Robert Abad, who helps
oversee $41 billion in emerging-market assets at Western Asset
Management in  Pasadena ,  California , said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “The optimal way for a local-currency debt market
to develop in its own right is when investors become more
comfortable with emerging-market exchange-rate management and
the relative volatility associated with those markets.”  Concessionaria Rodovias do Tiete SA, the Brazilian highway
administrator, scrapped plans last month to issue what would
have been the first bonds to take advantage of the tax
incentives as the  European debt crisis  quashed demand for
higher-yielding assets. The company has postponed any return to
the  bond market  until 2013, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter who declined to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Shunning Debt  Pablo Cisilino, who helps oversee about $35 billion in
emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners, said
he will shun local Brazilian corporate debt as long as there’s a
tax on foreign investors’ purchases known as IOF.  “We are not buying local corporates in Brazil until they
remove the IOF, and stop tinkering with the currency,” Cisilino
wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  The real was little changed at 2.0508 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:10 a.m. in Sao Paulo after falling 1.3 percent last week.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose today
seven basis points to 211 basis points, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index.  Interest-Rate Futures  The yield on the overnight interest-rate future contract
due in January 2014 decreased five basis points last week to
8.09 percent.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell one basis point to 151 basis points on June 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  GDNs have helped governments sell bonds to a broader swath
of investors, Scotiabank’s Kogan said. In a typical transaction,
Scotiabank’s local branch in the  Dominican Republic  will buy a
local government bond for a New York-based client. Scotiabank
gives the bond to Citigroup to hold as a custodian. Citigroup
then issues a GDN to Scotiabank, which is then transferred to
the investor.  The counter-party risk associated with GDNs is “marginal”
because in the event of a bankruptcy, the bonds would be
separated from the custodian bank’s debt obligations, according
to Kogan.  “The counterparty risk is very small,” he said. “The
only caveat is that it’s never happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  