-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Climb as Spanish Bond Yields Soar
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-18T21:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-climb-as-spanish-bond-yields-soar.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
rose for the first time in three days as Spanish bond yields
climbed above 7 percent, dimming optimism that a pro-bailout
victory in  Greece  will stave off the sovereign-debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.6 basis points to a mid-price of 119.4 basis points at 4:31
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure rose by as much as 4.4 basis points before paring gains.
Contracts tied to  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  declined by the
most in almost two months.  Spanish 10-year bond  yields  climbed above 7 percent for the
first time since the creation of the euro, jumping 28 basis
points to 7.16 percent at 12:02 p.m. in  New York . Concern that
the region’s market turmoil is escalating deepened even as Greek
election winner Antonis Samaras raced to build a coalition to
keep aid money flowing.  Borrowing costs for Spain have surged “because the market
doesn’t have confidence that Europe is on the right track” to
solve the area’s credit dilemma,  Sean Egan , president of Egan-
Jones Ratings Co., said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “Spain is the
next target in the minds of a lot of investors.”  Bad Loans  Loans that went unpaid as a proportion of total Spanish
lending jumped to the highest level since 1994, suggesting the
country’s recession is pushing more companies and consumers into
default. Bad loans rose to 8.72 percent of total lending in
April from 8.37 percent in March, according to data published
today by the Bank of  Spain  in  Madrid .  In Greece, the New Democracy and Pasok parties garnered
enough votes to form a majority in the 300-member parliament as
voters rejected anti-austerity platforms that would have
disqualified the nation from international aid.  There is no immediate worry over New Democracy leader
Samaras’s ability to forge a coalition government, Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in fixed-income assets,
said in a telephone interview. “There is a little bit of
concern about a Humpty Dumpty coalition. The idea being that
there are so many pile-ons that the whole thing falls apart.”  Fitch Ratings  said today the pro-bailout party’s victory in
Greece has removed the immediate risk of downgrades to other
euro-region nations and the near-term danger of a disorderly
Greek debt default and exit from the euro has decreased.  Liquidity Stress  Liquidity for U.S. speculative-grade companies remained
healthy, even as  Europe ’s upheaval threatens the global economic
recovery, according to a report by Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s Liquidity-Stress Index held May’s record low of 3.3
percent through the middle of June as rising earnings and
improved access to  capital markets  buoy high-yield debt,
analysts for the ratings company led by Tom Marshella said in a
research note today. The index declines when liquidity positions
improve.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of London-
based  Cable & Wireless , the owner of Britain’s largest fiber
system for businesses, decreased 97.9 basis points to a mid-
price of 107.1 basis points at 4:01 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg
prices show. That means investors pay 107,100 euros ($134,689) a
year to protect 10 million euros of the company’s debt.  Takeover Bid  The telecommunication company’s largest  shareholder , Orbis
Holdings Ltd., today accepted a 1.04 billion-pound ($1.6
billion) takeover bid from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  that it had
criticized earlier as undervaluing the target. Credit swaps tied
to Cable & Wireless have declined for nine days, and today’s
drop was the biggest since a slide of 175.4 basis points on
April 23.  The swaps index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  