-- CSN Falls After CEO Comments on Possible Plant Bid: Rio Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-06-18T20:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/csn-falls-after-ceo-comments-on-possible-plant-bid-rio-mover.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
 Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by output, fell to the lowest
since 2008 after the company said it may consider bidding for a
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  steel plant in Rio de Janeiro state.  CSN, as the company is known,  dropped  2.6 percent to 12.22
reais at the close in Sao Paulo, the lowest level since December
5, 2008. The stock declined 18 percent this year, more than the
1 percent fall of the Brazilian Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)   CSN is waiting for  Germany ’s ThyssenKrupp to disclose
further details about its Brazilian plant before considering a
bid, Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch told reporters
June 16. The company’s potential interest isn’t optimal given
CSN’s high leverage ratios, poor allocation of capital and low
returns on the project, Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo
Correa in  Sao Paulo  said in a note to customers today.  “We would prefer management to remain focused on
delivering its iron-ore expansion, which is several years
delayed,” the analysts said.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, said May 15 a
sale of its Brazilian and U.S. plants is among “strategic
options” for its unprofitable Americas unit. The company, which
in 2010 began operating its CSA steel-slabs plant in Rio after a
5.2 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)  investment , faces output costs
in Brazil that are rising “disproportionately,” it said.  ThyssenKrupp built the facility, with a capacity of 5
million metric tons a year, to supply an estimated 3 million
tons of steel slabs to its mills in Calvert, near Mobile,
 Alabama , and the rest to Germany.  ‘On the Table’  The plant “is on the table, it’s clear that we will
analyze it as the rest will do,” Steinbruch said. “Whenever
they disclose the details, something that still hasn’t happened,
we will certainly be interested in studying it.”  Delays at the CSA plant contributed to impairment charges
of 2.9 billion euros in the last fiscal year, when it reported a
loss. ThyssenKrupp owns a 73.1 percent stake in CSA, while Vale
SA owns the remaining 26.9 percent.  Separately, Steinbruch said today that CSN’s
Transnordestina project, which involves the 1,728-kilometer
(1,071-mile) extension of a railway in Northeastern Brazil, will
require 7.5 billion reais ($3.66 billion) of investment. That’s
39 percent more than the 5.4 billion reais previously  disclosed 
by CSN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  