-- Cuomo Gets Deal With Unions to Save $452 Million on Tappan Zee
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-18T22:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cuomo-gets-deal-with-unions-to-save-452-million-on-tappan-zee.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
struck a deal with unions to save $452 million on the
construction of a new $5.2 billion Tappan Zee Bridge over the
 Hudson River .  The project labor agreement between the New York Thruway
Authority and 14 unions guarantees no strikes, and allows for a
four-day workweek and 10-hour days on one of the biggest public
infrastructure projects in the U.S., Cuomo said today in a
statement.  “This agreement will save taxpayers hundreds of millions
of dollars, while putting in place important protections for our
workers,” Cuomo said. “For too long we have talked about
replacing the Tappan Zee, and we cannot wait any longer.”  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, has made building a new
Tappan Zee a priority. Plans to replace the bridge have been
discussed for more than a decade, and Cuomo says getting the
project done would be an example of the state government moving
beyond the political dysfunction that thwarted past efforts. He
has compared its importance to the construction of the Erie Canal
in the 19th century.  The deal is similar to an accord reached between unions and
the Thruway Authority in 1994 for renovations to the existing
56-year-old span, said Ross Pepe, president of the Construction
Industry Council of Westchester and Hudson Valley Inc., a group
representing 500 building companies.  ‘Vital’ Agreement  “The project labor agreement is vital for a complex and
large project like replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge,” Pepe
said today in the statement.  The three-mile-long (4.8-kilometer) Tappan Zee, which
connects Rockland and Westchester counties as part of the
Thruway system, carries 138,000 vehicles a day, 40 percent more
than it was designed to handle.  The biggest savings, about $123 million, will come from
greater flexibility in the work schedule provided by the 10-hour
workday, which reduces overtime, according to the statement.  The savings will be incorporated into the bids from four
construction teams put on a short list in February to win the
project, Tom Madison, Thruway Authority executive director, said
in an April 20 interview in Tarrytown, New York, before the deal
was finished.  Obama Support  The construction teams selected include  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,
Bechtel Group Inc.,  Skanska AB (SKAB)  and Grupo Dragados SA. Final
proposals for the project, which would create more than 45,000
jobs, are due next month, with a winner announced in September,
according to Cuomo and the request for proposals.  Cuomo has said the project is moving at a “phenomenally
rapid” pace with the help of President  Barack Obama , who named
building a new Tappan Zee Bridge as one of 14 U.S. projects to
be sped through federal oversight protocols, and the so-called
design-build process. Approved by lawmakers in December, the
process puts private companies in charge of designing and
building the project, rather than having the state develop the
plan and then put it out for bid.  New York has applied for a $2 billion federal
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan.
The request is more than the program has available, and the
state suggested in its application the loan could be spread out
over several years.                               Most of the funding will come from debt issued by the
authority, Moody’s Investors Service said today as it revised
the outlook on the agency’s A1 long-term rating, the fifth-
highest level, to negative from stable.  Standard & Poor’s  took
similar action this month.  The authority is considering a 45 percent toll increase for
trucks to help pay for a $1.5 billion highway-improvement
program and refinance debt, not a new Tappan Zee. Moody’s said
“substantial toll increases” beyond the 45 percent will be
needed to maintain targeted debt-service coverage ratios.  “The negative outlook also reflects the potential impact
of an uncertain economy on financial performance as the
authority doubles or triples its debt load in the face of very
limited volume growth,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  