-- Cuomo Said to Reach Deal With Unions on Tappan Zee Savings
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-18T20:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/cuomo-said-to-reach-deal-with-unions-on-tappan-zee-cost-savings.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
struck a deal with unions to save about $450 million on the
construction of a new $5.2 billion Tappan Zee Bridge over the
 Hudson River , said an administration official with knowledge of
the accord.  The agreement guarantees no strikes, a four-day workweek
and 10-hour days, said the official, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity because the deal hasn’t been officially announced.  It’s similar to an accord reached between unions and the
New York Thruway Authority in 1994 for renovations to the
existing 56-year-old span, said Ross Pepe, president of the
Construction Industry Council of Westchester and Hudson Valley
Inc., a group representing 500 building companies.  “It’s different when you’re working on a new bridge, and
there’s new things added in to provide productivity and direct
cost savings,” Pepe, who participated in the talks, said in a
telephone interview before the deal was final. “We support
project labor agreements. It’s important for the Tappan Zee
Bridge replacement project to have a uniform labor package.”  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, has made building a new
Tappan Zee a priority. Plans to replace the bridge have been
discussed for more than a decade, and Cuomo says getting the
project done would be an example of the state government moving
beyond the political dysfunction that thwarted past plans. He
compares its importance to the construction of the Erie Canal in
the 19th century.  Over Capacity  Matt Wing, a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail requesting comment.  The three-mile-long (4.8-kilometer) Tappan Zee, which
connects Rockland and Westchester counties as part of the
Thruway system, carries 138,000 vehicles a day, 40 percent more
than its original design intended.  The savings will be incorporated into the bids from four
construction teams put on a short list in February to win the
project, Tom Madison, Thruway Authority executive director, said
in an April 20 interview in Tarrytown, New York, before the deal
was finished.  The construction teams selected include  Fluor Corp. (FLR) ,
Bechtel Group Inc.,  Skanska AB (SKAB)  and Grupo Dragados SA. Final
proposals for the project, which would create more than 45,000
jobs, are due next month, with a winner announced in September,
according to Cuomo and the request for proposals.  Obama Support  Cuomo has said the project is moving at a “phenomenally
rapid” pace with the help of President  Barack Obama , who named
building a new Tappan Zee Bridge as one of 14 U.S. projects to
be sped through federal oversight protocols, and the so-called
design-build process. Approved by lawmakers in December, the
process puts private companies in charge of designing and
building the project, rather than having the state develop the
plan and then put it out for bid.  New York has applied for a $2 billion federal
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan.
The request is more than the program has available, and the
state suggested in its application the loan could be spread out
over several years.  Most of the funding will come from debt issued by the
authority, Moody’s Investors Service said today as it revised
the outlook on the agency’s A1 long-term rating, the fifth-
highest level, to negative from stable.  Standard & Poor’s  took
similar action this month.  The authority is considering a 45 percent toll increase for
trucks to help pay for a $1.5 billion highway-improvement
program and refinance debt, not a new Tappan Zee. Moody’s said
“substantial toll increases” beyond the 45 percent will be
needed to maintain targeted debt-service coverage ratios.  “The negative outlook also reflects the potential impact
of an uncertain economy on financial performance as the
authority doubles or triples its debt load in the face of very
limited volume growth,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  