-- Dear Mr. Dimon, Is Your Bank Getting Corporate Welfare?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-18T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/dear-mr-dimon-is-your-bank-getting-corporate-welfare-.html
When JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  testifies in the U.S. House today,
he will present himself as a champion of free-market capitalism
in opposition to an overweening government. His position would
be more convincing if his bank weren’t such a beneficiary of
corporate welfare.  To be precise, JPMorgan receives a government subsidy worth
about $14 billion a year, according to research published by the
 International Monetary Fund  and our own analysis of bank balance
sheets. The money helps the bank pay big salaries and bonuses.
More important, it distorts markets, fueling crises such as the
recent subprime-lending disaster and the sovereign-debt debacle
that is now threatening to destroy the euro and sink the global
economy.  How can all this be? Let’s take it step by step.  In recent decades, governments and central banks around the
world have developed a consistent pattern of behavior when
trouble strikes banks that are large or interconnected enough to
threaten the broader economy: They step in to ensure that all
the bank’s creditors, not just depositors, are paid in full.
Although typically necessary to prevent permanent economic
damage, such bailouts encourage a reckless confidence among
creditors. They assume the government will always make them
whole, so they become willing to lend at lower rates,
particularly to systemically important banks.  Implicit Subsidy  With each new banking crisis, the value of the implicit
subsidy grows.  In a recent paper , two economists -- Kenichi Ueda
of the IMF and Beatrice Weder Di Mauro of the University of
Mainz -- estimated that as of 2009 the expectation of government
support was shaving about 0.8 percentage point off large banks’
borrowing costs. That’s up from 0.6 percentage point in 2007,
before the financial crisis prompted a global round of bank
bailouts.  To estimate the dollar value of the subsidy in the U.S., we
multiplied it by the debt and deposits of 18 of the country’s
largest banks, including JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. The result: about $76 billion a year. The number
is roughly equivalent to the banks’ total profits over the past
12 months, or more than the federal government spends every year
on education.  JPMorgan’s share of the subsidy is $14 billion a year, or
about 77 percent of its net income for the past four quarters.
In other words, U.S. taxpayers helped foot the bill for the
multibillion-dollar trading loss that is the focus of today’s
hearing. They’ve also provided more direct support: Dimon noted
in a recent conference call that the Home Affordable Refinancing
Program, which allows banks to generate income by modifying
government-guaranteed mortgages, made a significant contribution
to JPMorgan’s earnings in the first three months of 2012.  Like all subsidies, the taxpayer largesse distorts supply.
If the government supports corn farmers, you get too much corn.
If the government subsidizes banks, you get too much credit. As
of March, households, companies and government in the U.S.  had
amassed debts of $38.6 trillion , or 2.5 times the country’s
gross domestic product. That’s up from 1.3 times in 1980. The
picture is similar in the euro area, where  debt outstanding  is
1.8 times GDP, double the level of 1995.  The oversupply of credit -- also supported in the U.S. by
government-backed lenders  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and by tax
breaks on mortgage interest -- encourages risky behavior. People
buy houses they can’t afford, companies borrow too much for
acquisitions, and banks employ excessive leverage to boost the
returns they can offer their shareholders. The result is a
 bloated finance industry : As of 2011, the sector accounted for
8.3 percent of the  U.S. economy , compared with 4.9 percent in
1980.  Costly Cycle  Inevitably, the debt burden becomes overwhelming,
precipitating crises in which banks suffer losses, private
credit dries up, and people cut back on spending to pay down
their debts. The onus then shifts to central banks and
governments as they engineer bailouts and boost their spending
to prevent economic collapse -- a pattern that has repeated
itself throughout the developed world, according to  research by
economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff . This costly cycle
has helped increase  sovereign debts  to the point where they now
threaten the solvency of governments.  The solution: Minimize the subsidy. Require banks’
shareholders to put up enough capital to make bailouts highly
unlikely ( we advocate 20 percent of assets ). Allow some
creditors to take losses when a bank gets into trouble, so they
won’t assume they’re safe (an approach regulators in the U.S.
and  Europe  are considering). Cut off subsidies to traders, such
as the folks in London who lost billions for JPMorgan, by
forbidding speculative trading activity at banks (the goal of
the Volcker rule in the U.S. and financial ring-fencing in the
U.K.).  Why hasn’t this been done? One partial explanation can be
found in the amount of money banks put into election campaigns
and into lobbying, which has recently included efforts to water
down the Dodd-Frank financial-reform legislation. According to
the nonprofit Center for Responsive Politics, the broad
financial industry -- a category that includes real estate
companies and insurers -- has spent $285 million on political
giving in the 2012 election cycle. That’s  much more than any
other industry spends .  Lawmakers and regulators need to recognize just how costly
business as usual will be. When Dimon pushes back against
 capital requirements  or the Volcker rule, it’s worth remembering
that he’s pushing for a form of corporate welfare that, left
unchecked, could lead to a crisis too big for the government to
contain.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Greek elections ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Romney, Mormons and Jews ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Grover
Norquist’s latest fight ;  Betsey Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on
 equal opportunity in sports ;  Thomas Cooley ,  Matthew Richardson 
and Kermit Schoenholtz on  rescuing Europe’s banks ; Simon Serfaty
and Alexis Serfaty on  optimistic news for Europe ; Amy Monahan on
the courts and voters’  pension reforms .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 