-- Deutsche Boerse Asks EU Court to Cancel NYSE Merger Ban
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-18T20:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/deutsche-boerse-asks-eu-court-to-cancel-nyse-euronext-merger-ban.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  asked a European
Union court to overturn a ban on its planned merger with NYSE
Euronext, saying regulators made errors when reviewing the deal
that would have created the world’s biggest exchange.  Regulators “failed to properly assess” offers made by the
companies to eliminate antitrust concerns and wrongly ruled that
the two exchanges’ rivalry limits fees for customers,  Deutsche
Boerse  argued in a  filing  at the EU’s General Court in
Luxembourg published in the EU’s Official Journal on June 16.
NYSE isn’t a party to the appeal and said in March that it was
focused on its strategy as a standalone company.  The European Commission blocked the $9.5 billion deal in
February because it would have led to a “near monopoly” in
European exchange-traded derivatives. The acquisition of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  would have put more than 90 percent of Europe’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of  stock
trading  in the hands of one company.  “The commission inaccurately accepted only some of the
efficiencies as verifiable, merger-specific and likely to
benefit customers, and incorrectly claimed that they were
insufficient to counteract the competitive effects of the
merger,” Deutsche Boerse said in the filing.  Cancel Decision  The EU tribunal can cancel regulators’ decision or ask them
to reexamine the deal if it backs any of the Frankfurt-based
exchange’s claims. It was the fourth time the commission had
blocked a deal since it overhauled the bloc’s merger rules in
2004. Appealing a merger decision is an attack on the
commission’s legal reasoning and doesn’t say anything about
whether companies intend to resurrect a deal.  Deutsche Boerse also said the EU used “incorrect
evidence” to reject the companies’ offer to sell NYSE
Euronext’s BClear single equity derivatives business. Regulators
were wrong to claim there was a symbiotic relationship between
single equity and equity index derivatives, the Frankfurt-based
company said in the court filing.  Antitrust concerns have thwarted other exchange tie-ups.
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
abandoned an unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext after the U.S.
Justice Department threatened to sue.  Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s (SGX) 
$8.8 billion bid for ASX Ltd. collapsed after Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said the deal wasn’t in the national
interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 