-- Dewey Asks to Pay Bankruptcy Lawyers Up to $935 an Hour
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-18T22:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/dewey-asks-to-pay-bankruptcy-lawyers-up-to-935-an-hour.html
Bankrupt Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP asked a
judge to approve payments at customary rates of as much as $935
an hour for partners of its lead law firm,  Togut Segal & Segal
LLP .  Dewey, which failed on May 28 owing more than $225 million
to secured lenders, is seeking to hire at least nine firms to
assist with the liquidation, according to federal court filings
in  Manhattan .  Billing rates for top officers at Zolfo Cooper Management
LLC, its restructuring firm, are as much as $825 an hour. The
press advisory firm  Sitrick & Co.  charges as much as $895 hourly
for its top people, according to June 15 filings.  Fees charged by firms that failed because they can’t pay
their lenders are attracting attention from the U.S.  Justice
Department . Clifford J. White, director of the department’s  U.S.
Trustee , which oversees bankruptcies, has said the “eye-
catching” fees are “difficult to explain in the current
economic environment,” according to an  article  by White on the
Justice Department’s website.  Thomas Mulligan, an executive at Sitrick, declined to
comment on the fees that will be billed to Dewey.  Dewey guaranteed about 100 partners about $100 million,
according to people familiar with the firm’s finances.  Steven Davis , the former chairman, was ousted on April 29 after
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. started a probe into
possible wrongdoing at Dewey, according to an internal Dewey
memo to partners that day. He has denied wrongdoing.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 