-- Dimon Defends JPMorgan Disclosures Scrutinized by SEC
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-06-20T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/dimon-faces-harsher-and-crazier-house-crowd-in-second-round.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon defended the company’s disclosures of a $2
billion trading loss as regulators and lawmakers questioned
whether the largest U.S. bank misled investors.  “We disclosed what we knew when we knew it,” Dimon,
making his second appearance on  Capitol Hill  in less than a
week, said yesterday at a House Financial Services Committee
hearing in  Washington  that exceeded four hours.  Dimon went there to explain how the firm lost control of a
credit-derivatives account at its chief investment office in
 London . Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , speaking earlier from the same witness table, said the
agency has a “wide panoply” of penalties at its disposal to
pursue sanctions if investigators find that New York-based
JPMorgan violated disclosure or other rules, she said.  Investors and regulators have questioned JPMorgan’s
disclosures of changes to the CIO’s so-called value-at-risk, or
VaR, calculation that ended up cutting the unit’s risk profile
by about half. More than $20 billion of JPMorgan’s market value
has been wiped out since Dimon disclosed the loss on May 10. The
shares climbed 2.2 percent to $35.38 yesterday in  New York .  JPMorgan altered the risk model in mid-January without
telling investors then. The firm didn’t disclose the change on
April 13, when it reported financial results and said in a
separate regulatory filing that VaR at the CIO averaged $67
million. When the company realized the new version was flawed
and reverted to the old model, it showed VaR averaged $129
million and ended the quarter at $186 million.  Understating Risk  The SEC is looking at whether the change had the effect of
“understating the value-at-risk significantly,” said Schapiro,
who turned 57 yesterday.  Dimon, 56, told the House panel that the new VaR model,
while not causing the loss, “may have aggravated what
happened.”  VaR represents the maximum amount that traders would expect
to lose on 95 out of 100 trading days, according to JPMorgan.
It’s recalculated daily, and the quarterly average is reported
in securities filings.  The measure “is not required to be disclosed in the
earnings release, but if you choose to speak to it, you must
speak truthfully and completely,” Schapiro, 57, told the House
panel.  JPMorgan’s loss could balloon beyond $2 billion as the bank
untangles some of the trades, Dimon has said. He told lawmakers
that he won’t provide an update on the loss until the bank posts
second-quarter results before U.S. markets open on July 13.  ‘Dead Wrong’  Dimon said he was “dead wrong” when he dismissed news
reports about the trades as a “tempest in a teapot” during an
earnings call with analysts on April 13, three days after the
London book lost $300 million in a single day.  “Our folks had looked at reports after that about how bad
it can get,” Dimon said. “We stress-tested it. Some of the
stress reports, I may have seen them, but they reported to me
that it doesn’t show it could get that much worse.”  U.S. Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat,
questioned Dimon’s reliance on information from his management
team in downplaying the seriousness of the problem. “It seemed
like there must be a limit on that entitlement if you have
noticed that there may be something wrong,” Miller said.  Dimon, as he testified about the London team’s losses,
encouraged Congress to limit the international reach of swaps
regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  ‘Different Rules’  “If JPMorgan overseas operates under different rules than
our foreign competitors, we can no longer provide the best
products and services to our U.S. clients or our foreign
clients,” Dimon said. “They will go elsewhere if we can’t give
them the best possible deal.”  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, is poised to propose guidance on June 21
that would extend swaps rules to foreign branches and
subsidiaries of JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup
Inc. and other U.S. banks.  When Dimon appeared before the Senate Banking Committee on
June 13, lawmakers apologized for questioning him. He was asked
for his opinion on subjects including  Europe ’s debt crisis and
how lawmakers should resolve the so-called fiscal cliff after
the end of the year, when automatic tax increases and budget
cuts are set to pull billions of dollars of purchasing power out
of the  U.S. economy .  Cooler Reception  Dimon was less warmly received in the House where lawmakers
pressed him for more details about the bank’s disclosures, the
change in VaR and lobbying against federal rules.  Representative Stephen Lynch, a Massachusetts Democrat,
pressed House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, to require Dimon to testify under
oath. Bachus declined, saying it wasn’t the committee’s
tradition to require witnesses to deliver sworn testimony.  Representative Gary Ackerman, a New York Democrat, likened
JPMorgan’s trade to gambling.  “If you are right a majority of the time, then it makes a
bunch of money for the guys who did it and doesn’t help the
company, the industry, the economy or the country at all,”
Ackerman said. “And if you’re wrong, it puts systemically,
everything at risk.”  Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, asked
Dimon to explain why JPMorgan has lobbied against parts of Dodd-
Frank. The CEO has been a critic of the so-called Volcker rule,
a provision meant to limit lenders from making proprietary
trades, or bets with their own money.  “Lobbying is a constitutional right and we have a right to
have our voice heard,” he told Waters.  Fed Boardrooms  Dimon, meanwhile, said it isn’t necessary for his voice to
be heard in the boardroom of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , where he’s a director. Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont
independent, introduced legislation on May 22 that would ban
employees of bank holding companies or other firms regulated by
the Fed from serving on regional Fed bank boards.  Dimon reminded lawmakers that Congress is responsible for
writing the laws that govern the central bank and said his role
at the New York Fed is limited. He doesn’t vote on the New York
Fed’s president or get involved in supervision, he said.  “It’s more of an informational advisory group,” he said.  The heads of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and CFTC, as well as Fed General
Counsel  Scott Alvarez , were grilled along with the SEC’s
Schapiro over how they could have missed the trading debacle.  ‘Held Accountable’  “Just as JPMorgan should be and is being held accountable
for its risk-management failures, accountability must also be
demanded of the federal regulators who oversee the bank’s
activities,” Bachus said.  Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry said his agency
is reviewing its staffing inside JPMorgan’s London operations.  “We will use our experience here, our review of JPMorgan
Chase, to re-evaluate the numbers and strength of the personnel
in our London office,” he said.  The hearing drew protests from about two dozen nurses
wearing green and red caps and holding signs as they chanted
“ Jamie Dimon , you’re no good, the people need a Robin Hood.”  “He’s a really good example of the kind of reckless
speculation that should be taxed,” said Matthew Kavanagh,
director of U.S. advocacy for Health Gap, an AIDS activist
organization that organized the protest with National Nurses
United. The groups are lobbying for a “Robin Hood” tax on
derivatives, stock, currency and other Wall Street transactions
to subsidize health care benefits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  