-- DoCoMo Plans to Recoup Lost Mobile Share With Older Users
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-06-19T11:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/docomo-aims-to-recoup-lost-mobile-share-with-older-users.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) , the only major
Japanese carrier not selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, is trying to
stem market-share losses by using its own voice-recognition app
to woo the nation’s fastest-growing demographic: the elderly.  Japan’s  biggest  mobile-phone company is counting on
software and handsets tailored for older subscribers to regain
customers from Softbank Corp. in the $110 billion wireless
market after consumers flocked to the iPhone. Two million users
have downloaded DoCoMo’s app called Shabette Concier, which,
like Apple’s Siri, lets users control their phone by voice -- a
selling point among elderly consumers who struggle with keypads.  DoCoMo is targeting older customers for growth as Japan
ages faster than any other developed society, with 23 percent of
the population 65 or older, according to government figures.
About 6 percent of Japanese consumers in their 60s had a
smartphone as of February, compared with 51 percent of people
between 20 and 29, according to  research  by D2C Inc. in  Tokyo .  “Growth for a consumer business in the coming decade
relies on cultivating the elderly market,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Research
Institute in Tokyo. “They tend to be affluent and loose on
their purse strings.”  Elderly Japanese kept spending money last year while
younger people pulled back in the aftermath of the earthquake
and tsunami. Spending by those older than 69 gained 0.4 percent
in 2011 while spending by all other age groups declined, the
Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communication  said  in February.  Softbank, KDDI  DoCoMo’s share of the 125 million mobile-phone
subscriptions for Japan’s three biggest carriers fell to 48
percent as of May 31 from 52 percent four years ago, while
 Softbank (9984)  jumped to 24 percent from 18 percent, according to  the
Telecommunications Carriers Association  in Tokyo.  KDDI Corp. (9433) , which began selling the iPhone 4S in October,
had about 28 percent of the market, little changed from 2008.  Softbank has added more than 10 million subscribers since
first offering iPhones in July 2008, compared with 6.6 million
for DoCoMo, according to the association. Softbank’s shares
climbed 32 percent in Tokyo trading in the same period, while
DoCoMo dropped 22 percent and KDDI fell 18 percent.  “DoCoMo has been struggling because of the expansion of
iPhones in Japan,” said Shinji Moriyuki, an analyst at SMBC
Nikko in Tokyo. “Introducing handsets targeted at the elderly
will probably help DoCoMo win back market share.”  ‘Easy Easy’  To stimulate demand among the growing demographic, DoCoMo
is holding seminars and offering discounts on models targeting
elderly users. The company held 1,100 training sessions in the
year ended March 31, said Saori Yoshimatsu, a spokeswoman.  As early as next month, DoCoMo plans to offer a smartphone
version of  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ’s hit handsets series called Raku Raku,
or “Easy Easy,” which has won more than 21 million users with
simplified functions and larger fonts.  The carrier’s voice app, whose name translates as “Talk to
Me, Concierge,” was introduced March 1 and is available for 38
handset models using Google Inc.’s Android software. They
include Sony Corp.’s Xperia acro HD, which was Japan’s best-
selling smartphone model for April and  May , according to
research company BCN Inc.  “I’ve been planning to get a smartphone and try the voice
app since I saw it on TV,” said Kazuko Ohara, 81, who lives in
central Tokyo and plans to visit a mobile-phone store this month
to choose a handset model. “My eyesight is weak because I had a
cataract operation.”  Ohara, who doesn’t own a personal computer, has a KDDI
mobile phone and doesn’t mind switching carriers, she said.  “The voice app might help me write e-mails, and I want to
use the map function to go places,” she said.  Apple in Japan  Apple’s Siri voice-control app has been available in
Japanese for the iPhone 4S since March.  Japan   accounts  for 5
percent of Apple’s revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Globally, sales of voice-recognition software for
wireless devices may rise to $21.3 billion by 2018 from $3.5
billion last year, according to WinterGreen Research.  People 60 or older account for 24 percent of DoCoMo’s
customers, Yoshimatsu said. The carrier is ahead of rivals in
terms of marketing to the elderly, Moriyuki said.  “The other two carriers will probably follow DoCoMo,” he
said. “It’s a big business opportunity.”  Softbank doesn’t offer handset models or services targeted
specifically at the elderly, said Natsuko Kameda, a spokeswoman
for the Tokyo-based company.  Elderly Discounts  Elderly users are among KDDI’s priorities, said Keiichi
Sakurai, a spokesman for the company. “We’re trying to lure
elderly customers from the  NTT group  by offering discount rates
for those who use both our group’s fixed-phone and mobile-phone
services.”  Softbank and KDDI don’t disclose their users’ age
demographics, Sakurai and Kameda said.  DoCoMo plans to raise its total share of smartphone
subscriptions back to at least 50 percent in the fiscal year
that started April 1, Chief Financial Officer Kazuto Tsubouchi
said in a May 18 interview.  The carrier expects to boost smartphone sales to 13 million
units this fiscal year from 8.82 million a year earlier, with
net additions rising to 2.8 million from 2.28 million, it said
April 27.  ‘Young in Spirit’  While the iPhone initially eroded DoCoMo’s market share,
Apple’s dominance is weakening as new Android models are
introduced several times a year, Moriyuki said. DoCoMo is
releasing 16 smartphone models between June and August,
including Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S III and Sony’s
Xperia GX, the company said May 16.  “Each of the new models can compete with iPhones, with
improved memory capacity, speed or touch-panel sensitivity,”
Tsubouchi said in May. “The market isn’t driven solely by
iPhones any longer.”  Handsets using Android accounted for 58 percent of
smartphones in Japan as of Dec. 31, while Apple’s iOS-based
devices made up 37 percent, according to  estimates  by MM
Research Institute. Nine months earlier, in March 2011, iPhones
controlled 50 percent of the market and Android phones 40
percent.  DoCoMo’s  net income  in the year started April 1 may rise 20
percent to 557 billion yen ($7 billion) as sales increase 5
percent to 4.45 trillion yen, the company  forecast  in April,
citing higher data-transmission fees and handset sales.  “You can see possibilities of handsets tailored for old
people stimulating demand,” Dai-Ichi’s Nagahama said. “Japan’s
elderly are young in spirit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  