-- Dollar Shortage Seen in $2 Trillion Gap Says Morgan Stanley
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-18T13:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/dollar-shortage-seen-in-2-trillion-gap-says-morgan-stanley-1-.html
Central banks rebuilding foreign-
exchange reserves at the fastest pace since 2004 are crowding
out private investors seeking U.S. dollars, boosting demand even
as the  Federal Reserve  considers printing more currency.  After falling to an all-time low of 60.5 percent in the
second quarter of last year, the dollar’s  share  of global
reserves rose 1.6 percentage points to 62.1 percent in December,
the latest International Monetary Fund figures show. The buying
has left the private sector with $2 trillion less than it needs,
according to investment-flow data by Morgan Stanley, which sees
the dollar gaining 8.2 percent in 2012, the most in seven years.  While the Fed has created more than $2 trillion under its
stimulus  programs  since 2008, the flows signal that there may
actually be a shortage of dollars to meet demand as Europe’s
debt crisis deepens and the global economy slows. The dollar has
risen 3.5 percent since the end of April against a basket of the
most-widely traded currencies even amid speculation that the
Fed, which meets this week, may undertake the type of stimulus
measures that weakened it in the past.  “The market often assumes that people are long dollars,
but many of those dollars are held by central banks, which are
unlikely to move out,”  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London, said in a June 13
interview. “That leaves us with the private sector, which is
short,” meaning they don’t have enough of them, he said. “In
an environment where we see a global slowdown, the dollar will
be well supported.”  Dollar Scarcity  Morgan Stanley says the potential scarcity of dollars among
foreign private borrowers represents the U.S.’s net position
with lenders abroad of minus $2.4 trillion, adding $4.8 trillion
of U.S. financial  assets  held by central banks, and subtracting
$500 billion of foreign official assets held by the U.S.  That equals about $2 trillion of demand from foreign
private banks and companies. The gap has expanded from $400
billion in 2008, according to the New York-based firm. In 2002,
there was a dollar surplus of $900 billion, the data show.  “We expect the dollar to continue to strengthen in the
coming months on  risk aversion  stemming from the euro crisis,”
strategists at the investment banking unit of  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., wrote in a research report
dated June 15.  Buying Opportunity  The dollar extended last week’s 1 percent drop against the
euro as projections indicated politicians who support Greece’s
bailout won enough seats in elections to control parliament,
easing concern the nation would be forced out of the euro bloc.  The greenback strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.2590 per euro
at 9:38 a.m.  New York  time, adding to its four-month gain of 4.2
percent. It was 0.3 percent higher versus the yen at 78.96.
Japan’s currency is the only major one that has appreciated
against the dollar this quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The decline is an opportunity to buy, according to Stannard
and Barclays Plc. Morgan Stanley sees the dollar at $1.19 per
euro by year-end, from $1.2961 on Dec. 30, Stannard said. That
would be the biggest annual advance since the dollar surged
about 14 percent in 2005. Barclays, based in  London , also
forecasts the U.S. currency will finish the year at $1.19.  Strategists have raised their year-end estimates for the
dollar against the euro by about 4 percent since April, to
$1.25, after holding it at $1.30 for every day but two during
the first four months of the year, according to the median of 55
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar Bets  Aggregate bets the dollar will strengthen against the euro,
the yen, the Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, the
pound, the Swiss franc and the  Mexican peso  totaled 301,021
contracts as of June 12, according to Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  The record of 311,052 was set a week earlier, and compares
with a net 17,592 contracts betting on weakness as of May 1.  The dollar is being sought as  Europe ’s leaders struggle to
resolve the fiscal turmoil that began almost three years ago in
Greece and spread across the 17-nation currency bloc, prompting
the nation along with Ireland, Portugal and Spain to request
international aid.  Greece’s largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy and
Pasok, won enough seats to forge a parliamentary majority,
official projections showed after yesterday’s election.  Spanish Yield  Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged to a euro-era record
6.998 percent on June 14, less than a week after the fourth-
largest euro member requested a 100 billion-euro ($127 billion)
bailout for its banks. The similar-maturity Italian yield rose
to 6.342 percent, the highest since Jan. 20.  Deposits held by  foreign lenders  at the Fed climbed to $864
billion at the end of May, central bank data show. That’s the
most since October 2011 and more than twice the amount in
September 2009, before a new Greek government sparked the debt
crisis by disclosing a budget gap that was about twice what the
previous administration had declared.  For Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in London, the dollar will be the most vulnerable among the
Group of 10 currencies as the economy slows and monetary easing
by central banks around the world boosts demand for higher-
yielding alternatives.  “We expect further policy easing and further fiscal easing
in  China , which will improve the outlook for China and Asia,”
Sneyd said in a June 13 phone interview. “The levels of stress
will reduce and so there won’t be a shortage of dollars.”  Slowdown Signs  Industrial production  in the U.S. fell 0.1 in May as
factories turned out fewer vehicles and  consumer goods , the Fed
said on June 15 in Washington. Economists forecast a 0.1 percent
gain, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Claims for jobless benefits rose by 6,000 to 386,000 in the week
ended June 9, Labor Department figures showed the day before.
Economists had projected a drop to 375,000.  The People’s Bank of China cut borrowing costs for the
first time since 2008 on June 8, lowering the one-year lending
rate to 6.31 percent, to counter a deepening slowdown.  Brazil 
reduced its benchmark rate to a record 8.5 percent on May 31,
and signaled it will cut more to revive growth.  The IMF said on April 17 that world growth would slow to
3.5 percent in 2012 from 3.9 percent last year.  While the dollar may appreciate to less than $1.25 per euro
in the next three months, the gains probably won’t last as
attention turns to the U.S. fiscal position, said  Marcus Hettinger , a currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Shift Away’  “The risk is that the focus could shift away from
Europe,” Hettinger, who’s based in Zurich and expects the
dollar to end the year at current levels against the euro, said
in a telephone interview on June 15. “The U.S. has a  budget
deficit  that needs to be financed with capital inflows and U.S.
interest rates are very low.”  The  U.S. budget deficit  will be 8.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year, compared with 3.2 percent for the
euro bloc, according to April projections from the Washington-
based IMF. The  European Central Bank ’s main rate of 1 percent is
0.75 percentage point more than the upper limit of the Fed’s
benchmark rate, which has been in place since December 2008.  The dollar may find support as U.S. investor appetite for
foreign holdings diminishes while nations add stimulus and
global growth slows. The currency has gained 2.7 percent in the
past three months, which along with the pound is the biggest
increase after the yen among 10 developed-market counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
slipped 1.4 percent in the period.  Brazil Buys  Brazil boosted its holdings of U.S. Treasuries 19 percent
in the year through April, according to the Treasury. The
nation’s finance minister spoke of a “currency war” in
September 2010 as the real climbed against the greenback amid
the Fed’s asset-purchase program, known as quantitative easing,
or QE.  Signs of dollar scarcity are manifesting in corporate debt
markets.  Henkel AG, a Dusseldorf, Germany-based maker of industrial
adhesives, signed a five-year, 800 million-euro revolving credit
in March that charges a 50 basis-point premium if the loan
facility is drawn from in dollars, in addition to the standard
40 basis-point margin for other currencies, Bloomberg data show.  U.S. Growth  Paris-based  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , the maker of Chivas Regal,
would have to offer a higher interest margin borrowing in
dollars on a five-year 2.5 billion-euro  credit line , two people
with knowledge of the transaction said on April 4. They asked
not to be identified because the terms hadn’t been set.  Growth in the U.S. picked up amid the Fed’s two rounds of
QE, when it bought $2.3 trillion of bonds from December 2008 to
June 2011. The dollar fell against all of its 16 major peers in
the period.  After expanding at a faster pace than its major peers the
past two years, GDP will grow 2.2 percent this year, compared
with an average 1.32 percent in the G-10, according to Bloomberg
surveys of economists.  “We are bullish dollar because the  U.S. economy  is in OK
shape, we don’t think they will do another round of QE and
global risk appetite will remain muted,”  Paul Robinson , London-
based global head of foreign-exchange research at Barclays, said
in a June 15 phone interview.  A survey of 95 global fixed income money managers from the
U.K., Europe, Japan and the U.S. showed that they held the most
dollars relative to benchmark indexes since the study started in
May 1989, Bank of America strategists said in a June 10 report.  Cumulative Inflows  That’s even as a separate survey by Bank of America showed
that 44 percent of respondents who do business with the bank
predict the Fed will undertake a third round of QE within the
next four months, up from 31 percent in May.  Weekly cumulative inflows into Treasuries last week were
stronger than the five-day average over the past year, according
to Bank of New York Mellon Corp. customer flow data. Fixed-
income securities in Italy and Spain saw outflows, while inflows
into German debt were lower than average, according to the bank.  The U.S. currency will remain a haven until the situation
in Europe is sorted out,  Michael Woolfolk , a senior currency
strategist at Bank of New York, said in a June 13 interview,
when he predicted the dollar will strengthen to $1.17 per euro
in three months.  “The only chance that the dollar has for any sustained
weakness, other than an occasional daily correction, is for a
resolution of the Greek debt crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  