-- Drones Most Accident-Prone U.S. Air Force Craft: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-06-18T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/drones-most-accident-prone-u-s-air-force-craft-bgov-barometer.html
The U.S. military’s three biggest
drones, made by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and General Atomics
Aeronautical Systems Inc., are the most accident-prone aircraft
in the Air Force fleet.  The BGOV Barometer shows Northrop’s Global Hawk and General
Atomics’s Predator and Reaper unmanned aerial vehicles have had
a combined 9.31 accidents for every 100,000 hours of flying.
That’s the highest rate of any category of aircraft and more
than triple the fleet-wide average of 3.03, according to
military data compiled by Bloomberg.  The June 11 crash of a drone near Bloodsworth Island on
 Maryland ’s Eastern Shore illustrated the vehicles’ propensity
for accidents, known as “mishaps” in military parlance. The
concern is that drones’ safety record won’t improve as they’re
increasingly deployed for testing, border surveillance and other
missions in U.S. airspace, said Jay Stanley, a spokesman for the
 American Civil Liberties Union  in Washington.  “If we have 30,000 flying pieces of robotic hardware
buzzing above our heads, Americans are going to want to be very
certain that it’s safe, in addition to putting in place good
rules to protect our privacy,” Stanley said in a telephone
interview.  President  Barack Obama  in February signed legislation
directing the  Federal Aviation Administration  to develop a plan
by Sept. 30, 2015 for integrating civil unmanned aerial vehicles
into national airspace.  129 Accidents  The Air Force in a 15-year period through Sept. 30 recorded
129 accidents involving its medium- and high-altitude drones:
the MQ-1 Predator, MQ-9 Reaper and RQ-4 Global Hawk. The figures
include accidents that resulted in at least $500,000 in damage
or destroyed aircraft during missions around the globe.  Vertical-lift aircraft, including helicopters and the tilt-
rotor V-22 Osprey made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Textron Inc. (TXT) , had the
second-highest accident rate, with 6.33 per 100,000 flight
hours. Training planes had the lowest rate at 1.69.  The higher incidence of drone accidents is partly due to
the new technology, according to Peter Singer, a senior fellow
at the  Brookings Institution , a nonprofit policy organization in
Washington.  “There tend to be more mishaps and mistakes with any new
technology, manned or unmanned,” Singer said in an e-mail. When
the kinks get worked out and expertise builds, “crash rates
tend to go down.”  Drone Hits Target  As the military flew drones in  Iraq ,  Afghanistan  and
elsewhere during the past decade, their accident rates declined
to 5.13 per 100,000 flight hours in fiscal 2011 from 62.06 in
fiscal 2001.  The Predator’s accident rate fell to 4.86 last year,
compared with the F-16 Fighting Falcon’s 3.89 rate when the
fighter jet was at the same point in its service life.  Unmanned planes also tend to be used in different ways than
manned versions, Singer said. In Afghanistan, U.S. military
personnel “were tracking a high-value target and didn’t have
any missiles left,” he said. “So they flew the drone into the
target.”  According to an  Air Force  definition, “a mishap is an
unplanned occurrence, or series of occurrences.”  The drone that was destroyed after crashing into a swamp
about 22 miles east of Naval Air Station Patuxent River last
week was a Global Hawk, the largest and most expensive type of
military drone, costing $233 million each. The Pentagon says it
wants to spend $3.39 billion on unmanned aircraft in the fiscal
year starting Oct. 1.  Replacing U-2  The cause of the crash is still under investigation. Most
drone accidents are caused by component failures or operator
error.  The Global Hawk has an accident rate of 15.16 per 100,000
flight hours, almost three times that of the aircraft it’s
designed to replace, the Cold War-era U-2 spy plane.  “It’s difficult to make direct comparisons between
unmanned and manned systems regarding loss” because of their
age and technological differences,  Randy Belote , a spokesman for
 Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop, said in a telephone
interview. “These systems fly much longer because you don’t
have to land for crew comfort and safety.”  The Predator, made by General Atomics, has had 9.26
accidents per 100,000 flight hours, while its Reaper has had
7.96. Kimberly Kasitz, a spokeswoman for Poway, California-based
General Atomics Aeronautical Systems, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  