-- Drugmakers Don’t Owe Sales Force Overtime, Top Court Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-18T15:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/drugmakers-don-t-owe-overtime-to-sales-force-high-court-says.html
Drugmakers don’t have to pay
overtime to their sales representatives, the U.S. Supreme Court
ruled in a decision that saves the industry billions of dollars
and marks a defeat for the Obama administration.  The justices, voting 5-4 in a case involving a
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  unit, said pharmaceutical salespeople are
exempt from a federal wage-and-hour law. The court is nearing
the end of its term, with rulings on the health-care overhaul
and Arizona’s immigration law still to come.  More than a dozen wage-and-hour cases had been filed
against drugmakers -- including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and units of  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  -- by
workers charged with persuading doctors to prescribe the
company’s products. Business groups said billions of dollars
were at stake.  The Obama administration threw its support behind the sales
representatives in a 2009 court filing. The administration said
the exemption in the Fair Labor Standards Act for “outside
salesmen” doesn’t apply to drug-industry representatives.  The court today said that position wasn’t entitled to any
special deference because the Labor Department laid out its
views in court papers rather than through a formal rulemaking
proceeding.  The case split the court along ideological lines. Justice
 Samuel Alito  wrote the majority opinion, joined by Chief Justice
John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy  and
Clarence Thomas.  Promoting Product  Two former Glaxo salesmen, Michael Shane Christopher and
Frank Buchanan, argued that the sales exception doesn’t apply
because drug industry representatives only promote the product -
- and don’t actually sell it -- during their visits to doctors’
offices.  Alito rejected that reasoning. The sales representatives’
“end goal was not merely to make physicians aware of the
medically appropriate uses of a particular drug,” he
wrote.“Rather, it was to convince physicians actually to
prescribe the drug in appropriate cases.”  In dissent, Justice  Stephen Breyer  said a sales
representative “does not take orders” and “does not
consummate a sale.”  The justices focused their ruling on the particular
characteristics of the pharmaceutical industry, limiting the
impact of the decision on other businesses.  Sales Techniques  Some drugmaker shares rose. Glaxo’s American depositary
receipts, each representing two ordinary shares, rose 28 cents
to $45.35 at 11:18 a.m. in trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Glaxo said its representatives are trained in sales
techniques, learning how to obtain a commitment from doctors to
prescribe the company’s medicines. Glaxo also said its
salespeople are paid in part through incentives that are tied to
sales volume and market share in assigned territory.  The drug industry said the 2009 Labor Department filing
marked a reversal of 70 years of practice.  The suit, which sought class action status, targeted
GlaxoSmithKline LLC, a U.S. unit of the London-based drugmaker.  The case is Christopher v. SmithKline Beecham, 11-204.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  