-- LME Bid by Hong Kong Seen as Way to Expand Into China
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-06-18T16:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/lme-bid-by-hong-kong-seen-as-way-to-expand-into-china.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd.’s bid for the  London  Metal Exchange, the most expensive
bourse merger over $1 billion, is seen as a way for the LME to
expand into China, the world’s largest buyer of metals.  China became the largest copper user in 2001, beating the
U.S., and now accounts for 40 percent of global copper demand,
compared with 13 percent in 2000, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc. The offer of 107.6 pounds a share, or 180 times
LME’s 2011 net income, requires approvals from LME shareholders
and the U.K. Financial Services Authority. It doesn’t need
shareholder consent in Hong Kong.  The LME has 732 approved storage facilities in 37 locations
in 14 countries from  Singapore  to the U.S.  China  has prohibited
foreign futures exchanges from establishing warehouses in the
country for physical delivery since 2008 to ensure market
stability. The Asian nation now accounts for 20 percent to 25
percent of LME trading, according to the Hong Kong Exchanges.  “The Hong Kong bid has proximity to the Chinese market and
potential entry to the Chinese market,” said Nic Brown, an
analyst at Natixis SA in London. “China is certainly very
important.”  The Hong Kong Exchanges’s ability to bid for the LME
signals that the hurdle on warehouses appears to have been
cleared, according to  Thomas McMahon , a former chief executive
officer of the Singapore Mercantile Exchange. “To do that
independently in China, no one has ever been successful
before,” McMahon said by phone today from Singapore, referring
to attempts by a foreign exchange to establish warehouses in
China.  LME Plans  The LME wants to expand its warehouse network into China,
 Martin Abbott , the exchange’s chief executive officer, said in
May. It opened its first Asian office in Singapore in 2010 and
introduced new contracts with the Singapore Exchange Ltd. to
attract investors. BOCI Global Commodities (U.K.) Ltd., a Bank
of China Ltd. unit, became the first Chinese company member of
the LME this year.  “Their full potential will not be realized until they can
tap the geography,” Charles Li, chief executive officer of the
Hong Kong Exchanges, said June 15. “They need China expertise.
They need  Asia  expertise. And we have a lot of it.”  First Acquisition  Hong Kong is the only place in China where investors can
freely buy and sell shares in Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the biggest lender by value, and PetroChina Co.,
Asia’s largest company. The deal would be Hong Kong Exchanges’
first overseas acquisition.  Hong Kong Exchanges shares dropped 26 percent since Feb.
18, when the  South China Morning Post  first reported the bid.
The  Bloomberg World Exchanges Index (BNWEXCH)  has dropped 15 percent in
that time.  The offer price is “extremely expensive,” according to a
client note from Morgan Stanley written by  Anil Agarwal  and
Isabella He. The London bourse will remain under the watch of
the FSA, meaning the deal may avoid national interest and market
power concerns that prompted market regulators and politicians
to block other exchange mergers.  “There’s a much lower level of political concern about the
LME than there would be about the takeover of the London Stock
Exchange,” said Ruben Lee, chief executive officer of Oxford
Finance Group, a London company specializing in financial and
commodity markets. “U.K. regulators will maintain their control
over the operations of the exchange. There will be concern about
the fitness and the properness of any new owner, but I’m sure
that Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing are going to satisfy that.”  First Reaction  Hong Kong Exchanges had the biggest decline among the 49
companies in the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  as investors had their first
chance to react to news of the bid today. Shares of
Intercontinental Exchange Inc., which lost out to Hong Kong in
the bidding for the LME, climbed 0.6 percent in  New York  trading
today.  Singapore Exchange Ltd’s $8.3 billion bid for Sydney-based
ASX Ltd. was blocked in April 2011 by  Australia ’s government on
national interest grounds. The European Commission vetoed NYSE
Euronext’s $9.53 billion sale to  Deutsche Boerse  on Feb. 1,
saying the deal to create the world’s biggest bourse owner would
have led to a “near-monopoly” in European exchange-traded
derivatives.  Most Expensive  At 180 times trailing net income, Hong Kong Exchanges’ bid
is the most expensive of any bourse deal above $1 billion since
at least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The next
highest multiple was 66 times net income paid for CBOT Holdings
Inc. in 2007 by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  Chicago-based CME overtook Hong
Kong Exchanges as the world’s biggest exchange operator by
market value earlier this year.  Hong Kong Exchanges doesn’t need shareholder approval for
the deal, Henry Law, the bourse’s head of corporate
communications said by phone. At 1.39 billion pounds ($2.18
billion), it’s worth less than 25 percent of the bourse’s $15.66
billion market value, meaning it’s merely a “disclosable”
transaction under the city’s  listing rules .  “Hong Kong is very much known for its link to China and
its initial public offerings in equities, so this is a very
smart way to diversify their revenues,” Simmy Grewal, London-
based senior analyst at Aite Group LLC, said in a phone
interview. “The fact that Hong Kong doesn’t have experience in
commodities is a plus. They’ll let the LME do the job since they
are the experts. That’s what’s needed for this deal.”  The LME hired Moelis & Co. to advise it on the takeover,
while Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP handled the corporate
work and  Jones Day  acted as antitrust counsel. Hong Kong
Exchanges is being advised by UBS AG and N.M. Rothschild & Sons
Ltd. Allen & Overy LLP served as legal counsel to the Asian
bourse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  