-- LME Control by China Unlikely to Be an Issue, Holman Lawyer Says
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-06-18T07:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/lme-control-by-china-unlikely-to-be-an-issue-holman-lawyer-says.html
The London Metal Exchange’s takeover
by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. is unlikely to raise
issues about  China ’s control of the exchange, said Robert
Finney, partner at Holman Fenwick Willan LLP in London who
specializes in financial services and regulation. He made the
following comments in an e-mail yesterday.  “Although the merger must be approved by the Financial
Services Authority as the LME’s regulator, that should be a
swift process. The FSA has only 3 months to object following the
receipt of formal notice from Hong Kong Exchanges of its
intention to acquire control, and I am sure that Hong Kong
Exchanges and other potential acquirers were discussed with the
FSA.  “There are unlikely to be issues about Chinese
control of the exchange. It is worth remembering that Martin Wheatley, managing director of the relevant unit at the FSA, the
Conduct Business Unit, was chair of the Hong Kong Securities and
Futures Commission for almost six years, until mid-2011 when he
joined the FSA.  “While some concerns may be expressed about implications
of the acquisition for the future of the LME, the transaction
terms seem to ensure not only the continuation and planned
development of the LME’s business model but also a
robust governance structure.  “Note, too, that one of the LME’s express reasons for
selecting Hong Kong Exchanges from among the bidders is
transaction certainty. While FSA approval is a condition of the
transaction, the LME Holdings board clearly consider that
neither that nor any competition issues will delay or derail the
deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  