-- The New Appeal of Emerging-Market Small-Cap Funds
-- B y   L e w i s   B r a h a m
-- 2012-06-18T19:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/the-new-appeal-of-emerging-market-small-cap-funds.html
     Emerging-market small-cap stocks seem reminiscent of those
old Miller Lite commercials that claimed the beer not only
tasted great but was less filling.  According to financial research firm
MSCI, emerging-market small-cap stocks delivered better
long-term performance than their large-cap brethren, with less
volatility. That amounted to a 14.1 percent annualized return
during the past decade, among the best of any asset class.
They've also provided better portfolio diversification in
recent years. While price movements of emerging-market
large-cap stocks were in line with those of the Standard &
Poor's 500-stock index 84 percent of the time in the past
three years, that figure was only 69 percent for small caps.  Pure Plays  It’s no surprise that a flock of money managers want in
on the game. Some 12 mutual and exchange-traded funds now
invest in emerging-market stocks with market caps of less than
$2 billion, and seven of them opened in the past year. Todd
McClone, manager of the William Blair Emerging Markets Small
Cap Growth Fund, highlights the sector’s diversification
benefits: “If you look at the broad large-cap emerging-markets
index, a lot of the stocks in it are exposed to the developed
world, which is in crisis or slow-growth mode,” he says.
“Small caps are more exposed to domestic consumption.” That
means they're less sensitive to problems in Europe and the
U.S.  McClone wants to invest in companies selling goods to the
expanding middle class in Asia and Latin America. His analysis
of the top 10 stocks in MSCI’s emerging-market small-cap index
shows that 91 percent of their revenue come from their home
economies. By contrast, 58 percent of revenue from the top 10
large-cap stocks are from domestic sources. Samsung, the
largest emerging-market stock, derives just 17 percent of its
revenue from Korea -- much of its sales occur in the
U.S., Japan and Europe.  Smoother Ride  Perhaps more surprising is that during the past 17 years
the average emerging-market small-cap stock has been less
volatile than the average emerging-market large-cap stock.
It's just the opposite in the U.S., where small caps have much
bigger price swings than large caps.  Having more return with less risk is at odds with modern
portfolio theory, which posits that the level of investment
risks are commensurate with rewards. “The small- and mid-cap
index is more exposed to the domestic economy, so there is a
higher weighting of stable consumer sectors,” explains Ashish
Swarup, manager of the new Fidelity Emerging Markets Discovery
Fund. “Also, there are a lot of fund flows coming in and going
out of large-cap emerging-market stocks from ETFs and mutual
funds, which makes them more volatile.”  Therein lies a conundrum. If hot money makes conventional
emerging-market stocks volatile, what will happen as more
small-cap funds join the fray? Since small stocks are illiquid
to begin with, their advantages may disappear as they get more
attention and fund managers exploit any pricing
inefficiencies. That hot money can make them volatile. During
a serious downturn, the sector has proven itself vulnerable to
a liquidity squeeze. The three emerging-market small-cap funds
that existed prior to 2008 lost more than the Vanguard
Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund’s 52 percent decline that
year.  Managing Downside  As a first line of defense against such risks, manager
Fritz Kaegi of the Columbia Acorn Emerging Markets Fund says
he owns a well-diversified portfolio of high-quality growth
and dividend-paying companies with low debt and reasonable
valuations. He also tries to avoid some of the volatile fund
flows from ETFs and mutual funds into emerging markets by
"owning stocks in emerging markets but also owning stocks
listed in developed markets that have emerging-markets
exposure,” he says. “Those developed stocks have more
liquidity because they’re not driven by hot money ETF fund
flows like emerging-market stocks.”  Kaegi calls these investments "orphan stocks" because he
says analysts often ignore them and have trouble understanding
them. That, he says, means they can be bought at a reasonable
price. One example he cites is Switzerland’s Dufry
Group, which owns duty-free shops throughout Latin America.  Corporate Governance  For Fidelity’s Swarup, finding companies with good
corporate governance is the key to downside protection. “The
main focus of our research is looking at the company’s
principal shareholder or founder and seeing how the company
got its assets and how the principal shareholder got his
wealth," he says. "Is he linked to politicians? Is he an
honest guy? Our experience has been if there’s any sort of
political linkage or acquiring assets not through
traditional, transparent means, we steer clear because
politics in emerging markets can change very quickly.”  Swarup also looks for companies with truly independent
boards of directors and executive compensation plans aligned
with shareholder interests.  Flexible Strategies  Perhaps the easiest way to play defense
is, perversely, to have the flexibility to invest in
larger, more liquid stocks. Although Baron Emerging Markets
Fund's Michael Kass -- like other emerging-market small-cap
managers -- seeks companies that profit off domestic
growth, he typically keeps about a quarter of his portfolio in
large caps.  For example, Kass owns $50 billion Internet giant Tencent
Holdings, which is about as far from a small cap as you can
get. The Chinese company has 700 million users in one of the
world’s fastest-growing nations. “There is no other company
that has the kind of market dominance and the ability to
create new products in the Internet space and monetize them in
China,” he says. For Kass, it makes no sense to pass up that
big of an opportunity.
 