-- The Problem With Henry May Derail U.S. Recovery
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/the-problem-with-henry-may-derail-u-s-recovery.html
Mac McKay entered this year ready to
spend after sales at his flower shop in Arlington, Virginia,
rebounded. He planned to take his first vacation since the
recession and start a $30,000 kitchen renovation.  Those plans are dead.  “We’ve cut back on a lot of things we used to do,” said
McKay, 62, who watched revenue at Garden City Florist sink 15
percent this year. “You can see people tightening. They were
more free with their money last year.”  McKay is what retail consultants call a Henry: High Earner
Not Rich Yet. This cohort has helped a gamut of retailers from
 Target Corp. (TGT)  to  Saks Inc. (SKS)  get through a spotty U.S. recovery.
Now, as the global economy slows, the European debt crisis grows
and U.S. unemployment ticks up, Henrys are tapping the brakes
after just becoming comfortable spending again, said  Pam Danziger , the president of Unity Marketing.  “They are the heavy-lifters of the consumer economy,”
said Danziger, whose consulting firm is based in Stevens,
Pennsylvania. If they become more cautious, it “would be very
bad for the economy.”  There are signs that consumers have already slowed down.
U.S. retail sales fell 0.2 percent in May, following a similar
decline in April, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.
Sales excluding automobiles slumped by the most in two years.  Those results followed disappointing annual profit
forecasts from a range of consumer companies.  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) ,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , Lowe’s Cos. and  Tempur-Pedic International
Inc. (TPX)  all cut projections, while predictions from  Lululemon
Athletica Inc. (LULU) , Limited Brands Inc.,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Clorox Co. (CLX) ,
trailed analysts’ estimates.  Influential Consumers  Henrys earn between $100,000 and $250,000 a year and
account for 21 million U.S. households, according to Danziger.
They represent 90 percent of affluent consumers, which are
households in the top 20 percent by income that account for 40
percent of  consumer spending .  They are influential because they interact with a wide
range of retail brands, Danziger said. They’re regular customers
at such “accessible” luxury purveyors as  Coach Inc. (COH) , Tiffany
and Restoration Hardware Inc. as well as premium mass brands
like Ann Taylor,  Gap Inc. (GPS) ’s Banana Republic and  Williams-Sonoma
Inc. (WSM)  They splurge on pricier names like Chanel and Hermes, and
they shop at discounters.  In 2010, retailers didn’t need Henrys to come roaring back.
The demographic above them, the so-called ultra-affluents who
belong to the top 2 percent of earners, went shopping again
after the 2009 recession forced even them to cut back.  Wealth Effect  Henrys followed last year as the economy appeared to
improve and helped bring another solid year of retail sales
growth. Their confidence might not last. While they have
discretionary income to spend, they can be fickle, according to
 Michael McNamara , vice president at Mastercard Advisors
SpendingPulse, which tracks consumer spending. Their desire to
make purchases hinges on how rich they think they are -- the so-
called wealth effect -- and there are a lot of reasons they
might be feeling more middle-class.  “They don’t have a layer of wealth that’s permanent and
insulating them, so they are much more susceptible” to swings
in confidence, McNamara said. “The ultra-rich are insulated
from most of the variables going on right now.”  Negative headlines, stock market performance and home
values have much more sway on Henrys’ spending habits. Many are
also small-business owners and see shifts in the economy first.
McKay, whose shop is in one of the wealthiest counties in the
country, said a top customer went from spending $2,000 on
Mother’s Day to less than half that. Another long-time client
recently lost his job as a rocket scientist.  Horror Stories  “Every time you see someone, they tell you these horror
stories about their company going down,” McKay said.
“Everywhere you look, there are layoffs. It has everyone
spooked.”  The not-rich-yets aren’t the only ones getting jittery. Liz
McDermott runs an Atlanta interior design business and pulls in
six figures a year, placing her in the ultra-affluent category.
She just passed on a $4,000 Oscar de la Renta dress because she
has put herself on a budget.  “I don’t see me throwing around the kind of money I used
to for a while,” said McDermott, 47, who says she wouldn’t have
thought twice about buying the gown six months ago. “I’m
starting to save more.”  Roman Artifacts  That has left many companies relying on the wealthiest of
the wealthy for growth. Sahil Bhasin runs Coomi, a jeweler that
sells $20,000 necklaces crafted from 2,000-year-old Roman
artifacts. Two of his biggest customers, Neiman Marcus Group
Inc. and Saks, asked him to provide lower-priced pieces to
attract Henrys.  Last year, he obliged them and introduced pieces below
$10,000. His $5,000 earrings aren’t selling. Yet he can’t keep
$58,000 gold bracelets in stock.  “It’s definitely the ultra-rich” buying our jewelry, said
Bhasin, whose company is based in Secaucus,  New Jersey . The
market below that has been tough because “that customer isn’t
shopping.”  Hugh Bate has also witnessed Henrys’ retreat at Chariots of
 Palm Beach , the car dealership he runs in  West Palm Beach ,
Florida. Moving a Morgan Aero SuperSport for $190,000 has never
been easier while used Mercedes and Jaguars a quarter the price
aren’t selling, he said.  “The wealthier clientele is still buying, whereas people
in the middle of the road have slowed,” Bate said.  Flash Sales  At  Luxeyard Inc. (LUXR) , a flash-sales website with 600,000 users,
pricey wares such as $300 Givenchy scarves are selling briskly
while sales of cheaper  luxury goods  tailed off, according to
Chief Operating Officer Steve Beauregard.  Leather couches priced above $5,000 are selling out while
less expensive ones aren’t. Now, the Los Angeles-based retailer,
which targets households with six-figure incomes, is offering
less merchandise in that tier just below the top end.  The question is whether the uber-wealthy will spend enough
to keep the good times going. That’s what’s happening so far at
Manhattan Motorcars, where there are no signs of a slowdown,
according to general manager John Kaufman. Lamborghinis are sold
out, waiting lists are growing and the firm is headed for the
best sales performance in its 17 years.  Our customers “don’t rely on their Wall Street bonus to
purchase the car,” Kaufman said. “They’re fine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  