-- Health-Care Ruling Cloaked in Secrecy Spurs Guessing Game
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-18T16:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/health-care-ruling-cloaked-in-court-secrecy-spurs-guessing-game.html
In the next two weeks,  John Roberts 
will sit in his high-backed, black leather chair in the U.S.
Supreme Court’s marble courtroom and tell a hushed crowd that
the justices are about to rule on health care.  It will be the most dramatic moment in Roberts’s seven
years as chief justice and one of the biggest for  Barack Obama 
as president. The country will learn the fate of the law that
has largely defined Obama’s presidency, a measure approved on a
party-line vote in Congress with a promise to provide health
insurance to almost every American while overhauling an industry
that makes up about 18 percent of the economy.  “It’s the biggest case since Bush v. Gore,” said Kannon Shanmugam, a Washington lawyer at Williams & Connolly LLP who
has argued 11 Supreme Court cases. “It’s the perfect storm of a
substantial constitutional issue and an issue of enormous
practical importance that affects millions of Americans. And the
decision happens to be coming down right in the middle of a
presidential campaign.”  The court is scheduled to issue the final nine rulings in
its nine-month term by the end of next week, including decisions
on  Arizona ’s immigration law and on the Federal Communications
Commission’s crackdown on indecent programming. The justices
will release opinions on June 21 and June 25 and will probably
add days to their calendar next week.  While the health-care case could come on any of those days,
the court often issues its most divisive decisions at the very
end of its term. The justices issued four rulings today.  Menu of Options  No matter what the health-care decision says, it will alter
the course of the presidential campaign. The presumptive
Republican nominee,  Mitt Romney , has called for the measure to
be repealed and replaced with a plan relying more heavily on
private markets.  Twenty-six states and a small-business trade group are
contesting the law, focusing on the requirement that Americans
either get insurance by 2014 or pay a penalty. The challengers
say that mandate exceeds Congress’ constitutional power over
interstate commerce by forcing people to buy a product.  It’s an argument that some justices such as  Antonin Scalia 
have suggested they back.  There are four basic ways the court could rule:  It can uphold the entire measure. This would be the most
straightforward approach and would give Obama an election-year
triumph while focusing attention on Romney’s call for repeal.  Fifth Vote  Such a ruling would require at least one of the court’s
five Republican appointees to side with the president. Three
days of arguments in March suggested that Roberts and Justice
 Anthony Kennedy  were the most likely candidates among the five
to back the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  The court would be keeping intact the law’s expansion of
the Medicaid program for the poor to millions of additional
people; the system of online insurance markets that will make it
easier for millions more to buy policies; and payment cuts to
providers under the Medicare program for the elderly.  The justices also would be leaving in force provisions --
already in effect -- that close a gap in Medicare prescription-
drug coverage, allow 2.5 million young adults to stay on their
parents’ insurance until age 26 and provide free mammograms,
colonoscopies and flu shots.  A ruling upholding the law would let insurers, hospitals,
drug companies and device makers continue preparing for the
measure, which will take full effect in 2014.  “This does eliminate one level of uncertainty,” said  Paul Heldman , a health-policy analyst at Potomac Research Group in
 Washington . “That said, the election outcome creates probably
an equal level of uncertainty, or maybe something close to it.”  Partial Rejection  The court could invalidate part of the law. Such a ruling,
which would start with the insurance requirement, would be a
blow to Obama, undercutting his signature domestic achievement
as he tries to convince voters he should be returned to office.  Should the court strike the insurance requirement, both the
Obama administration and challengers say the justices must also
toss out one of the law’s most popular provisions: its
requirement that insurers offer policies to people with pre-
existing conditions and charge them the same rates as other
policyholders.  The administration says rejecting the mandate while keeping
the pre-existing condition rule would create a “death spiral,”
in which only patients with costly health issues would obtain
insurance. That would lead to higher premiums, which would
prompt healthy policyholders to drop coverage, causing more rate
increases, the government says.  ‘Worst’ Outcome  Heldman said that invalidating only the mandate while
leaving the pre-existing condition rule intact would be “the
worst of all worlds” for insurance companies such as
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   In addition to challenging the mandate, the states say the
Medicaid expansion improperly coerces them into spending more of
their own funds. Medicaid ties federal dollars to a state’s
participation in the program under rules laid down in
Washington. In a potential wrinkle to the case, the high court
could throw out that expansion either in addition to, or instead
of, the insurance mandate.  The court could throw out the entire statute. The justices
could base their judgment on the grounds that Congress wouldn’t
have enacted the measure without one of its core provisions.  New Deal  Such a ruling would mark the boldest rejection of a federal
law since the 1930s, when the  Supreme Court  overturned part of
the National Industrial Recovery Act during President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal.  It might also prove complicated. Cuts in Medicare-
reimbursement rates have already formed the basis of millions of
payments to providers, according to the administration. Other
parts of the law have been amended, and their legal status might
be unclear in the aftermath of the ruling.  Finally, the court could put off the ruling. The justices
could deliver a surprise and say they can’t resolve the matter
until the first penalties are assessed in 2015. They devoted the
first day of the March arguments to that question, suggesting
from the bench that they were inclined to rule now.  A 5-4 ruling striking down all or part of the law would
almost certainly divide the court along party-based lines, with
the Republican-appointed justices in the majority and the
Democratic appointees in dissent. That sort of a split would
leave the court open to criticism that its ruling was driven by
politics, rather than legal reasoning.  Political Slant  “If five justices appointed by Republicans overturn the
signature legislative accomplishment of this Democratic
president, the public is likely to see it as judicial
activism,” said  Adam Winkler , a constitutional law professor at
the  University of California  at Los Angeles School of Law.  Three-quarters of Americans say the Supreme Court will be
influenced by politics when it rules on the health-care law,
according to a Bloomberg National  Poll  conducted in March. A  New
York  Times poll conducted May 31-June 3 found that 76 percent of
those surveyed believed the justices sometimes let their
personal or political views influence their decisions.  That’s one reason why the stakes may be as high for Roberts
as for Obama.  “It’ll be the decision that his court is most associated
with up till now,” said Irv Gornstein, executive director of
the Supreme Court Institute at  Georgetown University Law Center 
in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  