-- Egypt Stocks, Bonds Fall as Military Curtails President’s Powers
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-18T13:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/egypt-stocks-bonds-fall-as-military-curtails-president-s-powers.html
Egyptian stocks fell, entering a
 bear market , and dollar bonds dropped after the military
curtailed the powers of the nation’s newly elected president.
Three-month bill yields jumped to a record.  The benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  slumped 3.4 percent to 4,267.87
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the lowest level in almost five
months. The gauge retreated more than 20 percent from the peak
of 5,452.03 on March 7, signaling a bear market to some
investors.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  lost the most in more
than eight months. The yield on the 5.75 percent dollar bonds
due April 2020 climbed 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 7.02 percent, the highest in four weeks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country’s ruling military council issued a declaration
yesterday after polls closed in the first post- Hosni Mubarak 
election, giving itself sole authority over its affairs,
including the budget and personnel. It also acquired the power
to name the 100-member committee that will draft a new
constitution, and objection rights to any articles drafted that
are deemed “counter to national security interests.”  The market is down “on the back of the military’s
announcement, which puts Egypt in an open-ended transition
period,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales
desk at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.  The military’s announcement came hours before the  Muslim
Brotherhood  said its candidate Mohamed Mursi beat Ahmed Shafik,
Hosni Mubarak’s last prime minister, in Egypt’s first free
presidential election. Shafik’s campaign has disputed the count.
Official results of the election are due by June 21.  Potential Clashes  “If Mursi really wins you are heading towards a potential
clash with the legislative power, the military council,” Dawood
said. “Assuming Shafik wins, the streets are going to consider
it a reversal of the revolution.”  The Brotherhood and its Freedom and Justice Party will join
a mass protest planned for tomorrow against the military’s
declaration, Hazim Farouk, a party leader, said on the group’s
Facebook page.  Egypt ’s military council dissolved the country’s five-
month-old parliament, of which the Freedom and Justice Party
held almost half of the seats, after the constitutional court
ruled the law under which it was elected was invalid. The fate
of the constitutional-writing committee, voted for by the
legislature’s members before the ruling, is still unclear.  ‘Credit Negative’  The ruling is “credit negative,” Moody’s Investors
Service said in an e-mailed statement today. “Heightened
political uncertainty will likely prove a setback to the
economy, which was just regaining domestic and foreign creditor
confidence,” Moody’s said.  The company cut Egypt’s credit rating four times since the
start of uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak last
year to B2, five levels below investment grade.  “It was expected the military council would try to make
sure their future in the future of the country’s political life
was sustained,” Anthony Simond, London-based  emerging markets 
investment analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc., said by
phone. “But it presents more turmoil and unpredictability for
investors. We’d hoped at this stage we’d have a new parliament
and president and that doesn’t seem like it’s going to happen
any time soon.”  Orascom Construction, the country’s largest publicly traded
builder, plunged 4.8 percent, the most since Oct. 3, to 231.08
pounds.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest publicly traded Arab
investment bank, dropped 3.7 percent to 9.62 pounds, the lowest
since July 2005.  Declining Demand  Egypt fell 38 percent short of its 4 billion Egyptian-pound
($661 million) fundraising target at an auction of treasury
bills today. The average yield on three month bills surged 30
basis points from the previous sale to 14.753 percent, the
highest on record since Bloomberg started tracking the data in
2006. The nine-month yield rose five basis points to 15.905
percent.  The country plans to rely on sales of bills and bonds to
fund about three-quarters of the  budget deficit  in the fiscal
year that starts in July, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said
last month.  Five-year credit default swaps dropped one basis point to
654 basis points today, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles data from the privately-negotiated
market. The rate has been the highest in the  Middle East  since
October. The Egyptian pound was little changed at 6.0498 a
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  