-- Lehman Creditors Drop Legal Action Against Geithner
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-18T22:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/lehman-creditors-drop-legal-action-against-geithner.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
creditors dropped a legal action against U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  after he agreed to answer questions in writing
about the defunct investment bank’s failure.  Lehman’s committee of creditors asked a judge in February
to force Geithner to give a deposition in Lehman’s lawsuit
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which alleged the bank siphoned
$8.6 billion out of Lehman during the 2008 credit crisis,
helping to cause its collapse. A U.S. district judge in
Washington closed the case today after creditors agreed to end
their action, according to a federal court filing.  Geithner was president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York  when Lehman collapsed. He held discussions in the week
before the bankruptcy filing with Richard Fuld and James Dimon,
Lehman’s and JPMorgan’s chief executive officers, on the
collateral that JPMorgan was demanding for its loans, according
to creditors’ court filings. He also met with Dimon and  Henry Paulson , then U.S. Treasury Secretary, to discuss “concerns”
that Dimon was using the crisis to strengthen JPMorgan at
Lehman’s expense, creditors said.  Treasury Refusal  The Treasury wouldn’t let Geithner answer creditors’
questions in person, saying he had spoken publicly about the
firm’s collapse “on multiple occasions before Congress and
other government bodies,” and would supplement previous help
provided to Lehman by responding in writing.  Geithner responded in writing to questions by the creditors
and New York-based JPMorgan on April 30. Creditors have no more
questions for him, they said in a court filing.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment on the bank’s questions to Geithner.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, has returned $699 million
to Lehman, which still demands the rest of the $8.6 billion.
Along with the lawsuit, they are fighting over $6.3 billion in
claims that the bank filed against the defunct firm.  JPMorgan, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s brokerage
around the time of the 2008 bankruptcy, sued Lehman back after
the $8.6 billion suit, alleging the company defrauded its lender
into making the loan.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt. It is selling assets to pay
creditors after officially exiting  bankruptcy court  this year.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan). The Geithner action is Official Committee of
Unsecured Creditors of Lehman v. Geithner, 12-mc-00098, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The JPMorgan
lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  