-- Televisa Agrees to Antitrust Conditions for Iusacell Deal
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-06-18T21:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/televisa-agrees-to-antitrust-conditions-for-iusacell-deal.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, said it owns a 50 percent
stake in Grupo Iusacell SA after a debt conversion, giving it an
entry into  Mexico ’s wireless business.  The broadcaster said today it had agreed to terms set by
the nation’s antitrust agency to allow the company to go
forward. The Federal Competition Commission, which reversed an
earlier decision on appeal, said last week that Televisa could
complete the move if the company took steps to open itself to
more competition.  The settlement ended a 14-month struggle by Mexico City-
based Televisa for the right to take on billionaire  Carlos
Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  in the mobile-phone business. Iusacell
has about 6 percent of Mexico’s wireless subscribers, compared
with America Movil’s 70 percent.  Televisa fell 1.5 percent to 55.49 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The company paid $1.6 billion last year for
Iusacell convertible debt.  Billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , who controls Mexico’s No. 2
broadcaster TV Azteca SAB, owns the other half of Iusacell.
Azteca and Iusacell are studying the antitrust agency’s
conditions, which are “very tough, very onerous, difficult to
understand and to comply with,” Luis Nino, a spokesman for
Salinas’s group of companies, said June 14.  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for the Salinas group, said today
its position hasn’t changed.  Under terms of the antitrust settlement, the partnership
agreed between the Salinas group and Televisa can be dissolved
if the government fails to auction airwaves for a third
broadcast TV network in the next 24 months. Televisa and Azteca
will also have to offer cable and satellite TV providers the
option to buy their over-the-air channels separately from the
cable channels both companies produce.  Salinas will accept the conditions, since his companies and
Televisa proposed most of them to the antitrust agency, Vera Rossi, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York , said today in a
research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  