-- Eliminated Sweden May Have Final Say on Euro 2012 Rivals’ Fate
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-18T00:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/eliminated-sweden-may-have-final-say-on-euro-2012-rivals-fate.html
Sweden  enters its final European
Championship game against France with a quarterfinal place out
of reach and the fate of its group rivals riding on the result.
The Swedes say they won’t lack motivation.  “We’re playing for pride,” Sweden striker  Johan Elmander 
said in an interview. “We’re going to give everything to win
the game because it’s not that fun to leave this country without
any points. We’re going to go for it.”  Sweden, which lost its opening two games at the 16-nation
 soccer tournament , faces France in Kiev tomorrow at the same time
 England  plays co-host Ukraine in Donetsk. England and France
have four points in Group D, one more than Ukraine, and a
Swedish victory could eliminate the French.  Sweden has played at five previous European Championships
and is yet to lose all its group games at the four-yearly event.
The only time it suffered a sweep of losses at a major
tournament was at the 1990  World Cup  in  Italy .  The Swedes squandered leads in both matches last week. They
were a goal up against Ukraine on June 11 before striker Andrei
Shevchenko scored with two headers. Four days later against
England, they rallied from a goal down to lead 2-1 before
slipping to a 3-2 loss after  Danny Welbeck  scored with 12
minutes remaining.  Defender Andreas Granqvist, who allowed Andy Carrol to get
above him to head England’s opening goal, said Sweden’s players
have a responsibility to perform at their highest level, knowing
they can still have a say on who advances.  ‘Good Style’  “We are professional so we are going to do our best,” he
said in an interview. “Everyone is disappointed and we want to
finish the competition in good style.”  Sweden hasn’t beaten  France  since a 2-0 win in October 1969
and has lost six of the 11 meetings the teams have had since
then. France is unbeaten in its past 23 matches.  Anders Svensson, a 35-year-old midfielder, said he doesn’t
care who advances to the last eight, though wants the team to
reward the more than 20,000 Swedish fans who traveled to Ukraine
with a victory.  “We owe it to ourselves, to Sweden, to the fans who’ve
paid a lot of money coming down here supporting us,” he said.  Having already played Ukraine and England, the Swedish
players have an insight into their strengths and weaknesses.  Svensson, Christian Wilhelmsson and Elmander, three players
with experience from the English Premier League, backed England
to secure a quarterfinal spot by avoiding defeat in Donetsk.  “England is the best team we’ve played against if you’re
comparing them to Ukraine,” said Elmander, who played for three
seasons with  Bolton Wanderers . “They have a lot of players
injured but they’re still strong and always fight for 90
minutes. You can’t relax against them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  