-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 5-Week High After Greek Elections
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-06-18T22:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/emerging-stocks-rise-to-5-week-high-on-greece-mengniu-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark  index (SENSEX)  to a five-week high, as concern that Greece
may be forced out of the euro eased.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 1 percent to
934.06 by 4:31 p.m. in  New York , the highest level on a closing
basis since May 15. Redecard SA, Brazil’s second-biggest card-
payment company, led technology shares higher after posting the
sharpest increase in four months. The Bovespa rose to the
highest since May 21 as Tam SA surged to a five-year high. The
BSE India Sensitive Index lost 1.4 percent as policy makers left
rates unchanged.  Most developing nations’ benchmark gauges advanced after
Greece’s New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough seats in
parliament to forge a majority government, reducing concern the
country was headed toward an exit from the euro. Concern
Europe’s debt crisis is deepening curtailed exports and foreign
investments to  emerging markets .  “Investors are feeling relieved that the worst case
scenario in Greece is avoided,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-
based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.,
which oversees about $28 billion. “Problems of Europe’s debt
crisis and a slowing global economy are still there, and I think
investors will keenly watch for governments’ stimulus measures
as well as policy cooperation.”  Sberbank, Redecard  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge has added 1.9 percent in
2012 and trades at a multiple of 10.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 12 for companies on the developed-nation index,
which has gained 2.5 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  All 10 industry groups on the  MSCI Emerging Markets index (MXEF) 
gained, with technology, consumer discretionary and industrials
leading the advance.  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, jumped 2.1 percent
in Moscow, lifting the Micex Index by 1 percent to the highest
level since May 11.  The Bovespa added 0.2 percent as Tam SA, Brazil’s biggest
airline, rose 6.8 percent to the highest since December 2007.  Redecard added 5.2 percent after a second appraisal of Itau
Unibanco Holding SA’s 11.8 billion-real ($5.7 billion) offer to
take the company private showed it’s in line with a previous
assessment.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index of shares tumbled 3.4 percent after
the military curtailed powers of the elected president,
extending the benchmark’s drop from this year’s high on March 7
to 22 percent.  Rate Unchanged  India ’s central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the key
repurchase rate at 8 percent today, a stance that contrasts with
rate cuts in Australia and China the last two weeks.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is grappling with an economy
hobbled by record trade and budget deficits, corruption scandals
and infighting in the coalition that has stymied his efforts to
lure more foreign investment.  The gauge had risen as much as 0.9 percent before the
 Reserve Bank  of India left its main repurchase rate at 8
percent. Only four of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the central bank will leave rates unchanged, with 19
expecting a 0.25 percentage-point cut and the remainder a half-
point reduction.  “This is a shocker,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who manages
about $100 million of Indian assets as chairman of New Delhi-
based SMC Wealth Management Ltd. “A rate cut was a must because
the growth was slowing. The confidence has taken a beating.”  The  State Bank of India (SBIN)  and DLF Ltd., the country’s biggest
developer, tumbled in Mumbai after the rate decision.  Samsung, Radiant  India’s sovereign credit outlook was lowered to negative
from stable by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the heightened risk of
a deterioration in growth potential and limited progress on
paring the nation’s budget deficit.  Poland’s WIG20 Index fell 0.2 percent in Warsaw while the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  rose 1.4 percent in
Johannesburg.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.8 percent.  Exporters led gains in  Seoul , with a 2.1 percent advance
for  Samsung Electronics Co., (005930)  Asia’s biggest maker of chips and
flat screens. Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s biggest carmaker,
added 3.5 percent. Taiwan’s  Radiant Opto-Electronics Corp. (6176) 
surged 6.9 percent after the China Times reported Apple Inc.’s
new MacBook will bolster the company’s sales.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the world’s largest
electronics maker, rose 2.4 percent to its highest since May 31.
Gross margins will likely recover, said Terry Gou, chairman and
founder of the company. He spoke at the annual shareholder
meeting today in Taipei.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 386, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  