-- EPA Won’t Curb Greenhouse Gases From Ships, Off-Road Trucks
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-18T20:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/epa-won-t-curb-greenhouse-gases-from-ships-off-road-trucks-1-.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
turned down a demand from U.S. environmental groups that it curb
greenhouse-gas emissions from aircraft, ships or off-highway
vehicles such as trucks used in mining operations.  The agency sent a court-ordered response today to the
 Center for Biological Diversity  and other groups, saying that it
wouldn’t issue regulations for those sources of carbon dioxide
anytime soon.  “EPA does not have the resources to consider all possible
sources of  climate change  in the near or medium term,” the
agency said in its response to the groups, which was due today.
“EPA has directed its efforts at categories of sources that are
the largest contributors to greenhouse-gas emissions.”  Aircraft, ships and engines on vehicles operating off roads
and highways are responsible for 24 percent of U.S. mobile-
source greenhouse-gas emissions and emit approximately 290,000
tons of soot every year, according to the environmental groups
that petitioned for EPA action.  “The Obama administration’s decision to shelve these
common-sense pollution-reduction measures is tragic and
absurd,” Kassie Siegel, director of the Tucson, Arizona-based
center’s Climate Law Institute, said in a statement. “Cost-
effective solutions to reduce greenhouse emissions from ships,
airplanes and non-road engines are available now.”  Rio Summit  The EPA’s response was filed a day before the planned
arrival by agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson  at a United Nations
summit in Rio de Janiero, known at  Rio+20 , where nations are
aiming to make progress in negotiating curbs on climate change
and boosting the green economy.  The EPA has agreed with automakers on fuel-efficiency
standards that will require improvements in per-gallon mileage
through 2025, and it issued proposed rules mandating reductions
in  greenhouse gases  from new power plants. Both of those rules,
and the underlying finding that lets the EPA regulate carbon
dioxide, are under attack in court, with decisions likely in the
coming weeks.  In its responses, the EPA said it had no plans to regulate
emissions from ships or mining vehicles. For aircraft, a review
of whether to regulate emissions might take years to complete,
according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  