-- Equal Opportunity in Sports Makes Both Sexes Richer
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-06-18T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/equal-opportunity-in-sports-makes-both-sexes-richer.html
Saturday will mark 40 years since
the U.S. enacted a law requiring publicly funded schools to
provide similar opportunities to all students, regardless of
sex. It’s an anniversary worth celebrating.  Title IX , as the legislation is known, has improved the
lives of women more dramatically than even its most ardent
supporters could have imagined. In particular, the most
controversial provision -- giving girls similar sporting
opportunities to boys -- has highlighted how extracurricular
activities such as sports can shape who we become as adults.  Most debate about Title IX has focused on the high-profile,
big-spending world of college athletics. Such arguments miss  the
point of Title IX , which is to create equality in our school
system, and misconstrue its true legacy --  enabling mass sports
participation for girls long before college .  There are almost fifteen times as many high-school
intermural athletes as in college. Before the law, almost all
those athletes were male. Only about 1 in 20 girls was an
athlete. By the time the law took effect -- a process that
dragged on for six years as Congress fought about whether to
exclude sports -- almost 3 in 10 girls were playing (see chart).
Girls’ participation then remained roughly stable until it rose
again in the 1990s when enforcement of the law increased.  Boys’ Programs  Critics often claim that these new opportunities for girls
came at the expense of boys. Yet the data don’t bear out that
claim. About half of high school boys participate in sports, and
this rate has been roughly steady for the past four decades.  Boys’ wrestling programs are often portrayed as victims of
Title IX. True, they have declined since the law was introduced.
The motivating factor, though, is soccer, which has grown
enormously in the decades since Title IX was passed and quickly
replaced wrestling as a popular sport for boys throughout the
country. Overall, more male high school sports programs expanded
than shrank after Title IX. Tennis, cross-country and golf have
all grown substantially.  Boys may not have suffered, but what did girls gain? The
law’s legacy goes far beyond having fun on the playing field.
High school athletics confer substantial economic benefits that
last throughout participants’ lives. When one compares people
with similar educational opportunities, family backgrounds,
measures of intelligence and self-esteem, the annual wages of
former athletes are, on average, 7 percent higher than
nonathletes. Similarly, athletes get almost half a year more
education than nonathletes. The gains occur equally for girls
and boys.  Sports develop and reward a lot of skills that are valued
in the workplace: discipline, good-natured competition,
teamwork, ability to engage with adults and a diverse set of
peers. Skeptics, though, will note that correlation is not
causation. It’s possible that whatever makes people become
athletes also makes them more successful in life, whether or not
they ever set foot on a playing field.  Ideally, we would want to measure the effect of sports by
running an experiment in which we randomly assign some children
to participate.  Title IX provides something similar to this -- a
natural experiment . The law went into force simultaneously in
all states, but its impact differed. In  North Dakota , where many
boys played sports, the demand for equal opportunity led many
girls to take up sports. By contrast, in  South Dakota , far fewer
boys played, and so the law led many fewer girls to start
playing. As a result, the law blindly selected some girls to
have greater athletic opportunities based solely on where they
happened to live, not on any other qualities that might have
drawn them to sports.  Career Advantages  In those states where Title IX led to the greatest
expansion in female sports, the post-Title IX generation of
women enjoyed more education, employment and higher wages than
their pre-Title IX forebears. They were also more likely to
enter previously male-dominated professions such as law,
accounting and even sports.  The great social experiment of Title IX proved that high-
school sports participation is an important part of our
curriculum. The research showed that athletic opportunities
played an important role in the educational and labor force
gains made by the women going to school after the legislation.  Unfortunately, we haven’t outgrown Title IX. Less than half
of all athletes are girls, and the gap is larger in states where
support for the law is weakest and sexist attitudes are most
prevalent. Not surprisingly, these are also the states with
greater gender disparities in the classroom, with  boys doing
better in math and science .  It’s in all our best interests to keep narrowing the gap.
When we deny the benefits of sports to our children, of either
sex, we limit their ability to enjoy success not only on the
sporting field, but also in the marketplace as adults.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  welfare for Jamie Dimon  and
on  Greek elections ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Romney, Mormons and
Jews ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Grover Norquist’s latest fight ;  Thomas
Cooley ,  Matthew Richardson  and Kermit Schoenholtz on  rescuing
Europe’s banks ; Simon Serfaty and Alexis Serfaty on  optimistic
news for Europe ; Amy Monahan on the courts and voters’  pension
reforms .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu ; Betsey Stevenson
at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 