-- Equity Residential Said to Buy Manhattan’s Beatrice Tower
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-06-18T16:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/equity-residential-said-to-buy-manhattan-s-beatrice-tower.html
Equity Residential, the largest U.S.
publicly traded apartment owner, is close to a deal to buy the
Beatrice luxury tower in  Manhattan ’s Chelsea neighborhood for
$280 million, expanding in  New York  as rents jump.  The sale of the 302-unit property on 29th Street and Sixth
Avenue, probably will be completed this week, said a person with
knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be named because
the details are private. The seller is JD Carlisle Development
Corp., the person said. The apartments are atop the Eventi
hotel, which isn’t included in the deal.  “Beatrice reflects your priorities. Your dreams,” reads
the  website  for the property, where apartments start on the 26th
floor of the 53-story tower. “Breathtaking views through wall-
to-wall windows provide a dramatic backdrop for every spacious
residence, with ceiling heights of 9 feet to over 12 feet.”  Marty McKenna, a spokesman for Chicago-based  Equity
Residential (EQR) , said the company is in contract negotiations for
the building and declined to comment further. Evan Stein,
president of JD Carlisle, and Jules Demchick, the company’s
chairman, didn’t return voice mail messages.  Record Prices  Investor demand for apartment buildings in Manhattan has
sent prices to record highs, reducing yields on the properties
to the lowest in more than six years. The capitalization rate, a
measure of investment return that declines as prices rise,
averaged 4.4 percent for Manhattan multifamily buildings in
first three months of the year, the lowest since the third
quarter of 2005, according to New York-based data firm Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  At $280 million, the purchase of the Beatrice would be
second-largest Manhattan apartment deal this year, according to
 Ben Thypin , director of market analysis at Real Capital. Only
the $630 million acquisition of the five-building Columbus
Square complex on the Upper West Side by  UDR Inc. (UDR)  and  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  was bigger.  Buyers are attracted to buildings such as the Beatrice,
which was completed in 2010, because they have lower operating
expenses and tend to attract wealthier tenants, he said.  “Institutional investors are comfortable paying a premium
right now because of the confidence they have that rents will
increase” at newly constructed properties, Thypin said.  Limited Supply  Manhattan apartment rents are expected to climb 6.7 percent
this year as limited new supply comes to the market amid a
surging demand for leasing, according to Dallas-based
Axiometrics Inc. The research firm projects that 2,486 new
apartments will become available in the borough in 2012, a 0.3
percent increase from last year.  Monthly rents for available apartments at the Beatrice
range from $2,983 for a studio to $16,975 for a three-bedroom
unit, according to StreetEasy.com, a property-listings website
that reflects both full-term leases and sublets at the tower.
 Penthouse  units have been listed for as much as $22,000 a month.  Equity Residential currently has 15 properties in
Manhattan, according its website. The company was founded by
billionaire  Sam Zell , who remains  chairman .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  