-- Merkel Sees No Leeway for Greece, Rejecting Signals of Softening
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-18T16:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/merkel-says-no-leeway-on-greece-commitments.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
Greece shouldn’t be granted leeway on terms for its bailout,
rejecting signals from her foreign minister that creditors may
relent on austerity measures.  The statements by Merkel today at the Group of 20 summit
follows a victory in Greek elections for parties supporting the
bailout. It clashes with indications made by euro-area finance
ministers and German foreign-policy chief  Guido Westerwelle , who
said  Europe  could consider giving Greece more time.  “The important thing is that the new government sticks
with the commitments that have been made,” Merkel told
reporters at the G-20 meeting in the Mexican resort of Los
Cabos. “There can be no loosening on the reform steps.”  Merkel, who has rejected a range of crisis-fighting policy
options from jointly issued debt to stimulus funding, added a
softening of demands on  Greece  to the list of measures  Germany 
would reject.  “Mrs. Merkel is positioning herself for making the minimum
concessions that she can get away with, but there is no way that
she can insist that there will be none,” Yanis Varoufakis, a
professor at the University of Athens, said on Bloomberg Radio’s
“On the Economy With  Michael McKee .”  Euro-area finance ministers said yesterday in a statement
that international monitors would return to Greece as soon as a
new government is formed and “exchange views” on the way
forward.  Westerwelle told broadcaster ZDF that negotiators could
“do something in terms of the time frame” in Greece, since the
past weeks of political stalemate has “done damage.” German
government spokesman Georg Streiter queried those comments today
in Berlin, saying “this is not the time for some sort of
rebates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  