-- Hermes, Aviva Urge Stock Exchanges on Sustainability Reports
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-18T20:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/hermes-aviva-urge-stock-exchanges-on-sustainability-reports-1-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  Hermes Asset
Management Ltd.  are urging  stock exchanges  to improve the way
companies report on sustainability issues, leading calls from
investors to introduce common international standards.  They’ll be joined by non-governmental groups at a United
Nations forum in  Rio de Janeiro  to debate ways to make the
financial industry focus on longer-term concerns such as
environmental degradation and energy efficiency.  The organizations are seeking to standardize and improve
sustainability reports, covering water use to emissions, after
different rules emerged on world stock exchanges over the past
decade. Today’s meeting also is designed to guide talks at this
week’s Rio+20 summit in the same city, where delegates from 190
nations will discuss steps to eradicate poverty while stemming
environmental degradation.  “We want the financial world to trigger their capital in
the right directions,” said David Pitt-Watson, Hermes managing
director and a senior adviser to Deloitte Consulting. “We’re
saying, let’s have a user-friendly regime with comparable data.
Most people say this is a no-brainer once they understand it.”  Exchanges in  Sao Paulo , Copenhagen, Johannesburg and
Singapore already have begun requiring members to report
material information about environmental, social and governance
risks in a way that allows investors to make comparisons. Others
have yet to make such demands.  Five Exchanges  Two of those, in Sao Paulo and Johannesburg, announced
today with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  in New York and the exchanges
in Istanbul and Egypt, to encourage their 4,600 listed companies
to measure and report on environmental and governance issues
such as greenhouse gas emissions, water usage and  gender
equality .  “The problem with some of the sustainability reports is
they’re not really material, and they’re not as relevant as they
ought to be,” said David Blood, co-founder of Generation
Investment Management with former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore .
The companies need to work harder to “make it material, and
make it relevant,” he said in an interview.  Institutional investors have pushed for better standards in
reporting as they consider a broader range of issues affecting
the quality of their investments.  Social Metrics  Efforts by companies, industries and large accounting firms
to reinvent performance measures on environmental, social and
governance issues, or ESG, demonstrate the challenge ahead.
While some metrics, such as emissions or water use, are easier
to standardize, social metrics, such as board or workforce
diversity or community relations, are harder to value.  Stock markets provide a forum for investors and companies
to negotiate these issues. That’s what makes any possible global
framework for changing how listed companies report potentially
significant.  “We’re expecting companies to come forward with
commitments to improve their reporting on renewables and
sustainability goals,” said Jacob Scherr, director of global
strategy and advocacy at the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
in  Washington , which will take part in today’s meeting.  Brazil ’s main stock exchange, Bovespa, issued a policy in
January recommending that listed companies declare whether they
report ESG data, and if not, why not. This month it announced
the first results of its “Report or Explain” project, which is
analyzing sustainability disclosures through the end of May.  Denmark Compliance  The  Copenhagen exchange , owned by Nasdaq OMX, also has a
“comply or explain” principle on corporate-governance
transparency, according to spokesman Javier Lopez. “There is a
government requirement that applies to the top 1,100 companies
who are required to document corporate social responsibility,”
he said.  Aviva, the U.K’s largest insurer, Munich RE and other
investors have been working with the UN on the Sustainable Stock
Exchanges campaign to reach a worldwide commitment on reporting
requirements.  The initiative will help investors measure a company’s
sustainability efforts on an “apples-to-apples basis,”  Abengoa
SA (ABG)  Chief Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega said in an
interview at the  New York Stock Exchange. (NYX)  “If you’re part of
the global system, it’s very important,” he said.  While  Europe ,  South Africa  and Brazil have led efforts to
require more reporting, U.S. exchanges as yet have no plans to
require companies to report risks associated with  climate
change , water use or workplace diversity.  No Mandates  “We don’t have any mandates for our listed companies in
terms of sustainability reporting,” said  Rich Adamonis , a
spokesman for NYSE. “We don’t have a position on that.”  According to London-based Aviva, NYSE is in the majority,
with 57 percent of global exchanges not providing guidance to
listed companies on sustainability reporting.  Meanwhile, voluntary reporting on sustainability measures
has grown with investor demand. Corporate signatories to the UN-
sponsored Global Compact jumped 54 percent last year to more
than 7,000. The organization is the world’s biggest voluntary
campaign to introduce standards on sustainability issues.  U.S. companies operating in regions that request reporting
on sustainability may face increasingly complicated requirements
that they don’t get back home, Hermes’s Pitt-Watson said.  “If we don’t get the framework developed in Rio, it will
be hugely costly and take far longer to complete it
voluntarily,” Pitt-Watson said. “There will be hundreds of
different regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  