-- Nalbandian’s On-Court Tantrum Is First to Bloody Tennis Official
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-18T23:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/metropolitan-police-investigating-nalbandian-assault-complaint.html
David Nalbandian  injured a line
judge’s leg, the first time a tennis player bloodied an official
during a tournament on the professional circuit. Police are
investigating the incident.  Nalbandian was disqualified from the June 17 Aegon
Championships final at the Queen’s Club in London for kicking an
advertising board into the leg of Andrew McDougall. London
police said yesterday that they are looking into an assault
complaint made against the player by an unidentified person.  The 30-year-old Argentine, who was once ranked as high as
third in 2006, may lose sponsors as he attempts to climb back
from a season-opening ranking of No. 64. He’s 39th in the world
before he forfeited the final of the Wimbledon tuneup against
Marin Cilic of  Croatia .  “If I was advising one of his sponsors, I’d be telling
them to drop him today,” Frank van den Wall Bake, who advises
companies including Queen’s sponsor  Aegon NV (AGN)  on sports
marketing, said in an interview from Hilversum,  Netherlands .
“In the top of tennis, this to my knowledge has never happened
before,”  None of Nalbandian’s sponsors, which include  Argentina ’s
Banco de Cordoba, had immediate reaction to the case. Aegon, an
insurance company based in  The Hague , Netherlands, said it
wasn’t pleased.  “It is shame for those watching from the stands and on TV
that such a great game, and such a great tournament, was
ultimately decided in this manner,” Mark Locke, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “This is a decision that has been
made, through due process, by the ATP.”  Nalbandian is scheduled to play at Wimbledon, the season’s
third Grand Slam tournament, beginning June 25. There was no
immediate comment from that tournament on his behavior or status
for the event.  Bloodied  Nalbandian was leading 7-6 (7-3), 3-4 against Cilic when he
was defaulted for unsportsmanlike conduct after reacting angrily
to a break of serve. McDougall suffered a bloody gash to his
shin where he was hit by the board.  The Metropolitan Police said they were investigating a
complaint against Nalbandian without identifying who filed it or
whether they had spoken with the player.  Nalbandian turned pro in 2000 and has earned close to $11
million in prize money. He was the Wimbledon runner-up in 2002.
He’s also sponsored by racket manufacturer Yonex, French beauty
brand Guinot and Argentine insurance company Rio Uruguay
Cooperativa De Seguros Limitada, according to his website.  Nalbandian won’t receive prize money of 36,100 pounds
($56,579) and 150 ranking points for reaching the final at
Queen’s. He apologized to the crowd and McDougall after the
outburst. He was also issued a 10,000 euro ($12,623) fine by ATP
supervisor Tom Barnes for unsportsmanlike behavior.  No Other Option  “Once I saw the injury, no, that was not a judgment
call,” Barnes told reporters. “I didn’t have any other
option.”  Barnes said it’s not the first time he’d seen an incident
like the one at Queen’s on the men’s tennis tour, although it
was the first time in a final and also the first time blood was
drawn.  “Per our normal procedures, the incident will be fully
reviewed by the ATP,” Kate Gordon, a spokeswoman for the men’s
tour, said in an e-mail.  Seven-time major singles champion  John McEnroe  was the
first tennis player to be disqualified in a Grand Slam event for
misconduct since the sport went professional in 1968 when he was
tossed from the 1990 Australian Open for breaking a racket and
cursing after a call went against him.  Wimbledon History  In 1995, Britain’s Tim Henman was disqualified from
Wimbledon in the men’s doubles, after he struck a ball girl
following a missed shot. In the semifinals of the 2009  U.S.
Open , an outburst over a foot-fault call cost thirteen-time
Grand Slam singles champion  Serena Williams  the match against
eventual champion  Kim Clijsters .  In last week’s French Open final, top-ranked Novak Djokovic
of  Serbia  received a verbal warning from the chair umpire after
breaking a courtside bench with his racket.  Russian-born Anastasia Rodionova, who now represents
 Australia , was disqualified from the Cincinnati Open in 2007 for
hitting a ball toward several fans who were supporting her
opponent,  Angelique Kerber  of  Germany . Down 0-1 in the deciding
set, Rodionova smashed a ball that hit the front of the stands
during a changeover, and was defaulted.  In a televised court-side interview two days ago,
Nalbandian initially apologized to the crowd, before criticizing
the men’s tour.  “I’m very sorry, I’m very sorry to do that,” he said, as
parts of the crowd applauded. “But sometimes you get very
frustrated here, on court, and it’s tough to control that. And
sometimes I do mistake -- I agree with that. So it’s a very
tough moment to end a final like that. But sometimes we feel so
much pressure from the ATP, trying to play a lot of
tournaments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the  London  sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 