-- EU Bonus Curbs Won’t Be Weakened by Lawmakers, Lamberts Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-18T15:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/eu-bonus-curbs-won-t-be-watered-down-by-lawmakers-lamberts-says.html
European Union lawmakers rejected an
attempt by national governments to water down a planned cap on
banker bonuses as part of negotiations on a Basel capital law.  Political groups spurned a compromise proposal by  Denmark ,
which holds the presidency of the EU, to cap bonuses at two or
even three times a  banker’s  fixed pay, with a loophole that
would allow even larger bonuses approved by shareholders, said
Philippe Lamberts, a Belgian member of the EU Parliament. The
offer was made during meetings on the draft law, which must be
approved by governments and the assembly.  “The political groups are agreed that this would remove
any meaning from the regulation,” said Lamberts, who is leading
work on the draft law for parliament’s Green group. Members of
the assembly have sought to ban discretionary pay awards that
are larger than a banker’s normal salary. Talks on the draft law
“will take us well into September,” Lamberts said.  Public outrage and shareholder rebellions have forced some
banks to retreat from their initial pay plans.  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  agreed to forgo about 11
percent of his total compensation until the bank increases
profits. In a non-binding April vote,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
shareholders voted to reject that bank’s executive pay plan.  Preben Aamann, a spokesman for the Danish presidency,
declined to comment on the negotiations on the draft law.  Barnier Proposals  Michel Barnier , the EU financial services chief, has called
for curbs on pay awards that defy “all reason, common sense and
morality.” Lawmakers in the parliament have sought to pre-empt
this by inserting curbs into the bloc’s draft law to implement
international bank capital rules agreed on by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision .  Lawmakers and national governments adopted competing
proposals last month to implement financial regulation rules,
with the parliament seeking a one-to-one ratio on bonuses to
pay, and the 27-nations not including any pay standards.  The two sides have so far held eight meetings to reconcile
their differences, Lamberts said. None of the 10 to 12 “key
divisive issues” have been settled, he said.  “The longer it takes to reach agreement, the more the
economic and financial environment will have changed and the
more it will look like these proposed measures are closing barn
doors long after the horses have bolted,”   Richard Reid ,
research director for the International Centre for Financial
Regulation in  London , said in an e-mail.  In addition to bonus rules, the negotiations include
looking at how much flexibility national regulators should have
to impose tougher capital rules on banks than required under EU
law, as well as what additional requirements should be imposed
on systemically important lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  