-- EU Lawmakers Urge Cut of at Least 1.4 Billion CO2 Permits
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-06-18T16:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/eu-lawmakers-urge-cut-of-at-least-1-4-billion-co2-permits.html
Three European Union lawmakers have
urged the European Commission to withhold at least 1.4 billion
emission permits from the bloc’s carbon-trading system to help
boost prices, according to a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  The removal would apply to emissions permits due to be
auctioned from 2013, and is at least 17 percent more than the
range proposed by the European Commission in a draft report. The
letter was addressed to commission president  Jose Manuel Barroso , climate commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  and commission
secretary-general Catherine Day.  Chris Davies, Bas Eickhout and Linda McAvan, members of the
EU Parliament’s Environment Committee, said in the letter dated
today that they look forward to “an immediate, effective and
significant intervention that restores the EU Emissions Trading
System to the stringency that all the EU institutions agreed in
2008 and removes at least 1.4 billion allowances from
auctioning.”  Not only does the bloc need to remove the higher number of
allowances from the system, it needs to remove them permanently,
Eickhout said today in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“Backloading is OK, but it really needs to be taken out of the
system.” Otherwise the intervention won’t move prices above
about 20 euros a ton, where they need to be, he said.  Eickhout is a member of the Green group in the parliament,
while Davies is a Liberal Democrat. McAvan is a member of the
Social Democrats bloc in the EU parliament.  Three Scenarios  The commission may propose delaying the sale of as many as
1.2 billion carbon allowances from 2013, according to a draft
report on the outlook for its emissions-trading program, two
people with knowledge of the matter said June 15.  The 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm sketched out three
scenarios to temporarily curb the oversupply in the draft
report, the people said, declining to be identified because
talks on the document are confidential. The two other options
are withholding 400 million or 900 million permits in the three
years through 2015, they said.  The revision of the auction regulation will be done in the
so-called comitology procedure, in which a measure proposed by
the commission needs qualified-majority support from
representatives of national governments in the Climate Change
Committee to pass. It then becomes subject to three months of
scrutiny by the parliament and ministers, and is officially
adopted unless member states or the assembly voice objections.  ‘Probable Compromise’  Regulators will probably compromise and propose temporarily
removing 700 million tons of carbon permits from supplies after
2012, 500 million less than the total preferred by the
commission, said Barclays Plc.  The price of permits may rise to about 12 euros next year
under that scenario, compared with about 15 euros if 1.2 billion
tons were to be removed,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in  London 
at the bank, said today in an e-mailed research note. They rose
0.7 percent today to 7.37 euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London as of 4:49 p.m.  With Poland against intervention in the carbon market, the
400 million ton or 900 million ton options are more probable
than 1.2 billion, Matt Gray, an analyst for Jefferies Bache Ltd.
in London, said today in an e-mailed research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  