-- EU Leaders to Pledge ‘All Levers’ to Tackle Crisis
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-18T11:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/eu-leaders-to-pledge-all-levers-to-tackle-crisis.html
European Union leaders will pledge
“to mobilize all levers and instruments” to ensure financial
stability and tackle the sovereign-debt crisis, according to 
draft conclusions prepared for a June 28-29 summit in Brussels.  The 27-nation bloc should “rapidly examine” EU proposals
on bank capital requirements, deposit-guarantee programs and how
to handle cross-border  bank failures , according to the draft
conclusions dated June 15 and obtained by Bloomberg News. 
“The current economic situation  remains unsatisfactory ” and 
shoring up the banking sector is important to restoring growth,
according to the document.  The leaders also should commit to launching the European
Stability Mechanism, the 17-nation euro zone’s 500 billion-euro
($632 billion) firewall, by July 9, according to the document.
Lawmakers across the 17-nation currency union must ratify the
fund before it becomes available for programs such as the 100
billion-euro bank rescue planned for  Spain . The ESM’s start date
depends mainly on the outcome in Germany, where the parliament
may vote as late as the first week of July.  “The European Union is determined to continue to do
everything necessary to put  Europe  on the track of growth,” the
document said. These efforts should include cutting budget
deficits and improving employment and other  economic policies ,
it said.  Lending Power  The EU hasn’t yet agreed on how much it seeks to increase
the capital, and therefore lending power, of the  European
Investment Bank . The draft document, without citing any numbers,
showed a capital increase should take effect by Dec. 31 so the
bank can invest in infrastructure projects across the EU.  Leaders will place particular emphasis on the findings of a
forthcoming report on euro-area integration from EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ,
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker and European Commission
President  Jose Barroso . The blueprint will offer a strategy for
nations using the common currency to “go further” in their
efforts to integrate economic policies while also working with
the EU’s other members.  Draghi has backed calls for a move toward greater “banking
union” as the EU moves to deepen its economic and political
ties, a broad goal supported by Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . This effort, which will be a central plank of the
euro-area blueprint, so far has not included specific proposals
for how to fund any kind of EU-level bank backstop.  Unsecured Creditors  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, this
month proposed requiring senior unsecured creditors to absorb
losses when banks fail, in a proposal that also requires
national-level resolution funds that would coordinate and
backstop each other across borders when necessary. EU rules
require countries to have national deposit insurance guarantee
plans; as yet there are no formal proposals for an EU-wide
deposit guarantee backstop.  The commission also has proposed rules to raise  capital
requirements , in order to meet a January 2013 deadline from the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The new Basel
requirements more than triple the amount of top-tier capital
that banks are required to hold as a buffer against losses.  -- With assistance from Jim Brunsden in Brussels. Editors: Jones Hayden, Simon Meier  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  