-- EU Says Ban on Insuring Iranian Oil Will Proceed as Planned
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-06-18T10:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/eu-says-ban-on-insuring-iranian-oil-will-proceed-as-planned-1-.html
Europe’s sanctions on insurance for
Iranian oil shipments won’t be lifted or suspended as Asian
importers look to governments to cover cargoes.  Insuring ships carrying crude from the Persian Gulf country
will be banned when the European Union’s embargo takes effect
July 1,  Michael Mann , foreign-policy spokesman for the 27-nation
bloc, said today in Moscow. The rules apply to 95 percent of the
world’s tankers because they’re covered by the 13 members of the
London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs.  The EU delayed the ban on insurance against risks including
spills and collision until July 1 amid discussions with
government and industry officials about its global reach. As
negotiators meet in Moscow today for talks on the Iranian
nuclear program, the embargo’s nearing implementation date puts
pressure on countries seeking to continue buying the nation’s
oil as they consider sovereign coverage for shipments.  “Vessels need liability insurance to trade, and if they
want to go to Japan,  China  or  India , where is the liability
insurance going to come from?” Mike Roderick, a partner at
international trade-law firm Clyde & Co. in London, said by
phone today. “The only parties with deep-enough pockets are
sovereign governments.”  Iran ’s daily crude exports will fall by 1 million barrels
in the year’s second half as sanctions enter force, the
International Energy Agency estimates. The U.S. and Europe
suspect the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program involves
weapons development. The Tehran government, facing four sets of
United Nations sanctions, says it is enriching uranium for
civilian and medical purposes.  Japan’s cabinet advanced a bill to provide sovereign
insurance to tanker operators that carry Iranian oil. The
measure must be approved by the national parliament. Ship owners
in India have also asked for government coverage and China has
underwritten some shipments, according to the IEA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  