-- Europe’s Mistakes a Lesson for Latin America, Chile Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-18T14:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/europe-s-mistakes-a-lesson-for-latin-america-chile-says.html
Latin America  must avoid the costly
welfare policies plunging Europe into crisis and should adhere
to a market-friendly course to preserve gains made over the past
decade’s economic boom, Chilean President Sebastian Pinera said.  Countries in the region like Chile that have maintained
open economies and fiscal discipline will fare better during a
global slowdown than those pursuing “a different model” like
Cuba, Venezuela and Bolivia, Pinera said in an interview
yesterday in Mexico, where he’s attending a Group of 20 summit.  “We don’t want to put at risk everything we’ve done up to
now,” said Pinera, a 62-year-old billionaire businessman who
was elected in 2010 on a pledge to make  Chile  the first
developed country in Latin America. “Take a look at European
countries, that’s the path that we do not want to follow.”  Chile’s recent economic resilience should serve as a lesson
for a region increasingly adopting protectionist policies,
Pinera said. Even in the face of weaker demand from  China , the
world’s top copper producer will grow 4.9 percent this year,
surpassing the 3.7 percent average for Latin America, according
to a forecast this month by the  United Nations ’ economic unit
for the region.  Backlash  Pinera’s defense of a minimalist state has generated a
backlash at home, where students demanding a bigger role for the
state in education have been staging protests for more than a
year. Pinera’s approval rating was 24 percent in April -- the
lowest level of any president since Chile’s return to democracy
in 1990, according to Santiago-based pollster CEP.  “People want to get immediate results in every field,”
Pinera said, citing demands for free health care and university
education. “But we cannot transform Chile into a welfare state;
we are not rich enough for that.”  European leaders need to show the same resolve to resist
spending demands, Pinera said.  “Sometimes presidents have to say no,” he said hours
after  Greece ’s parliamentary elections, adding that a victory
for the pro-bailout New Democracy party is only the beginning of
a tough adjustment process for the country and Europe. “The
worst is not over yet.”  Pinera is one of five guests, along with leaders from
 Colombia ,  Cambodia ,  Benin  and  Spain , attending the G-20 summit
that kicks off today at the beach resort of Los Cabos, Mexico.
Talks will be dominated by Europe’s debt crisis, which leaders
from  emerging markets  say threatens to spread to economies that
have so far sidestepped a global slowdown.  ‘Worried’ About Copper  While Pinera said he is “worried” about copper prices,
which have fallen below the central bank’s $3.70 per pound
forecast for 2012, companies including state-run Codelco and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are pushing ahead with $100 billion in planned
mining investments due to Chile’s low production costs and sound
investment rules.  Reaching that goal has become increasingly difficult as new
power plants face delays or have been shelved. In his first year
in office Pinera asked GDF Suez SA to scrap plans to build a
540-megawatt coal-fired plant following environmental
opposition. Last month an investor in Chile’s largest energy
project, the 2,750-megawatt HidroAysen dam in the Patagonia
region, said it wanted to delay environmental licensing over
what it said was the lack of a clear national  energy policy .  Contingency Plan  Should economic growth falter, Pinera said he’s ready to
implement a contingency plan that includes spending part of its
$20 billion sovereign wealth fund accumulated from windfall
copper revenue.  “We’ll know immediately when we need it,” he said. “The
moment that we start losing momentum in our growth process or
losing jobs, we will start implementing this contingency plan.”  Chile’s benchmark  IPSA (IPSA)  stock  index  has gained 3.4 percent
this year, returning more than stocks in Brazil and Mexico, the
region’s two biggest economies. The peso has gained 3.7 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  during the same period.  Chile ranked seventh out of 179 nations for economic
freedom, the highest in the developing world and ahead of the
U.S., in a study this year by the Washington-based  Heritage
Foundation . Cuba, Venezuela and Bolivia were among the bottom
quarter when measured for levels of corruption, trade openness
and protection of property rights among other criteria, the same
study found.  Billionaire  Pinera, who earned a doctorate in economics at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Harvard University  and once was a
representative of Apple Inc. in Chile, amassed  more than $1
billion of wealth  after introducing credit cards to Chile in the
early 1980s and revitalizing Lan Airlines SA.  Pinera took office in March 2010 on promises to double
economic growth to an average of 6 percent annually by cutting
red tape. So far, South America’s fifth-biggest economy has
expanded an annual average of 6.1 percent a month while the
 unemployment  rate plunged from 9 percent to 6.5 percent.
Pinera’s mandate ends in 2014 and he is barred by law from
seeking a second consecutive term.  “This year we hope that we’ll be able to grow, not more
than 6 percent like the last two years, but around 5 percent,”
Pinera said. The global slowdown “will affect us but it will
not stop us. That’s a very big difference with respect to the
past,” he said.  For all of Chile’s progress, Pinera said he recognizes it
will take time to solve deep-seated social inequalities. The
country has the highest level of  income inequality  among the 34
members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. Its Gini coefficient, an index of the  income gap 
where 0 represents complete equality and 1 complete inequality,
is 0.497 compared with 0.476 in  Mexico  and 0.378 in the U.S.,
according to the Paris-based organization.  “We can’t go faster,” he said. “People need to be
realistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Los Cabos at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  