-- European Stocks Little Changed on Spain’s Borrowing Costs
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-18T15:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/european-stock-futures-rise.html
European stocks were little changed
as the yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond climbed above 7
percent, amid fading optimism that  Greece ’s election will calm
the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Cable & Wireless  Worldwide Plc jumped 7.8 percent after its
largest investor said it will accept Vodafone Group Plc’s
takeover offer.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  sank 4.6 percent,
contributing the most to a retreat by a gauge of bank shares.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.1 percent to 244.36 at
the close after earlier rallying as much as 1.1 percent and
sliding as much as 0.4 percent. The benchmark measure has
 dropped 10 percent from its peak on March 16  on concern that the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis has triggered a slowdown in
global economic growth.  “The Greek election hasn’t changed many things,” said
Stanislas de Bailliencourt, a  fund manager  at Sycomore Asset
Management in Paris, which oversees $2.4 billion. “Difficulties
remain and it’s going to be a long process. Spanish bond yields
continue to rise. There isn’t a lot of investor appetite for
this type of risk. The market remains nervous.”  Spain ’s  10-year government bond yields  rose as much as 41
basis points to 7.29 percent, the most since the country started
using the euro in 1999.  The New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough seats to
form a majority in the 300-member parliament, according to the
Greek parliament’s speaker, easing concern that the country’s
voters would reject the austerity measures needed to qualify for
international aid.  Majority Government  New Democracy’s Antonis Samaras will begin his second bid
in six weeks to form a coalition.  “The Greek people expressed their will to stay anchored
with the euro, remain an integral part of the euro zone and
honor the country’s commitments,” Samaras told supporters in
 Athens  after the election result.  Greece’s new government must emerge quickly from
yesterday’s contest, euro-area finance ministers said in  a
statement . Greece’s international monitors will “return to
Athens as soon as a new government is in place to exchange views
with the new government on the way forward,” the ministers said
in their statement.  National benchmark indexes declined in 10 of the 18
western- European (SXXP)  markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index added 0.2
percent, while Germany’s DAX increased 0.3 percent. France’s CAC
40 slipped 0.7 percent.  The volume of shares trading on the Stoxx 600 today was 5
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Austerity Time Frame  Speaking before a Group of 20 countries meeting in Los
Cabos, Mexico, host President  Felipe Calderon  said that the club
of the world’s biggest economies will increase the $430 billion
firewall the  International Monetary Fund  announced in April.  The leaders will issue a statement at the end of their two-
day summit tomorrow.  A spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  queried
comments by her foreign minister,  Guido Westerwelle , suggesting
the EU may give Greece more time to fix its finances. Georg Streiter, Merkel’s deputy chief spokesman, told reporters that
“this is not the time for some sort of rebates.”  In France, President  Francois Hollande ’s Socialist Party
and its allies won an absolute majority in the National
Assembly, exit polls showed.  Cable & Wireless, Rheinmetall  Cable & Wireless Worldwide (CW/)  jumped 7.8 percent to 37.77
pence, its biggest rally in eight weeks. The company’s largest
investor Orbis Holdings Ltd. said it will accept the 1.04
billion-pound ($1.6 billion) takeover offer from Vodafone.  Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  surged 6.7 percent to 36.77 euros following
a report in Bild am Sonntag that  Saudi Arabia  will order 800
Leopard 2 battle tanks. The company makes weapons for the
vehicles. Peter Ruecker, a spokesman at Rheinmetall, declined to
comment on the report.  Luxury-goods companies gained after Deutsche Bank AG said
in a report that the industry has “never had it so good.”
Absolute levels of profitability and margins have risen to all-
time highs for most brands, the analysts wrote.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the  U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker ,
rallied 2.9 percent to 1,346 pence.  PPR (PP)  SA,  the owner of the
Gucci brand , climbed 1.1 percent to 113.25 euros.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest watchmaker, added 2.3
percent to 369.60 Swiss francs. Berenberg Bank AG initiated the
stock with a buy recommendation, saying that the shares will
climb to 475 francs and that Swatch may increase its earnings
per share and  dividend growth   at a double-digit pace over the
next five years.  Greek, Spanish Lenders  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,  the country’s biggest bank ,
soared 11 percent to 1.50 euros as the ASE Index surged 3.6
percent. Alpha Bank SA rallied 5.2 percent to 1.42 euros.  A gauge of banking shares posted the  biggest decline  on the
Stoxx 600. Santander slid 4.6 percent to 4.70 euros.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the lender that was nationalized by the Spanish
government last month, sank 9 percent to 83.7 euro cents and
BBVA retreated 4.2 percent to 5.03 euros.  Banca Popolare
dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl (BPE)  lost 4.7 percent to 3.66 euros.  Mediobanca SpA said that it retains its cautious view on
Spanish banks because they require capital and the country’s
government has yet to say how it will use the EU bailout money.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  slid 3.6 percent to 30.16 pence.  Carrefour SA (CA)  slipped 3.2 percent to 14.03 euros after Chief
Executive Officer Georges Plassat said it will take at least
three years to turnaround the company. The world’s second-
largest retailer may abandon its operations in  Turkey  and cede
control in Indonesia, Plassat said, speaking at his first
meeting with shareholders since taking the job last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 