-- Europe Imperils U.S. Sales From Chemicals to PCs: Economy
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-18T21:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/europe-crisis-imperils-u-s-sales-from-chemicals-to-pcs-economy.html
American exporters from  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  to Hewlett-Packard Co. are preparing for a further decline
in demand from  Europe  as the region’s deepening debt crisis
threatens to derail a source of strength for the  U.S. economy .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for second-quarter
growth to 2 percent from 2.5 percent last week, in part because
of a deteriorating  trade balance . Earlier this month, it lowered
its third-quarter estimate to 2 percent from 3 percent, “with
much of the downward revision accounted for by an expectation
that the pace of export growth will slow,” chief U.S. economist
 Michael Feroli  said in a June 1 research note.  U.S. exports to the 27-nation European Union dropped 4.8
percent in the year ended April, the worst 12-month performance
since November 2009, Commerce Department figures show. By
comparison, total U.S. exports were up 3 percent in April from
the same time last year. The slump in Europe coincides with
slowing growth in other major markets for U.S. goods, such as
China and Brazil.  “The decline in Europe will weaken our exports over the
long term,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “We look for the trade
deficit to widen not only to the  euro zone  but developing
economies as well,” she said, consistent with their forecast
that the U.S. economy will slow to just 1 percent growth by
year-end from the 1.9 percent annual pace in the first quarter.  Outbound Containers  Weaker European sales are also reflected in outbound
container volumes from U.S. East Coast ports, which fell 2.6
percent in April from a year earlier after a 0.9 percent drop in
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The decline in demand from Europe is just starting to show
up in trade data because it typically takes three to six months
for goods to be shipped after an order is placed, according to
 Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  “The shoe is going to fall on U.S. exports to Europe,”
said Hufbauer, a former U.S. Treasury official.  European stocks were little changed as Spanish 10-year bond
yields climbed above 7 percent for the first time since the
creation of the euro amid fading optimism Greece’s election will
calm the euro area crisis.  More Spanish loans went unpaid in April, according to data
published today by the Bank of Spain, suggesting the country’s
recession is forcing more companies and consumers into default.  Shares Drop  Most U.S. stocks rose as optimism about Greece’s attempts
to form a coalition government tempered concern about the surge
in Spanish bond yields. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.1 percent to 1,344.78 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Europe threatens to derail President  Barack Obama ’s goal,
stated in his January 2010  State of the Union  address, of
doubling exports in five years. U.S. goods and services sent
abroad totaled $2.1 trillion last year, up 33 percent from 2009.
Exports accounted for 13.3 percent of U.S. gross domestic
product last year, up from 10.3 percent at the end of 2005.  Overseas sales of goods from computer chips to airplanes
have been a source of strength for the world’s largest economy
as it pulled out of the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  Export Contribution  Exports have  contributed  1.1 percentage points to growth on
average since the third quarter of 2009, when the recovery
began, accounting for almost half of the 2.4 percent average
quarterly gains in gross domestic product, according to figures
from the Commerce Department. By comparison, sales to overseas
buyers boosted GDP by an average 0.8 point in the six-year
expansion that ended in December 2007, as the economy grew at an
average 2.7 percent annual pace.  The  European Central Bank  forecast this month that the 17-
nation euro area economy will contract 0.1 percent this year
before returning to growth of 1 percent in 2013.  “We do not anticipate any material improvements in the
European region over the near term,” Howard Ungerleider, senior
vice president for Midland, Michigan-based Dow Chemical Co.,
said at a May 3 investor conference. While he sees “encouraging
signs” in Western Europe, the rest of the region “continues to
clearly struggle with structural issues and debt constraints and
is showing recessionary trends.”  Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York on June 15 cut
U.S. GDP forecasts for 2012 and 2013 in part because of the
intensification of the European debt crisis. The U.S. will
expand 2 percent this year, down from a previous estimate of 2.3
percent, and 1.7 percent next year rather than 2 percent.  Manufacturing Cools  Overseas sales have helped drive manufacturing, which has
been one of the bright spots of the U.S. since the expansion
began three years ago. That may be starting to change.  Manufacturing grew at a slower pace in May as factories
tempered production and pared inventories in response to
weakness in the global economy, according to a June 1 report
from the  Institute for Supply Management . The ISM’s  factory
index  fell to 53.5 after reaching a 10-month high of 54.8 in
April. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. Its export gauge
dropped to the lowest level of the year.  U.S. exporters probably can’t count on  emerging markets  to
take up the slack left by Europe, as they have in years past.
Over the past month, Morgan Stanley economists in Asia and  Latin
America  have trimmed projected growth rates for China, India and
Brazil.  ‘Tempered’ Optimism  “As a result, we’ve tempered our optimism about U.S.
exports,” Chief U.S. Economist Vincent Reinhart said in a June
15 note to clients. Morgan Stanley forecast trade will add 0.15
percentage point to growth this year, down from a prior estimate
of 0.3 point, as shipments overseas increase 4.2 percent rather
than 5.7 percent. Next year, it estimates exports will grow 5
percent instead of 7 percent previously.  “Certainly if Europe blows up you are looking at large
declines” for U.S. exports, said  Jay Bryson , senior global
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North
Carolina. “That isn’t our base-case scenario, but that’s not an
insignificant risk.”  Some U.S. manufacturers see a dim future in Europe even if
the crisis doesn’t turn into a full-blown meltdown.  “There is a good chance that in Europe, we end up with a
Japanese decade,” David Cote, chairman and chief executive
officer of Morris Township, New Jersey-based  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , said at a May 21 conference in Longboat Key,
Florida. He was referring to the Asian nation’s combination of
recession, high unemployment and price deflation starting in the
early 1990s.  Euro Weakness  In addition to the weaker demand, U.S. exporters will be
hit by a weaker euro, which makes American goods more expensive
in Europe, Peterson’s Hufbauer said. “It’s going south from
where it is now, and that will hurt U.S. exports.”  The euro has dropped 4.1 percent against the dollar in the
three months to June 15, the third-worst performance among Group
of 10 currencies after the  New Zealand dollar  and Australian
dollar. The euro traded at $1.2570 at 1:18 p.m. in New York.  The debt crisis and the possibility that Greece may
withdraw from the euro area have caused “a lot of uncertainty
in Europe,”  Meg Whitman , chief executive of Palo Alto,
California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , said in an interview last
week. “Uncertainty is not business’s best friend,” said
Whitman, who heads the world’s largest maker of personal
computers.  Trade Dependence  Even so, U.S. trade is less vulnerable to Europe’s woes
than some other countries that rely more heavily on trade.  A decline in exports “is a weight on GDP growth in the
U.S., but this category is not large enough by itself to cause a
sharp slowdown,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at
Barclays Plc in New York.  Even within Europe, demand for U.S. products varies among
countries.  Germany’s economy is “incredibly strong” and the U.K. is
performing well, while Spain, Portugal and Eastern Europe “are
still declining some,” Robert Dutkowsky, chief executive
officer of Clearwater, Florida-based computer products
distributor Tech Data Corp., told a May 22 investor conference.
“It’s a whole variety of economies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  