-- Dollar Slides Before Fed Meeting on Easing Speculation
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-19T07:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/euro-remains-lower-as-g-20-leaders-discus-europe-crisis.html
The dollar slid against the euro and
yen before the  Federal Reserve  begins a meeting today amid
prospects policy makers will consider further stimulus measures
to sustain U.S. growth.  The euro gained versus most of its 16 major counterparts as
Group of 20 leaders meeting in Mexico focused their response to
Europe’s financial crisis on stabilizing banks. Spain’s
borrowing costs soared to a euro-era record yesterday before the
nation sells bills today. Australia’s dollar rose a fourth day
after the  Reserve Bank  said this month’s cut in  interest rates 
followed a “finely balanced” discussion.  “There are some expectations that the Fed may extend the
Twist program,” Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast
Pte in Singapore, said about the central bank’s plan to lengthen
the maturity of its Treasury holdings. “The Fed may also give
some indication that they may do something in the later part of
the year. The dollar will come under pressure.”  The dollar declined 0.3 percent to $1.2613 per euro at 8:34
a.m. London time after depreciating to $1.2748 yesterday, the
weakest level since May 22. The greenback dropped 0.3 percent to
78.88 yen. Japan’s currency was little changed at 99.53 per
euro.  Fed policy makers will bring new forecasts to their two-day
meeting starting today as they contend with continuing financial
stress in  Europe  and a U.S.  unemployment rate  that has remained
above 8 percent for 40 consecutive months.  ’Risk Management’  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Jefferies & Co. predict they will
extend the Fed’s so-called Operation Twist. The $400 billion
program, which was announced in September and ends this month,
involved selling short-maturity debt and buying longer-term
bonds.  “A mere extension of Operation Twist may disappoint
markets that have been expecting something more aggressive,”
said Yuki Sakasai, a currency strategist at  Barclays Capital  in
New York. “That may lead to some selling of risk currencies,
and buying back of the dollar.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011,
seeking to cap borrowing costs and stimulate the economy. The
 Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to track
the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, tumbled 14 percent during that period. The gauge fell
0.3 percent to 81.728 today, after yesterday touching 81.161,
the lowest level since May 22.  G-20 leaders are in Los Cabos, Mexico for a second
consecutive summit to be dominated by Europe’s debt woes, with
Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  also attending the talks.  IMF Commitments  The  International Monetary Fund  got commitments for $456
billion to be used as a “second line of defense” to resolve
and prevent financial crises, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a statement.  Spain asked for a bailout of as much as 100 billion euros
to prop up its banks on June 9, becoming the fourth member of
the euro bloc to request international aid.  Spanish 10-year yields jumped 28 basis points to 7.16
percent yesterday, above the 7 percent rate that pushed Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to seek rescue packages. Spain is set to
auction 12- and 18-month bills today, followed by an offering of
bonds in two days.  “We don’t have a proper firewall to the euro crisis,”
said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest lender. “We’ll probably see
Spanish yields continuing to rise. The euro will come under
pressure on all fronts.”  The Australian dollar climbed against the dollar after the
 Reserve Bank of Australia  released minutes of its June 5 meeting
at which policy makers cut the overnight cash-rate target to 3.5
percent, the lowest since 2009.  “There was clear evidence suggesting a softening in global
conditions, and uncertainty about the future in Europe had
increased significantly,” minutes released today in Sydney
showed.  The so-called Aussie gained 0.2 percent to $1.0144.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  