-- Europe Gets Emerging Market Crisis Ultimatum as G-20 Meet
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-18T14:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/europe-gets-emerging-market-crisis-ultimatum-as-g-20-meet.html
Europe’s financial crisis deepened
and enveloped Spain, raising pressure on German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  at a meeting of world leaders to shift her stance
on shielding the global economy.  Group of 20 chiefs are meeting at a two-day summit in Mexico
today as Spanish borrowing costs soared to a euro-era record.
With elections in Greece failing to damp the threat of
contagion, policy makers are deliberating ways to stimulate the
world economy if necessary, a Canadian official said. Merkel,
who last week criticized U.S. debt levels, said June 15 she’ll
press the G-20 to hold to prudent government spending.  “It’s not a complete beating up session, but Germany is
the recipient of fairly caustic criticism from other members of
the G-20,”  Rob Carnell ,
chief international economist at ING Bank NV in  London , said by
telephone. “The pressure will be on Germany to give more ground
and behind closed doors Merkel may well be more accommodative.
There is ground for the euro zone to move, but just what it does
depends on how much Germany digs its heels in.”  G-20 leaders are gathering in the Mexican Pacific resort of
Los Cabos for a summit being dominated by the crisis in the 17-
nation euro region that threatens to further erode the weakest
global economy since the 2009 recession. Spain’s Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is also attending, as the respite in markets after
elections in Greece yesterday proved short-lived.  Euro Drops  Stocks erased their gains and the euro fell today as
Spanish 10-year bond yields leaped above the 7 percent level
that forced  Greece , Ireland and Portugal to call for sovereign
rescues for the first time since the euro’s creation.  G-20 officials met late into the night to discuss a mix of
measures to secure the global recovery including deficit
reduction for some countries and pledges for additional stimulus
by others with sounder finances, the Canadian official said on
condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.
Canada was pushing for language in the communique that would
call on European nations to take strong action, the official
said.  President Barack Obama, who has blamed the crisis “cloud”
coming in over the Atlantic for a slowdown in U.S. employment
growth, is due to hold talks with Merkel in Los Cabos today at
1:30 p.m. local time, a White House official said.  ‘Getting Closer’  “I think we are getting closer to a common position,”
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told reporters late yesterday
upon his arrival in Los Cabos. Growth will be an “important
theme” at the summit.  The euro dropped 0.4 percent to $1.2593 as of 3:59 p.m. in
Berlin, while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index was little changed
after earlier rallying 1.1 percent. The 10-year Spanish yield
jumped 29 basis points to 7.13 percent.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick , speaking in Los Cabos
yesterday, said that European policy makers bungled their
attempt to rescue Spain’s banks. China and Indonesia signaled
growing exasperation with more than two years of European
crisis-fighting that has failed to stem the threat of global
contagion.  “I hope that one way or another our European colleagues
will reach an agreement on rigorous methods to manage the
crisis,” Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who
heads Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, said in a speech in the
Mexican resort. “The absence of such methods will have
unsettling consequences to all of us.”  Boosting Demand  G-20 officials were still negotiating last night on the
language to be used in their statement to be issued at the
summit’s conclusion. The talks included discussions on using
language similar to pledges made at Cannes,  France , last year,
the Canadian official said. At Cannes, some European countries
 pledged  to reduce deficits while  emerging markets  and those with
healthier finances said they’d boost demand if needed.  Merkel, Monti, Rajoy and French President  Francois Hollande , the heads of the four biggest euro economies, next
meet in Rome on June 22, before a full European Union summit in
Brussels on June 28-29 that will discuss paths to closer
political and economic union in a bid to regain market
confidence. European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  and
European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  are also in
Los Cabos.  EU leaders will pledge “to mobilize all levers and
instruments” to ensure financial stability and tackle the debt
crisis, according to draft conclusions prepared for the Brussels
summit.  As countries from the U.S. to  China  prod euro-area leaders
to keep the crisis from spreading, a boost in the International
Monetary Fund’s global financial backstop is moving back into
focus after Merkel called for the rest of the world to do more.
The G-20 will boost the $430 billion firewall the IMF announced
in April, Mexican President  Felipe Calderon , the meeting’s host,
said on June 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Los Cabos at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Los Cabos at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  