-- Euro Weakens as Leaders Ask Merkel to Contain Debt Crisis
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-18T21:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/euro-drops-from-highset-in-month-versus-dollar-after-greek-vote.html
The euro fell from the strongest in
almost a month versus the dollar as German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  faces rising pressure from Group of 20 leaders to contain
the region’s crisis, which threatens global economic growth.  The 17-nation currency weakened as Spanish 10-year bond
yields rose above 7 percent and as Merkel said the new Greek
government shouldn’t be granted additional budget leeway.
 Brazil ’s real fell against most of its major counterparts as
economists lowered outlooks for the nation’s growth.  New
Zealand ’s dollar rallied to a six-week high versus the greenback
after the country’s service industry grew.  “We avoided what people thought would be worst-case
scenario, but the pro-bailout parties in Greece still have to
form a coalition and we saw how well that went last time,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The
attitude is still to plow in to safety and stay away from risk.
The market is looking at Spain primarily over  Italy  because the
banking sector is first and foremost what people are watching.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.2576 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after strengthening as much as 0.9 percent to $1.2748, the
highest since May 22. The 17-nation common currency was
unchanged at 99.49 yen, while the Japanese currency fell 0.5
percent to 79.11 to the dollar.  Brazil’s Economy  Brazil’s currency depreciated for the first time in three
days, falling 0.4 percent to 2.0590 per dollar.  Brazil’s gross
domestic product will expand 2.3 percent in 2012, compared with
a forecast of 2.53 percent a week earlier, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey of about 100 analysts
published today.  New Zealand’s currency reached 79.38 U.S. cents, the most
since May 8, before trading at 79.19, 0.4 percent stronger than
last week.  The nation’s Performance of Services Index climbed to 56.8,
the highest since November 2007, according to a report by the
Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business NZ.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, added 0.4 percent to 81.955. The gauge earlier
declined to 81.161, the lowest since May 22.  The implied volatility for one-month euro-dollar options,
which indicates expected swings in the underlying currencies,
reached a high of 13.29 percent last week. While that’s up from
8.25 percent in April, it’s below last year’s peak of 18.42 in
September. The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index  rose to 11.88 this
month from 8.84 in April, the least since November 2007.  Euro Levels  The euro’s earlier break above $1.2670 was a bullish signal
that may keep the 17-nation currency supported in the near-term,
Barclays technical strategists, led by Jordan Kotick, wrote in a
note today to clients. If the currency fails to appreciate
beyond the $1.2975 to $1.3015 range, the top part of a larger
bear channel, the recent strengthening will prove to be
corrective in nature, they wrote.  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24, and has depreciated about 6.7 percent during the past 12
months against a basket of nine developed-market peers,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Concern  Greece  would be forced to leave the euro ebbed
after Antonis Samaras’s New Democracy party and the Pasok party
won enough seats in yesterday’s vote to control Greece’s 300-
member parliament should they join forces in a coalition
government.  Greek Politics  Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  said he’d propose that
President Karolos Papoulias brokers a unity government that
would include second-placed Syriza, and Democratic Left.
Papoulias will formally begin the process of asking Samaras to
form a government when they meet today.  Greece was left with a political stalemate after the
previous general election on May 6. Since then, the euro
weakened 4.8 percent against the yen and lost 3.4 percent versus
the dollar through last week as investors sought havens from the
turmoil.  “As the pro-austerity government tries to iron out all the
wrinkles and actually form a unity government, market
participants will be very interested in finding out how that
ends up causing either greater stability or instability for the
euro zone,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in Washington
at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.  G-20 leaders are gathering in Los Cabos for a summit being
dominated by the crisis in the 17-nation euro region that
threatens to further erode the weakest global economy since the
2009 recession.  Spain’s Debt  The crisis escalated on June 9 when  Spain  asked for a
bailout of as much as 100 billion euros to prop up its banks,
becoming the fourth member of the trading bloc to request
international aid.  Spanish 10-year yields rose as much as 41 basis points to
7.29 percent and ended the day at 7.158 percent. Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal  sought bailouts when their benchmark borrowing
costs topped 7 percent.  “We’ve been arguing for many weeks that Greece is very
much a distraction and the bigger story is the much faster
deceleration in global growth and deterioration in Spain.” said
Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“Spain seems to be driving systemic risk premium and negatively
weighing on the single currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  