-- European Banks Reverse Gains as Spanish Bond Yields Surpass 7%
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-06-18T10:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/europe-banks-rise-as-greece-election-ease-concerns-on-euro-exit.html
European banking stocks  reversed
their gains as the election victory by pro-bailout parties in
 Greece  failed to dispel concern that the sovereign debt crisis
is spreading.  The 43-company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  fell as much 1.5 percent, the most since June 1,
after climbing as much as 2.3 percent as the market opened. It
was down 0.5 percent at noon Paris time. Banks in  Spain  and
 Italy  led the decline, with  Bankia SA (BKIA)  dropping 6.5 percent to 86
cents and Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl dropping 2.7
percent to 3.74 euros.  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  surged past 7 percent today and
reached 7.14 percent, the highest since the euro was introduced
in 1999, on concern that the nation may be shut out of
government bond markets.  “The Greek elections aren’t easing concerns about the debt
crisis in the  euro zone ,” Mario Spreafico, chief investment
officer of Schroeder Investment in Italy, who manages about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion), said by phone. “Spanish bond
spreads signal that the worst is not over, and a sustainable
path to gain investors’ confidence is still far from been
reached.”  Greek Election  The  New Democracy  and Pasok parties won enough seats to
form a majority in the 300-member parliament, according to an
official projection. The prospect that anti-bailout leader
Alexis Tsipiras and his Syriza party would win rattled markets
last week.  Greek lenders were outperformers today in the wake of the
vote.  National Bank of Greece SA  was the best performer in the
Bloomberg banks index, jumping 17 percent. Optimism about the
election result may not last, said Dirk Hoffmann-Becking and
 Carlo Tommaselli  of  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   “Even if a government is formed and negotiations with the
euro zone are brought to a conclusion, the issue remains that
New Democracy’s leadership is not a pro-austerity party,” the
analysts wrote in a report today. “Concerns remain that
implementation of even the more modest austerity measures will
fall short of expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  