-- Europe Muddle Thickens as Doubts Persist Leaders Can Stem Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-06-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/europe-muddle-thickens-as-doubts-persist-leaders-can-stem-crisis.html
“To put it bluntly: we’re not going
to pay,” the German chancellor said.  That threat didn’t come from  Angela Merkel , besieged from
all sides to save  Europe  from an avalanche of debt. It was a
rare outburst from her pro-European predecessor,  Helmut Kohl ,
against calls that Germany plow more into the common European
budget in 1998.  Germany ended up paying, illustrating the contortions it
has gone through for the sake of European unity. Today, Merkel
faces mounting pressure to make even greater concessions, by
putting Germany’s financial muscle behind an integrated banking
and borrowing system to keep the euro intact. The question is
whether, after two years of muddling through, Europe’s pre-
eminent power can act quickly and decisively.  “I think she will remain an incrementalist: we have not
yet reached the point where it is obvious that we are hanging
over the precipice,” said Paul de Grauwe, a professor at the
 London School of Economics  and two-time Belgian candidate for a
European Central Bank post. “It looks again that what is going
to come out is going to temporarily pacify markets until it is
clear that it is not going to be sufficient.”  The narrow victory by pro-euro forces in Greece’s election
bought Europe time without fixing the cleavages between the
export-driven, fiscally prudent northern economies and the more
welfare-oriented south that planted the seeds for the crisis and
dogged the response.  Rally Fizzles  The optimism was short-lived yesterday, as initial gains in
the euro and Spanish and Italian bonds evaporated. The overtime
runs out on June 28-29, when European leaders meet for the 19th
summit since a pledge “to safeguard financial stability in the
euro area” in February 2010 launched a process of real-time
experimentation with repairing the currency’s foundations.  Europe’s leaders are in the bind of having gone further
than they fancied toward a unified economy without going far
enough. More than 386 billion euros ($486 billion) in loan
pledges for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  -- plus another 100
billion euros for Spain’s banks -- break at least the spirit of
the “no-bailout” rule.  Some 211 billion euros of  bond purchases  by the central
bank were so unorthodox that they provoked the resignation of
both Germans on the bank’s policy-setting council last year. The
German central bank, the most powerful voice within the ECB,
yesterday opposed further moves toward shared liability for
national debts.  Extra Tools  Europe now has “quite a significant extra set of tools
which did not even exist at the beginning of this crisis,”
Richard Corbett, an aide to European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , told Bloomberg Television in Brussels yesterday. The
bank-aid pledge to Spain “would have been totally impossible”
two years ago.  The crisis makes a U.S.-style centralization of debt
management more urgent while raising greater obstacles to it.
“Europe is not America and we have quite a different historical
path,” EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said.  “We are talking about new architecture,” Rehn told Sara Eisen and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance”
in an interview from Brussels yesterday. “It is very important
to build a convincing roadmap toward completing the economic
union, to supplement the already strong monetary union.”  National Mindset  Many national mindsets are ingrained from the pre-euro era,
when the EU consisted of 12 western countries. Germany was
obsessed with an independent inflation-fighting central bank,
 France  viewed the currency as demand-management tool,
dysfunctional politics encumbered Italy with debt, and each
country treated its  banks  as a national fief.  From the 1991 Maastricht Treaty to the 1997 deficit-
limiting stability pact, its loosening in 2005 and re-
strengthening in the wake of the debt shock, the euro
represented the sum of those differences. It still does, now
with risks and stakes unimagined by its creators.  “There’s a great continuity in attitudes,” said Niels Thygesen, a retired Copenhagen University professor who served
on the 1989 panel led by European Commission then-President
Jacques Delors that mapped the path to the euro. The currency’s
founders “did understand what the real issues were and where
the differences were, but they hoped the differences would be
resolved as we moved along. That hasn’t quite materialized.”  France-Germany  In a January  paper , Thygesen identified eight clashes in
economic philosophy between  Germany  and France -- some uneasily
resolved in the euro’s setup, others that rumble on such as
Germany’s insistence on rules-based enforcement of deficit
limits and France’s more expansive view of the role of the
central bank.  Berlin-Paris tensions were magnified by the election of
Socialist Francois Hollande as French president on a pro-growth
platform last month. Hollande gained more leverage on June 17
when his allies romped to a majority in legislative elections,
giving him a free hand domestically.  No “miracles” are likely at the summit, said an official
involved in the preparations. The boldest commitment may be to
“rapidly examine” proposals for a shared European bank-
resolution and deposit insurance system, according to a draft
statement obtained by Bloomberg News.  Merkel herself damped expectations before she left for a
Group of 20 summit that wraps up today in Los Cabos,  Mexico .
“Germany’s power is not infinite,” she said in Berlin June 14.  Spanish Relief  Details of  Spain ’s bank relief won’t be sorted out until a
June 21 meeting of finance ministers at the earliest. Spanish
bonds have tumbled since the offer was made on June 9 because
the Spanish government would be required to pay off the European
official loans before serving bondholders.  Aides to euro-area finance ministers last week discussed
evidence that the junior status reduced the appeal of Spanish
bonds without reaching any conclusions, an official involved in
those talks said. Spain’s 10-year bond yields reached 7.22
percent yesterday, a euro-era record.  Europe’s crisis remedies have been “too late and second
too little,” said Ana Palacio, a former Spanish foreign
minister. “The main issue has been not understanding that there
was a different dimension altogether. We could not afford
reflecting, we could not afford discussing broadly, but we
needed action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  