-- Euro TARP Needed to Fix Crisis, Weinberg Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-18T17:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/euro-tarp-needed-to-fix-crisis-weinberg-says-tom-keene.html
A Troubled Asset Relief Program for
euro members is the region’s best bet for fiscal recovery
following a Greek election that “didn’t really fix anything,”
according to High Frequency Economics founder  Carl Weinberg .  The  European Central Bank  can only keep banks liquid,
rather than actually repair their structural flaws, Weinberg,
chief economist at the Vallhalla, New York-based research firm,
said in an interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene , Ken Prewitt and Sara Eisen. This pushes the
responsibility to prompt reform onto European Union Economic and
Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn , as well as the ruling bodies of
individual countries, he said.  “The ECB has done everything it can do to help,” said
Weinberg. “Now it’s up to Mr. Rehn and the governments of
Europe to fix the banking system by recapitalizing it. We need a
euro TARP.”  TARP was a $700 billion fund created by the U.S. government
to backstop bank capital and financial institutions in the
aftermath of the country’s financial crisis, which was caused by
rising defaults on home loans.  It’s unclear who would fund this proposed TARP program,
although it will likely be the people of  Europe , Weinberg said.  “We’re looking at a very, very important drain on the
savings of Europe to finance all of this,” he said. “All the
banks of Europe are at risk, and at some point there’s going to
have to be a bailout for them.”  Indirect Effects  A European TARP would indirectly affect the U.S. by adding
uncertainty to its banking system, prompting the loss of some
 exports  and causing overseas businesses in locations such as
London to struggle because of counterparty risk, Weinberg said.  According to Weinberg, investors should steer clear of euro
member bonds and focus more on securities issued by entities in
 North America  and  Asia , not including Japan. The false
perception that Germany is “safe” has caused the bund to
become overpriced.  The euro bloc is faced with the prospect of a deep economic
downturn and is dealing with “very, very disorderly financial
conditions,” Weinberg said. “Germany is embedded in the middle
of euroland and Germany will sink with the rest of them if they
don’t fix the banking system fast.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  