-- Ex-AT&T Employee Admits to Passing Tips on Apple, RIM
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-06-18T21:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/ex-at-t-employee-admits-to-passing-tips-to-expert-network.html
A former  AT&T Inc. (T)  employee admitted
to passing inside information about the company and suppliers
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  to the clients
of an expert-networking firm.  Alnoor Ebrahim, 57, a naturalized U.S. citizen who was born
in Tanzania, pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to
commit  wire fraud  and securities fraud at a hearing today in
Manhattan federal court.  Ebrahim said that from late 2008 through 2010 he was paid
$180,000 for his work for the expert-networking firm, which
wasn’t identified during the hearing. Clients of the firm that
were tipped included at least one hedge fund.  “I provided inside information concerning AT&T’s sales of
Apple’s iPhone and RIM’s BlackBerry products, as well as other
handset devices sold through AT&T’s distribution channels,”
Ebrahim told U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken at the hearing.  Ebrahim was identified as a former consultant to expert
networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, in court documents
in the criminal case against James Fleishman, an ex-Primary
Global executive who was convicted and sentenced to 2 1/2 years
in prison.  Cooperating Witness  According to the charges admitted to by Ebrahim, in
September 2009 he passed inside tips about AT&T’s iPhone sales
to a witness who was cooperating with the authorities; in June
2010, he spoke with an employee of a  New York  hedge fund as part
of the conspiracy; and in August 2010, he passed information to
an investment company employee about sales of RIM products.  Ebrahim faces as long as five years in prison when he’s
sentenced on Oct. 25. Both sides agreed that federal sentencing
guidelines call for him to get 18 to 24 months in prison and pay
a fine of $4,000 to $40,000, according to a plea agreement. He
was released today on a $50,000 bond.  “We took this matter very seriously and cooperated fully
with the authorities,”  Marty Richter , a spokesman for Dallas-
based AT&T, said in a statement. “The conduct alleged was
clearly against our code of business conduct, and Mr. Ebrahim is
no longer an AT&T employee.”  Ebrahim, whom prosecutors said was an associate director of
channel marketing for  AT&T Mobility  in Atlanta, left the company
in January 2011, according to Richter.  The case is U.S. v. Ebrahim, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  