-- Texas Hailstorms May Cost Insurers Record $2 Billion
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-06-18T20:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/texas-hailstorms-may-cost-insurers-record-2-billion.html
Storms that pummeled a Dallas-area
highway and residences with hail last week may lead to $2
billion in home and auto claims, an insurance-industry trade
group said.  Sandra Helin , president of the Southwestern Insurance
Information Service, said the cost of claims may be driven by
damage to older homes. She said the storms may bring 60,000 auto
claims and “tens of thousands” from homeowners.  “This didn’t hit in ranch area,” Helin said today in a
telephone interview. “It was right in the suburbs, and then it
hit an area with a significant number of historic homes. You
can’t find tiles for some of those roofs anymore.”  The hailstorms struck on June 13, damaging cars during rush
hour on the Dallas Central Expressway. The previous record for
insured damage from hail in the state was $1.1 billion in 1995,
according to the  Insurance Council of Texas .  The  Insurance Council , an Austin-based industry trade
group, issued preliminary estimates for insured losses from last
week’s storm at just $900 million, up from $800 million earlier
today. About 50,000 auto and 20,000 homeowner claims have been
reported so far, said Mark Hanna, a spokesman for the council.  “How many more come in, well, that’s the million-dollar
question right now,” Hanna said. Adjusters are still assessing
damage, he said.  The costliest storm of any kind to hit  Texas  was Hurricane
Ike in 2008 with about $12 billion in claims, according to the
insurance Council.  Companies including  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. residential insurer, have sought to boost returns on
homeowners’ coverage by raising rates and changing policies to
take into account the age of roofs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  