-- Texas Dispute With Time Warner Cable Denied Court Review
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-18T14:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/texas-dispute-with-time-warner-cable-denied-court-review.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
revive a provision in Texas’s state cable television franchising
system that barred some providers, including  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) , from opting out of their municipal contracts.  The court, without comment, refused to hear the Texas
Public Utility Commission’s appeal of a lower court ruling that
the plan discriminated against Time Warner Cable by letting
other television providers drop their municipal franchises in
favor of the simpler state franchise system.  Texas lawmakers created the state franchising system in
2005 to make it easier for competitors to enter the cable TV
market. Companies selling  service  in an area that already had a
cable provider were allowed to drop their municipal contracts in
favor of a state franchise. Companies, such as Time Warner
Cable, that were an area’s main cable TV provider were required
to keep the municipal franchise until it expired.  The  Texas  Cable Association and New York-based Time Warner
Cable challenged the law. A federal judge ruled against them.
While their appeal was pending, the state legislature amended
the law to require only the main provider in cities with at
least 215,000 population to retain their municipal franchises.  Time Warner Cable has franchise agreements with Irving,
Dallas and Corpus Christi scheduled to expire between 2013 and
2017, according to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.  The New Orleans-based appeals court ruled in January that
the amended law “plainly discriminates against a small and
identifiable number of cable providers.”  Promoting Competition  “Promoting competition bears no relationship” to the rule
requiring companies such as Time Warner Cable to keep their
municipal contracts, the court said. It said the provision would
be unlawful under either a strict or intermediate standard of
legal review.  In the appeal denied by the  Supreme Court , the Texas
utility commission said it should get a chance to argue in a
trial court that the amended law could be upheld under an
intermediate legal standard. Municipalities should be able to
rely on their long-term franchise agreements with cable
providers, the commission said.  Lawyers for Time Warner Cable and the cable association
said the provision was enacted “as a result of heavy lobbying
by telephone companies aiming to hobble their competitors.” The
state didn’t explain why companies serving cities smaller than
215,000 should be allowed to drop their local franchises, the
lawyers said.  The case is Nelson v. Time Warner Cable, 11-1236.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  