-- Excavating Armageddon, Israeli Researchers Reveal Past
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-06-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/excavating-armageddon-israeli-researchers-reveal-canaanite-past.html
Archaeologists who found a 3,000-
year-old gold ibex earring in the remains of the ancient
Canaanite city identified with Armageddon anticipate further
discoveries will broaden historical insight about the site.  Digging resumed on June 17, almost a month after the
announcement that a jewelry trove was found in the remains of a
private home built near the palace that housed the then rulers.  At question is a debate over whether Megiddo, now part of
present-day  Israel , was one of several Egyptian garrisons in the
late Bronze Age, said Israel Finkelstein, co-director of the
dig.  “I personally think Megiddo was not such a city,”
Finkelstein said. “But what we are doing now illuminates this
question.”  Megiddo, which the New Testament identifies with the
“Armageddon” battle of the end of days, has been home to 37
different cities over thousands of years and is a trove of
archaeological treasure.  Strategically, the  UNESCO World Heritage  site has been
invaluable because it controlled a commonly used passage on the
trading route between  Egypt  and Mesopotamia and also stood along
a route connecting Jerusalem with the Jordan River valley.  “Anything that would shed light on the sequence of events
and sequence of material culture that would show whether this
culture was the last phase of the Egyptian Canaanite system or
the next phase, would be of utmost importance,” said
Finkelstein, also a professor of archaeology at  Tel Aviv
University .  Egyptian Designs  Some of the materials and motifs of the jewelry in the
hoard are consistent with Egyptian designs from the same period,
including carnelian beads, Tel Aviv University said in a press
statement last month.  The ibex piece was a “major find,” said Finkelstein, who
participated in his first dig 40 years ago. “Sometimes you come
across items and say to yourself, ‘I haven’t seen anything like
that in my life.’”  “It is important to understand the methodology of working
with these jewelry pieces and to understand the origin of the
gold and silver,” he said. “It sheds light on trade relations
and connections between Canaan and neighboring lands.”  The excavation is being carried out even as Israel’s
present-day relationship with Egypt, with which it has lived in
peace for three decades, has frayed since former President  Hosni Mubarak  was removed from office last year.  A deteriorating security situation on Israel’s southern
border with Egypt has seen a natural-gas pipeline bombed 14
times since February and Egyptian gas imports to Israel dropping
to $179 million last year from $355 million in 2010.  Modern-day leaders seeking to use history to fix the future
probably won’t find any helpful conclusions in the rise and fall
of civilizations since ancient times on Megiddo.  “I don’t believe we can draw direct lessons from the
past,” said Finkelstein.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on rock CDs,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 