-- Mexico Joining Pacific Trade Talks Seen Positive for Canada
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-18T18:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/mexico-joining-pacific-trade-talks-seen-aiding-canada-s-chances.html
Mexico  was invited to join nine-
nation Pacific trade talks, a step that may boost  Canada ’s
chances of taking part and give North America a bigger role in
the regional negotiations, according to business groups.  The governments negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership
acted on Mexico’s expression of interest in the talks, U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
announced today at a G-20 summit in the Mexican resort city of
Los Cabos.  Mexico’s entry “will encourage the Canadians to come to
the table in the near term as well,”  Eric Farnsworth , vice
president of the New York-based Council of the Americas, which
promotes open markets in the Western Hemisphere, said in a phone
interview. Expanding the discussions also may slow the process
of concluding an agreement, he said.  The regional partnership is a top priority of the Obama
administration’s trade agenda. Japan and Canada also have
expressed interest in joining the talks, though no agreement has
been reached yet. In addition to the U.S., the countries in the
discussions are Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand ,
Peru, Singapore and Vietnam.  Joining the trade talks is “a great piece of news for
Mexicans,” Calderon said. The accord will create jobs and trade
for the next two decades, he said.  ‘Economic Footing’  The regional discussions “are critical to establishing
strong economic footing for the United States in the Pacific
region and providing a counterbalance to China,” Republican
Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, chairman of the House Ways
& Means Committee, said in a statement. He said he supports
including Mexico.  By including Mexico, U.S. businesses, workers, farmers and
ranchers will get to take advantage of economic benefits
triggered when the agreement is completed, the National Foreign
Trade Council, a Washington-based business group, said in a
statement.  The American Automotive Policy Council, a Washington-based
industry group for  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC, also supports including Mexico and Canada,
as long as their addition doesn’t stall the negotiations. Japan
should further open its auto market to international competitors
before being allowed to participate in the Pacific agreement,
according to the group’s  website .  The Obama administration plans to notify Congress soon that
it intends to include Mexico in the agreement, starting a 90-day
consultation period with lawmakers, the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office said in a statement. The public will
have a chance to comment, it said.  The Pacific-region partners want to conclude the agreement
“expeditiously,” according to the statement. The nations,
which have held 12 rounds of negotiations, plan to resume
discussions July 2-10 in  San Diego .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  