-- Facebook Rises for a Third Day, Paring Declines Since IPO
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-18T20:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/facebook-rises-for-a-third-day-paring-declines-since-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares rose for a
third day, paring declines since its May 17 initial public
offering, as new advertising services at the largest social
network reassured investors it is focused on boosting revenue.  Shares of the  Menlo Park , California-based company climbed
4.7 percent to $31.41 at the close in New York. The shares have
risen 15 percent since June 13, paring the decline since the IPO
to 17 percent. The stock traded as low as $25.52 on June 6.  In the past week, Facebook has unveiled new products and
services designed to enhance advertising sales, which make up
more than 80 percent of revenue. The company unveiled a real-
time bidding platform for third-party ads on June 13. A day
earlier,  Facebook  and researcher ComScore Inc. released research
that showed marketing on the social network is effective,
countering another report that questioned its impact.  “Both of those things show that Facebook management is
serious about growing advertising revenue,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .
“Just the idea that they’re trying is good enough for most
investors.”  Facebook also is working on a location-based mobile-
advertising product that will let companies target users with
real-time data showing their whereabouts, said Carolyn Everson,
vice president of global marketing solutions.  In a  filing  ahead of its IPO, the company said advertising
sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with user growth as more users
access the site from mobile devices. Facebook didn’t introduce a
mobile ad service until earlier this year.  During the first quarter, revenue rose 45 percent to $1.06
billion, a slowdown from 55 percent in the December period.  At $31.41, Facebook closed near the $31.50 midpoint of the
company’s initial proposed price range before its IPO. The
company later raised the offering price to $38. The stock began
trading publicly on May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  