-- Fed QE3 in Mortgages May Be Half of QE1, Barclays Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-06-18T17:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/fed-qe3-in-mortgages-may-be-half-of-qe1-barclays-says.html
Any new buying of government-backed
mortgage bonds by the  Federal Reserve  will be limited to no more
than $500 billion to $600 billion per year by supply
constraints, according to Barclays Plc.  That would be less than half the amount  purchased  in the
first round of the Fed’s so-called quantitative easing. During
QE1, the central bank bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities from January 2009 through March 2010 in a bid to
stabilize  housing  and financial markets.  “The agency MBS market might have more trouble
accommodating the Federal Reserve this time,” Barclays analysts
including Nicholas Strand, Siddarth Ramkumar andSandipan Deb
wrote June 15 in a weekly report. The Fed would seek to avoid
creating market “dislocations” through its buying, a dynamic
that may lead it to include Treasuries in QE3, they said.  Signs of  faltering growth  amid European debt turmoil,
combined with inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent
target, mean the Fed will announce new steps to boost the
economy as soon as a meeting this week, according to 12 of the
21 primary dealers who trade with the central bank. Barclays
says it’s a “close call” on whether the Fed will introduce
additional easing this month, at roughly 60 percent odds.  The most likely easing at the meeting would be an extension
of the Fed’s Operation Twist program, in which it’s been selling
shorter-maturity Treasuries to buy longer-term ones, according
to Barclays. The central bank may create a modified Twist
operation of $350 billion to $400 billion through the addition
of sales of Treasuries maturing in as much as four years, which
could also include mortgage buying. QE3, which is less likely,
probably would focus on home-loan securities, Barclays said.  Net Issuance  During QE1, supply entering the more than $5 trillion
agency mortgage-bond market totaled about $511 billion, as a
result of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  shrinking their balance
sheets, sales by overseas investors and net issuance, the New
York-based Barclays analysts estimated in their report.  Over the next 12 months, supply could total $170 billion as
the market’s growth has slowed, with $108 billion of net
issuance expected, down from $396 billion during QE1, they said.  The Fed, which already owns about $850 billion of the
securities, started  reinvesting  in the market in October with
proceeds of its past purchase of housing-related debt. Agency
mortgage securities carry guarantees from taxpayer-supported
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or government-owned Ginnie Mae.  Many MBS investors cannot switch to “lower-credit
assets,” making them unlikely to sell, the analysts said.
During QE1, the Fed took assets coming off the books of money
managers, insurers and pension funds, either through sales or
repayments, they said.  Riskier Investments  While pushing bond buyers into riskier investments is
“likely one of the Fed’s intended effects,” many mortgage-bond
holders would need “significantly tighter MBS spreads” before
selling, the Barclays analysts said.  Money managers are constrained by the greater amount of
“top-credit securities” in the benchmark bond indexes that
they intend to track or beat, as a result of the expansion of
the Treasury market, they wrote.  At the same time, U.S. banks purchase agency mortgage
securities for “capital and liquidity reasons” while real
estate investment trusts must focus on property-related assets,
they said. Commercial-bank holdings swelled to almost $1.34
trillion this month from about $950 billion at the start of
2009, while REITs’ portfolios climbed to $237 billion at the end
of 2011, from about $90 billion, Fed data show.  “Most major overseas investors” are unlikely to want to
invest much of their dollar reserves in anything but government-
backed securities, the Barclays analysts said.  “Given these investor constraints and lower natural
supply, we would expect a little Fed involvement to go a long
way to tightening spreads,” they said. If the central bank
doesn’t announce QE3 this week, the mortgage market shouldn’t be
damaged too much because the option will remain for later, they
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  