-- Fiscal Cliff Road Paved by Those Who Took U.S. to Brink
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-18T15:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/fiscal-cliff-road-paved-by-those-who-took-u-s-to-brink.html
The people responsible for averting
the end-of-year fiscal cliff are the same ones who almost caused
a U.S. debt default, let airline ticket taxes lapse for two
weeks and came within two hours of shutting down the government.  The 112th Congress, paralyzed by ideological divides and
deadlocked on routine issues, may approach the brink again.
Lawmakers are nowhere near an agreement on what to do about $607
billion of tax increases and spending cuts slated to kick in at
the beginning of 2013.  “If people wanted to resolve these problems, we’d have
them resolved,” said Representative  Henry Waxman , a California
Democrat first elected in 1974. “People used to work out
compromises for the good of the country.”  Instead, Waxman and lawmakers in both parties said they
don’t expect much from Congress until after the Nov. 6 election.
That delay will force a compressed legislative session with the
economy and the role of government in the balance.  If Congress does nothing the economy will probably fall
into a recession in early 2013, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office , because of what Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has called a fiscal cliff.  The unusually tall stack of urgent tax-and-spending issues
creates the potential for a grand bargain on fiscal policy, a
partisan standoff or a typical congressional deal that staves
off an immediate crisis by setting up another one in the future.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month said they
expect lawmakers to offset much of the fiscal drag, allowing the
expansion to continue into 2013.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  “I guess it would be nice to think that somehow more
enlightened leadership and followership could avoid a dismal
conclusion, but so far there’s not much evidence of it,” said
Pete Davis, president of Davis Capital Investment Ideas, who
advises Wall Street money managers on government policy. “Even
doing the obvious stuff that almost everybody supports is
extremely difficult.”  For now, members of Congress are talking a lot about the
need to act -- and not acting much. The Republican-led House
passed a bill to avert spending cuts and will pass another in
July to extend expiring tax cuts. Neither measure will advance
in the Senate, and President  Barack Obama  opposes both.  ‘Big Impact’  “Anybody that tells you that they know what’s going to
happen or what will happen after the election is a lot smarter
than I am,” said Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, who is
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney’s liaison to
Senate Republicans. “If we’re going to see changes in January
that are significant, I think that’ll really have a big impact
on whether things get done.”  The difficulty of advancing fiscal legislation before the
election will create what Blunt called a “very compressed”
timeline for action afterward as lawmakers calculate whether
they would gain advantage by waiting until January.  House members are scheduled to return to  Washington  Nov. 13
for four days of work and organizing for the new Congress that
starts in January. The members who can vote in the so-called
lame-duck session were elected in 2010, including those who are
retiring or were defeated in the election.  They’ll go home for Thanksgiving, returning Nov. 27 for
work that’s scheduled to last through Dec. 14 but could go right
up to Christmas or Dec. 31, given the deadlines and the scope of
the issues in play.  ‘Looney Tunes’  “It’s a huge dive into a small pail of water, straight out
of the Looney Tunes cartoons,” said Jim Nussle, a former
Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee who left
Congress at the end of 2006. “It’s nearly impossible.”  The largest single item with a Dec. 31 deadline is
expiration of the income tax cuts, which were first enacted in
2001 and 2003 and extended in 2010. Unless Congress acts, tax
rates for wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates will
increase. The alternative minimum tax, a parallel system
originally designed to ensure the wealthy paid some tax, would
hit 21 million households instead of the 4.3 million affected
during 2011, according to the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan
research group in Washington.  During fiscal years 2012 and 2013, those tax changes would
cost taxpayers $221 billion, making up more than one-third of
the $607 billion gross total of fiscal tightening, according to
the CBO.  Payroll Tax  Included is the $95 billion expiration of a 2 percentage
point cut in the payroll tax. Other tax breaks also will end or
shrink, including a credit for college tuition.  In all, if Congress does nothing, 82.9 percent of U.S.
households would face tax increases averaging $3,701, according
to the  Tax Policy Center . More than 98 percent of households
earning more than $50,000 a year would pay higher taxes.  Automatic spending cuts -- half affecting national defense
programs -- are scheduled to begin in 2013. Those came from the
2011 agreement that included a debt-limit increase. The cuts
were designed as a blunt instrument to force Congress to find
other deficit-reduction proposals to offset them, and Congress
hasn’t found anything yet.  Over 10 years, the cuts will reduce projected  government
spending  by $1.2 trillion. CBO estimates that the short-term
effect in fiscal year 2013 will be $65 billion.  Expanded  unemployment benefits  will end without
congressional action, saving the government $26 billion. Also
expiring is a provision that prevents steep cuts in Medicare
reimbursements to doctors, reducing spending by $11 billion.  $18 Billion  Further, $18 billion in taxes from the 2010 health-care law
are scheduled to take effect. These include a 2.3 percent excise
tax on medical devices and new taxes on the wages and unearned
income of the nation’s highest earners.  A “breakthrough moment of harmony” is hard to envision,
said  Earl Pomeroy , a former Democratic representative from North
Dakota who is now a lobbyist at  Alston & Bird LLP  in Washington.  “The most likely outcome is that those things that are
needed to tide us into the new year get done and the real
battle’s engaged in 2013,” said Pomeroy, whose clients include
 Aetna Inc. (AET)  and Vibra Healthcare LLC.  Beyond the fiscal changes already scheduled, at least two
other significant issues may be on the congressional agenda
after the election.  Debt Limit  Early in 2013, the U.S. will bump up against the $16.4
trillion debt limit. The exact date when a higher ceiling will
be needed isn’t known yet, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said.  Congress also might face the expiration of spending
authority for federal agencies. The fiscal year ends Sept. 30,
and it’s possible that a pre-election extension would be
temporary and require post-election action.  Getting from the end of the fiscal year through the
presidential inauguration will be difficult because of the
“piling up” of issues and the short time frame, said Senator
 Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican who has been working
with a group of Republicans and Democrats toward an agreement on
the big-picture fiscal issues.  “If we do it right, we send a signal to the world that
we’re capable of dealing with big issues, and that puts the
United States in a very good position,” he said.  An agenda full of the fiscal issues that have divided
Democrats and Republicans makes consensus difficult to reach.
This Congress bickered to the brink over much less significant
sums, including a  payroll tax  cut extension at the end of 2011
and start of 2012 and the airline ticket taxes in July and
August of 2011.  ‘Muddle Through’  “There’s a certain level of dysfunctionality right now,”
said Representative Mike Thompson, a California Democrat and a
member of the Ways and Means Committee. “Even if we muddle
through, I don’t think that’s a good thing.”  The fate of the tax cuts -- which have been a partisan
wedge issue since President  George W. Bush  pushed them through
Congress in 2001 -- is the biggest political stumbling block.  “All we have to do is have the Republicans come say, we
want to do our share with revenues,” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told reporters June 12, signaling
a willingness to cut spending, too. “We’re not going to do it
in leading with our chin, as we have in the past. And they never
help us with revenues.”  Revenue Increases  Most Republicans don’t want to budge on taxes, though some
are willing to consider revenue increases paired with spending
cuts. They’ve made offers that included new revenue, though
disagreements about the scope and details of the Republican
proposals have prevented agreement.  “So our question is: What is enough?” Senator  Jon Kyl  of
Arizona, the second-ranking Senate Republican, said June 5.
“When you say put revenues on the table, we put revenues on the
table before, to no effect.”  Even with the congressional dysfunction, investors still
trust U.S. Treasury bonds as a safe haven. Yields on 10-year
Treasury notes reached a record low of 1.44 percent on June 1.  Still, said Representative Devin Nunes, Congress is running
out of time and has about a year to get the tax and entitlement
systems in the right shape for the future.  “What governments won’t do,” said the California
Republican, “the free market will do on its own.”  The U.S. should lead other countries in getting its fiscal
affairs in order with a 10-year plan that will reduce the  budget
deficit , Representative  Richard Gephardt , a former Democratic
House leader, said on Bloomberg Television June 13.  ‘Some Sacrifice’  “Everybody has to have some sacrifice on both ends,” said
Gephardt, now a lobbyist whose clients include Google Inc. and
General Electric Co. “You’re taking a little castor oil now for
everybody so you can enjoy much better times down the road.”  Nussle, now president of Growth Energy, an ethanol lobbying
group in Washington, said elections and market events are the
only two outside pressures that could cause Congress to budge.  “Our founding fathers created this to try and be
difficult,” he said. “They didn’t want one person or a small
group to have the ability to do anything -- and they
succeeded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  