-- Greek Vote Removes Immediate Risk of Rating Cuts, Fitch Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-06-18T15:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/fitch-says-greek-vote-removes-immediate-risk-of-euro-area-cuts.html
Fitch Ratings  said the Greek
election victory of pro-bailout parties led by  New Democracy  has
removed the immediate risk of downgrades of other euro region
nations.  “Fitch will not place all euro zone sovereigns on rating
watch negative as it had indicated would be the case if a Greek
euro exit were a probable near-term event,” Fitch said in an e-
mailed statement today.  New Democracy won 129 seats in Greece’s election, enough to
beat the anti-bailout party Syriza into second place and to put
together a majority coalition with third-placed Pasok, according
to final results. Leader Antonis Samaras now begins his second
bid in six weeks to build a coalition as euro-area finance
chiefs pressure him to form a government that will keep bailout
aid flowing.  The crisis in  Greece  and the euro area “remains intense,”
Fitch said. “Fiscal austerity and painful structural reform
combined with a strong parliamentary opposition led by Syriza
means that the new Greek government is likely to be fragile.”  Asmussen’s View  European officials indicated a willingness to ease the
terms of rescue loans as long as Greece, with just weeks of cash
in the bank, re-commits to their austerity demands.
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said
the election result is “indeed a ‘yes’ to reforms.” Asked
whether the adjustment program for the country could be
stretched, Asmussen said he would first like to take stock of
Greece’s economic situation and where the program stands.  “It will be challenging to significantly ease the
austerity program without receiving additional funds, although
there is some room for manoeuver on the financing profile of the
existing program,” Fitch said.  Spanish bonds slid today, propelling 10-year yields to more
than 7 percent, a sign the elections failed to convince
investors that politicians will be able to tame  Europe ’s
financial woes.  Europe’s leaders will “mobilize all levers and
instruments” to tackle the turmoil, according to a draft
document, obtained by Bloomberg News, prepared for a June 28-29
summit in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  