-- Fitch Ratings Cuts India Credit Outlook to Negative From Stable
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-18T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/fitch-ratings-cuts-india-credit-outlook-to-negative-from-stable.html
India ’s sovereign-credit outlook was
lowered to negative from stable by  Fitch Ratings , which cited
the heightened risk of a deterioration in growth potential and
limited progress on paring the nation’s budget deficit.  Price pressures and weak public finances put “even greater
onus on effective government policies and reforms that would
ensure India can navigate the turbulent global economic and
financial environment and underpin confidence in the long-run
growth potential of the Indian economy,” Art Woo, a Hong Kong-
based director of sovereign ratings at Fitch, said in a
statement yesterday.  The rupee and bonds extended losses as Fitch joined
 Standard & Poor’s  in signaling that the rating of Asia’s third-
largest economy is at risk of demotion to so-called junk status.
The  Reserve Bank  of India unexpectedly left  interest rates 
unchanged yesterday as accelerating inflation curbs scope to
bolster the weakest economic expansion in close to a decade.  “India’s economic fundamentals have worsened drastically
and such developments are expected in a downtrend,” said Sujan Hajra, chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in
Mumbai. Fitch’s move will impact investors’ perception of India
and may “hurt inflows and raise the cost of foreign borrowings
for Indian companies.”  Rupee, Bonds, Stocks  The rupee slid 0.8 percent to 55.92 per dollar in Mumbai
yesterday. It has tumbled about 20 percent in the past year. The
yield on the 8.15 percent bond due June 2022 rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.17 percent. The  BSE India
Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 1.4 percent.  Fitch affirmed its sovereign rating for India at BBB-, the
lowest investment grade level. Standard & Poor’s warned on June
11 that it may cut India’s rating after lowering the outlook to
negative in April.  India’s gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent in the
three months through March from a year earlier, the least since
2003, imperiling Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s goal of 9
percent annual gains to cut poverty. Inflation accelerated to
7.55 percent in May.  Fitch said the outlook revision reflects “heightened risks
that India’s medium- to long-term growth potential will
gradually deteriorate if further structural reforms are not
hastened,” adding the government has made “limited progress”
on reducing its fiscal deficit.  India’s budget shortfall was 5.76 percent of GDP in the 12
months ended March, wider than the 4.6 percent target set in
2011. The government aims to cut the deficit to 5.1 percent in
the current fiscal year, in part by capping a subsidy program
ranging from diesel to fertilizers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  