-- Forint Rises as Hungarian Bonds Gain on IMF Progress
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-06-18T16:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/forint-rises-to-month-record-on-hungary-imf-progress-greek-vote.html
Hungary ’s forint gained to a one-
month high and bonds rallied as the government said it reached a
compromise on a central bank law that will probably lead to
bailout talks and as Greek elections eased euro-exit concern.  The forint appreciated 0.5 percent to 292.33 per euro at
5:30 p.m. in Budapest, the strongest since May 15. The
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rallied, cutting yields
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.36 percent.  The victory of pro-bailout parties in Greece reduces the
chances of contagion in  Europe  and helps Hungary’s outlook for
continued debt financing from the markets,  Mihaly Varga ,
Hungary’s chief negotiator for an International Monetary Fund-
led aid deal, told MR1 state radio today. The government has
completed details of an amendment to a disputed central bank
law, which may be acceptable to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, and
probably will be submitted to Parliament this week, Varga said.  “A serious obstacle to the bailout talks may actually be
removed,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, analysts at  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in a research report today. “The
forint started the week on a month high, which was mainly to do
with the Greek election news and also helped by the comments”
from Varga, the Raiffeisen analysts added.  Hungary requested International Monetary Fund aid in
November as the country’s credit grade was cut to junk and the
forint fell to a record low against the euro. Talks have yet to
start because the IMF, the European Union and the  European
Central Bank  objected to the central bank law, which they said
threatened monetary-policy independence.  Compromise Plan  The compromise on the central bank includes a letter Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  will send to the ECB and the European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm in Brussels, assuring them
that he won’t name additional rate-setters to the Monetary
Council and won’t name a new vice president before central bank
President Andras Simor’s term expires.  The bill will also limit the number of non-executive
Monetary Council members so they don’t exceed twice the number
of executive members, Varga said. The council currently has
seven members, three executive members composed of Simor and his
two deputies and four non-executive members.  Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party supports plans to approve the
new version of the central bank law next week to allow bailout
talks to start, Antal Rogan, the head of the Fidesz
parliamentary group, told reporters in Budapest today.  Greece ’s New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough seats
to form a majority coalition, according to Interior Ministry
projections, easing concern that Greece would reject austerity
measures needed to qualify for international aid.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell two basis points to 554 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  