-- Founders’ Share Pledges to Banks at Record High: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-06-18T18:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/founders-share-pledges-to-banks-at-record-high-corporate-india.html
Founders of Indian companies have
pledged a record proportion of their shares with lenders in
return for loans, raising the risk of some owners ceding control
as they struggle to raise funds.  Holders of companies that form the BSE-500 Index, including
 Pantaloon Retail Ltd. (PF)  and  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the nation’s top
retailer and the second-biggest maker of alcoholic beverages,
pledged 10.4 percent of their stakes in the March quarter,
compared with 9.4 percent in the same period a year earlier,
according to ICICI Securities Ltd. That’s the highest since 2009
when it became compulsory for firms to disclose the data.  While the BSE-500 Index has  slid  9 percent in the past year
as expansion in Asia’s third-biggest economy  slowed  to a near-
decade low in the March quarter, most lenders are still to lower
interest costs after the central bank pared its key rate in
April for the first time in three years. Founders who have
pledged a large chunk of their shares may lose control of their
companies should a further drop in equity prices erode the value
of the collateral.  “The risks associated with pledging of shares are quite
significant, as in case of default, lenders can sell the shares
in the open market to recover their dues,” Bharat Chhoda, an
analyst at ICICI Securities, a unit of  India ’s second-biggest
lender, said yesterday.  Billionaire Vijay Mallya’s United Spirits and real-estate
developer  Housing Development & Infrastructure Ltd. (HDIL)  are among
seven companies with a market value exceeding 10 billion rupees
($178 million) where founders pledged more than 90 percent of
their holdings, while owners of APM Terminals Mauritius-backed
 Gujarat Pipavav Port Ltd. (GPPV)  and Thomas Cook (India) Ltd. offered
their entire stakes as collateral, exchange filings show.  ‘Wary Investors’  While shares of United Spirits and HDIL have retreated 30
percent and 59 percent each in the past year,  Pantaloon Retail 
sank 42 percent and Gujarat Pipavav 12 percent in the period.  “Companies with a high proportion of pledged holdings are
susceptible to such erosion in share prices,” said Chhoda.
“Investors are wary of such companies.”  Thomas Cook (India) has surged 88 percent this year amid a
sale last month by its U.K.-based parent to Fairbridge Capital
(Mauritius) Ltd. for 8.17 billion rupees.  Thomas Cook  Group Plc
agreed to sell its entire 77 percent holding in the Indian tour
operator, according to an exchange filing.  Cash Squeeze  Individuals and companies are resorting to pledging shares
as a cash squeeze at local banks increases borrowing costs, said
Tarun Bhatia, senior director for  capital markets  at Crisil
Ltd., a unit of  Standard & Poor’s . The cost to borrow one-year
funds selling  commercial paper  climbed to a three-year high of
11.6 percent on March 2, data from the Fixed Income Money Market
& Derivatives Association of India show.  A gauge of cash shortage in the financial system entered a
record eighth month, with lenders  borrowing  an average 841
billion rupees a day this month from the central bank, above the
600 billion-rupee maximum limit favored by the RBI.  “Access to capital is tight,” Bhatia said in a phone
interview. “Banks are selective about lending and  interest
rates  are high.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India, which unexpectedly left rates
unchanged yesterday, raised the cap on credit to exporters. The
measure will release more than 300 billion rupees into banks,
according to the RBI.  The percentage of holdings pledged by owners was the most
in the textiles, tourism and real-estate sectors compared with
others in the March quarter, analysts led by Sunita Baldawa at
Kotak Institutional Equities wrote in a June 8 report.  Some founders also revoked their share pledges, aided by a
13 percent rally in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index in
the first three months of 2012.  Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO) , a subsidiary of Tata Global Beverages
Ltd. that has a venture with Starbucks Corp., took back 98
percent of its shares, according to the Kotak report.  Adani
Power Ltd. (ADANI) , controlled by billionaire Gautam Adani, cut the
proportion of its pledged shares to 20 percent from 54 percent
in the December quarter, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  