-- French First Lady’s Tweet Gets Thumbs Down in Poll
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-06-18T06:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/french-first-lady-s-tweet-gets-thumbs-down-in-poll-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of name in fourth paragraph in story
published on June 15.)  French First Lady Valerie
Trierweiler’s Twitter post supporting the opponent of President
 Francois Hollande ’s ex-companion got a thumbs down from a
majority of the country’s people.  Her public endorsement of the candidate running in the
legislative elections against Segolene Royal -- the 2007
Socialist presidential candidate and the mother of Hollande’s
four children -- drew the disapproval of 69 percent of the
French, according to a  Harris Interactive  poll for  Gala magazine 
published  today .  They said Hollande’s companion -- to whom he isn’t married
-- shouldn’t have sent the posting, which became the talk of the
town, prompting magazine covers and front-page news in many
mainstream newspapers.  Trierweiler, Hollande’s partner since 2006, posted the June
12 message supporting Royal’s opponent, Olivier Falorni. Royal
had earlier said Hollande backed her bid in the June 17
legislative vote in the constituency of La Rochelle, a port on
the western French coast.  Forty-two percent of the French people surveyed said
Trierweiler and Hollande have been more discreet about their
private life than former PresidentNicolas Sarkozy and his wife,
the singer and former model Carla Bruni Sarkozy.  The number of people following Trierweiler on Twitter,
where she is known as  @valtrier , ballooned this week. She now
has more than 112,500 followers, up from almost 70,000 the day
she posted the message on Falorni. She hasn’t tweeted since.  Forty-nine percent of the French still have a good opinion
of Trierweiler, while 50 percent have a bad opinion, according
to the survey.  The  Harris Interactive  poll was conducted online with 1,188
French people aged 18 or more surveyed between June 13 and June
14, Harris Interactive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  