-- Gasoline, Heating Oil Sink on Spainish Concern
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-06-18T19:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/gasoline-heating-oil-sink-as-spain-concern-outweighs-greek-vote.html
Gasoline and heating oil futures
slipped as increasing Spanish borrowing costs indicated concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis may widen, threatening economic growth
and fuel demand.  Futures fell as the Spanish 10-year bond  yield  rose to a
euro-era record of 7.13 percent. Greece’s New Democracy and
Pasok parties won enough seats yesterday to form a majority in
the 300-member parliament, according to an official projection,
easing concern that the country will reject implementing
austerity measures.  “Just because Greece decides to be pro-euro doesn’t solve
all the problems,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. Spanish borrowing
costs have increased and there’s still a possibility of more
difficulties from Greece, he said.  Gasoline for July delivery fell 4.08 cents, or 1.5 percent,
to settle at $2.6609 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. It;s the biggest drop in two weeks.  To form a parliamentary majority, Greece’s two traditional
political rivals, New Democracy, led by Antonis Samaras, and the
Socialist Pasok party, led by  Evangelos Venizelos , must form a
coalition.  Heating oil for July delivery fell 2.88 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $2.6177 a gallon.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.4
cent to $3.505 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest price since Feb. 9.  Merkel Meetings  Group of 20 leaders are gathering in Los Cabos, Mexico, for
a summit being dominated by the crisis in the 17-nation euro
region that threatens to further erode the weakest global
economy since the 2009 recession.  President  Barack Obama , who has blamed the crisis for a
slowdown in U.S. employment growth, is due to hold talks with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at the meeting, a White House
official said. Merkel will then join fellow euro-area leaders
for more talks with Obama this evening.  Merkel, who last week criticized U.S. debt levels, said
June 15 that she’ll press the G-20 to hold to prudent  government
spending .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  