-- German Bunds Drop as Greek Election Damps Euro-Breakup Concern
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-18T06:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/german-bunds-drop-as-greek-election-damps-euro-breakup-concern.html
German bonds declined after official
projections showed pro-bailout parties won enough seats to
control Greece’s parliament, damping demand for the securities
as a refuge from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The drop pushed up the yield on the securities to the
highest in five weeks. Following yesterday’s election, European
governments signaled a willingness to ease the austerity
measures demanded of Greece as part of its international aid
agreement, damping concern that it would be forced from the
currency bloc. World leaders meeting in  Mexico  will agree to
boost the $430 billion firewall the International Monetary Fund
announced in April, host President  Felipe Calderon  said.  “I expect the initial reaction to be a relief rally in
risk assets such as stocks and peripheral bonds, and some
selloff in haven assets, especially German bonds,” Mohit Kumar,
head of European interest-rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
 London , said in a telephone interview after exit polls were
released yesterday.  German 10-year yields rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.52 percent at 7:15 a.m. London time, and
reached 1.55 percent, the highest since May 10. The 1.75 percent
security due in July 2022 fell 0.82, or 8.20 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,272) face amount to 102.085.  The pro-bailout  New Democracy  and Pasok parties won enough
seats to form a majority in the 300-member Greek parliament,
according to an official projection.  Deeper Crisis  German bonds rallied in the aftermath of an inconclusive
Greek election on May 6, driving yields of all maturities to
all-time lows, as investors sought the safest assets amid
speculation the Mediterranean nation may leave the 17-nation
euro area.  The crisis deepened further on June 9 as  Spain  asked for a
100 billion-euro bailout for its beleaguered banks, driving
yields on the nation’s 10-year securities to the highest since
the start of the euro in 1999. Spain also saw its  credit rating 
cut three levels last week by Moody’s Investors Service to Baa3,
or the lowest investment grade.  Italian bond yields climbed to the most since January amid
concern the debt crisis will spread to the currency bloc’s
third-largest economy.  “There has been a strong risk-off move since the last
Greek elections and the subsequent failure to form a majority
coalition as fears of a Greek exit have grown,”Lyn Graham- Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
London, said before the election. “In addition Spain has been
forced to seek a bailout of its banks as speculation about their
solvency has grown, pushing its yields higher.”  Record Yields  The average rate on bonds issued by the Group of Seven
nations fell to as low as 1.12 percent this month, the least
since the euro’s creation in 1999, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Yields on  government securities  in the U.S., the U.K.,
 Austria , Belgium, the Netherlands,  Finland , France and Australia
tumbled to all-time lows this month as Europe’s debt crisis
intensified, manufacturing worldwide slowed and U.S.
unemployment rose.  Spain’s  10-year yields  climbed to 6.998 percent on June 14,
from this year’s low of 4.83 percent reached on March 1.
Similar-maturity  Italian debt  yields climbed to 6.34 percent
last week, the highest since Jan. 20 and compared to this year’s
low of 4.68 percent on March 9.  The extra yield investors demand to hold benchmark Spanish
securities instead of German bunds expanded to 554 basis points
on June 15, the most in the history of the euro. Italy’s 10-year
yield spread over bunds increased to as much as 490 basis points
on June 12 from as low as 276 basis points on March 16.  Debt Restructuring  Greece  completed the largest debt restructuring in history
in March, as bondholders forgave more than 100 billion euros on
their government investments.  Since then, Greek bonds issued under the terms of the deal
have slumped. The price of the 2 percent security due in
February 2023 was at 16.42 percent of face value on June 15,
down from 27.83 percent on March 12.  The  bonds  yielded 27.13 percent, compared with a rate of
less than 17 percent on Greece’s 10-year bonds on June 17, 2011.  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros of debt, about 194 billion
euros, or 73 percent, is held by the  European Central Bank ,
euro-area governments and the  International Monetary Fund ,
according to the Greek debt management Office in  Athens . In
2010, before the first bailout, Greece owed about 310 billion
euros, all to the private sector.  Greek Restructuring  The restructuring agreement was part of Greece’s second aid
request from European institutions, adding to a bailout granted
in 2010. Ireland and Portugal have also received aid.  In the May 6 election, pro-bailout New Democracy won the
largest share of the vote, with Pasok, the Socialist party,
trailing in third place. Syriza, the anti-bailout party, came
second.  Policy makers are taking action amid the steepest global
slowdown since 2009. Australia’s central bank cut  interest rates 
on June 5, and  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King   announced
joint steps with the U.K. Treasury to increase the flow of
credit on June 14.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  left the door open for a rate
cut at a June 6 press conference, while highlighting the
limitations of the ECB’s tools in countering the region’s
financial turmoil.  German bunds handed investors a return of 3.1 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
bonds have gained 6.9 percent and Spanish debt has lost 6
percent, the indexes show.  Since the last day of trading before the first election on
May 6, German securities have gained 1.3 percent, while Spanish
bonds have declined 5.4 percent and Italian securities have
dropped 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  