-- German Stocks Advance; BMW, Daimler, ThyssenKrupp Gain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-18T16:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/german-stocks-advance-after-greek-election-bmw-climbs.html
German stocks rose to a two-week
high as gains by pro-bailout parties in Greece’s election calmed
speculation that the country will be forced out of the euro.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest maker of
 luxury vehicles , and  Daimler AG (DAI)  each increased 2.1 percent.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, climbed 1.8
percent after a slab-making mill in Brazil attracted interest
from a local rival.  Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  surged 6.7 percent as Bild
am Sonntag said Saudi Arabia will order 800 battle tanks.  The DAX Index increased 0.3 percent to 6,248.2 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt, the highest since May 31. The benchmark
gauge has still fallen 13 percent from its 2012 high on March 16
amid growing concern that the deepening euro-region debt crisis
is harming the area’s economy. The broader HDAX Index added 0.3
percent today.  “This is the best realistic outcome because there is a
government which is able to negotiate and represent  Greece ,”
said Alberto Gallo, head of European Macro Credit Research at
Royal Bank of Scotland in London. “The fundamental economic
problems in Greece remain, with heavy austerity measures needed
for the country to be sustainable. The risk of an escalation of
capital and deposit flight out of Greek banks is lower.”  Elections in Greece yesterday saw the New Democracy and
Pasok parties win enough seats to form a majority in the 300-
member parliament, easing concern that the nation will reject
austerity measures needed to qualify for international aid.  Greek Vote  The vote forced Greeks, in a fifth year of recession, to
choose open-ended austerity to stay in the euro or reject the
terms of a bailout and risk the turmoil of exiting the 17-nation
currency. European governments indicated a willingness to relent
on Greece’s austerity measures. The new government must emerge
“swiftly” from the contest, euro finance ministers said in a
statement on June 17.  Fitch Ratings  said the victory of  New Democracy  in Greece
removed the immediate risk of the ratings company cutting the
credit grades of euro-area countries.  “Fitch will not place all euro-zone sovereigns on rating
watch negative as it had indicated would be the case if a Greek
euro exit were a probable near-term event,” Fitch said in a
statement today.  German stocks advanced even as Spanish  government bonds 
slumped, pushing the 10-year yield to a euro-era record of as
much as 7.29 percent. The bonds are the worst performers among
26 developed markets since June 9, when Economy Minister Luis de
Guindos said he would request as much as 100 billion euros ($127
billion) of emergency loans from the euro area to shore up a
Spanish banking system hobbled by bad assets.  BMW, Daimler  BMW increased 2.1 percent to 57.14 euros. Daimler advanced
2.1 percent to 34.74 euros. MAN SE rose 2.2 percent to 80.25
euros after saying the German truckmaker’s owner, Volkswagen AG,
intends to raise its stake in next 12 months.  ThyssenKrupp rose 1.8 percent to 12.20 euros after Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by
output, said it may consider bidding for a steel plant in Rio de
Janeiro state. CSN is waiting for ThyssenKrupp to disclose
further details about the plant before considering a possible
bid, Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch told reporters
at an event in Rio on June 16.  Rheinmetall, the maker weapons for the Leopard 2 battle
tank, rallied 6.7 percent to 36.77 euros after a report in Bild
am Sonntag that Saudi Arabia will order 800 of the vehicles.  Rheinmetall Order  The total value of the order could reach about 10 billion
euros, the German newspaper reported yesterday. Peter Ruecke, a
spokesman at Dusseldorf-based Rheinmetall, declined to comment
on the report today.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, rose 3.2 percent to 6.12 euros for the
biggest gain in the DAX. Fresenius Medical Care AG, the world’s
biggest provider of  kidney dialysis , advanced 2.2 percent to
53.54 euros.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, fell 4.4
percent to 1.36 euros, the biggest decline in a month. Deutsche
Bank AG slipped 1.1 percent to 28.16 euros.  “Commerzbank is involved in very bad credit, especially in
the more negatively affected countries in the euro-zone area,”
said  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research at Baader
Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  