-- Germany Must Make Greece’s Vote Count
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-18T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/germany-must-make-greece-s-vote-count.html
Now that Greek voters have done the
right thing, it’s  Angela Merkel ’s turn to tell the German
electorate a few home truths about the euro.  Sunday’s narrow victory for pro-bailout parties in Greece
offers heartening proof that voters can reject comforting
delusions -- such as the defeated Syriza party’s idea that
Greece could renege on its bailout terms and stay in the euro --
provided that politicians take a clear stand to explain reality,
warts and all.  The election won no more than breathing space for Greece.
The  victory  for the conservative party,  New Democracy , won’t fix
the euro’s flaws or make it any more realistic for Greece to
bounce back from recession if the letter and timetable of its
austerity package stay unchanged. Markets think Greece might
still crash out of the euro, with contagion to follow: The
blink-and-you-missed-it duration of the rallies in Spanish and
Italian bond markets Monday morning made that much clear.  Still, something potentially important has changed. It will
be clear that any decision for Greece to default and leave the
euro will be made not just by recalcitrant Greeks, but also by
creditors, in particular  Germany , who refuse to make the program
feasible. So if -- and that’s a significant “if” -- Merkel and
her  Christian Democratic Union  want to keep the euro area
intact, they’ll have to make decisions they’ve resisted, and for
which they’ll pay a price at the ballot box.  More Money  Greece will now need more money, much of it German, if its
new government is to last more than a few months. Last month’s
indecisive election cost Greece time from its austerity program,
and when it comes to bailouts, time is money. The economy froze
solid as banks leached deposits and taxpayers withheld payments,
fearing a  return  to the drachma. Germany’s leaders bristle at
any mention of renegotiating Greek bailout terms, but that’s
what’s required whatever name is given to it. At a minimum, the
agreement’s timetable will need to be lengthened to provide more
time for budget cuts.  At the same time, Merkel should -- as she did on Monday --
insist that Greece’s government is held to essential supply-side
reforms, such as improving  tax collection , breaking down anti-
competitive protections around industries, reducing unnecessary
regulatory burdens on businesses, and making the public sector
slimmer and more efficient.  Greece remains the euro area’s smaller problem, but the
positive outcome of the election is a great opportunity for
 Europe  to make a wider change of course. To make Spanish and
Italian borrowing costs sustainable, Merkel will need to agree
to some form of mutualization of debt and a larger firewall, as
Bloomberg View has  argued repeatedly  during this debt crisis.  In ordinary times, all this would be unrealistic to ask of
any politician, because Germans don’t want to spend more on
rescuing less efficient economies. These times, however, aren’t
ordinary. Merkel can reduce the political cost that a shift of
strategy would entail by starting to tell the whole truth to her
voters, rather than her usual parable of profligate
Mediterraneans versus self-sacrificing Germans.  Merkel’s new message should include an acknowledgement that
as  Bloomberg View  showed before, Germany has been bailed out by
European taxpayers, too -- to the tune of as much as 466 billion
euros ($590 billion). She should admit that Germany was among
the first countries to break the fiscal rules of the euro,
ensuring that others would also break them. She should say
German borrowing costs have benefited from the crisis: As
investors fled Greece, Italy and  Spain , they took refuge in
German bonds, driving down yields. Before the collapse of in
2008, German 10-year bonds yielded about 4 percent; today,
Germany pays 1.4 percent.  German Interest  Finally, Merkel should explain that the euro helped Germany
increase its exports, in part because Greeks, Italians and
Spaniards were borrowing to buy German goods. German exporters
made money by selling more to the profligate Mediterraneans;
German banks made money by financing those sales; and German
workers got jobs they wouldn’t otherwise have had.  None of this should take away from Germany’s achievements
in undertaking reforms that drove down relative wages and made
the nation competitive again -- pain that countries such as
 Greece  refused to undergo at the time. But Germans need to be
told about the euro’s yin as well as its yang. Otherwise they
may unwittingly destroy many gains the euro gave them and badly
weaken the EU’s political fabric, which Germany did more than
any other nation to create.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 