-- Global Inflation to Climb, Favoring TIPS, Pimco’s Worah Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-06-18T13:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/global-inflation-to-climb-favoring-tips-pimco-s-worah-says.html
Global prices are poised to climb
during the next three to five years as developed nations seek to
reduce debt burdens, favoring Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  Inflation will increase at more than the about 2 percent
core rate that the world’s biggest economies have encountered in
past years,  Mihir Worah , managing director and head of real-
return portfolio management at Pimco, said in a copy of comments
obtained by Bloomberg News. Increasing wealth in  emerging
markets  and a weaker dollar may also boost prices, he said.  “In developed markets, there is a serious debt problem,”
wrote Worah of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, the world
biggest manager of bond funds. “It is going to be hard for
developed countries to grow out of it. Inflation is one of the
only solutions that we see as likely to occur.”  The U.S. consumer price index declined 0.3 percent in May,
more than forecast and the biggest drop since December 2008,
after no change the prior month, the Labor Department reported
June 14. Yields on 10-year Treasuries touched 1.44 percent on
June 1, the lowest on record, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensified and concern mounted that the  U.S. economy  is
slowing.  Market Forces  “Emerging markets for years have been a force of
disinflation, exporting very low prices for goods and services,
and we see that changing,” Worah said. The growing middle class
in smaller economies may spur “a rise in global commodities
prices.”  TIPS have returned 0.3 percent in June, on pace for the
securities’ third-straight monthly gain, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Index data. The debt has appreciated 5.1
this year after gaining 14.1 percent in 2011, the best return
since 2002.  “The core asset” for investors seeking to hedge inflation
is TIPS, Worah said. “These should be the bedrock of any
inflation-hedging strategy.”  Commodities, dividend-paying stocks, real-estate investment
trusts and inflation-protected securities from emerging market
countries such as Mexico and  Brazil  may also be options for
investors seeking “potentially higher returns,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  