-- Global Regulators Need Better Coordination, Lobby Groups Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-18T21:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/global-regulators-need-better-coordination-lobby-groups-say.html
Global regulators need a better
system of mutual recognition and coordination to ensure adequate
oversight of financial markets such as the $648 trillion swaps
market, according to a coalition of 11 financial-industry
lobbying associations.  “The rules, processes and priorities of regulatory
authorities continue to be largely geographically based and
governed by differentiated national laws,” the EU-US Coalition
on Financial Regulation said in a 65-page report. “This has
resulted in a complex and costly meld of duplicative and
sometimes conflicting regulations.”  The group includes industry trade associations that
represent  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  as regulators seek to revamp oversight of a
market that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the main U.S. derivatives regulator,
is planning June 21 to release guidance on the international
reach of Dodd-Frank Act rules to branches and subsidiaries of
U.S. banks.  The group said that global regulators should keep rules
“broadly in line” and that requirements for “full or strict
equivalence by a host state could be tantamount to closing its
domestic market to overseas participants and narrowing customer
choice.”  The group includes the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association,  Futures Industry Association ,  Swiss Bankers
Association  and the  Association of Financial Markets in Europe .  CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  said last week that global
regulators may propose international swap-collateral standards
by mid-July to prevent financial firms from exploiting rule
differences between countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  