-- GM Said to Report 100th Facility Going ‘Landfill-Free’
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-18T22:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/gm-said-to-report-100th-facility-going-landfill-free-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, plans to disclose its 100th facility that
doesn’t send waste to a landfill after recycling or reusing 2.6
million metric tons at plants globally last year, a person
familiar with the announcement said.  GM, based in  Detroit , plans to make the announcement
tomorrow at its customer care and after-sales operation in
Lansing, Michigan, which recycles, reuses or converts to energy
all waste from daily operations, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the news isn’t public yet.  The company issued an advisory today that said Mike Robinson, GM vice president of sustainability and global
regulatory affairs, would be at the event to mark an
“environmental milestone” along with Michael Compher, chief of
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s indoor and voluntary
programs section.  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman, declined to comment on
tomorrow’s announcement.  “Some automakers talk a good game, we’re actually
delivering the goods,” he said. “There’s more to come. Doing
what’s good for the business and environment is not mutually
exclusive.”  GM has saved about  $2.5 billion  from 2007 to 2010 as a
result of the automaker’s waste reduction, the company said in
its sustainability report released in January. All of GM’s
facilities combined recycled or reused 92 percent of waste
generated in 2010, the company said. The automaker set a target
of 100 “landfill-free” plants and 25 “nonmanufacturing”
sites by 2020 in the January report.  “Sustainability feeds our bottom line and sustaining a
profitable business is our ultimate responsibility,” GM Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in a statement accompanying
the  January  report.  Separately, GM has a field next to its assembly plant in
Lake Orion,  Michigan , that will hold a solar array with enough
capacity to annually power 45 homes for a year, according to a
company  statement  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  