-- Greek Bank Deposit Outflows Said to Have Slowed After Elections
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-06-18T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greek-bank-deposit-outflows-said-to-have-slowed-after-elections.html
Greek deposit withdrawals slowed
after an election victory by the pro-bailout  New Democracy  party
eased concern the nation will abandon the euro, three people
familiar with situation said.  Deposits were little changed at one of the nation’s top
four banks yesterday, according to one banker, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. Daily
withdrawals in  Greece  peaked at more than 700 million euros
($880 million) last week, the bankers said. An official for the
 Bank of Greece (TELL) , the Athens-based central bank, declined to
comment.  Greeks have withdrawn cash on concern a possible victory by
anti-bailout parties would precipitate an exit from the euro,
eroding the value of their savings. New Democracy won enough
seats on June 17 to beat the anti-bailout party Syriza and
potentially put together a majority coalition with third-placed
Pasok. Antonis Samaras, the New Democracy leader, is making a
second effort in six weeks to form a government that will keep
aid flowing from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund .  “Fear about what might have happened to capital under a
Syriza government was of concern to depositors,” said Alexander Kyrtsis, a European bank specialist at UBS AG in  London .
“Failure to form a coalition government, as well as concern
about Greece’s cash position, could be other causes for alarm.”  Stocks Rebound  Greek stocks rebounded to a one-month high yesterday as
 National Bank of Greece SA , the nation’s largest bank, gained 11
percent and  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  jumped 15 percent.  Greek lenders have been paring back activities after
depositors pulled about 72 billion euros from their accounts
since the nation triggered a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis
in October 2009, and after writing down their government bond
holdings. Deposits rose in April to about 160 billion euros, the
most recent figures available from the central bank show.  Outflows reached as much as 6 billion euros in May, Athens-
based Kathimerini reported June 9, without saying where it got
the information. While lenders have access to European Central
Bank funding, an exit from the euro would cut them off.  National Bank, EFG Eurobank, Alpha Bank SA and  Piraeus Bank
SA (TPEIR) , Greece’s four biggest banks, in May received 18 billion
euros as part of a recapitalization plan that will be completed
by the next government. Banks must finish a 50 billion-euro
capital boost by September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  