-- Greece’s Samaras Becomes Premier of Three-Party Coalition
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-06-20T15:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greek-coalition-talks-enter-second-day-amid-merkel-aid-warning.html
Antonis Samaras, head of Greece’s
 New Democracy  party, was sworn in as prime minister after Greek
political leaders agreed on a coalition that will seek relief
from austerity measures tied to international loans.  New Democracy, which won a June 17 election with almost 30
percent of the vote, will join forces with the socialist Pasok
party, which finished third, and the sixth-place Democratic
Left. They will hold 179 seats in the 300-member parliament,
ending a period of political limbo that began with an
inconclusive May 6 election.  “We have the required outcome, which is a necessary
condition for the creation of a new, long-term, government that
will give stability and hope to people,” Samaras said today in
 Athens  before he was sworn in by President Karolos Papoulias.  European officials have held out the prospect of
flexibility over fiscal austerity for Greece after the country’s
election amounted to a referendum on remaining in the 17-nation
euro currency union. Greece has slipped behind budget-cutting
targets imposed by the euro area and the  International Monetary
Fund  in exchange for 240 billion euros ($305 billion) in aid
pledges over the past two years.  Samaras, Pasok head  Evangelos Venizelos  and Democratic Left
leader Fotis Kouvelis have committed to establishing a coalition
that will keep Greece in the euro and fight to loosen austerity
requirements that have helped drive the country into a fifth
year of recession. The government in Athens may seek to push
back against required cuts in pensions and the minimum wage and
the pace of budget-deficit reductions.  Euro Rises  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1 percent at
10:29 a.m. in  New York , following a four-day rally while the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.4 percent. The euro rose 0.3
percent to $1.2719. The Athens Stock Exchange Index advanced 0.5
percent to 603.04, its sixth day of gains.  European leaders have sent mixed signals about granting
Greece leeway. European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
after the election that “we will continue to stand by Greece,”
while German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  took a tougher line by
declaring “there can be no loosening on the reform steps.”  More Aid  The potential fight ahead was highlighted when European
Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen, who comes
from  Germany , said any decision to grant Greece more time while
it still has a primary budget deficit means the country would
need more aid. Greece’s goal has been to have a primary surplus
in 2013.  “As long as a country has a primary deficit,” giving it
more time to meet its fiscal targets automatically means “that
there is an additional external financing need,” Asmussen said
at a panel discussion in Berlin on June 18.  The task of winning budget concessions will fall on
Vassilios Rapanos, chairman of National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA who is
due to be appointed finance minister, according to an official
with the Democratic Left.  Rapanos is affiliated to Pasok, which today decided that
its representatives in the new government won’t be members of
parliament.  Talks continue in Athens among New Democracy, Pasok and
Democratic Left on the coalition-government ministers, who may
be announced later today. Caretaker Finance Minister Giorgios
Zanias will represent Greece at a June 21 meeting of euro-area
finance ministers in  Luxembourg , said Venizelos.  Bailout Terms  Venizelos and Kouvelis have proposed establishing a team,
including people from outside the ruling coalition, to
renegotiate the bailout terms. Venizelos said yesterday that
Syriza, the biggest anti-bailout party that finished second in
the June 17 vote, refused to take part, a day after it rebuffed
calls to join the government.  Samaras said the Greek government has “hard work” ahead.  Constantinos Zouzoulas, an analyst at Axia Ventures Group
Ltd. in Athens, said he expects Greeks to give the new coalition
a “grace period” of several months to enact its program after
two elections in six weeks.  “People are exhausted from the long elections and they
mainly want to see signs that the free fall of the economy is
ending,” he said in an e-mailed note. “The next 100 days are
crucial for Greece.”  Skepticism  Euro nations such as Germany, the Netherlands and  Finland 
are increasingly skeptical about Greece’s ability to meet the
austerity conditions of the rescue, which have imposed a fiscal
straitjacket that has led to four governments -- including two
caretaker administrations -- since late 2009.  Greece narrowed its  budget deficit  from more than 15
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 to 9.1 percent in
2011. The country’s spending gap is due to fall to around 7
percent of GDP this year. Unemployment in Greece has reached a
record of more than 22 percent.  European creditors are prepared to ease the bailout terms,
said a European official who briefed reporters in Brussels on
condition he not be named. A first step will be when Greece’s
government requests changes to the rescue terms, leading to a
revision of the country’s economic-performance targets sometime
before September.  European and IMF budget experts have said they’ll head to
Athens for their next review of  Greece ’s eligibility for the
subsequent round of quarterly loan disbursements when a new
administration is formed.  Greece will run out of money in mid-July, Syriza said on
June 13 after being briefed by the finance ministry’s Zanias.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Athens at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  