-- Greek Election Leaves Pyrrhic Victory Risk as Aid Talks Near
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-18T15:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greek-election-leaves-pyrrhic-victory-risk-as-bailout-talks-near.html
Greece survived to fail another day,
say economists at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)   An election result yesterday that defused expectations of
an imminent euro exit by Greece left the threat hanging over the
global economy and put European leaders under pressure to speed
efforts to protect the rest of the region. Spanish 10-year bond
yields soared above 7 percent for the first time in the euro
era, showing investor concern of the relentless financial
turmoil.  “The election has solved little and in our view is
actually just another iteration towards the risks of a euro
exit,” said  Harvinder Sian , senior rates strategist at RBS in
London. ‘The adjustment path is likely to remain too much for
Greece to bear.”  Greece, dependent since 2010 on emergency loans from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund , has to meet the
creditors’ conditions to keep the aid flowing. The route to
continued support involves axing 11.5 billion euros ($14.5
billion) from the budget and 150,000 civil service jobs, said
Sian, leaving him holding fast to his pre-election view of a 90
percent chance Greece quits the euro within two years.  To form a parliamentary majority, Greece’s two traditional
political rivals,  New Democracy , led by Antonis Samaras, and the
Socialist Pasok party, led by  Evangelos Venizelos , must form a
coalition.  ‘Very Tense’  That politicking still makes for “very tense days in
Greece,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg
Bank in London.  Schmieding still said the probability Greece is in the euro
by the end of 2012 is now 75 percent.  Fitch Ratings  said the
election results meant “the near-term risk of a Greek
disorderly debt default and exit from the euro has fallen” as
it announced it would not put all euro-area countries on watch
for a downgrade.  Even if Samaras wins enough allies, the country is left
prone to shocks given the anti-bailout Syriza party’s second-
place finish and ability to organize protests, said  Juergen Michels , an economist at Citigroup in  London . Syriza leader
Alexis Tsipras refused to join a unity government and will
remain in opposition.  Greece, mired in a fifth year of recession, has been
ordered by Europe’s governments to enact promised spending cuts
in return for 240 billion euros in rescue packages since 2010.
While its 2009  budget deficit  topped 15 percent, the European
Commission estimates it still faces a cumulative fiscal gap in
2013-2014 of 5.5 percent of GDP and has failed to meet targets
for tax collection, state asset-sales and public procurement.  ‘No Loosening’  Failure to mollify donors that they can deliver leaves the
country at risk of a suspension of bailout payments. Syriza says
Greece risked running out of cash in mid-July.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today that the new
Greek government must stick with the rescue commitments and that
“there can be no loosening on the reform steps.”  Even as European officials have signaled a willingness to
relent on some austerity measures, that may still not be enough
to save Greece, said  Morgan Stanley (MS)  economists including Daniele Antonucci. A revised program is likely to entail an average
annual reduction of 5 billion euros in interest payments, a
longer time frame for repayment and more loans from the  European
Investment Bank , they said in a report today.  Not Enough  Those sops will nevertheless fail to return the country to
solvency soon enough, they said. Their estimates show that while
the bailout program targets debt at 120 percent of GDP by 2020,
that is still north of the 90 percent level they deem
sustainable and is more likely to be 140 percent.  The economy also remains unlikely to generate new budget
revenue, said Huw Pill, chief European economist at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in London. The recession and unemployment above
20 percent are draining confidence, undermining credit growth
and decimating investment, he said.  That all makes it likely that even if Greece can do what it
takes to secure another round of funding, subsequent quarterly
reviews of the aid program are likely to be “nerve-wracking”
and the debt it owes to other governments will need to be
restructured at some point, said  David Bloom , chief currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  The threat from Athens leads  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at ABN Amro Bank NV, to say the rest of Europe must
accelerate efforts to protect Spain and Italy. Greece’s repeated
failure to regain control of its fiscal accounts has been
matched by Europe’s inability to contain the crisis.  G-20 Talks  Much of Europe’s high command headed by Merkel meets
counterparts from the Group of 20 in Mexico today before
ministerial meetings this week and then a June 28-29 Brussels
summit.  The challenge for the month-end talks is whether
governments can rally around a plan to embrace a fuller union
through fiscal integration and stronger banking ties. Leaders
will pledge “to mobilize all levers and instruments” to ensure
financial stability and tackle the crisis, according to June 15
draft conclusions prepared for the summit and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The Brussels meeting “will be a litmus test of the
political will to take a major leap forward,” said Kounis.
“Major challenges remain ahead for both  Greece  and the  euro
zone .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  