-- The Greeks Bet on Europe, and You Should Too
-- B y   S i m o n   S e r f a t y   a n d   A l e x i s   S e r f a t y
-- 2012-06-18T15:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greek-vote-another-reason-to-bet-on-europe.html
Amid the daily forecasts of  Europe ’s
impending death and warnings of chaos and calamity to come,
there are good reasons to be bullish about the future of the
European Union.  Admittedly, these can be hard to make out, as citizens
rebel against the EU as a producer of austerity and a consumer
of their national identities, while pundits dismiss the very
idea that national governments would cede more sovereignty to
underpin the euro.  Paradoxically, Greece’s near-suicide may renew the
solidarity needed for the EU to work. A large majority of
European citizens still believes that however bad the EU and its
single currency may be, there’s nothing better to replace
either. Greek voters reached the same conclusion on Sunday, when
they backed the conservative New Democracy party to form a new
government in the hope it will enable them to stay in the euro
area.  The vote was close, but the mandate is nonetheless clear:
71 percent of Greeks favor keeping the euro, according to a
recent public opinion poll. Most, if not all, of  Greece ’s EU
partners, including the German government, agree. The Greek vote
confirms a trend: Despite the many incumbents removed from power
in Europe since the financial crisis struck, no populist
majority has emerged as a credible alternative to the mainstream
parties. For the 27 EU members, life without or outside the
union has long ceased to be an option with wide appeal.  Inspiring Confidence  There are more immediate causes for optimism, too.  Spain ’s
banks have now been offered a substantial line of credit that
gives them the liquidity they need to survive, while the
government in  Madrid  enforces a historically ambitious program
of reforms; Italy is still on the brink of insolvency, but its
leadership shows a resolve and inspires a confidence that was
previously lacking; and  France  is better positioned to influence
its partners and balance the twin needs of austerity and growth.
The worst of the euro crisis may be falling behind us.  Emerging from the euro trap into which the EU fell over the
past 10 years will not be easy. The risk of accidents -- such as
an irrational bank run in one of the euro-area economies --
remains high. But over the past three years, the states of
Europe have agreed on an impressive array of initiatives that
give significant new authority to the EU and make it probable
that economic union will be completed much before the end of
this decade. As has repeatedly been the case for the EU in the
past, the current crisis may be the catalyst for a leap forward.
There is a renewed consensus among governments for “more
Europe,” not less, meaning an expansion of the currency union to
a fiscal union and even -- “above all” says German Chancellor
Angela Merkel -- a political union.  The sense of urgency now shared by most EU states, in or
out of the euro area, as well as by their partners across or
beyond the Atlantic, is also good news. President  Barack Obama ’s
speech last week reflected that urgency, when he spoke as if the
U.S. were an informal EU member. So too did the standby posture
that leaders of the Group of 20 advanced economies adopted in
 Mexico , as the Greek votes were being counted, and the feverish
preparations made by the  European Central Bank  and others prior
to the Greek vote.  The euro states will now have to achieve a quick agreement
to calm the markets and enable the EU to re-emerge from the
grave into which it was prematurely buried. In this context,
 Germany ’s willingness to consider a redemption fund worth almost
$3 trillion that would rely on joint bonds to cover the excess
debt accumulated by the euro-area countries is telling.  Democratic Deficit  Many obstacles remain, of course. There is too much policy
coming out of Brussels, while too much politics is generated in
the national capitals. The so-called democratic deficit, between
what the EU needs and what its members want, is growing wider.
No less significantly, the states of Europe and their union are
at the mercy of global events over which they have no control,
but which could significantly influence prospects for recovery.
To take one example, a war in the  Middle East  is still a real
possibility for later this year or next.  A more optimistic scenario is equally possible. The very
fact that the global economy is on hold pending confirmation
that the European crisis has been checked suggests a potential
virtuous cycle, whereby better news from Europe and elsewhere
would be mutually reinforcing. Some economic conditions are
already moving the EU’s way at last. The fall of the euro, which
had been overvalued, against the dollar and other major
currencies helps. In May 2011, the euro stood at $1.48, and for
the entire year its average  exchange rate  was almost $1.40. Now,
the euro will probably stay below $1.30 for all of 2012. That
may still be 10 percent to 15 percent too high, but a better
stimulant for euro-area exports nonetheless. (A 10 percent fall
in the exchange rate is estimated to be worth as much as 1
percentage point of additional gross domestic product growth).  There are also encouraging signs of a rise in German
domestic consumption, aided by  rising wages  and government
spending. When Germans consume more, they buy more goods from
other European economies. In addition, there are indications of
improved efficacy in  tax collection  in  Italy  and even, despite a
recent panic-induced dip in receipts before Sunday’s elections,
in Greece.  Betting against Europe remains unwise: The world will
probably do what it takes to prevent the continent’s economic
collapse. That isn’t because what’s good for Europe is good for
the West and the rest, but because what is bad for Europe will
surely be bad for everyone.  (Simon Serfaty is a senior fellow at the  German Marshall
Fund  of the  United States , and a former director of the Europe
Program at the Center for Strategic & International Studies in
 Washington , D.C.; Alexis Serfaty is a fellow with the
Transatlantic Policy Network, and the former policy director at
the European-American Business Council, also in Washington. The
opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Serfaty and Alexis Serfaty at  Alexis.Serfaty@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 