-- Stocks in Greece Rally to One-Month High After Election
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-06-18T15:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greek-stocks-rally-to-a-one-month-high-after-results.html
Greek stocks  rallied to a one-month
high after pro-bailout parties obtained more than half the seats
in national elections, easing concern the country will leave the
euro currency union.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,  the country’s largest lender ,
and EFG  Eurobank (EUROB)  Ergasias SA, jumped at least 11 percent.
Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA,  Greece ’s largest
telephone company, gained 11 percent.  The  ASE Index (ASE)  advanced 3.6 percent to 580.67 at the close
of trading in Athens, after earlier rising as much as 7.2
percent. The gauge surged 10 percent on June 14, the second-
biggest rally since 1990, amid speculation that the  New
Democracy  party would lead the next government. The measure has
climbed 22 percent since tumbling to a 22-year low on June 5.  The election outcome “makes the formation of a pro-
European government more likely, removing political uncertainty
in the short-run,” Panagiotis Kladis, an analyst at National
Securities SA in  Athens , wrote in a note today. “Banks could
move further upwards this week, although this has been
discounted to some extent towards the end of last week.”  The New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough seats to
form a majority in the 300-member parliament, according to the
vote count posted on the Greek  Interior Ministry ’s  website ,
easing concern that Greek voters would reject the austerity
measures needed to qualify for international aid.  Coalition Bid  “The Greek people expressed their will to stay anchored
with the euro, remain an integral part of the  euro zone  and
honor the country’s commitments,” New Democracy’s Antonis Samaras told supporters in Athens yesterday before beginning his
second bid in six weeks to form a coalition. “There is no time
for petty politics.”  Fitch Ratings  said New Democracy’s victory removed the
immediate risk that the ratings company will cut the credit
grades of euro-area countries.  “Fitch will not place all euro-zone sovereigns on rating
watch negative as it had indicated would be the case if a Greek
euro exit were a probable near-term event,” Fitch said in an e-
mailed statement today.  National Bank gained 11 percent to 1.50 euros, the highest
since May 10. Eurobank, Greece’s third-largest lender, surged 15
percent to 80.3 euro cents, gaining for a ninth day. Alpha Bank
SA climbed 5.2 percent to 1.42 euros.  Hellenic Telecom (HTO) , which is 40 percent owned by Deutsche
Telekom AG, rallied 11 percent to 1.86 euros,  State-owned companies that are part of Greece’s asset-sales
plan also rallied.  Piraeus Port Authority (PPA)  SA added 2.8 percent
to 8.53 euros. Water utilities Athens Water Supply & Sewage Co.
SA and Thessaloniki Water Supply & Sewage Co. rose 3.1 percent
to 2.70 euros and 6.5 percent to 3.13 euros, respectively.  Opap SA (OPAP) ,  Europe’s largest publicly listed  gambling company,
gained 12 percent to 4.36 euros, while Public Power Corp.,
Greece’s biggest electricity company, advanced 6.2 percent to
2.07 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  