-- Greece Can Default Without Exiting Euro, Cochrane Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-18T14:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greece-can-default-without-exiting-euro-cochrane-says.html
Greece  could default on its debt and
still avoid an exit from the euro, said John H. Cochrane, a
finance professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business.  The country would be better off passing structural reforms,
pursuing economic growth and paying off its debt burden while
staying in the currency bloc, Cochrane said during an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. While
default would be a “huge mess” resulting in the failure of
most Greek banks, he said, it would be less traumatic to Europe
than a euro exit.  “A small country defaulting on its debts isn’t that big of
a tragedy,” said Cochrane. “It says the euro is a firm
currency zone. That actually has a more calming effect than the
opposite situation.”  The pro-bailout New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough
seats to form a majority in Greece’s 300-member parliament,
according to the vote count posted on the Greek  Interior
Ministry ’s website, easing concern that Greek voters would
reject the austerity measures needed to qualify for
international aid.  Greece is running out of time regardless of what steps it
takes to remedy its debt situation, Cochrane said.  “People are taking their money out of Greek, Italian and
Spanish banks at a monstrous rate and either putting it in
mattresses or getting it out of the country,” he said. “That’s
going to really push events quicker and quicker.”  ‘Right Answer’  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros ($335 billion) of debt, about
194 billion euros, or 73 percent, is held by the  European
Central Bank , euro-area governments and the  International
Monetary Fund , according to the Greek debt management Office in
 Athens . In 2010, before the first bailout, Greece owed about 310
billion euros, all to the private sector.  Monetary reforms proposed by ECB President  Mario Draghi 
stressing cooperation across nations could help, Cochrane said.
Draghi said on June 15 that a blueprint for the future of
europe’s monetary union will be published “very soon.”  Draghi’s proposed structural reform program is “exactly
the right answer,” Cochrane said. “They need to get the sand
out of the gears and show the bond markets that they’re serious
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  