-- Greek Vote a Sideshow With Spain Needing Aid, Blejer Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-06-18T06:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/greek-vote-a-sideshow-with-spain-needing-aid-blejer-says.html
Greece’s election outcome is a
“sideshow” as the battle to prevent a breakup of the  euro zone 
shifts to Spain, said  Mario Blejer , a former  Bank of England 
adviser who took the reins of Argentina’s central bank after its
2001 default.  “If the system can’t protect one of the most important
countries then it really can’t be sustained,” Blejer, 64, said
during an interview yesterday in Los Cabos,  Mexico , ahead of a
summit of leaders from the Group of 20 richest nations.  Financial markets will probably welcome the victory of the
pro-bailout New Democracy party in yesterday’s Greek
parliamentary vote as “the least bad result” that avoids any
“immediate clash” between the debt-saddled nation and its
creditors, Blejer said. Still, the government that takes office
will lack “legitimacy” and will soon need to reopen the terms
of the bailout to build political support for its pledge of
austerity.  “You can’t put forward all of these measures, which are
very unpopular, with a majority of five people,” said Blejer.  Greece ’s largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy and
Pasok, won enough seats to forge a parliamentary majority,
official projections showed, easing concern the country was
headed toward an imminent exit from the euro. The currency rose
on the result.  Saving the Euro  Blejer took control of Argentina’s central bank for five
months in January 2002, when the country was reeling from the
effects of what was then the biggest sovereign default in
history and the loss of four presidents in just over two weeks.  To save the euro region in its current form,  Germany  and
northern European nations must agree to restructure the debt
loads of poorer members like Greece,  Portugal  and Spain, he
said.  “If they don’t agree to transfer resources, the euro has
no future,” Blejer said, adding that continued reliance on
“half-solutions” could provoke a bank run in Greece and other
countries at any moment.  “I don’t know any model that can predict when a bank run
is going to start,” said Blejer, who saw deposit levels plunge
during Argentina’s financial crisis. “If the Greeks had an
Argentine mentality, then they would’ve already taken all the
money out of the bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Los Cabos at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Los Cabos at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  