-- Grover Norquist’s Endless Campaign
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-06-18T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/grover-norquist-isn-t-losing-the-no-tax-battle.html
“Tell me something cheerful” is how
 Grover Norquist , the president of Americans for  Tax Reform , has
started most of the conversations I’ve had with him over the
past 20 years. Not last week.  Norquist has spent a quarter century getting American
politicians, especially Republicans, to sign a pledge opposing
all tax increases. In recent weeks, however, his fight has been
getting harder. Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush has been urging
Republicans not to take the pledge, arguing that it would rule
out even a budget deal with $10 of spending cuts for every $1 of
tax increases. The day I visited Norquist’s office, Bush had
 praised  a tax-increasing budget deal -- signed by his father,
President  George Bush  -- at a Bloomberg View forum.  The next day, Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina , who has taken the pledge,  announced  that he now
disagrees with it.  CNN ,  Politico  and  Bloomberg Businessweek  have
all run stories claiming that Norquist’s once-legendary
influence among Republicans is starting to fade.  Norquist has for years been very successful in his mission.
Since the 1990 budget deal signed by President Bush, no
congressional Republican has voted for a broad-based tax
increase. There are 238  pledge-takers  in the House and 41 in the
Senate. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  says Norquist leads
Republicans “ like puppets .” President  Barack Obama  has  blasted 
his sway, too.  Powerful Issue  In our hourlong interview, Norquist reiterated his case for
the pledge. The first thing he wants people to understand is
that it isn’t a pledge to him. It’s a pledge politicians make to
voters. They make it, and keep it, because they think it will
help them win votes. He parries any suggestions that he is
powerful: “No. The tax issue is the most powerful issue in
American politics.”  He continues, “What the pledge does is it enables an
unknown politician to credibly commit” to opposing tax
increases. Politicians who merely say they wish to avoid such
increases but refuse to sign the pledge generally want to raise
taxes, he thinks.  He points to the examples of Democrats  Mark Warner  and  Tim Kaine , governors in Virginia during the past decade, and
Republican Brian Sandoval, governor of Nevada now. None signed
the pledge, and all pushed for tax increases as soon as they got
into office.  For politicians who genuinely want to avoid higher taxes,
he argues, the pledge makes life easier -- especially at the
state level, where constitutional requirements usually make it
harder to run deficits. The pledge enables these politicians to
tell interests that seek higher spending, in Norquist’s words,
“I’d like to help you, but my hands are tied.”  Eventually, the spenders get the message and stop asking.
If Governor  Scott Walker  hadn’t taken the pledge, Norquist says,
there would have been no labor-law reforms in  Wisconsin . Taxes
would just have been raised to help local governments keep
paying excessive benefits to their workers. “You don’t get a
conversation” about reform, he says, “once you put tax increases
on the table.”  He believes that the pledge promotes a broader overhaul of
the  tax code , too. Under the pledge, tax breaks can be
eliminated only if marginal rates come down (or taxes are cut in
some other way). Voters won’t trust Congress to reform the code
if they fear it will lead to a disguised tax increase. It’s not
an accident that the only major simplification of the code in
the past few decades came in 1986, when Norquist’s formula was
followed. The pledge was originally designed to help pass that
reform.  Naive Republicans  Jeb Bush , Graham and other Republicans who favor a deal
that cuts spending and raises taxes are naive, in Norquist’s
view. President  Ronald Reagan , he notes, came to regret a
similar deal he made in the 1982 budget because the spending
cuts didn’t materialize. The 1990 deal, Norquist further argues,
didn’t keep spending from coming in a little higher than the
 Congressional Budget Office  had projected from 1991 to 1995.  The debt-ceiling deal last year, on the other hand, showed
that getting spending cuts without tax increases was possible.  Discussing hypothetical bargains with 10-to-1 spending
cuts, in Norquist’s view, is like debating what the best kind of
unicorn would be. “Wouldn’t it be nice to have silver-striped
unicorns? No one’s offered you 10-to-1!” he says, raising his
voice in frustration.  Norquist may be ticked, but it’s not clear that he’s losing
the political fight. He and his pledge were widely said to be in
decline in 2005, when Washington Monthly magazine ran a story
called “ Is Grover Over? ” It was wishful thinking. Even amid this
year’s budgetary gloom, Norquist says, only five states have
raised taxes. Even in liberal  California , pledge-takers in the
Legislature managed to block tax increases.  In addition to all the members of Congress who have signed
the pledge, Norquist tells me as I get up to go, 244 candidates
have signed it so far this year -- more than had signed it in
the Tea Party election of 2010. An aide comes in: Make that 245.
Norquist goes back to smiling: “We haven’t gotten to some people
yet.”  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  welfare for Jamie Dimon  and
on  Greek elections ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Romney, Mormons and
Jews ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  equal opportunity 
in sports ;Thomas Cooley, Matthew Richardson and Kermit 
Schoenholtz on  rescuing Europe’s banks ; Simon Serfaty and Alexis 
Serfaty on  optimistic news for Europe ; Amy Monahan on the courts 
and voters’  pension reforms .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 