-- Gum Disease May Lead to Head, Neck Cancers, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/gum-disease-may-lead-to-head-neck-cancers-study-finds.html
Chronic gum disease may leave the
mouth more susceptible to head and neck cancers caused by the
human papillomavirus, a study found.  Of 124 patients diagnosed with the cancers in the study, 40
percent had tumors that tested positive for a strain of human
papillomavirus, research published online today in the  Archives
of Otolaryngology -- Head & Neck Surgery  found.  About 10 percent of men and 3.6 percent of women are orally
infected with HPV, a virus usually transmitted through sexual
activity that may lead to cancer, according to a January study
in the Journal of the  American Medical Association . Today’s
findings show that dentists and doctors need to treat  chronic
gum disease  to help reduce the likelihood the virus can infect
the mouth, the authors said.  “We have become increasingly aware of the HPV virus
causing this type of cancer and it shows why we need to be
aggressive in terms of our dental care,” Dennis Kraus, director
of Head and Neck Oncology at Lenox Hill Hospital in  New York ,
said today in a telephone interview. Kraus wasn’t involved in
the study.  Kraus said while it’s unclear why gum disease leaves people
more open to HPV, bacteria in the mouth may make it more
susceptible to the virus or it could be an immunological
response.  Human papillomavirus is the most-common sexually
transmitted virus in the U.S., where half the population will be
infected at some time in their lives, according to the  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention . It is known to cause
cervical, vulvar, vaginal, penile and anal cancer.  Available Drugs  It’s unknown whether  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Gardasil and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Cervarix vaccines, which target genital
HPV, will protect against oral infections.  Gardasil is approved for preventing cervical, vaginal and
anal cancers and genital warts, and is recommended for girls and
women 9 to 26 years old. It’s also approved for genital warts
and anal cancer in boys and men of the same ages. Cervarix is
approved for preventing cervical cancer in females 9 to 25.  Researchers in the study looked at data from 124 patients
diagnosed from 1999 to 2007 with  cancers  of the oral cavity,
which include the lips, part of the tongue and mouth,
oropharynx, which includes the back of the mouth, base of the
tongue and the tonsils, and larynx, which includes the vocal
cords.  They found that about 65 percent of the oropharyngeal
cancers were HPV positive, compared with 29 percent of the oral
cavity cancers and 21 percent of the laryngeal cancers.  Signs of Disease  Those who were HPV positive had higher rates of alveolar
bone loss around the teeth, the researchers found. Each
millimeter of bone loss was associated with a 2.6 times
increased risk of a HPV-positive tumor.  “If you have gum disease, have treatment and keep up with
good oral hygiene,”  Mine Tezal , the lead study author and an
assistant professor at the University at Buffalo, the  State
University of New York , said today in an e-mail. “Prevention or
treatment of sources of inflammation in the oral cavity may be a
simple yet effective way to reduce the acquisition and
persistence of oral HPV infection.”  The study was supported by grants from the  National Cancer
Institute  and the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial
Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  