-- Gupta Judge Ignored Sentence Proposals in Insider Cases
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-18T04:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/gupta-judge-ignored-sentence-proposals-in-insider-cases.html
The judge who will sentence former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta for insider
trading has a track record of cutting the government’s
recommended punishment in some cases by half or more.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan is to sentence
Gupta, once a managing partner of McKinsey & Co., for tipping
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. In September, the
judge sentenced Winifred Jiau, a Stanford University-educated
consultant convicted of corrupting friends and selling
confidential information, to four years in prison, less than
half of the maximum 10 years sought by federal prosecutors.  Jiau allowed four hedge fund managers to reap millions of
dollars in profits and earned more than $200,000 in fees herself,
according to the government, which told Rakoff she showed no
remorse and lied to judges and magistrates. Two of her
colleagues got probation from Rakoff instead of jail. Gupta, 63,
faces a maximum 20-year term for  securities fraud  at his Oct. 18
sentencing, the most serious count he was convicted of last week.  “I suspect he’ll come in a little lower than in the Jiau
case,” said  Peter Henning , a professor at  Wayne State
University Law School  in  Detroit  who predicted prosecutors will
seek a sentence for Gupta of between eight and 10 years,
slightly less than the 11 years Rajaratnam received.  Henning said Rakoff will sentence Gupta to three years in
prison -- one reason being that Gupta has a much greater history
of charity than Jiau, a point “that seems to be persuasive to
judges,” he said.  The Jiau sentence came as a surprise after Rakoff initially
appeared to agree with the government’s recommendation last fall.  Can’t Ignore  “There are certain things the court can’t ignore,” the
judge said. “This was a serious crime, going to the integrity
of the financial markets, engaged in for a period of up to two
years. That alone requires some meaningful sentence.”  Yet minutes later, Rakoff criticized the advisory federal
sentencing guidelines, deriding them as “the mirage of
something that can be obtained with arithmetic certainty.”  Rakoff’s ultimate sentence for Jiau was below the term of
78 to 97 months suggested by federal guidelines. Others
convicted in the government’s  insider trading  probe, such as
former Primary Global Research LLC executive James Fleishman,
received a 30-month term instead of as many as 108 months sought
by the U.S. Former SAC Capital Advisors LP manager Donald Longueuil also received a 30-month term instead of the 46-57
months sought by the prosecution; and Rakoff sentenced Manosha
Karunatilaka, a former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
manager, to 18 months in prison while the U.S. sought a term of
37 to 46 months.  Leniency For Clients  In a 2006 opinion, which has been cited by defense
attorneys seeking leniency for clients, Rakoff called the
prosecutor’s request for an 85-year sentence in an accounting
fraud case “patently unreasonable” and “absurd.”  After the government proposed 15 years instead, Rakoff
ordered Richard Abelson, the former president of Impath Inc., to
serve 42 months in prison, a sentence Rakoff called “fair, just
and reasonable.”  “How he weights it all is impossible to tell,” said
 Richard Holwell , the former federal judge who sentenced
Rajaratnam to 11 years in prison, the longest insider trading
term at the time. “A lot of it will depend on how important he
thinks it is to give a strong warning to portfolio managers on
 Wall Street .”  Still, unless Gupta wins on appeal by challenging the
legality of wiretaps used against him, or the exclusion of
evidence that may have helped his case, he seems headed to
prison, said  Anthony Sabino , a professor of law at the Tobin
School of Business at  St. John’s University  in  New York .  Following Rajaratnam  Gupta’s sentencing for insider trading will follow those of
Rajaratnam, 55, who is appealing his conviction, and attorney
 Matthew Kluger , who was sentenced to 12 years in prison on June
5. Both were before different judges.  In a case not involving insider trading, Rakoff, 68, in
2009 sentenced Marc Drier, founder of a prominent  law firm , to
20 years in prison. Dreier had defrauded hedge funds of more
than $400 million and stole money from clients. Prosecutors had
requested a term of 145 years.  Gupta and Rajaratnam are the highest profile executives
convicted since federal authorities in New York began their
nationwide crackdown on insider trading in 2007. Sixty eight
people have been charged since the initiative began. To date, 62
people have been found guilty.  Sabino said Gupta’s lack of criminal history should work in
his favor. That and charitable works aside, Rakoff, who has
challenged the authority of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, tends to impose lesser sentences upon insider
traders than the government recommends, Sabino said.  ‘Fallen Angel’  “Gupta is a fallen angel,” he said. Even “Jed Rakoff, as
tough as he is, isn’t going to impose a sentence in the double-
digits on him. This guy has got a squeaky clean record, not as
much as a jaywalking ticket since college and business school.
He has a magnificent record and years of living a good, honest
life. That will play in his favor.”  Gupta was found guilty of leaking tips to Rajaratnam about
New York-based Goldman Sachs, including information about a
$5 billion investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , and a tip on a quarterly loss. He was also convicted of
conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of five years.  Sentencing Rules  Federal law requires judges to impose a sentence that
reflects the seriousness of the offense, promotes “respect for
the law” and provides “just punishment for the offense, while
deterring others from “criminal conduct,” according to an
opinion Rakoff wrote in 2006.  He will have to consult the non-binding federal guidelines,
which calculate a prison term based on factors including the
amount of money involved in the scheme and whether Gupta
“abused a position of trust.”  Prosecutors may claim that Galleon earned or saved more
than $16 million from Gupta’s tips, Henning said.  Rakoff will also consider Gupta’s background, the extent of
his good works, letters from friends and family that will be
written on his behalf, and the nature of the crime itself. Last
year, in a SEC lawsuit against Rajaratnam, Rakoff assailed the
“huge and brazen nature” of his insider-trading scheme.  Gupta didn’t profit directly from that scheme. Prosecutors
said Rajaratnam made about $800,000 from trading on a Goldman
Sachs-related tip he’d received from Gupta.  Gupta’s good works span years working in health, education
and relief work. He served as chairman of the Global Fund, an
initiative to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. He co-
founded the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, which has
become a leading business school in  India , and raised funds for
victims of an earthquake that struck the Indian state of Gujarat
in 2001.  Charitable Works  Despite Gupta’s charitable works, Sabino said Rakoff will
probably impose some kind of term of incarceration to send a
message that insider trading won’t be tolerated.  “Gupta was at the pinnacle of American business, and to do
something so egregious merits some kind of term,” Sabino said.
“Sure Raj was the corrupter, but Gupta allowed himself to be
corrupted and he has to be punished. If the judge lets him off
too easy, it looks to everyone that a big shot can get away with
breaking the law. He can’t give him a slap on the wrist. I would
guess a minimum term of five years.”  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, and  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Guidelines in the Rajaratnam case called for a prison term
ranging from about 19 years to as many as 24 1/2 years. Holwell
said he imposed a lesser term because Rajaratnam was sick with
failing kidneys and had shown “very significant dedication to
helping others” throughout his life.  Holwell said he expects Gupta’s lawyers to argue he’s a
“stalwart of the community” with a long history of charitable
giving who didn’t directly profit from the tips to Rajaratnam.  “Rakoff will have to take it all into account,” he said.  The case is  U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  