-- Icahn to Rachesky Circle Navistar With Bonds Below Par
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-06-18T15:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/icahn-to-rachesky-circle-navistar-with-bonds-below-par.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  has
gone from being more creditworthy than its peers to less in the
past 3 weeks as a drop in  earnings  signal troubles beyond its
bet on a new engine that has yet to win regulatory approval.  Relative yields on the third-biggest U.S. and Canadian
truck-engine maker’s bonds have widened 192 basis points to 774
basis points this month, while those of all high-yield
automotive products makers remained unchanged at 622 basis
points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Lisle,
Illinois-based Navistar cut its 2012  profit  forecast to a range
of break-even to $2 a share from as much as $5.25 three months
ago, citing rising warranty costs, slowing overseas sales and
growing inventories.  Navistar’s bonds have fallen below face value, a sign
investors question its  ability  to service the debt, said  Vicki Bryan , a debt analyst at Gimme Credit LLC who rates the notes
“sell.” Hedge fund manager  Mark Rachesky  has revealed a 13.6
percent  stake  in Navistar’s shares, more than that of his former
mentor,  Carl Icahn , who owns 11.9 percent.  “I don’t see a quick fix here,” Bryan said in a telephone
interview. “There are hints of systemic problems in its product
line in addition to its exhaust gas recirculation troubles. Over
the last two quarters the company’s reported a spike in repair
costs, its warranty reserve, and a sizable recall of its
buses.”  Swaps Rise  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of Navistar
has increased about 55 basis points to a mid-price of 550.6
basis points this month, Bloomberg prices show. Credit default
swaps typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates and
fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Navistar has enough cash and borrowing ability to pay the
penalties through the end of the year, Navistar spokeswoman
Karen Denning wrote in an e-mailed statement. She declined to
comment on a June 11 FT Deutschland report that Volkswagen was
considering taking a stake in the company.  The company, which manufactures products under brand names
such as MaxxForce and Workhorse, had $737 million of cash and
equivalents on April 30, the least in two years, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Engine Certification  Chief Executive Officer Daniel Ustian has revamped
management as Navistar, which operated as International
Harvester through most of the 20th century, struggles to meet
2010 federal emission standards for one of its truck engines.  Navistar is trying to develop a 13-liter engine that meets
EPA certification for nitrogen oxide emissions. A lack of
certification cost the company $10 million in penalties in its
second 2012 quarter, which ended April 30, and the bill may rise
to as much as $40 million if the engine isn’t certified this
year, Chief Executive Officer said in a June 7 teleconference to
discuss the results with analysts and investors.  “The penalties -- if they are allowed and if they applied
for an extended period -- are designed to make sales not
profitable, so the company wouldn’t be able to continue
operating profitably,” Sol Samson, a New York-based credit
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  said in a telephone interview.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia 
vacated on June 12 an Environmental Protection Agency interim
rule that allowed Navistar to pay fines called non-conformance
penalties for selling engines that don’t meet environmental
standards that took effect in 2010.  ‘Limited’ Effect  The judges wrote that their decision was of “limited
practical impact” because it dealt with the interim rule on
technical ground and that the EPA was “certainly free to make
whatever findings it deems appropriate in the pending final
rulemaking” subject to the court’s further review.  “They believed they could stall the EPA with lawsuits and
have an engine certified faster than they did,” Jeffrey Kauffman, an analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “It doesn’t appear that they have a plan B
in place.”  Ustian said during the teleconference that Navistar was
“continuing to work with the EPA” on having its engine
approved and preferred not to pay the fines.  Management inability to communicate the risks involved are
responsible for the problems at Navistar rather than long-term
operational issues, Kauffman said.  Bonds Decline  The company’s 8.25 percent $900 million notes maturing in
November 2021 have declined 9.37 percent this month to 95 cents
on the dollar, while  junk bonds  in the U.S. have gained an
average 0.4 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show  The bonds may rise by 5 cents on the dollar if the EPA
ultimately approves Navistar’s technology JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst  Eric Selle  said in a June 15 research note. They might
fall 15 cents if it doesn’t, he said.  Navistar shares fell 1.39 cents at 11:26 a.m. in New York
morning, to $28.56. That’s off a year low of $24.11 on June 7.  Weakening demand in overseas markets, which accounted for
 about 35 percent  of the company’s revenue in 2011, has
contributed to the constrained earnings. “Our business needs
volume to become more cost effective, and our volumes are lower
than we anticipated,” Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cederoth
said on the conference call. The drop has also led to a buildup
of Navistar products in inventory instead of on the roads.  Navistar witnessed an “unanticipated increase” in
warranty-related expenses, the company said in its June 7
quarterly filing. Problems in the quality of engines led to
higher repair costs than previously expected, the filing showed.  ‘Getting Surprised’  The company had forecast $227 million of increased
estimates of warranty costs for products sold in previous
periods. In the first six months of the company’s previous
financial year, it increased warranty estimates by $36 million.  “It seems like the company keeps getting surprised by
things,” Kauffman said. “The drop in investor confidence is a
result of loss in management credibility.”  Rachesky’s company, MHR Fund Management LLC, said in a June
15 filing that Navistar’s shares are “undervalued” and that it
may “seek to engage in discussions with management and others
concerning the business and operations of the company.”  Navistar posted an adjusted loss of $137 million, or $1.99
per share, in the three months ended April 30. A survey of 15
analysts by Bloomberg had estimated the company would  earn  67
cents. The net loss was $172 million, or $2.50 a share, compared
with a profit of $74 million, or 93 cents, a year earlier.  Ratings Cut  The company’s truck business recorded a loss of $89 million
for the quarter from a $92 million profit a year earlier. The
engine business had a $108 million deficit, compared with a $2
million profit.  S&P lowered Navistar’s rating to B+ from BB- after the
earnings announcement and put the company on CreditWatch with
“negative” implications. The ratings company said Navistar
will “be challenged to avoid a full-year loss.”  Fitch Ratings rates Navistar BB and put the company on
watch “negative,” saying margins shrank because of “a higher
proportion of heavy duty trucks and sales to large customers
that generate lower margins.”  “There are lots of issues surrounding the level of losses
that Navistar experienced, including market share, warranty, and
efficiency, which are not a function of EPA,” S&P’s Samson
said. If the EPA rejects Navistar’s application, “then they
will have a much bigger problem,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 