-- Tiger Woods Ties for 21st at U.S. Open Golf After Final-Round 73
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-18T05:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/tiger-woods-shoots-3-over-par-73-in-u-s-open-golf-final-round.html
Tiger Woods  was 8-over par during
the final two days of the U.S. Open to tie for 21st place, his
worst four-round finish at golf’s second major championship.  Woods shot a 3-over-par 73 during yesterday’s final round,
when he fell out of contention early and finished six shots
behind winner  Webb Simpson  at San Francisco’s Olympic Club.  “I didn’t really miss it that badly this week,” Woods,
36, told reporters after shooting 7-over 287. “The misses were
just a fraction off, which is great. This golf course is just so
demanding that a fraction off you pay a price.”  Coming off his second win of the season two weeks ago at
the Memorial Tournament, Woods shot 69 and 70 in the first two
rounds and entered the weekend tied for the lead at 1 under.  The 14-time major-tournament winner then dropped five shots
off the lead after a third-round 75 in which he struggled to
find the fairway with his tee shots. Any chance to end a four-
year title drought at the majors was dashed when he teed off
more than an hour before the leaders yesterday and opened with
four bogeys and a double-bogey over the first six holes.  “The first six, I just didn’t play well at all,” said
Woods, who added three birdies on the final 11 holes. “I just
could never get anything going positively. I missed the ball in
the wrong side a couple times and that’s all it takes.”  Woods’s 8-over score for the final 36 holes was his worst
weekend performance in a  U.S. Open  since going 9 over on
Saturday and Sunday at  New York ’s Shinnecock Hills in 2004. His
worst previous four-round finish at the U.S. Open as a
professional came in 2003, when he tied for 20th at Olympia
Fields outside of  Chicago . The three-time U.S. Open champion
missed the cut for weekend play at the 2006 tournament at Winged
Foot in New York.  Woods’s next chance to close the gap on  Jack Nicklaus ’s
record of 18 major titles will begin July 19 when the British
Open starts at Royal Lytham and St. Annes Golf Club in
Lancashire,  England .  “Overall, the way I struck the golf ball, the way I
controlled it all week is something that’s very positive going
forward,” Woods said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau  San Francisco  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  