-- India Unexpectedly Holds Rate as Inflation Curbs Easing: Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-18T11:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/india-unexpectedly-holds-rate-as-surging-prices-curb-cut-scope.html
India  unexpectedly left  interest
rates  unchanged as the fastest inflation among the biggest
 emerging markets  narrows scope to bolster an economy struggling
with trade and budget deficits and Europe’s debt turmoil.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the benchmark repurchase
rate at 8 percent, the Reserve Bank of India said in a statement
in Mumbai today. Only four of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey  predicted the outcome, with 19 expecting a 0.25
percentage-point cut and the remainder a half-point reduction.  Hours after the decision,  Fitch Ratings  cut India’s
sovereign credit outlook to negative, joining  Standard & Poor’s 
in signaling the country is at risk of losing its investment
grade rating on concern growth will deteriorate. Subbarao’s room
to counter the weakest Indian economic expansion in almost a
decade is being limited in part by a plunge in the rupee, which
has stoked an  inflation rate  already above 7 percent.  “Re-accelerating inflation, a still fragile rupee and the
continued lack of action from New Delhi are limiting the RBI’s
room for easing,” said  Richard Iley , the Hong Kong-based chief
economist for  Asia  at BNP Paribas SA. “Reform, not stimulus, is
required to reboot India’s disappointing macro-economic
performance.”  The rupee dropped 0.9 percent to 55.96 against the dollar
as of 4:33 p.m. in Mumbai, while the BSE India Sensitive Index
extended its decline, sliding 1.4 percent. The currency has
tumbled about 20 percent in the past year. The yield on the 8.15
percent bond due June 2022 rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 8.17 percent from 8.05 percent on Friday.  Europe Impact  Today’s central bank decision contrasts with rate cuts in
Brazil and  China  in the past three weeks as the impact of
 Europe ’s turmoil fans through Asia and dominates the agenda of a
Group of 20 summit starting in  Mexico  today.  Fitch cited the heightened risk of a deterioration in
growth potential and limited progress on paring the nation’s
budget deficit for lowering the rating outlook from stable. It
affirmed its sovereign rating for India at BBB-, the lowest
investment grade level. S&P warned on June 11 that it may cut
India’s rating after lowering the outlook to negative in April.  “While growth in 2011-2012 has moderated significantly,
headline  inflation  remains above levels consistent with
sustainable growth,” the Reserve Bank said today.
“Importantly, retail inflation is also on an uptrend.”  The  Reserve Bank  said “future actions will depend on a
continuing assessment of external and domestic developments that
contribute to lowering inflation risks,” adding it “stands
ready to use all available instruments and measures to respond
rapidly and appropriately to any adverse developments” amid
global risks.  Singh’s Challenge  Indian Prime MinisterManmohan Singh is grappling with an
economy set back by trade and budget deficits, corruption
scandals and infighting in the ruling coalition that has stymied
his efforts to lure more foreign investment to ease bottlenecks.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the least since 2003,
imperiling the prime minister’s goal of 9 percent annual gains
to cut poverty.  India’s benchmark wholesale inflation accelerated to 7.55
percent in May, the fastest pace in the BRIC group of largest
emerging markets that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.
The government’s projected fiscal deficit of 5.1 percent of GDP
in the year through March 2013 is the group’s widest.  Another report today showed Indian consumer prices rose
10.36 percent in May from a year earlier.  “We’ll have a combination of weak growth and still-high
inflation for longer,” said  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore . “The political will to
implement solutions is still missing.”  New Zealand, Hong Kong  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s
 consumer confidence  fell to the lowest level in five quarters as
budget cutbacks and the risk of slowing global growth made
households apprehensive about future income, a private survey
showed. An index of sentiment fell to 99.9 in the second quarter
from 102.4 in the first three months of the year, Westpac
Banking Corp. and McDermott Miller Ltd. said.  A  Hong Kong  report showed the island’s May unemployment
rate at 3.2 percent.  Sri Lanka  said its GDP growth slowed to 7.9
percent last quarter, a two-year low.  Asian stocks rose today after the outcome of Greek
elections eased concern that the nation may exit the euro. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.4 percent as of 8:12 p.m. in
 Tokyo .  RBI Assessment  The  Reserve Bank of India  lowered rates on April 17 for the
first time since 2009, to 8 percent from 8.5 percent. It said at
the time the weaker rupee, energy costs and India’s fiscal
deficit posed inflationary risks that my limit room for further
cuts.  The central bank in January and March reduced the amount
lenders need to set aside as reserves by a combined 125 basis
points, to 4.75 percent, to ease cash shortages at banks.  “Our assessment of the current growth-inflation dynamic is
that there are several factors responsible for the slowdown in
activity, particularly investment, with the role of interest
rates being relatively small,” the Reserve Bank said today.
“Consequently, further reduction in the policy interest rate at
this juncture, rather than supporting growth, could exacerbate
inflationary pressures.”  To boost credit flow to exporters, the monetary authority
said today it has increased the eligible limit of the export
credit refinance facility to 50 percent from 15 percent,
starting the fortnight of June 30. This will provide additional
funds of over 300 billion rupees to banks, it said.  Slowing Growth  The Indian government’s recent setbacks include the
suspension in December of plans to allow foreign companies such
as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open supermarkets after a coalition
ally objected.  Growth in Asia’s third-largest economy has also slowed
after Subbarao raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage points
from March 2010 to October 2011 to try and contain inflation.  Singh vowed on June 6 to revitalize growth outlining
projects including new ports, roads and power plants. The
impending resignation of Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  to
contest India’s presidential poll may prompt a cabinet overhaul
that also seeks to shore up investor sentiment.  Singh is joining world leaders at the G-20 summit today and
tomorrow, beginning a week of crisis meetings taking place after
 Spain  this month became the fourth euro-region nation to seek a
bailout amid the weakest global economy since the 2009
recession.  Some companies in India have felt the impact of a
moderating economy that is being squeezed by price pressures.
Car sales fell in May at Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., and the
Indian units of Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Co., after a
rise in gasoline tariffs.  The nation’s “mix of growth and inflation is expected to
remain challenging,” said Singapore-based Ramya Suryanarayanan,
an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. The temptation to
address the situation with rate cuts is “dangerous,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  