-- India’s Rupee Declines as RBI Keeps Borrowing Costs Unchanged
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-18T06:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/india-rupee-rises-to-one-week-high-as-greek-exit-concerns-ease.html
India ’s rupee weakened, erasing
earlier gains, after the central bank unexpectedly kept
borrowing costs unchanged at a policy review today, citing
inflation risks.  The benchmark  repurchase rate  will stay at 8 percent, the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in a statement in Mumbai today. Only
four of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the
outcome, with 19 expecting a 0.25 percentage-point cut and the
remainder a half-point reduction. The currency had advanced to a
one-week high earlier as projections showed pro-bailout parties
won enough seats to control Greece’s parliament, reviving
investor interest in riskier assets.  “It’s a delicate balancing act, as growth momentum is poor
and policy remains too restrictive in our view, particularly
given the weaker international back drop,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist in Singapore at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote
in an e-mailed response. “Near-term risks are that the rupee
will underperform broader risk-on move throughout the region.”  The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 55.6050 per dollar as of
11:45 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 55.2700 earlier, the strongest level since June 11.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, fell 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, to 11.7 percent.  Inflation  “While growth in 2011-2012 has moderated significantly,
headline inflation remains above levels consistent with
sustainable growth,” the monetary authority said today. The
decision contrasts with rate cuts in Brazil and China in the
past three weeks as the impact of  Europe ’s turmoil fans through
 Asia  and dominates the agenda of a Group of 20 summit starting
in  Mexico  today.  Greece’s New Democracy and Pasok parties won enough seats
to form a majority in the 300-member parliament, according to an
official projection, easing concern the nation would reject
austerity measures needed to qualify for international aid.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 56.54 per
dollar, compared with 56.61 on June 15, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.60 from 56.72. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  