-- India Bonds Drop Most in 2 Months as RBI Keeps Rates Unchanged
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-18T12:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/india-10-year-yields-drop-to-one-year-low-before-policy-review.html
Indian  government bonds  fell the
most in nearly two months after the central bank unexpectedly
left interest  rates  unchanged, citing inflation risks.  Yields rebounded from a one-year low as Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao left the benchmark repurchase rate at 8 percent at a
policy review today. Only four of 25 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey predicted the outcome, with 19 expecting a 0.25
percentage-point cut and the remainder a half-point reduction.
Inflation accelerated to 7.55 percent in May, according to
official data, the fastest pace in the BRIC group of largest
 emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  “Investors were obviously pricing in a rate cut as growth
is slowing and the decline in bonds reflects that
disappointment,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of money-market and
currency trading in Mumbai at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , a unit of South
Africa’s second-largest banking group. “Inflation still remains
a concern and bonds could trade in a wide range over the next
one month.”  The yield on the government’s 8.15 percent bonds due June
2022 rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.17
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That is the most the rate on a benchmark 10-year note
has increased since April 20.  Nayar predicts the 10-year bond yield will range between 8
percent and 8.20 percent until the next review on July 31.  The monetary authority last reduced the repo rate by 50
basis points to 8 percent in April after raising it 13 times
from March 2010 to October 2011. The reserves ratio for banks,
kept unchanged today, has been cut by 125 basis points this year
to 4.75 percent.  G20 Summit  The central bank’s decision to hold rates contrasts with
rate cuts in Brazil and  China  in the past three weeks as the
impact of  Europe ’s turmoil fans through Asia and dominates the
agenda of a Group of 20 summit starting in Mexico today.  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 5.3 percent from a
year earlier, the least in nine years, official data showed on
May 31. Factory output rose 0.1 percent in April from a year
earlier after a revised 3.2 percent drop in March, official data
showed last week.  Fitch Ratings  lowered  India ’s rating outlook to negative
from stable, which cited the heightened risk of a deterioration
in growth potential and limited progress on paring the  budget
deficit . The agency affirmed its sovereign rating at BBB-, the
lowest investment-grade level.  Standard & Poor’s  warned on June
11 that it may cut India’s rating after lowering the outlook to
negative in April.  ‘Weak Finances’  “Against the backdrop of persistent inflation pressures
and weak public finances, there’s an even greater onus on
effective government policies and reforms that would ensure
India can navigate the turbulent global economic and financial
environment and underpin confidence in the long-run growth
potential of the Indian economy,” Art Woo , a Hong Kong-based
director of sovereign ratings at Fitch, said in a statement.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, jumped 25 basis
points to 7.83 percent, the highest level this month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  