-- Indian Wind Developments Threatened by Weakening Rupee, CLP Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-18T10:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/indian-wind-developments-threatened-by-weakening-rupee-clp-says.html
India ’s weakening rupee threatens to
make wind projects unviable because it’s pushing up the cost of
imported components, according to  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , the largest
developer of wind farms in the South Asian nation.  “If the rupee isn’t reined in, there’ll be a lot of
difficulty putting together viable projects,” Mahesh Makhija,
director of renewables at CLP’s Indian unit, said in an
interview in Mumbai.  The currency has slid 8.7 percent this quarter, the worst
performance among Asian currencies, adding to the woes of the
third-largest wind market where installations are forecast to
drop more than 30 percent this year. In response to higher
import costs, turbine suppliers have had to raise prices by 2
percent to 3 percent in the last few months, Makhija said.  Growth is set to stall in India, a major turbine market for
suppliers like  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica (GAM) 
SA, after the government ended two wind-industry incentives at
the end of March. Installations this year could plunge by as
much as a third to 2,000 megawatts if the incentives aren’t
reinstated, according to estimates by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance and CLP.  CLP,  Hong Kong ’s biggest electricity supplier with power
assets across  Asia , is focusing new investments in India on
renewable projects after experiencing fuel shortages at its coal
and gas-fired plants.  ‘Dead Cold’  The company completed a 1,320-megawatt coal plant in
Haryana state in April. The facility is “dead cold” for lack
of coal supplies, Naveen Munjal, director of business
development, said in an interview. Its 655-megawatt gas-fired
plant in Gujarat state is also running below 50 percent capacity
due to a fuel shortfall, he said.  India’s coal output, dominated by government-run  Coal India
Ltd. (COAL) , has failed to meet demand, stalling $36 billion of
investment intended for new thermal power capacity. The nation’s
gas pipeline shortage constrains delivery of the fuel to power
and fertilizer producers.  “For any new investments, the fuel will have to be within
our control,” Munjal said. CLP would consider a new power
project that comes with its own  coal mine , for example, he said.  Meanwhile, CLP plans its first solar investment in India by
the end of the year. The company will build a 15 megawatt
photovoltaic plant at the site of one of its existing coal or
gas power stations. The project will most likely use thin-film
panels though a supplier hasn’t been selected yet, Makhija said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 