-- Interpublic to Expand Outside Europe as Zenith Cuts Ad Forecast
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-18T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/interpublic-to-expand-outside-europe-as-zenith-cuts-ad-forecast.html
Interpublic Group of Cos . plans to
bolster business in new markets such as  Brazil  and China as
researcher ZenithOptimedia cut its growth forecast for the
advertising industry this year amid the European debt crisis.  “I’d like to increase wherever the business is growing,”
Interpublic Chief Executive Officer  Michael Roth  said in an
interview from the Cannes Lions advertising festival in  France 
yesterday. The second-largest U.S. advertising company has a
$200 million budget for acquisitions, he said.  European and U.S. advertising agencies are relying on
faster-growing markets in  Asia  and Latin America as the European
debt crisis hurt sales in their home markets. The global
advertising industry is now predicted to grow 4.3 percent this
year, down from an earlier forecast for 4.8 percent,
ZenithOptimedia said today in a report. Marketing spending
slowed in April and May amid fears that Greece would leave the
European Union, it said.  From 2011 to 2014, half of the advertising industry’s
growth will come from ten developing markets, ZenithOptimedia
said. Brazil, India, Russia and China will account for 35
percent of the growth, followed by Indonesia, Argentina,  South
Africa , South Korea, Thailand and Turkey, the researcher said.  Interpublic may generate one third of its business in
markets outside Europe and the U.S. at some point, up from about
28 percent currently, if emerging regions keep growing, Roth
said. He didn’t give a time period.  WPP Plc (WPP) , the largest
 advertising agency , has also said it will work to get a third of
income from these high-growth markets in the next three-to-four
years.  European Slowdown  Growth in traditional advertising markets is slowing
despite the boost from the 2012 European soccer championship and
the London Olympics. Together with the U.S. presidential
elections, these events are expected to add $6.3 billion to
total spending of $502 billion by the end of the year,
ZenithOptimedia said.  Roth said more than half of the company’s sales come from
the U.S. and another 20 percent to 21 percent originate in
 Europe , leaving less than 30 percent of sales in the rest of the
world. He reiterated a forecast that Interpublic’s revenue will
grow 3 percent this year.  To be sure, New York-based Interpublic will still invest in
Europe, Roth said.  “In certain markets that are going through some
difficulties, we’re still there and we’re looking for
transactions,” he said. “But again we’re not doubling down in
those markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  