-- Irish Life Fund Buys Viridian Wind Farm Stake in First Deal
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-18T11:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/irish-life-fund-buys-viridian-wind-farm-stake-in-first-deal.html
The Irish Infrastructure Fund, a 1
billion-euro ($1.3 billion) vehicle set up by Irish Life &
Permanent Plc, bought a majority stake in 10 wind projects from
Belfast-based Viridian Group Ltd.  The investment in renewable energy is the fund’s first
since it started in November, according to a statement from AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., the Sydney-based manager of the fund.  Eight of the wind parks are in the Republic of Ireland,
which is seeking to get 40 percent of its electricity from clean
sources by 2020. Ireland in March started a  second incentive 
program for onshore wind, hydro and biomass landfill gas to
support 4,000 megawatts of renewables as it seeks to boost clean
energy generation for domestic use and export.  The fund, established to invest in Irish infrastructure
assets, will hold at least 75 percent of the wind farms which
total 104 megawatts. Energia Group, a unit of Viridian, will
keep the remaining shares, manage the wind farms and take most
of the electricity they generate, according to the statement.  The Irish Infrastructure Fund already got 300 million euros
from the Dublin-based National Pensions Reserve Fund and other
investors as it seeks to raise 1 billion euros from global and
Irish institutional investors, according to the statement.  “We see this transaction as potentially the first in a
number of additional investments in the renewable energy space
in Ireland,” AMP Capital Managing Director for  Europe , Head of
Infrastructure, Boe Pahari said in the statement.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed in line with AMP
Capital policy. The Irish Infrastructure Fund was established by
Irish Life Investment Managers, the asset management arm of
Irish Life & Permanent.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  