-- Spain, Italy Reach Euro Quarterfinals as Croatia Is Eliminated
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-18T22:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/italy-defending-champion-spain-advance-to-euro-quarterfinals.html
Defending champion Spain beat
Croatia 1-0 last night to reach the quarterfinals of soccer’s
European Championship, with Italy also advancing after a 2-0 win
against Ireland.  Spain, aiming to becoming the first nation to retain the
title, ensured top spot in Group C when Jesus Navas scored after
88 minutes in Gdansk, Poland. Goals from  Antonio Cassano  and
 Mario Balotelli  in Poznan helped Italy to its first win at this
year’s tournament.  “They were a great opponent, and played on an equal level
to us,” Navas said in comments on European soccer body UEFA’s
website, describing Croatia’s performance. “Nevertheless we
were able to fight for this victory.”  Spain, which will next face the runnerup from Group D,
finished with seven points, Italy five, and Croatia four.
Ireland lost all its matches.  Group D concludes today, with France, England and co-host
Ukraine competing for two spots. France plays Sweden in Kiev,
while England meets Ukraine in Donetsk.  Spain, which could have been eliminated with a defeat, took
the early initiative in Gdansk, dominating possession although
without testing goalkeeper Stipe Pletikosa.  David Silva  made an opening for  Andres Iniesta  but the
midfielder finished weakly. Silva was prominent throughout the
first half as top-ranked Spain probed for an opening.  Fernando Torres  had an effort blocked and  Gerard Pique  then sent a long-
range shot over the bar.  Former Quarterfinalist  Croatia, a quarterfinalist in 2008 and ranked eighth by
governing body FIFA, had its own attacking moments and Danijel
Pranjic’s shot was collected by goalkeeper Iker Casillas.  Then Croatia’s Mario Mandzukic broke down the right and
went down under a heavy challenge from  Sergio Ramos  but referee
Wolfgang Stark decided it didn’t merit a penalty.  Croatia almost made the breakthrough in the 59th minute
only for Casillas to save a close-range header from Ivan Rakitic
after Luka Modric crossed from the right.  Domagoj Vida then forced Casillas into a save, and Alvaro Arbeloa headed a cross from Darijo Srna behind as Croatia
pressed for a surprise winner that could have sent the holders
out of the tournament.  Substitute Cesc Fabregas enlivened  Spain ’s play, setting up
Iniesta for a shot saved by Pletikosa before seeing his own
effort saved. Two minutes from the end Navas eased Spain’s
nerves by tapping home the winner from close range after the
Croatian defense was carved open by Xavi Hernandez and Iniesta.  World Champion  Spain, also the world champion, will join Germany on a
record three European titles if it can repeat its success from
four years ago.  “It was a hard game to play because of the situation, for
the fact that we were nearly qualified,” Iniesta told
reporters. “But well, we were there until the end, and then we
got the goal that calmed everything down.”  Italy , trying to avoid an exit in the group stage for a
third time in its past five European Championship appearances,
needed a win to have a chance of advancing.  Ireland, which was already eliminated, had a chance after
10 seconds as  Kevin Doyle  broke forward but he was unable to
keep control of the ball and goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon was
able to gather.  Open Game  Both teams pushed forward in a very open start to the game,
although there were few shots on goal. Italy began to take
control midway through the half with Antonio  Di Natale  having
two shots blocked.  Di Natale also had an effort cleared from in front of goal
by Sean St Ledger after 34 minutes, and about a minute later his
team was ahead. Italy won a corner which  Andrea Pirlo  took and
Cassano flicked the ball past Shay Given and over the line.  Italy started positively in the second half, with a Di
Natale effort stopped by St Ledger and a Cassano shot blocked by
 Richard Dunne  in the opening five minutes.  Given also got down quickly to hold a low shot from Di
Natale, who had replaced Balotelli in the starting lineup.  Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini limped off moments later,
with Leonardo Bonucci coming on.  Keith Andrews tested Buffon from 25 yards when  Damien Duff ,
on his 100th appearance, set up the midfielder from a 79th-
minute free kick.  Andrews, though, didn’t complete the match as he received a
second yellow card late on. Italy pressed forward and Balotelli,
who’d come on for Di Natale, hooked the ball into the net as the
game entered injury time.  “Tough victories are the most beautiful ones,” Cassano
told reporters. “We don’t fear anybody. The important thing was
to qualify, and now the knockout stage starts and we will face
anybody.”  The result ends a run of six matches without a win for
Italy at major tournaments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 