-- Ivory Coast Troops Clash With Liberian Gunmen at Border
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-06-18T07:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/ivory-coast-troops-clash-with-liberia-gunmen-along-shared-border.html
Soldiers from  Ivory Coast  clashed
with Liberian gunmen yesterday near a border town where seven
United Nations peacekeepers were killed earlier this month.  No casualties were reported in the latest violence, which
began when the Ivorian army fired two mortars at the gunmen,
said Losseni Fofana, the army commander in charge of security in
the country’s west. The two sides then exchanged gunfire, he
said.  The clash occurred near the town of Para, where the UN
soldiers died on June 8 in the deadliest attack on foreign
troops in the West African country in eight years. The armed
group, which has a base on the Liberian side of the Cavally
River that serves as a border between the two countries, is
comprised of Ivorian militia members and Liberian mercenaries,
Fofana said.  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, is seeking
to recover from violence that left at least 3,000 dead following
ex-leader President  Laurent Gbagbo ’s refusal to cede power after
a November 2010 election. Gbagbo was arrested in April 2011 and
is facing charges of crimes against humanity at the
 International Criminal Court  in  The Hague .  The clashes are extending a decade of violence that started
with a military uprising in 2002 in which the country was
divided into a government-controlled south and rebel-held north.  Anti-UN Campaign  The attack on the UN peacekeepers was similar to other
raids by Liberian mercenaries and Ivorian militiamen who
supported Gbagbo in last year’s conflict, according to  Human
Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group. Gbagbo
instigated an anti-UN campaign last year in a failed bid to
force the departure of the peacekeeping mission.  Ivory Coast accounts for about 34 percent of the world’s
total cocoa production, the biggest export in its $23 billion
economy. Cocoa for July delivery fell 0.3 percent to 1,575
pounds a metric ton on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  on June
15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 