-- J.C. Penney Falls After Francis Leaves Amid Strategy Flop
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-19T20:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/j-c-penney-says-ceo-to-run-marketing-as-francis-leaves.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  fell the most in a
month after announcing president  Michael Francis  was leaving in
the wake of a marketing strategy that flopped with shoppers.  J.C. Penney dropped 8.5 percent to $22.25 at the close in
New York, the biggest decline since May 16, when the company
reported first-quarter earnings.  The retailer said in a statement yesterday that Francis
stepped down after joining the Plano, Texas-based company in
October. The company didn’t give a reason for his exit.  Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , who is taking over
marketing and merchandising, is trying to remake the retailer’s
image and overhaul its pricing strategy.  “The bottom line is, the marketing strategy wasn’t
working,” said  Bill Ackman , whose hedge fund, Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, is the company’s largest shareholder.
“Ron decided that he really needed to take over the marketing
and advertising.”  Ackman said he’s “very comfortable” having Johnson handle
the CEO and marketing functions.  “The company is not changing its strategy,” he said. “I
100 percent believe in the strategy of this company. The problem
was, the pricing message wasn’t conveyed to the customer
properly.”  Francis was serving as marketing chief at  Target Corp. (TGT)  when
Johnson hired him away.  Artistic Approach  He had a “very artistic and streamlined approach to
marketing, but it wasn’t getting the message across,” Lizabeth Dunn, an analyst with Macquarie Group in New York said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “It seemed as though that was a
philosophical difference with Michael Francis and the rest of
the management team.”  Johnson developed discount chain Target’s “cheap chic”
persona before moving to Apple, where he created the world’s
most profitable stores. Now he’s trying to wean J.C. Penney’s
middle-market customers from a steady diet of coupons and almost
constant discounting.  In January, Johnson unveiled his four-year plan to
transform J.C. Penney into America’s favorite store. In a
presentation to investors and suppliers, he described a
department store built around a so-called town square, with as
many as 100 boutiques carrying items made by well-known brands
specifically for J.C. Penney. The first store-within-a-store he
announced will sell home goods by  Martha Stewart .  Aggressive Discounts  Johnson also has sought to quickly replace J.C. Penney’s
relatively high-list prices -- which it aggressively discounted
-- with lower everyday “fair and square” pricing.  The company introduced brightly colored, themed monthly
catalogs in February, and the current edition features photos of
fathers romping with their children.  “Some of the advertising scared off the core customer,
clearly, or at least it didn’t reach the customer,” Ackman said  The changes have yet to bear fruit. The department-store
chain, with 1,100 U.S. stores, had a $163 million loss in the
first three months of 2012 as  revenue  slid 20 percent, the
biggest quarterly decline in more than seven years. Sales at
stores open more than a year fell an average of 19 percent. The
number of people coming into J.C. Penney stores dropped by 10
percent, and the number of those who bought something fell, too,
by 5 percent.  “The transition has been tougher than we anticipated,”
Johnson said during a May 15 presentation to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  