-- Japan Stocks Advance as Greek Vote Eases Euro Concerns
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-06-18T06:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/japan-stocks-rise-as-greece-election-eases-euro-concern.html
Japan  stocks rose, with the  Nikkei
225  Stock Average rising to near a month high, as official
projections showed parties supporting Greece’s bailout won
enough seats to control parliament, easing concern the euro
currency bloc would lose one of its 17 members.  Power-tool maker  Makita Corp. (6586) , which gets the highest
proportion of sales in Europe among Topix Index companies,
advanced 5.2 percent as the euro strengthened against the yen.
Ibiden Co. gained 4.5 percent after the ceramic maker was raised
to buy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Sharp Corp. soared 5.6
percent on a report Taiwan’s Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. may
buy more shares of the Japanese electronics maker.  The  Nikkei (MXAP)  225 climbed 1.8 percent to 8,721.02 at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo , the highest close since May 22, with volume more
than 15 percent below the 30-day average. The broader Topix
gained 1.7 percent to 738.81, with more than six shares rising
for each that fell.  The result of the election was “positive because it helped
reduce excessive concern that Greece may separate from the euro
currency,” Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $34 billion.
“Tortuous negotiations on the European debt crisis are expected.
I don’t think investors will quickly move to a risk-on mood.”  Volatility declined as stocks advanced. The  Nikkei 225
Volatility Index (VNKY)  tumbled 17 percent to 23.91 today, the biggest
drop since March. The reading indicates traders expect a swing
of about 6.9 percent on the gauge over the next 30 days.  Stocks rose after Greece’s pro-bailout New Democracy and
Pasok parties took a majority in the 300-member parliament,
according to the official projection by the  Interior Ministry  in
Athens. The results eased concern that Alex Tsipras’s Syriza
party would take control of the Greek government and reject
austerity measures needed to qualify for international aid.  Euro Strengthens  The euro strengthened to as high as 100.85 yen today in
Tokyo, compared with 99.62 yen at the close of  stock trading  on
June 15, boosting the value of some overseas income at Japanese
companies when repatriated. The euro gained the most against the
yen among major currencies.  Makita rose 5.2 percent to 2,894 yen.  Nippon Sheet Glass
Co. (5202) , a glassmaker that generates about 40 percent of its sales
in Europe, climbed 6.4 percent to 83 yen.  “Greece’s election is a good result and will provide some
short-term relief,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of
dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages almost $100 billion. “This will put to rest for a
little while the prospect of Greece leaving the euro.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
signaled willingness to loosen Greece’s austerity requirements
so long as the nation abides by its obligations under the
bailout program.  G-20 Boost  Leaders from the Group of 20 nations meeting in Mexico will
boost the $430 billion firewall the  International Monetary Fund 
announced in April, host President  Felipe Calderon . European
governments indicated a willingness to adjust the terms of
Greece’s bailout package as long as a new government “swiftly”
emerges from the closely fought election.  About $5.5 trillion has been erased from stocks around the
world since March amid concern growth is slowing in the U.S. and
China, the world’s two largest economies, and as Europe’s debt
crisis intensified.  Ibiden (4062)  climbed 4.5 percent to 1,492 yen after Merrill Lynch
raised the investment rating to buy from neutral, citing growing
demand of printed-circuit boards for smartphones.  Sharp Advances  Sharp jumped 5.6 percent to 435 yen after Reuters reported
Hon Hai Precision Industry is in talks to increase its stake in
the electronics company following recent drops in its share
price, citing comments by Hon Hai Chairman Terry Gou. Japan’s
biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays plans to separate its
TV panel business and start selling screens to Foxconn
Technology Group, of which Hon Hai is the top shareholder.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  approved the first restart of
nuclear reactors shut for safety checks after the Fukushima
disaster last year.  The Nikkei, which has lost 15 percent from this year’s peak
on March 27, is trading at 1.1 times book value. This compares
with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
number below one means companies can be bought for less than
value of their assets.  Among companies that fell, Osaka Organic Chemical Industry
Ltd. declined the most on the Topix, plunging 8.9 percent to 390
yen in Tokyo. The maker of organic chemicals cut its full-year
profit forecast 39 percent to 487 million yen and lowered its
planned annual dividend to 9 yen per share from 12 yen, citing
the stronger yen and slumping demand of liquid-crystal panels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  