-- Johns Hopkins, Morgan Stanley, Accenture Fight Leukemia
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-18T14:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/johns-hopkins-morgan-stanley-accenture-fight-leukemia.html
Tommy Cleaver, a first vice
president at  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , was diagnosed with chronic
myelogenous (or myeloid) leukemia while in college. He is
fighting it with medicine and money.  The National Capital Area chapter of the  Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society  held its grand finale gala Saturday night.
Cleaver and Amanda Tiede won the titles of  man and woman  of the
year after a 10-week fundraising campaign.  Tiede, a vice president at Cassidy Turley, said she got
involved because a classmate at James Madison University died
from blood cancer, leaving behind a wife and young child.  Their work and ticket sales helped the chapter bring in a
record $1.1 million for its 21st annual dinner, which was at the
Ritz-Carlton in  Washington . They were two of 18 area contenders
vying to raise the most money.  Cleaver is fighting his disease with the medication
Gleevec, which came out of research funded by the Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society. He praised his physician,  Richard Jones  of the
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at  Johns Hopkins 
University, who was present along with scores of Cleaver’s
family and friends.  “I’ve never met anyone who doesn’t have a leukemia
story,” said Katie Asprovski, a marketing director, who
campaigned all throughout her second pregnancy, even “selling
donuts at midnight.”  Asprovski gave birth two weeks ago, and brought along her
newborn son, Kiran, husband, Chris, and 9-year-old, Conner. She
added that her sister, Courtney, died at age three of a blood
cancer.  Photo Fans  The 18 contenders and more than 500 guests packed into the
hotel for a reception and silent auction. Songs by Adele and
Madonna pulsated through the usually staid lobby.  Candidates continued fundraising throughout the evening
while a team of accountants on site furiously calculated the
tallies as the last dollars flew in. Hand fans with pictures of
the contenders were sold for a donation.  Before the 10:30 announcement of the winners, a meal of
shrimp salad and beef was served in the ballroom while guests
watched videos of the contenders describing their personal
connections to the disease. Waiters brought in small pink boxes
containing cupcakes with the organization’s logo for dessert.  Snail Mail  Michael Cragg, a financial adviser with Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney LLC, whose uncle, Steven Cragg, was diagnosed with
non-Hodgkins lymphoma and survived, said that candidates have a
campaign manager and use social media, e-mail lists and old-
fashioned phone calls and letters to achieve their objective.  Corporate contributions are also common, he said. A $2,500
contribution from Morgan Stanley was donated on his behalf, but
Cragg said he was especially touched that his office
receptionist made a sizable donation for him.  Ken Dineen, the North America lead of commercial directors
for Accenture, a major sponsor of the evening, sat near the
stage. He said he is a survivor of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, and
the president of the board of trustees of the Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society, national capital area.  The chapter singled out a few of the contenders for special
recognition. Michael Effron, a financial analyst for the  General
Services Administration , was presented with the volunteerism
award. Saadiq Luqman, a manager with  KPMG  who lost his father to
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, was given the mission award, and Amanda
Woodhead, corporate-communications manager for Emdeon Inc., was
presented with the community-involvement award.  After the awards presentation, the lobby turned into a
dance floor for late-night revelry.  “I wanna do it again next year,” Asprovski said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 