-- JPMorgan Hedge Thwarted by ‘Illiquidity,’ Calypso’s Kelly Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-06-18T18:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/jpmorgan-hedge-thwarted-by-illiquidity-calypso-s-kelly-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s credit-
derivatives trades that lost the biggest U.S. bank more than $2
billion were thwarted by market illiquidity, saidDavid Kelly,
director of financial engineering at Calypso Technology Inc.  Credit derivatives traders value the contracts with an
assumption that if pricing relationships break down, the market
is active and deep enough that  hedge funds  and others that seek
to profit from such dislocations will drive the prices together,
Kelly said. Instead, by using indexes less active than benchmark
contracts and so-called tranches of the indexes that are more
difficult to trade, correlation with the rest of the market
deteriorated, he said.  “Lack of liquidity wasn’t fully appreciated or fully
considered,” Kelly, who previously helped manage counterparty
risk at JPMorgan and Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “This thing should have been making money, but the
illiquidity and therefore the pricing distorted the normal
behavior.”  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  disclosed the
loss in its chief investment office on a May 10 conference call,
saying it stemmed from trades that had been designed to hedge
the bank’s credit risk. A shift in strategy that was supposed to
reduce the hedge instead turned out to be “flawed, complex,
poorly reviewed, poorly executive and poorly monitored,” Dimon
said on the call.  London Whale  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that Bruno Iksil, a
trader for the chief investment office in London, had taken on
positions that were so large he was driving price moves in the
$10 trillion market for credit-default swaps indexes.  By amassing positions of as much as $100 billion in a
corporate credit-default swaps index created in 2007, Iksil
earned the nickname  London  Whale among some counterparties,
according to market participants who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the trades.  The benchmark, known as Series 9 of the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, or IG9, had grown less active as
new versions were created every six months. Iksil also used so-
called tranches that take more concentrated risks on the
companies in the index.  The loss underscores the difficulty banks face in hedging
their risks and the ambiguity between those efforts and the kind
of proprietary risks that Congress is seeking to limit for
federally subsidized lenders, said Kelly, who joined Calypso in
March.  Volcker Rule  San Francisco-based Calypso, founded in 1997, sells
software to banks and investment firms for managing trade
processing and risk in derivatives markets, according to the
company’s website.  As part of an overhaul of financial regulations passed in
2010, Congress approved the so-called Volcker rule, named after
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , to limit banks’
wagers on markets with their own capital.  When he helped manage counterparty risk at JPMorgan and
Citigroup, Kelly said the desk would sometimes be given a
position to hedge that couldn’t be matched perfectly. The “big
basket” of loans on JPMorgan’s book would be impossible to
hedge symmetrically, he said.  “You can’t possibly hedge it so you’re left with a
position,” Kelly said. “You have no choice but to take some
risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  