-- JPMorgan’s Gulati Said to Meet Investors as He Weighs Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-06-18T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/jpmorgan-s-gulati-said-to-meet-investors-as-he-weighs-hedge-fund.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Deepak Gulati
is holding talks with investors as he and a team of traders
consider leaving the bank to start a hedge fund, said four
people with knowledge of the discussions.  Gulati,  JPMorgan’s (JPM)  head of global equity proprietary
trading, attended a conference held by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in  Rome  last week to meet backers, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because Gulati’s plans aren’t public. About
20 JPMorgan traders work with Gulati, who probably wouldn’t
start his firm before next year, the people said.  He follows a growing group of traders who’ve left firms
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 triggered a
global financial crisis and prompted regulators to try and limit
risk-taking by banks.  The  U.S. Congress  in 2010 approved the so-called Volcker
rule, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
to curtail banks from using their own capital to make wagers on
stocks and bonds. While the provision hasn’t yet gone into
effect, firms have been shutting down proprietary trading desks
to comply with the law.  JPMorgan spokesman Patrick Burton declined to comment on
Gulati’s plans. The trader, who is based in Zurich, didn’t
return a call to his office seeking comment.  Volcker Rule  The bank decided in 2010 to move Gulati and other
proprietary traders to its asset management business to comply
with the Volcker rule, because money would be invested on behalf
of clients. The New York-based company selected  Mike Stewart  to
oversee the 50 relocated traders, a person briefed on the
decision said in February 2011. The bank was considering giving
them about $2 billion of so-called  seed capital , which would be
replaced with money from outside investors over time, according
to another person with knowledge of the discussions.  Stewart, who had been co-head of JPMorgan’s global  emerging
markets  business, has since left to start Whard Stewart Asset
Management Ltd., a London-based hedge fund.  Gulati joined JPMorgan in 2003 from Dresdner Kleinwort
Ltd., according to his registration with the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority.  U.S. lawmakers have called for the Volcker rule to be
stiffened after JPMorgan disclosed last month that its chief
investment office lost at least $2 billion trading derivatives.
Prior to the disclosure, JPMorgan and other lenders had urged
regulators to relax parts of the provision, arguing that strict
interpretation of the rule could stop banks from hedging risks.  Gulati’s division is separate to the unit responsible for
the JPMorgan losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 