-- KKR Names Ex-Brazil Central Bank Chief Meirelles Adviser
-- B y   E d w a r d   E v a n s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   B a u m g a e r t e l
-- 2012-06-18T20:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/kkr-names-ex-brazil-central-bank-chief-meirelles-adviser.html
KKR & Co., the New York-based buyout
firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , named former Brazil
Central Bank Governor Henrique Meirelles as a senior adviser.  The appointment of Meirelles, Brazil’s central-bank chief
from January 2003 until December 2010, is effective immediately,
KKR said today in a statement.  Brazil has attracted private-equity firms seeking to profit
from stronger  economic growth  in  emerging markets . KKR,
Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and TPG Capital, based in Fort
Worth, Texas, are among firms that have opened or are planning
to open offices in the country. KKR has been telling investors
as much as 25 percent of its next flagship buyout fund will go
to deals in regions outside North America, such as  Latin
America , according to a person familiar with the firm’s plans,
who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t
public.  “Today’s announcement is an exciting step in building our
presence in Brazil and a reflection of our long-term interest in
Latin America,” Alex Navab, co-head of KKR’s North American
private-equity business, said in the statement. “We will rely
on Henrique’s advice and insights in the world of government,
finance and investment as we expand our business in Brazil and
throughout Latin America.”  Meirelles led the Latin American business at FleetBoston
Financial Corp. before becoming president of Brazil’s central
bank. He was the longest-serving Brazilian central banker and
cut the annual inflation rate by more than 50 percent.  Meirelles became chairman of J&F Participacoes SA in March,
and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the world’s biggest independent merger adviser,
named him chairman of its Americas business in May. He’s also a
board member of Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras SA, the Brazilian
airline founded by David Neeleman, and was named head of
Brazil’s Olympic Games authority last year. Rio de Janeiro is
the host of the 2016 Summer Games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Evans in London at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  