-- KKR to Buy Fund-of-Funds Manager Prisma Capital Partners
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-06-18T21:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/kkr-to-buy-fund-of-funds-manager-prisma-capital-partners.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , agreed to buy Prisma
Capital Partners LP, a fund-of-hedge-funds manager. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed.  Prisma, which is based in New York and had $7.8 billion in
assets under management as of April 30, will continue to operate
under its own brand, KKR said in a statement today. Prisma Chief
Executive Officer Girish Reddy will head KKR’s global hedge
fund-of-funds business.  KKR and larger competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  have grown or purchased fund-of-funds units to broaden
beyond corporate leveraged buyouts. Kravis and Roberts, cousins
who started New York-based KKR in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg,
also have branched into stock and bond underwriting,
infrastructure investing and real estate.  “Many institutional investors are seeking more liquid
alternative investment products, and we believe customized
hedge-fund solutions play a key role in meeting that need,”
Kravis said in today’s statement.  Reddy created Prisma in 2004 with fellow former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partners Thomas Healey and Gavyn Davies. When
the deal is closed, probably by the fourth quarter, Healey and
Davies will become senior advisers to KKR. Prisma’s management
will reinvest the cash proceeds of the sale into Prisma funds,
according to the statement.  Goldman Alumni  Prisma will operate as part of KKR’s public markets segment
that includes KKR Asset Management, which buys and sells
securities such as leveraged loans and high-yield bonds and
houses the firm’s first equity hedge fund, started last year by
Robert Howard, a former Goldman Sachs trader.  Other Goldman Sachs alumni have landed at KKR. Ralph Rosenberg joined last year to run KKR’s new dedicated real
estate effort. Suzanne Donohoe heads the firm’s client and
partner group responsible for fundraising.  Donohoe’s team may be able to use Prisma’s products as a
way to entice large institutional investors to invest more money
through KKR, increasing the firm’s management fees. Blackstone,
the firm created in 1985 by  Stephen Schwarzman  and  Peter G.
Peterson , has expanded its similar unit, known as Blackstone
Alternative Asset Management, to manage more than $43 billion as
of March.  The fund-of-funds business is consolidating as assets
across the industry drop. Assets in funds-of-funds fell to $643
billion in the first quarter from a peak in 2007 of $798
billion, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Man Group Plc, the world’s largest publicly traded hedge-
fund company, agreed in May to buy FRM Holdings Ltd., adding $8
billion in assets to the London-based firm’s $11 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  