-- NATO Ties Bind as Greece Fights for Solutions to Remain in Euro
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-06-18T09:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/nato-ties-bind-as-greece-fights-for-solutions-to-remain-in-euro.html
While  Greece  struggles to stay in
the euro, its membership in NATO is another story altogether.  “It’s a major part of their identity, and they would do
what they have to do to maintain being a NATO member of good
standing,” Charles Ries, U.S. ambassador to Greece from 2004 to
2007, said in a telephone interview before yesterday’s voting in
Greece.  Even Alexis Tsipras, who finished second on promises to
renege on the terms of a European Union-led bailout, made a
campaign appearance at the Defense Ministry May 29, criticizing
pay cuts for soldiers and declaring Greek territory “non-
negotiable.”  The country risks running out of money by July unless
election winner Antonis Samaras quickly assembles a coalition
that can secure the next aid disbursement. The question of
Greece leaving the euro, once taboo, is openly discussed in
European capitals. A Greek exit from the euro would be unlikely
to undermine its role in NATO because security is one of the few
issues that most Greeks agree on.  “Leaving the euro is not the same as leaving NATO,” said
 Paul Sullivan , a specialist on security issues at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington . “NATO was there well before the
botched up euro zone.”  That’s not to say strategic planners are indifferent to
Greece’s plight as years of recession may deepen if it exits the
currency shared by 17 nations.  “It may cause such political instability and lead to such
chaos that Greece would either in effect or formally move away
from the West, by which I mean the EU and NATO,” said Thomas
Wright, a fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.
“There would be stress on their relationship with both.”  Joining NATO  Greece joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in
1952, 29 years before it joined the European Economic Community,
which developed into the European Union. Greece adopted the euro
in 2001.  In the past decade, Greece has been the EU’s biggest
military spender as a share of the economy.  “The Greek military has been so oversized in the past that
even if spending were cut in half, it would still rank in the
upper half of NATO members,” said Karl-Heinz Kamp, director of
the research division of the NATO Defense College in  Rome .  Greece’s military budget in 2011 was 5.86 billion euros
($7.3 billion), up from 5.4 billion in 2010 but down from 7.6
billion in 2009. In early 2010, the Greek army cut conscription
to nine from 12 months.  Military Spending  As a percentage of the economy, spending fell to 2.3
percent in 2010 from 3 percent in 2009. German military
spending, by comparison, is 1.4 percent of gross domestic
product while  Italy ’s is 1.7 percent.  Greek governments have justified the high spending because
of tensions with Turkey, a border with former Warsaw Pact
states, and the challenges of controlling thousands of islands.  Some of those justifications are now obsolete. Relations
with  Turkey  have improved. Turkish Premier  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ,
during a visit to Athens last month, said they should work to
cut military spending. Bulgaria and Albania are now NATO
members, and only a naming dispute is holding up Macedonian
membership in the alliance.  Greece’s euro-zone partners, which are now its biggest
creditors, never complained about Greece’s spending, much of
which went for equipment made in  Germany  and  France .  ‘Unworldly’ Level  “Why weren’t we harder on the Greeks? Because they were
buying much of their kit from the Germans, Americans, French and
British,” Francois Heisbourg, head of the Foundation for
Strategic Research, said at a March 13 conference in Washington.
“We have managed to maintain Greek military spending at an
unworldly high level for much too long.”  From 2000 to 2011, Germany accounted for $2.5 billion, or
23 percent of Greece’s $11.1 billion of arms imports, second to
the U.S., and ahead of France which was third at $1.3 billion or
12 percent, according to the  Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute.   Greece has about 900 Leopard battle tanks, built by
Germany’s Krauss-Maffei Wegmann GmbH, and 50 Mirage 2000 fighter
jets, built by France’s  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , according to
Defense Suppliers Directory, a U.K. database for the arms trade.  Dusseldorf-based steelmaker and shipbuilder  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) 
is supplying submarines for the Greek navy under a contract
worth more than $3.2 billion. Greece fell behind on  payments to
the company  last year.  Arms Imports  Between 2003 and 2007, Greece, with a population of just 11
million, was the fourth-largest arms importer, behind  China ,
 India  and the  United Arab Emirates . Greece was the top client
for German arms exports in that same period, taking 11 percent.
Turkey was next with 9.8 percent.  Germany, France, Britain, Italy Spain, and the Netherlands
are all among the world’s top 10 arms exporters.  The Greek military has 136,000 personnel, with 90,000 in
the army alone. In spite of that spending, Greece hasn’t played
a major role in NATO missions. It has just 122 troops in
 Afghanistan  now.  “If the Greek government has trouble paying its bills come
July, it would pro-rate the pay of all its public workers,”
said Ries, the former ambassador, who is now Washington-based
vice president at the Rand Corporation. “I can’t imagine that
the military would see its pay cut more than the others. Quite
the opposite, I think they would make it a priority.”  ‘Wild Exaggerations’  Talk of Greece becoming a failed state “are wild
exaggerations,” Ries said. The military, which overthrew an
elected government in 1967 and held power for seven years, has
been apolitical for decades, he said.  Air bases in Crete were used during NATO’s air war over
 Libya  last year, and NATO ships use deepwater bases in Corfu,
near  Athens , and Souda Bay in Crete. While NATO countries don’t
charge each other rent for ships that stop at bases, providing
fuel, food, and supplies is a major part of the local economy,
Ries said, recalling that crew from a U.S. aircraft carrier once
spent $8 million ashore during a weekend stop in Corfu.  “They are not going to want to give that up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  