-- News Corp.’s Klein Steps Down From Internal Hacking Probe
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-19T14:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/news-corp-to-have-standards-committee-report-to-general-counsel.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  executive  Joel Klein 
stepped down as the head of the company’s internal committee
investigating phone hacking and bribery, passing the role to
General Counsel Gerson Zweifach.  The group, known as the Management and Standards Committee,
will now report directly to Zweifach, who joined News Corp. in
February. The change will let Klein return to his role as chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s education unit, according to a
statement yesterday. The former Justice Department lawyer, who
joined News Corp. last year after serving as the chancellor of
New York schools, had been running the committee since news of
the hacking broke last July.  The management change was made at a board meeting last week
in Milan, according to an executive familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named because the decision was private. Klein
had no longer been managing the committee on a day-to-day basis
in recent months and wanted to return to running the education
unit, according to the person. Klein had suggested hiring
Zweifach earlier this year, with the expectation that he would
eventually take over the internal committee, according to
another person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The internal committee has worked closely with London
police in its investigations of bribery and hacking by
journalists at News Corp.’s U.K. unit. The committee’s findings
have led to a number of arrests, including at least four people
last week, who have been accused of making or accepting illegal
payments for tabloid stories.  Government Ties  The scandal has increased scrutiny of News Corp. executives
and their ties to members of the U.K. government. Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is facing calls from opposition  Labour
Party  to resign after e-mails showed one of his aides offered
inside information on Hunt’s views on News Corp.’s plans to buy
out the remaining shares of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.
The company has abandoned the $12.6 billion bid.  Police have detained and released on bail more than 50
people since January 2011 in related probes of intercepting
voice-mail messages, computer hacking and bribery at News Corp.
titles, including the now defunct News of the World tabloid.  Zweifach, who had already served on the standards committee
since February, will now report the group’s findings to  Viet Dinh , an independent director and chairman of the company’s
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The  standards
committee  is currently chaired by Anthony Grabiner and includes
 William Lewis  and  Simon Greenberg  as full-time members. U.K. law
firm Linklaters LLP is legal adviser to the group.  Zweifach worked at Washington-based Williams & Connolly LLP
for almost three decades managing antitrust and libel cases
before joining the company in February. He succeeded  Lawrence Jacobs , who left in June 2011 to pursue other opportunities.  Shares of News Corp. , a global media company led by  Rupert Murdoch , rose 1.1 percent to $20.30 at 10:28 a.m. in New York.
The shares have climbed 14 percent this year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  