-- News Corp. Denies Claims James Murdoch Had Secret IPhone
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-18T15:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/news-corp-denies-claims-james-murdoch-had-secret-iphone.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  said James Murdoch, its
deputy chief operating officer, didn’t hide a “secret” iPhone
from the U.K. media-ethics inquiry triggered by rampant phone-
hacking at its now-defunct News of the World tabloid.  The handset, which is now the subject of a police probe in
 London , was one of four issued in 2009 to senior executives at
News Corp.’s British unit, News International, the Independent
newspaper reported today. The company’s phone evidence until now
focused on BlackBerry devices, the newspaper said.  News Corp. is trying to move on from the scandal after the
inquiry that began last year revealed damaging e-mails and text
messages and a judge handling dozens of related civil cases said
the company destroyed evidence. Murdoch testified in April at
the ethics inquiry, where Judge Brian Leveson is reviewing the
extent of illegal phone hacking.  “Mr. Murdoch fully cooperated with the Leveson Inquiry,”
Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “It is ridiculous to
suggest that he keeps, or kept, a ‘secret phone.’”  David Sherborne, a lawyer for victims of phone hacking,
asked a judge at a June 1 hearing to order News International to
hand over records for at least two iPhones used by senior
company executives, who he didn’t name. The existence of the
phones was suggested by evidence given to the Leveson inquiry
and the devices may contain relevant e-mails, Sherborne said at
the hearing.  Murdoch and his father, News Corp. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , who also testified at the
inquiry in April, blamed the scandal on underlings. They said
they weren’t aware the hacking went beyond a single reporter,
 Clive Goodman , who was jailed in 2007.  Internal Probe  Mary Kearney, a spokeswoman for London-based News
International, declined to comment and forwarded requests to
News Corp. Paul Durman, a spokesman for News Corp.’s Management
Standards Committee, which is conducting an internal probe of
wrongdoing and working with police, also declined to comment.  The four phones, with service from Telefonica SA’s O2, had
combined charges of nearly 12,000 pounds ($18,800) from June
2011 -- a month before revelations the News of the World had
hacked into a murdered schoolgirl’s mobile phone -- until May,
according to the Independent. The revelation in July triggered
the inquiry and prompted Rupert Murdoch to shutter the tabloid.  The Independent didn’t say when police were made aware of
the phones or how their existence came to light.  John Toker, a spokesman for the Leveson inquiry, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment. Evidence that was
publicized as part of the inquiry has caused difficulties for
 James Murdoch  and led to questions about his leadership.  He repeatedly testified in April he wasn’t told when lower-
ranking executives became aware in 2008 that phone hacking was
more widespread than the company had stated. He said he was also
assured by two probes conducted by outside law firms and a
police investigation, which found the practice to be contained.  Saturday Message  Murdoch said he didn’t read a 2008 e-mail from the News of
the World’s then-editor  Colin Myler  about phone hacking
potentially extending beyond Goodman and  Glenn Mulcaire , the
private investigator who helped him intercept messages. Murdoch
said he didn’t read it because it came on a Saturday, he had jet
lag and was preoccupied with his children swimming in a pool.  Judge Geoffrey Vos in London, who is overseeing dozens of
civil phone-hacking cases filed by hacking victims, said in
January after reading internal News International e-mails that
the company should be treated as “deliberate destroyers of
evidence.”  Text messages sent and received by News International
executives have also caused difficulties for the company by
indicating a too-cozy relationship with politicians, including
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who was given oversight of
News Corp.’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , and
British Prime Minister  David Cameron , who is friends with former
News International CEO Rebekah Brooks.  The inquiry was set up by Cameron to help quell public
outrage over phone hacking. The scandal, which widened to
include police probes of computer hacking and bribery, has led
to more than 50 arrests and the closing of the best-selling News
of the World.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  