-- NRC License of Nuclear Plant Challenged by Massachusetts
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/nrc-license-of-nuclear-plant-challenged-by-massachusetts.html
Massachusetts , in an appeal of a
Nuclear Regulatory Commission decision to relicense  Entergy
Corp. (ETR) ’s Pilgrim nuclear power station, asked to have the
extension for the facility 40 miles south of Boston canceled
pending further review.  The state seeks to require the commission to take steps to
ensure the safety of the plant and the residents of the
surrounding communities, Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said yesterday in a statement.  “The NRC, over our objections, chose to relicense Pilgrim
without fully considering the important safety issues raised in
the aftermath of the Fukushima accident,” she said, referring
to the nuclear disaster last year in Japan.  Separately yesterday, 22 groups and two individuals said
they petitioned the NRC to suspend final licensing decisions for
almost three dozen nuclear reactors, after an appeals court
ruled that the agency failed to fully evaluate risks associated
with its regulations on the storage of spent nuclear fuel and
must draft new ones. The NRC shouldn’t complete its licensing
decisions until satisfying its environmental review obligations,
they said in a statement.  20-Year Extension  The NRC in May granted a 20-year license extension to the
Pilgrim plant, located in Plymouth. In its filing with the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Boston, the state seeks to vacate the
license renewal and require the commission to prepare an
environmental impact statement. The state said it wanted the NRC
before granting the renewal to reevaluate the environmental
impacts and risks of operating the plant in the wake of
Fukushima.  The state’s filing couldn’t be confirmed in court records.
A copy was provided by the state.  Michael Burns , a spokesman for New Orleans-based Entergy,
said in an e-mailed statement that the NRC conducted “extremely
thorough” safety and environmental reviews.  “The commission’s approval means the NRC concluded there
were no safety or environmental issues that preclude renewal of
the plant’s license to operate for an additional 20 years,” he
said.  Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, said the agency will
consider the petition “under its usual process.” He declined
to comment on the appeal by Massachusetts.  The case is Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, U.S. Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  