-- Obama Seeks European Debt Progress Before Returning to Campaign
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/obama-in-mexico-to-face-european-crisis-threatening-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  devoted his
final scheduled pre-election trip abroad to pressing foreign
leaders to stimulate a slowing global economy as the  European
debt crisis  deepened.  The U.S. president, in Los Cabos,  Mexico , at a Group of 20
summit, prodded leaders, including Germany’s  Angela Merkel , to
find a consensus on sovereign debt as financial markets
escalated pressure on Spain. Today, he meets with Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  amid signs the world’s second-largest
economy is decelerating.  Lael Brainard, Treasury undersecretary for international
affairs, told reporters there was a “notable shift” in
sentiment among the governments toward a greater emphasis on
stimulating growth over austerity, the Obama administration’s
position. Still, no concrete measures emerged during the day.  After a victory in Greek elections on June 17 for political
parties that support a European bailout and austerity plan,
financial markets turned on Spain as the summit opened. Spanish
10-year bond yields leaped above the 7 percent level that forced
Greece, Ireland and Portugal to call for sovereign rescues for
the first time since the euro’s creation.  In an election in which Obama is running against discontent
with the economy as much as Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ,
the perils to the global economy threaten his political
prospects.  “We are going to be very busy,” Obama said after meeting
early yesterday with the summit host, Mexican President  Felipe Calderon . “This will be a productive summit.”  ‘Common Points’  In addition to Calderon, Obama met on the sidelines of the
summit with Merkel and Russian President  Vladimir Putin , with
whom he discussed violence in  Syria  and other issues.  “We agreed on the need for a cessation of the violence,”
Obama told reporters after the Putin meeting yesterday.  “We have found many common points on this issue,” Putin
said, adding that the two sides will continue discussions.  Putin and Obama also talked about the U.S. missile defense
program, a source of friction between the two countries, and the
expansion of  commercial ties , which are “far below” where they
should be, Obama said. He called the two-hour talk “candid and
thorough.”  Earlier in the day, Obama welcomed the results of the Greek
elections as a “positive prospect not only for their forming a
government, but also working constructively with their
international partners.”  Pressuring Merkel  Obama met with Merkel for 45 minutes before the formal G-20
sessions began and was scheduled to see her again in the
evening, at a session also with the leaders of Britain, Italy,
France,  Spain  and officials from the European Union.  While pressure is building on Merkel to be more
accommodating to European nations enveloped in the debt crisis,
she said in the morning that the new Greek government shouldn’t
be granted leeway on the terms of its international bailout.  “The important thing is that the new government sticks
with the commitments,” Merkel told reporters. “There can be no
loosening on the reform steps.”  Brainard said at a news conference later in the day that
European leaders are prepared to find other ways of easing the
burden on Greece, saying “we can expect” flexibility on the
timetable for meeting reform goals.  With international markets looking for an indication of how
European leaders plan to act, the stakes at the summit, which
concludes today, are high because of a global economy at a
“very dangerous moment,” said World Bank President  Robert Zoellick .  European ‘Cloud’  Obama has called Europe’s banking and growth crisis a
“cloud” hanging over the  U.S. economy . Administration
officials said they didn’t expect the summit to resolve the
sovereign debt problem that has led to high borrowing costs and
economic contraction in much of Southern Europe.  “Let me also just underscore this isn’t a meeting where we
expect Europeans to make decisions about Europe,” said  Michael Froman , deputy national security adviser for international
economic affairs, in a briefing for reporters in Washington on
June 15.  Froman said concrete steps are more likely when European
leaders hold a summit June 28-29. America’s ability to force
European leaders and institutions to take action is limited, he
said.  Leaders may use the Los Cabos summit to agree to boost the
$430 billion firewall the  International Monetary Fund  announced
in April, Calderon said. “I estimate that there will be a
larger capitalization than the pre-accord reached in Washington,
which will be finalized here, but I don’t want to speculate by
how much,” he told reporters June 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  