-- Obama Prods Putin Seeking End to Syria Violence With Talks
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-06-18T23:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/obama-joins-putin-seeking-end-to-syria-violence-with-talks-1-.html
Presidents  Vladimir Putin  and  Barack Obama  offered a joint plea for an end to violence in  Syria  while
providing little detail on common steps after meeting on the
sidelines of the Group of 20 summit in Mexico.  The two leaders have been divided on Syria, with Obama
pressing Putin to help ease out Syrian President Bashar al- Assad. The Russian leader has protected Assad with United
Nations Security Council vetoes and  Russia  has sold weapons to
the Assad regime.  “We agreed on the need for a cessation of the violence,”
Obama told reporters after the session today, which lasted two
hours.  “We have found many common points on this issue,” Putin
said, adding that the two sides will continue discussions.  In a joint written statement, the two leaders expressed
support for “moving forward on political transition to a
democratic, pluralistic political system that would be
implemented by the Syrians themselves.”  The  United Nations  suspended its observer mission in Syria
on June 16 because of escalating violence and withdrew personnel
to bases within the country.  Iran Unresolved  Obama said he and Putin agreed to work with “all
interested parties” on Syria, including the United Nations. He
didn’t address whether Syrian ally Iran should be included in
talks, as Russia proposed last week. The U.S. rebuffed the idea
at the time.  U.S. Ambassador to Russia Mike McFaul, briefing reporters
afterward, said the talk between the two leaders will give “new
impetus” to efforts to resolve differences over Syria and
representatives of the countries expect to continue discussions
in the coming days.  Putin and Obama also discussed the U.S. missile defense
program, which has been a source of friction between the
countries, and the expansion of  commercial ties , which are “far
below” where they should be, Obama said. He called the meeting
“candid and thorough.”  On  Iran’s nuclear program , where the two countries also
have differed, “we emphasized our shared approach” and
“agreed that there is still time and space for diplomacy,”
Obama said.  Increasing Violence  The revolt in Syria has intensified differences between
Putin and Obama on responding to the uprisings in the Arab world
that began more than a year ago.  Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes , briefing
reporters on June 15, cast Russia’s actions in Syria as out of
step. The U.S. is “working to get the Russians to come in line
with, frankly, the broad international community,” he said.  The Russian leader is mistrustful of American motives, and
suspects the Obama administration is trying to topple regimes it
doesn’t like and replace them with U.S.-friendly governments,
according to Andrew Kuchins, a senior fellow of the Russia and
Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington .  Putin has likened North Atlantic Treaty Organization air
strikes against  Libya  to a “crusade” and disagreed with then-
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s decision to abstain from a Security
Council resolution authorizing the no-fly zone over Libya. Along
with China, Russia twice vetoed Western attempts in the UN
Security Council to put pressure on Assad.  Weapons Deliveries  Tensions flared last week when U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  accused Russia of stoking the violence in Syria
by delivering weapons and even attack helicopters to Assad’s
forces.  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  retorted that, unlike the
U.S., the Russians “aren’t shipping to Syria or anywhere else
things that can be used against peaceful demonstrators.”  Russia also has been at loggerheads with the U.S. over
efforts to enlist Shiite Muslim  Iran , as a neighbor with
influence over Assad’s minority Alawite regime, in efforts to
end the strife.  Clinton on June 12 said it would be a “grave error”
because Iran has trained and supported Syrian government forces
and Alawite militias blamed for civilian massacres.  Putin declined to attend a G-8 economic summit Obama hosted
last month at the Camp David presidential retreat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  