-- Officials Study If Design Flaws Led Edison’s San Onofre to Shut
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-06-18T21:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/officials-study-if-design-flaws-led-edison-s-san-onofre-to-shut.html
Federal regulators are focusing on
whether design modifications caused excessive wear in steam
generator tubes at  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre nuclear
plant in  California .  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission officials are expected
to describe the design issues and other preliminary findings at
a meeting tonight in San Juan Capistrano, Lara Uselding, an NRC
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  The  Associated Press  reported today that inspectors think
corrosion that had forced the nuclear station off line was
probably caused by extensive design alterations to two steam
generators, including a decision to add 400 tubes to each
generator.  The plant’s closing increases the risks of blackouts in
 Southern California , where San Onofre provided power to about
1.4 million homes, federal regulators said last month. State
grid operators are encouraging conservation and have called up
two retired natural-gas-fired plants to help replace the output
from Edison’s crippled reactors.  San Onofre will be shut through August as Edison develops a
plan to restart its reactors, which have been off line since
January, Chief Executive Officer Ted Craver said in a statement
on June 8.  The NRC, which sent extra inspectors to the plant after a
small leak shut its Unit 3 reactor in January, found unusual
wear on some steam generator tubes that carry radioactive water
at both reactors. San Onofre’s Unit 2 was shut in January for
planned maintenance and refueling.  Repair Work  Some tubes were rubbing, causing them to degrade, Craver
said on May 30. Edison has plugged and repaired about 3 percent
of the tubes in the generators, Craver said.  Edison’s plan to repair and start its reactors will
probably be submitted by the end of July, the company has said.  The steam generators, built by  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011) , were installed in 2009 and 2010 at a total cost of $671
million.  Edison estimated its share of inspection and repair costs
to be in the range of $55 million to $65 million, according to a
filing in May. The utility paid $30 million for replacement
power through March 31 and those costs are probably to be higher
for the summer, Edison said in the filing.  Edison’s Southern California Edison utility and  Sempra
Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego Gas & Electric Co. will pay $2.5 million a
month for power from two  AES Corp. (AES)  generating units to help make
up for lost capacity from San Onofre, the state’s grid operator
California ISO said on May 11.  Edison owns 78.21 percent of San Onofre, while Sempra owns
20 percent and the city of Riverside owns 1.8 percent, according
to Edison’s website.  San Onofre, located about 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of
 Los Angeles , can produce enough power for 1.76 million average
homes, based on Energy Department statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  