-- Ohio to Monetize Bridges, Toilets With Naming Rights
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/ohio-to-monetize-bridges-toilets-with-naming-rights.html
Ohio  is trying to become the first
state to sell road and bridge naming rights and commercialize
rest stops, as Republican Governor  John Kasich  addresses a $1.6
billion transportation funding shortfall.  The Ohio Transportation Department plans to find more money
in highway facilities, including interchanges and rest-stop
toilets and snack machines, to produce as much as $27 million a
year in revenue and savings. The agency also wants to add
restaurants, gas stations and hotels at highway pull-offs.  “When the money’s getting tight, you’ve got to get
creative,” said Guy Davidson, who oversees $31 billion as
director of municipal investments at AllianceBernstein LP in New
York. “State and local governments have assets that are off the
balance sheet that they can draw on and monetize.”  Besides the naming rights and commercialization, Ohio is
considering so-called public-private partnerships to reduce
operating costs and help pay for projects such as a new $2.4
billion Brent Spence Bridge across the  Ohio River , said James P.
Riley, deputy director of the state’s Division of Innovative
Delivery, created in January. That includes studying whether to
lease or issue bonds against the 241-mile (388-kilometer)  Ohio
Turnpike  at a time of record low yields, he said.  Work Undone  States need every dollar; 30 of them have projected or
filled budget gaps totaling $54 billion for fiscal 2013, the
Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said in
a May 24 report. Ohio’s revenue from state and federal gasoline
taxes has declined by $328 million since 2007 as construction
costs have increased, delaying $1.6 billion of major highway
projects for lack of funding, according to the Transportation
Department.  The Buckeye State and Virginia are vying to become the
first U.S. states to generate money from naming highways and
bridges, and Iowa is considering sponsorships of rest stops,
according to the  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials in  Washington .  States must seek alternative ways to pay for maintenance
and construction, agency Director  Jerry Wray  said.  “If we want to continue our recovery, we need to think
differently,” Wray said during a May 29 speech in Columbus.
“And we cannot wait for Washington to send more money.”  Hitting Bottom  The federal tax on gasoline and diesel fuel to help pay for
highway projects hasn’t risen since 1993. With tax increases at
both the state and federal levels “radioactive,” businesses
must be involved, said Robert Poole, director of transportation
studies at the Los Angeles-based Reason Foundation, which
advocates free markets and limited government. It’s also a good
time to secure financing for projects with “ rock-bottom ”
interest rates, he said.  An Ohio bond issued in 2008 for new street infrastructure
traded June 12 at an average yield of 1.67 percent, the lowest
ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference in
yield from top-grade debt decreased to about 0.28 percentage
point this month, the narrowest in close to a year.  An initiative such as naming rights may not generate enough
to influence the state’s second-highest AA+ bond rating from
 Fitch Ratings , said Laura Porter, a managing director for the
company in  New York . However, “there’s always interest in
revenue-generating things that aren’t tax increases,” she said.  Public-private partnerships are “a foregone conclusion,”
said Michael Underhill, chief investment officer at Capital
Innovations LLC in Pewaukee,  Wisconsin .  Twinkie Money  The state is soliciting proposals to generate about $25
million a year in revenue and saved money by selling naming and
sponsorship rights for transportation assets, plus $2 million
for an initiative to sponsor interstate rest areas, Riley said
in an interview. Companies that win the naming rights for
interchanges will help maintain them and offset costs.  Ohio also intends to have 26 noninterstate rest stops
developed, financed and operated through a lease agreement and
is seeking proposals for the first five, Riley said. While
 Virginia  has explored expanding rest-stop vending machines, Ohio
would be the first to commercialize rest areas on state highways
because such development on federal highways isn’t allowed,
Riley said.  While the naming-rights program might be attractive to
less-established companies, it may not appeal to firms that have
many advertising options, said  Jim Andrews , senior vice
president at IEG, a sponsorship consulting and research firm in
 Chicago . Sponsorships of a service, such as a traffic-
information system, are more meaningful and memorable, Andrews
said.  Your Sponsor  “You’ve got to offer more than just a visibility
opportunity,” Andrews said in a telephone interview. “They
need to go out with an offer that says we’re going to give you
more than just signs.”  Signs must also conform to federal rules that prescribe
their size, color and even font, according to the  Federal
Highway Administration .  The Ohio Transportation Department will “pursue as
aggressive of a plan as we possibly can” and anticipates a
market for it, said Steve Faulkner, a spokesman.  Subway Restaurants of Milford,  Connecticut , and  Panera
Bread Co. (PNRA)  of  St. Louis , are among companies expressing interest
in locating outlets in rest areas, he said. Cindy Carrasquilla,
a spokeswoman for Subway, and Linn Parrish, a spokeswoman for
Panera, had no immediate comment.  Even so, the Ohio Restaurant Association opposes rest-stop
development because it would hurt businesses at nearby exits,
Jarrod Clabaugh, a spokesman for the Columbus-based trade group,
said in an e-mail.  The state has tried to be sensitive to those concerns and
identified locations where the market can absorb more
development, Riley said.  “A lot of these programs, initiatives, thoughts and
concerns get squelched elsewhere as soon as there’s a political
ripple from some interested party,” Riley said. “But I do
believe there’s political courage available here.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to
borrow $450 million of revenue bonds as soon as this week,
according to bond documents. (Added June 15)  LOUISIANA plans to sell about $581 million in general-
obligation bonds as soon as this week, according to an offering
document. About $144 million will be taxable debt, with the rest
tax-free. The proceeds will be used for refunding. Moody’s rates
the debt Aa2, third-highest. (Added June 14)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  