-- Oil Rebounds on Spanish Bill Auction, Iran Nuclear Talks
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-19T12:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/oil-trades-near-three-day-low-as-spain-loans-fuel-europe-concern.html
Oil rebounded along with equity
markets as Spanish bond prices recovered after the government
met its target at a debt auction.  Futures in New York rose as much as 0.5 percent, after
dropping 1.2 percent, as the cost of insuring  Spain ’s debt fell
from a record. Greek political leaders may agree as soon as
today to form a government and to  seek relief from austerity
measures, also helping ease concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will curb fuel demand. Talks with Iran, OPEC’s second-largest
producer, resumed today in Moscow over its nuclear program.  “Spain had to pay much higher  interest rates  for its
bills, but attracted sufficient buying interest, which is
apparently seen as positive,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst
at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Supply risks are not really an
issue at the moment.”  Oil for July delivery, which expires tomorrow, rose as much
as 44 cents to $83.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. It was at $83.33 at 1:45 p.m. London
time. The more-actively traded August contract rose 2 cents to
$83.62 a barrel today. Front-month prices are 15 percent lower
this year.  Brent oil for August settlement was at $95.92 a barrel,
down 13 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
It slipped $1.56 yesterday to $96.05. The front-month European
benchmark contract was at a premium to West Texas Intermediate
of $12.21, compared with $12.45 yesterday.  Spain, Iran  Spain sold 3.04 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of bills,
compared with a target of 3 billion euros. Federal Reserve
policy makers will begin a two-day meeting today as Group of 20
leaders focus their response to  Europe ’s financial crisis at a
summit in Mexico. Stocks and the euro pared gains earlier after
Greek leaders said they would seek to renegotiate the terms of
an international bailout.  The five hours of meetings over  Iran’s nuclear program  were
“constructive and serious,” Ali Bagheri, Iran’s deputy
negotiator, told reporters. The talks were “very intense” and
more substantive than those in Baghdad last month, according to
 Michael Mann , a foreign-policy spokesman for the European Union.  The so-called P5+1 group wants Iran to suspend production
of uranium enriched to 20 percent, while the Islamic republic is
pressing for relief from sanctions set to tighten when an EU oil
embargo kicks in on July 1. European insurers and shipping
companies carrying Iranian crude to other parts of the world
will be affected and shouldn’t expect relief, Mann said in the
Russian capital.  Nuclear Program  Brent has dropped 21 percent since April 14, when the first
international talks with  Iran  on its nuclear program in 15
months were held in Istanbul. Chinese, French, German, Russian,
British and U.S. delegates met with their Iranian counterparts
yesterday for a third round of discussions over two days at a
hotel near Russia’s Foreign Ministry.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he and Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  agreed at the Group of 20 summit in Mexico that
“there’s still time and space” for a diplomatic resolution to
tension over Iran’s “potential development” of nuclear
weapons.  U.S. crude supplies probably dropped 1.3 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of seven analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey before a report from the Energy
Department tomorrow. Gasoline and distillate stockpiles each
rose  1 million barrels , the survey shows.  Federal Reserve  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Federal Reserve  officials begin a two-day meeting today to
consider measures to stimulate the world’s biggest economy. The
dollar slid against the euro amid prospects that policy makers
will consider further stimulus to sustain the  U.S. economy .  “The real global focus will be on the U.S. Federal Reserve
FOMC meeting tomorrow, since a few market participants are still
waiting and hoping for the U.S. Fed to trigger a new round of
something that can boost global markets,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of Petromatrix GmbH in Zug, Switzerland, said
in a report today.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said it expects to boost capacity on its
Seaway pipeline to 400,000 barrels a day by the end of this
year. The line is already transporting its current capacity of
150,000 barrels a day from Cushing, Oklahoma, to the U.S. Gulf
Coast, Enbridge President Al Monaco said yesterday in Toronto.
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) , which owns the pipeline along
with Enbridge, previously said the line’s capacity would be
increased by the first quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  