-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Climbs to Five-Year High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-climbs-to-five-year-high.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
climbed in June to a five-year high, indicating a brighter
outlook for residential construction.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo
 confidence index  rose to 29, the highest since May 2007, from a
revised 28 in May that was lower than first estimated, a report
from the Washington-based group showed today. The gauge exceeded
the median estimate of 28 in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings
below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  “This month’s modest uptick in builder confidence comes on
the heels of a four-point gain in May and is reflective of the
continued, gradual improvement we are seeing,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and a
builder from Gainesville,  Florida , said in a statement.  Cheaper properties and record-low  mortgage rates  are
propelling demand and encouraging builders to take on  new
projects . At the same time, further momentum for housing
construction may take time to unfold as access to credit is
limited and ongoing foreclosures add to supply.  Today’s report showed a gain in the measure of current
single-family home purchases. A gauge of sales in the next six
months was stable as was the index of buyer traffic.  Estimates of 41 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from 26 to 32. The group revised May’s reading from a previously
estimated 29. The gauge, which was first published in
January 1985, averaged 54 in the five years leading to the
recession in December 2007. It reached a record low of 8 in
January 2009.  Bank Lending  “While the June HMI is in keeping with our forecast for
gradually improving single-family home sales this year, recent
economic reports that have shown some weakening in the pace of
recovery likely factored into the marginal gain,”  David Crowe ,
the association’s chief economist, said in a statement. “In
addition, builders across the country continue to report that
overly tight lending conditions and inaccurate appraisals are
major obstacles to completing sales at this time.”  Lower  interest rates  have helped drive home refinancing and
purchases. The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s latest refinancing
index climbed to a three-year high, while the Washington-based
group’s purchase gauge for the week ended June 8 rose to the
highest this year.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales increased to 32 this month, the highest since April 2007,
from 30 in May. A measure of sales expectations for the next six
months held at 34, and the gauge of buyer traffic stayed at 23.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  By Region  Confidence increased among builders in two of the four
U.S. regions, today’s data showed. The measure of sentiment in
the Midwest rose to 31 in June from 26, and in the West it
climbed to a four-month high of 33 from 29. Confidence eased in
the Northeast and South.  “Housing will remain under pressure for a while” even as
it’s showing “positive signs,” Carol Tome, chief financial
officer of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , said at a June 6 investor
conference.  High affordability is being offset by “very tight”
credit, she said. In the first phase of the comeback, which
should last a couple of years, the company probably won’t see a
“major impact” from housing on its sales growth, Tome said.  Mortgage Rates  Cheaper properties, rising household incomes and low
mortgage rates combined to push home affordability to an all-
time high in the first quarter, according to the National
Association of Realtors. The  average rate  on a 30-year, fixed-
rate mortgage reached a record low of 3.67 percent in the first
week of June, according to  Freddie Mac .  The  Federal Reserve ’s latest Beige Book assessment of
economic conditions indicated residential real estate may be
reviving. Several of the central bank’s districts noted
“consistent indications of recovery in the single-family
housing market, although the recovery was characterized as
fragile.”  Housing starts  were little changed at a 721,000 annual pace
in May after a 717,000 rate a month earlier, according to the
Bloomberg survey median ahead of a Commerce Department report
due tomorrow. Permits, a proxy for future construction, probably
rose last month, economists predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 