-- Hollande Readies Shift From Campaign Pledges to Deficit Reality
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-18T08:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/moment-of-truth-looms-for-france-as-hollande-turns-to-governing.html
After months of electioneering,
President  Francois Hollande  faces the task of telling the French
that the state’s depleted coffers may mean belt-tightening.  In the weeks since his election on May 6, Hollande, 57,
unveiled populist measures, delivering for his Socialist Party a
parliamentary majority in yesterday’s legislative elections. The
victory has given the Socialists control of practically every
political institution in France -- the presidency, the upper and
lower houses of parliament, all but two of the regions and most
of the country’s big cities, communes and departments -- a first
for the party in the Fifth Republic.  With growth stalling, Hollande may need to put in place
higher taxes and cuts in spending as he makes good on his
deficit-cutting promises. The French may be in for a shock after
vote-winning pledges to boost the minimum wage and reduce the
 retirement age  for some workers lulled them into believing they
may escape sacrifices made elsewhere in  Europe , said Dominique Reynie, a professor at Sciences Po in Paris.  “The turnaround the French are going to have to make is
going to be very, very sharp,” he said. “No European country
is less prepared to make economic sacrifices than France.”  In the face of a regional debt crisis that has pushed up
borrowing costs and forced Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
international aid, countries across Europe have tightened their
belts to reduce deficits and reassure bond investors. Hollande’s
deficit-reduction pledges have helped push French bond yields to
record lows.  European Austerity  In Italy, the euro area’s third-largest economy, Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  has introduced new property taxes, higher
gasoline taxes, raised the retirement age and made the pension
system based on contribution. In  Spain , the government has
slashed public wages, increased income taxes and cut spending on
services, including education and health care.  Even in the U.K., which isn’t part of the euro area, the
government has raised the  sales tax  and restrained spending,
while  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, is benefitting from tax
increases and wage restraints put in place before the crisis.  “The French are sort of on a cloud compared with Italy,
the U.K, Spain, even Germany,” said  Ludovic Subran , an
economist at  Euler Hermes  in Paris. “There’s been post-
election euphoria, but there’s work to do.”  Yesterday’s French legislative elections coincided with a
vote in  Greece , where exit polls showed the two largest parties
who agree to the conditions of European aid gaining a majority.  Populist Measures  Meanwhile Hollande has rolled back an increase in the
retirement age for some workers, promised a “little push” for
minimum wage earners, laid out plans to hire 60,000 teachers and
put in place a tax rate of 75 percent on income above 1 million
euros ($1.27 million) a year.  Last week, his Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  unveiled
plans to cap bosses’ compensation at state-controlled entities
such as  Electricite de France SA  to 450,000 euros. The decree,
to be released by the end of July, is aimed at capping
compensation at 20 times the lowest wages in the companies.  With French growth at zero, opposition lawmakers wrote to
Hollande last week criticizing him from hiding economic reality
from the population.  “Perhaps you have succeeded in anesthetizing our fellow
citizens,” lawmakers Gilles Carrez and Philippe Marini said in
a letter to the president. “But you now have to face reality.
That will be certain disillusion for those who believed in your
promises.”  Economic Slump  France ’s  gross domestic product  failed to grow in the first
three months of the year and the Bank of France predicts that
Europe’s second-largest economy may shrink in the current
quarter for the first time since the nation exited recession in
2009. French jobless claims rose for a 12th month in April to
2.89 million, the highest in 12 years.  The lack of growth means that budget cuts will probably
have to be deeper than previously estimated. The European
Commission said May 30 that France may need to take
“significant” steps to meet its target of reducing the  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of GDP next year.  Hollande’s own ministers are starting to warn of the
difficulties that lie ahead.  “You think I’m optimistic?,” Labor Minister Michel Sapin
said last week on Canal Plus television. “To be optimistic
today is to deny reality. Will it be easy to get out of this
debt situation? No it can only be done with effort.”  Bond Rally  So far, bond investors have given Hollande the benefit of
the doubt, driving French bond yields down to record lows even
as neighboring Spain and  Italy  have seen their borrowing costs
surge. France’s benchmark 10-year bond now  yields  about 2.6
percent and the treasury sold such securities with a yield of
2.46 percent on June 7, the lowest ever.  “Hollande was not expecting a honeymoon but he is enjoying
the closest thing there is to one at a time when France’s
economy is flat on its back and the euro zone is at risk of
falling apart,” said Nicholas Spiro, of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy. “We remain wary of French debt.”  Hollande will start tackling the issues in coming weeks,
with the national auditor due to report on the state of the
government’s finances in early July, followed by a new budget.
Hollande will also meet with unions and business leaders on July
9 to broker an increase in the minimum wage, youth unemployment
and reviving French industry.  “We’ve procrastinated for quite a long time on addressing
the budget,” said Euler Hermes’s Subran. “There is a lot of
work to be done. It’s significant but doable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  