-- Hon Hai Says Sharp Technology Will Help ‘Defeat’ Samsung
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-18T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/hon-hai-says-it-faces-resistance-to-raising-planned-sharp-stake.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads, expects the group’s investments in
automation and touch-panel technologies to help it take on
Samsung Electronics Co., the Taiwanese company’s chairman said.  Hon Hai’s parent, Foxconn Technology Group, will use its
cooperation with Sharp Corp. to boost production of Apple
products as well as those that use  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system, Chairman Terry Gou said at its
annual  shareholders’ meeting  in Taipei yesterday. Hon Hai and
affiliates agreed in March to take a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp
for 67 billion yen ($847 million).  Foxconn, with more than a million  employees , is moving more
production from the country’s east coast to inland China to fill
a shortage of workers and plans to boost automation technologies
to cut reliance on manual labor. Gou also agreed to personally
invest in Sharp’s display unit as Hon Hai, the world’s  largest
contract maker  of electronics, adds touch screens to expand
beyond assembly.  “We’ve confidence that after getting into these new
technologies, within one to two years we’ll quickly be
successful” with Android, Windows and Apple iOS, Gou said.
“The Sharp deal will help us to defeat  Samsung. (005930) ”  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , ended  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s 14-
year run as the global leader in mobile phones for the first
time last quarter, while regaining the lead in the smartphone
market from Apple.  “Because mainland labor is in great shortage, we’re very
actively moving toward automation,” Gou said. “Our plan is
that within five to 10 years the large scale automation will as
much as possible replace monotonous assembly. We hope to have it
all automated, from Apple phones and tablets” to televisions.  Stake Increase  The decrease in Osaka-based  Sharp’s share price  and the
Japanese company’s technology allows Hon Hai to consider
increasing its stake, Chief Financial Officer Huang Chiu-lian
said. The idea faces resistance at Sharp, she said.  “Management fears the company becoming a part of Hon
Hai,”  Huang said in an interview yesterday.  Sharp isn’t in talks with Hon Hai to change the terms of
the Taiwanese company’s investment, Miyuki Nakayama, a
spokeswoman for the Japanese electronics maker, said yesterday.  “I see it as a potential idea rather than a serious
proposal to increase the Sharp stake,” said  Kirk Yang , an
analyst at Barclays Plc, who attended Hon Hai’s shareholder
meeting. “Boosting automation and raising its stake in Sharp
would both be win-win strategies for Hon Hai and its partners.”  Hon Hai has no target for its stake in Sharp and is instead
focused on building its cooperation with the Japanese company in
areas that include panels, mobile phones and household
appliances, Gou said. Sharp Display is expected to list in
 Taiwan  within three years, he said.  Foxconn has sent almost 400 engineers to Osaka in the past
two months to work with Sharp at their Sakai factory, Gou said.
Their cooperation will deepen starting July 1 when Hon Hai
begins to procure panels from that plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  