-- Sinai Gunmen Attack Israelis Building Fence on Egypt Border
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-06-18T17:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/one-israeli-killed-as-gunmen-attack-from-across-egypt-border-1-.html
Gunmen from  Egypt ’s  Sinai Peninsula 
attacked vehicles carrying Israelis who are building a border
fence, killing one of the workers, an Israeli army spokeswoman
said.  The attack with small arms and explosives took place at
about 6 a.m. today 30 kilometers (19 miles) south of the Gaza
Strip, Lieutenant-Colonel Avital Leibovich said in a phone
interview. At least two of the gunmen were killed after Israeli
forces returned fire, while a third is thought to have fled back
across the border, she said.  The attack, which followed the firing of rockets from Sinai
into southern Israel over the weekend, raised concerns in Israel
about worsening security on the border with Egypt, which signed
a peace treaty with the Jewish state more than three decades
ago.  The  Muslim Brotherhood , which has criticized the accord
with Israel, and former premier Ahmed Shafik both claimed
victory in Egypt’s presidential election. Votes are still being
counted after the runoff election between the two men ended
yesterday, and official results are due June 21.  ‘Disturbing Deterioration’  “We see here a disturbing deterioration in Egyptian
control in the Sinai,” Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said, according to an e-mailed statement from his office. “We
are waiting for the results of the election. Whoever wins, we
expect them to take responsibility for all of Egypt’s
international commitments, including the peace treaty with
Israel.”  The military governor of north Sinai, Major General Abdul
Wahab Mabrouk, said Egypt “fully secures its borders with Gaza
and Israel and the borders are fully under its control,” the
official Middle East  News Agency  reported. “There was no
detection of any elements entering or infiltrating from Sinai at
all,” Mabrouk said, according to MENA.  Israel also staged two air raids on Hamas-controlled Gaza,
killing four Palestinians, according to the army and a Gaza
emergency services spokesman, Adham Abu Selmeya. The two
Palestinians killed in the first strike were part of a squad of
snipers operating adjacent to the fence separating Gaza from
Israel, according to an e-mailed army statement. The other two
were trying to launch rockets into Israel, a second statement
said.  An Israeli air raid late yesterday, which left five
Palestinians injured, was in response to rockets fired from
Gaza, the army said.  ‘Sink in Blood’  The violence came a day after an Israeli tow-truck driver
shot and killed two Palestinians in the  West Bank  after he said
they attacked him, according to police.  Israel wants Gaza “to sink in blood” and it’s trying to
“distract attention from the results of the presidential
elections in Egypt,” Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum said in a
telephone interview from Gaza. “We hold Israel responsible for
the escalation.”  Israeli officials have voiced concern about the close links
between the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas, the Palestinian
Islamic movement that controls the Gaza Strip and opposes the
Oslo peace deal with Israel that is supported by the  Palestinian
Authority . Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and European Union.  The relationship between Israel and Egypt has frayed since
 Hosni Mubarak , who maintained the peace agreement, was forced
out by street protests in February last year.  ‘Wild West’  The Sinai is turning into a “kind of Wild West” used by
militant Islamic groups to smuggle weapons and attack  Israel ,
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in April. Eight Israelis
were killed in a cross-border attack by Palestinian militants
near the southern resort city of Eilat last August.  A natural  gas pipeline  running through Sinai to Israel has
been bombed 14 times by Islamic militants since February 2012.
The supply cuts resulted in Egyptian exports to Israel dropping
to $179 million last year compared with $355 million in 2010,
and Egypt terminated the supply agreement in April.  Israel is building a fence along the 240-kilometer (150-
mile) border to block militants and African migrants from
entering the country from Sinai. The government has said the
estimated 1.35-billion shekel ($360-million) project is expected
to be completed by year’s end.  ‘Supreme National Interest’  Netanyahu told a meeting of his Likud party in  Jerusalem 
that today’s attack wouldn’t slow the project. “Its
construction is a supreme national interest,” the prime
minister said, according to an e-mailed statement from his
office. “I believe that if we hadn’t decided two years ago to
build the fence, we would be facing a flood of infiltrators and
-- no less than this -- a flood of terrorism.”  Israeli officials have also expressed concern over the
smuggling of weapons into the  Gaza Strip  through tunnels dug
underneath the Sinai border.  “This isn’t Mubarak’s Egypt and it definitely isn’t an
Egypt of peace or quiet,” Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, a member of the
Israeli parliament and former defense minister who was close to
Mubarak, said on  Army Radio . “This is a different Egypt. What
it will be and how it will act only heaven knows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  