-- Loneliness May Bring Early Disability and Death, Study Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-06-18T20:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/loneliness-may-bring-early-disability-and-death-study-suggests.html
Living to a healthy old age may
depend on your ties to family, friends and community, according
to research that finds lonely older adults are more likely to
die sooner than their more social peers.  Loneliness in adults age 60 and older was associated with a
45 percent higher risk of dying over six years, according to
research published today in the  Archives of Internal Medicine . A
separate study showed that people living alone with  heart
disease  were 25 percent more likely to die from the illness and
27 percent more likely to die of any cause.  About one in seven Americans live by themselves, the
researchers wrote. The first study to examine the link between
social isolation and death in a representative  U.S. population 
points to the importance of addressing psychosocial needs along
with medical ones in improving the health of older adults,
according to Carla  Perissinotto , a study author.  “We cannot continue to ignore the other things that are
happening in people’s lives,” said Perissinotto, an assistant
professor of medicine and geriatrics at the  University of
California ,  San Francisco , by telephone. “If we turn a blind
eye to what our patients are experiencing at home, we may be
missing a place to make a difference in someone’s health.”  Psychosocial stresses brought on by loneliness, including
anxiety and depression, can boost heart risks, said Deepak Bhatt, chief of cardiology at the VA Boston Healthcare System
and associate professor of medicine at  Harvard Medical School 
and the senior author on the cardiac risk and loneliness study.  Heart Disease  Bhatt reported on 44,573 people who were part of the
 Reduction of Atherothrombosis for Continued Health Registry , 19
percent of whom lived alone.  The research found a 24 percent higher risk of dying for
those who were between the ages of 45 and 65 and lived alone.
There was a 12 percent higher risk of dying for those between
the ages of 66 and 80 who lived by themselves.  The study looking at overall health involved 1,604 men and
women who were part of the  Health and Retirement Study . They
were assessed in 2002 and followed until 2008. In the study, 43
percent said they were lonely, a situation defined as answering
yes to one of the three questions.  The researchers found that 23 percent of those who said
they were lonely died over the six-year study compared with 14
percent of those who didn’t feel that way.  The study also showed that those who said they were lonely
were 59 percent more likely to see a decline in their ability to
perform activities of daily living.  Those who live alone may not always call the doctor or an
ambulance if they are having a medical emergency, Bhatt said.
The next step is to look at ways to mitigate this risk, he said.  “If physicians get into the habit of asking patients if
they’re living alone, that might impact the care given,” Bhatt
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  