-- Money-Market Signals Muffled by ECB Cash in European Crisis
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-06-18T11:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/money-market-signals-muffled-by-ecb-cash-in-european-crisis-1-.html
Money-market indicators that
traditionally warned of stresses in the financial system are
being muffled by a deluge of central bank cash as the euro-
region crisis focuses on Greece’s future in the currency bloc
and the meltdown of Spanish lenders.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was 51.8
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate at 12:12 p.m.
in  London , from minus 50.3 basis points on June 15. The swap
stayed in a range of 41.5 to 59.1 basis points below the
benchmark in the past three months, even as an index of bank-
bond risk surged 52 percent.  Concern that Greece’s election result would hasten the
country’s exit from the euro and the deepening banking woes in
Spain failed to clog up the plumbing of  Europe ’s financial
markets. That’s because since December, banks that can’t access
money markets have been able to get as much cash as they need
through the  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro ($1.3
trillion)  longer-term refinancing operations .  “The political worries haven’t been translated into
spreads and the main reason for that is the ECB’s LTRO,” said
Brian Jack, head of liquidity funds at Ignis Investment Services
Ltd. in Glasgow. “There’s a shrinking pool of top-tier banks
money-market funds are willing to invest in, and thanks to the
central banks those now have abundant liquidity.”  Lehman Bankruptcy  The euro-dollar  basis swap  for three months was 157.5 basis
points less than Euribor on Nov. 29, before the ECB pumped the
new cash into the system. That was the most expensive cost since
October 2008, in the depths of the global banking catastrophe
that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  The one-year basis swap was 53.3 basis points below Euribor
from minus 52.5 at the end of last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of that cross-currency exchange
has also plummeted since December, when it reached 106.5 basis
points less than Euribor, the most expensive in three years.  A gauge of the expected cost of interbank borrowing in
euros in three months’ time fell 43 percent since January. The
 FRA/OIS spread , which measures prices in the forward market for
three-month Euribor relative to overnight indexed swaps, was 32
basis points, from 32.5 last week and 54.5 on Jan. 10.  Interbank Freeze  The ECB offered banks three-year loans for as much as they
asked for, helping stave off a looming freeze in the  interbank
market , and teamed up with the U.S. Federal Reserve to ensure
European lenders had  access to dollars . The LTRO and dollar swap
lines removed the threat of banks’ funding drying up and a
financial-system failure.  “Central banks are very, very concerned about what may
happen,” said  Don Smith , a London-based economist at ICAP Plc,
the biggest interdealer broker. “They will open the floodgates
and flood the markets with liquidity. It will be very difficult
to get a handle on risk in the money markets.”  The increasing stresses that have been absent in most
money-market measures are evident elsewhere in credit.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers rose to 279
basis points at the end of last week, from 183 on March 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge snapped three
days of declines to climb 2.5 basis points today.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals 1,000 euros
annually on a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt.  Stocks Performance  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks dropped 7
percent since the beginning of May, tumbling to $305.6 last
week. The index today climbed to $306.61, Bloomberg data show.  The Euribor/OIS spread increased to a three-month high of
43.6 basis points, from 40.9 on June 15. It’s the first time the
measure has broken out of its range of 37 basis points to 42
basis points since the end of March.  Another place where stress has been visible is the
repurchase agreement -- or repo -- market, in which a bank or
investor borrows money while putting up  government bonds  as
collateral. Banks’ preference for the shortest-term repos
secured against top-rated securities has made it more expensive
to borrow overnight than for three months.  The rate for a one-day euro repo rose to 17.2 basis points
last week, the highest since March 12, compared with 11 basis
points on  three-month contracts , according to the EBF. The so-
called inverted curve signals strain in bank funding.  Deposit Flight  Part of the reason for the tension in repo markets may be
deposit withdrawal from banks in the euro area’s periphery,
according to Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos Securities Plc in
London. Greek banks have lost more than 30 percent of their
 total deposits  since the end of 2009 as companies withdrew about
45 percent of their money, Bloomberg data show.  In  Spain ,  total deposits  have slipped 7 percent since
peaking 12 months ago, while companies have reduced their
deposits by 15 percent.  “Banks hit by withdrawals are often forced to sell the
liquid assets they would’ve pledged as collateral for repo
funding,” said Chen. That process is magnified as balance
sheets shrink and rating downgrades force more sales, which in
turn reduces the impact of monetary easing by central banks, he
said.  ‘Fully Participate’  “It’s questionable whether the Greek and Spanish banks
would be able to fully participate” in another LTRO, “because
a portion of their liquid assets would have been sold off to
meet those deposit withdrawals,” said Chen. “In the private
repo markets, ratings downgrades would mechanistically drive a
further shrinkage.”  Central banks are continuing to pump money into the
financial system to prevent them seizing up as Europe’s woes
worsen and U.S. economic growth slows.  Fed  swap lines  to foreign central banks surged to as high
as $109 billion on Feb. 15 from $2.4 billion on Nov. 30, after
the U.S. central bank and five counterparts joined forces to
lower borrowing costs. The Fed lends dollars through the swaps
to other central banks, which auction them to local lenders and
give the Fed foreign currency as collateral.  The  Bank of England  announced June 14 it will activate a
sterling liquidity facility to aid banks and plans to start a
credit-easing operation that may boost lending in the economy by
80 billion pounds ($125 billion).  Interbank Loans  The rates banks say they pay for short-term loans from
their peers are also falling in defiance of the deepening euro-
region crisis. Three-month dollar Libor has remained little
changed since the end of March and was at 0.468 percent today.
That’s the same rate it has been all month and compares with
0.583 percent on Jan. 5.  Three-month Euribor dropped to 0.659 percent from 1.418
percent on Dec. 19, while Euribor USD, a gauge of dollar funding
costs compiled by the Brussels-based European Banking
Federation, fell to 0.949 percent, from 0.989 percent April 11.  The 10 biggest U.S. money-market funds cut their holdings
of debt issued by euro-area banks by $8.3 billion in May,
Bloomberg data show. Holdings of debt from European banks,
including those outside the euro area, have fallen every month
since the end of January for a total decline of $20 billion to
$178 billion.  Parliament Majority  Greece ’s two largest pro-bailout parties won enough seats
to forge a parliamentary majority, official projections showed.
The result eased concern the country is headed toward an
imminent exit from the euro, while paving the way for weeks of
horse trading with providers of its rescue cash and coalition
talks between politicians.  New Democracy and Pasok won a combined 162 seats in the
300-member parliament, according to Interior Ministry
projections with 99 percent of yesterday’s vote counted.  Spain caused concern this month after it requested as much
as 100 billion euros from the European Union to recapitalize its
banks. The nation’s debt burden prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to cut its  credit rating  by three steps to the cusp of
junk status.  “Markets are just so scared by the vulnerabilities of the
system, with very weak growth, low inflation and high debt,”
said ICAP’s Smith. “When debt’s so high you’re very vulnerable
to confidence and that’s draining away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  