-- Hong Kong Exchanges Stock Declines on LME Bid: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-06-18T02:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/hong-kong-exchanges-stock-drops-on-extremely-expensive-lme-bid.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
was the only declining stock on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
after Friday’s announcement that it bid 1.39 billion pounds
($2.18 billion) for the London Metal Exchange.  The shares fell 2.8 percent to HK$109.30 as of 10:24 a.m.,
while the Hang Seng Index climbed 1.6 percent. At 180 times
LME’s 2011 net income, Hong Kong’s offer of 107.6 pounds a share
is the most expensive exchange merger over $1 billion since at
least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The local
bourse operator’s stock has retreated 25 percent since Feb. 18,
when the  South China Morning Post  first reported the bid. The
 Bloomberg World Exchanges Index (BNWEXCH)  has dropped 14 percent.  The bid price is “extremely expensive,” according to a
client note from Morgan Stanley written by  Anil Agarwal  and
Isabella He. “Given that other commodity exchanges were
interested in LME bidding process and didn’t offer this amount
potentially implies that other exchanges found the price
expensive.”  Hong Kong ’s offer requires approvals from LME’s
shareholders, led by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and closely held Metdist Ltd., and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority. It doesn’t need shareholder approval in Hong
Kong.  The takeover would give Hong Kong control of a business
that sets global prices for base metals, while LME stands to
gain greater access to  China , the biggest consumer of metals
including nickel, aluminum and copper. The London bourse will
remain under the watch of the FSA, meaning the deal may avoid
national interest and market power concerns that prompted market
regulators and politicians to block other exchange mergers.  LME Fee Increase  In an analyst meeting after the announcement Friday night,
Hong Kong Exchanges Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said that
LME will raise fees from July 1, making projected income much
higher than past results. If the fees had been in place during
2011, they would have tripled net income, according to the offer
document.  Even if that had happened, it implies the “purchase was
done at about 60 times –- still extremely expensive,” the
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  note reads. “Fees cannot be changed further
until 1 Jan 2015 under the purchase agreement, implying earnings
will now be dependent on volumes.”  Hong Kong Exchanges is the world’s second biggest bourse
company by market value and LME is the largest commodity trading
venue, handling 80 percent of global trade in industrial metal
futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  