-- Hong Kong’s Wealth Gap Widens as City Ages, Industries Fade
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   P a t r i c k   B o e h l e r
-- 2012-06-19T03:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/hong-kong-s-wealth-gap-widens-amid-aging-population-inflation.html
Hong Kong’s  wealth gap , the biggest
in  Asia , widened in the decade to 2011 as the city’s population
aged and employers demanded more high-skilled workers.  The city’s Gini coefficient, an income inequality measure,
gained to 0.537 in 2011, from 0.525 in 2001, the Census and
Statistics Department said yesterday in a  report . The gap is
wider than in  Canada , the U.K., the U.S., Australia and
 Singapore , the department said.  The report highlights the challenges that incoming Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying faces when he takes office July 1
after pledging to aid low-income earners and increase housing
supply. To counter the widening gap, the city’s outgoing leader
 Donald Tsang  has offered rebates on tax, rents and utilities, as
well as handed out cash to citizens.  “Tsang just trusts and believes in his funneling” of
benefits, said Albert Chan Wai Yip, a lawmaker from the People
Power party. “That’s why during his administration the rich and
poor disparity problem deteriorated to such a large extent. He
failed to improve the livelihood of the people in  Hong Kong ,
especially the poor.”  Thousands took to the streets on the Labor Day holiday,
demanding that Leung address a wealth gap exacerbated by a surge
in housing prices.  Property prices  have advanced more than 80
percent since the start of 2009, according to data compiled from
Centaline Property Agency, making Hong Kong the world’s most
expensive place to own a home.  The Gini coefficient index ranges from zero to one, with a
reading of zero meaning income equality, and one indicating
complete inequality. Singapore’s coefficient rose to 0.482 in
2011 from 0.456 in 2001, according to the report.  Poorest Group  The average gross household income of the poorest 10
percent of Hong Kong’s population fell to HK$2,170 ($280) in
2011 from HK$2,590 in 2001, according to the report. The
comparable income for the richest 10 percent advanced to
HK$137,480 a month from HK$122,740.  “Restructuring of the economy leading to a shift in demand
from the traditional low-skilled workers to high-skilled high-
income workers was one of the key factors behind the widening
income disparity,” the government said. The number of
households with retirees had also increased, it said.  To help low-wage workers, Tsang implemented a statutory
minimum salary of HK$28 per hour on May 1 last year in an
attempt to resolve “social and economic conflicts” highlighted
by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao .  More Expensive  “Life has gotten harder,” said Chu Sai-Chuen, a 59-year-
old on social security. “Clothes, food, housing and transport,
everything is expensive.” Rice prices have more than doubled
from 2001, while the cost of vegetables has more than tripled,
Chu said.  About one-fifth of the seven million residents in Hong Kong
earn less than half the median income in the city, according to
Leung Chuen-suen, a lecturer at the department of Applied Social
Sciences at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.  “The industrial base in Hong Kong has been
deteriorating,” said Chan. “You can hardly see any major
industry in Hong Kong other than finance and property. Because
of this industrial base change in the past twenty years, the
middle class and the working class couldn’t catch up with the
high-end earners.”  Social Benefits  Including tax and social benefits, the Gini coefficient
would have stayed unchanged last year from the 0.475 in 2006,
the government said in the report. In 2001, it was 0.470.  “The finding highlights the importance of one-off relief
measures amidst an inflationary environment,” said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at the  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   Hong Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar , in place for
29 years, may also be worsening economic inequality by importing
inflation and limiting policy options, according to Cyd Ho, the
vice chairwoman of the  Labor Party . The city’s interest rates
track those in the U.S., which has helped to fuel the property
boom.  “We have to follow the American monetary policy, which
doesn’t suit the needs of Hong Kong,” said Ho.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has said it would hold borrowing
costs near zero through late 2014. Consumer prices may climb 3.5
percent this year, compared with 5.3 percent in 2011, according
to a forecast by the government published on May 11.  The government would continue to assist ordinary people and
to “closely monitor” the situation, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Boehler in Hong Kong at 
 pboehler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  