-- Ipad Toting Doctors Spur Venture Funding in Medical Apps
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-18T14:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/oprah-aids-doctors-as-app-investments-soar-health.html
 Venture capitalists seeking to
profit from innovations in health care are turning to startups
that make smartphone and tablet applications for doctors and
hospitals.  Two years ago, patients would be surprised to see their
doctors pulling out an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone to check their blood
sugar, or cardiogram results. Now they’re finding such practices
commonplace as investment in the kinds of companies that make
health information apps rose 78 percent in 2011 to $766 million.
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  has started a $100 million fund, Insight Venture
Partners is putting $40 million into a startup and Oprah Winfrey
is dipping in as well, with her company investing in a website
that helps doctors and patients interact.  “We’re at a sea change,” said David Jahns, managing
partner of Galen Partners LP, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
private equity firm that invested in a company called Sharecare.  Demand for apps that let doctors and nurses see test
results quickly and monitor vital signs remotely, combined with
a push from government and insurers to collect better data to
contain rising medical costs, is propelling investor interest in
an array of health  information technology , Jahns said.  “We really have to improve our costs,” he said. “The
best thing that our country can do is invest in technology that
gets better outcomes with fewer procedures.”  Timothy Kreth, a cardiologist at TriStar Summit Medical
Center in Hermitage,  Tennessee , uses an application from
 AirStrip Technologies  that lets him view emergency room
patients’ electrocardiograms on his iPhone.  More Convenient  “It’s more convenient for the patient,” Kreth said in a
telephone interview. “I can look at it and determine some of
the subtle nuances the emergency room doctor maybe could not. It
gives us the opportunity to make diagnoses quicker.”  Kreth and the five other cardiologists have used the
AirStrip technology for about six weeks at his hospital, which
is part of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  Previously, emergency room doctors
faxed cardiologists the EKGs, Kreth said.  AirStrip, based in  San Antonio ,  Texas , was the first
investment from the $100 million  Qualcomm Life Fund  that formed
in December. Qualcomm Life doesn’t disclose how much it invests,
though typically puts down $2 million to $5 million, Jack Young,
who manages the fund, said by telephone.  Taking Off  Richard Wells, a managing director at Insight Venture,
defines the burgeoning market as software as a service --
scheduling technology for doctors, patient-monitoring data for
hospitals and online wellness tools for corporate health plans.  “In a way it’s like outsourcing,” Wells said in a phone
interview. “You don’t need IT guys, it’s all done for you.”  Qualcomm had invested in health previously through its $500
million Qualcomm Ventures that funds a broader range of tech
startups. Now the San Diego-based wireless communications-
equipment company markets a cloud-computing platform that can
connect medical devices and applications over the Internet, a
specialty Young said will be mutually beneficial when Airstrip
moves into home care for patients discharged from the hospital.  “We’ll continue to see this caliber of investing,” he
said. “The ecosystem is slowly but surely taking off.”  Money Flow  Investment in health information technology has doubled
since 2006, and rose 78 percent in 2011 from 2010, according to
the  National Venture Capital Association . Funding totaled $184
million in 27 deals in the first quarter of this year, according
to Mercom Capital Group, an Austin, Texas-based consultant to
health-care companies.  Industry venture investments of $2 million or more per deal
are up about 30 percent this year, with most startups getting an
average of $11.8 million, said Halle Tecco, chief executive
officer of Rock Health, a seed accelerator for health technology
startups.  As information technology reaps the benefits, investment in
traditional medical-devices makers, though still magnitudes
larger than medical app investments, has stalled to $2.8 billion
in 2011, from $2.9 billion in 2006. Devices, unlike most
information technology, are subject to a regulatory review where
companies must show that a product is reasonably safe and
effective before sales can begin.  The timing of the Food and Drug Administration reviews has
become too unpredictable for some early investors, Thomas Gunderson, senior analyst at Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray &
Co., said in a telephone interview.  Economic Stimulus  “If they’re supposed to make investments and they think
it’s going to take six years to get the returns on their
investments, that’s one thing,” he said. “If it’s seven, eight
or 12 years, that’s unpredictable and they’re backing away.”  The FDA is considering stricter standards for medical apps
that directly diagnose or treat conditions. The agency released
draft guidelines in July that said some mobile apps pose a
potential risk and may have to meet medical-device quality
standards before being sold for use with smartphones and
tablets.  For now, insurers are still embracing the proliferation of
new technology that helps hospitals and doctors keep better
records or operate their practices in a less costly way.  The shift is being aided by government efforts to arm
doctors with more data and coordinate care to reduce health
costs, said Jahns.  The U.S. economic stimulus package in 2009 set incentives
for health-care providers to adopt electronic records, and
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care system overhaul pushed
providers further to cut costs and improve services.  “Anyone who can save money goes to the front of the line”
for investment, Gunderson said.  Oprah’s Backing  Galen Partners led a $14 million investment in WebMD
founder Jeff Arnold’s newest project, Atlanta-based Sharecare.
The company began in 2010 in partnership with Dr. Mehmet Oz of
 Oprah Winfrey  fame -- Winfrey’s Harpo Studios is also a backer.  Sharecare has built searchable drug, supplement and
wellness databases and provides online tools for doctors to
connect with potential patients. On the consumer side, the
company’s website provides thousands of answers to health
questions by experts from hospitals, care provider associations
and companies such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, and pharmacy chain  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   The website’s landing page includes a bar where users can
enter any health question they conjure with some clickable
prompts such as “Can I burn extra calories eating celery?”  “For us, we want to get to scale and become the front door
to online health,” Arnold said in a telephone interview.
“Basically, to health care the way Facebook is to the way
people make lifestyle choices.”  Digital Frontier  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. health insurer by
membership, had its employees use Sharecare for a 12-week “Move
It & Lose It Challenge,” Tyler Mason, a spokesman for the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company, said in an e-mail.  Arnold wants to open Sharecare up to other entrepreneurs to
give patients access to electronic medical records, allow people
to schedule doctor appointments and provide a home for data from
apps that are operating like traditional devices, such as blood
sugar management systems.  Wells of Insight Venture said desire for digitization to
control health costs will continue to spark venture capital
interest. Insight in March invested $40 million in Kinnser
Software, which gives home-health providers access to patient
records and the ability to enter data digitally on the site or
using an app on a tablet.  “This keeps going for a while,” Wells said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  