-- Oracle Rises After Software Helps Profit Beat Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-19T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/oracle-reports-fourth-quarter-profit-rose-to-82-cents-a-share.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
maker of  database software , rose the most in more than four
months after fiscal fourth-quarter profit topped analysts’
estimates, buoyed by sales of new software licenses.  Earnings excluding certain costs were $4.1 billion, or 82
cents a share, the  Redwood City , California-based company said
in a  statement  yesterday. That beat the 79-cent average
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said Oracle won three
cloud-computing deals against competitor Workday Inc. during the
period ending in May, and also sold a high-end hardware system
to Facebook Inc. Software license sales, an indicator of future
 revenue , rose 6.7 percent to $4 billion.  “Oracle’s earnings announcement indicates strong execution
by the company in a tough environment,” said Abhey Lamba, an
analyst at  Mizuho Securities  in New York, in a note to clients.  The company is looking for growth from sales of cloud-
computing applications for human resources and customer
management that businesses can access over the Internet instead
of installing on internal servers. It’s also selling more
licenses of its business applications that companies install on
their own machines. License sales are important because they
lead to future revenue streams from contracts customers sign to
support the software.  “Software had a fantastic quarter on multiple fronts,”
Ellison said on a conference call with investors.  Share Repurchase  The company’s  board  authorized adding $10 billion to
Oracle’s stock buyback program. The shares rose 3.1 percent to
$27.96 at the close in  New York , the biggest gain since Feb. 16.
The stock has climbed 9 percent this year.  “They’re doing a great job, especially considering what
they were up against in the final weeks of May,” when the debt
crisis in  Europe  hampered business spending there, Brad Zelnick,
an analyst at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in New York, said in an
interview. “They’re outpacing the growth of the overall
industry.”  Profit in the period ending in August will be 51 cents to
55 cents a share, Chief Financial Officer Safra Catz said on the
conference call. That compared with analysts’ average  estimate 
of 53 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
will range from a 2 percent decline to a 1 percent increase from
a year earlier, she said.  New software license sales will range from unchanged from a
year earlier to a 10 percent increase, Catz said.  Sales Growth  Fourth-quarter revenue increased 1.3 percent to $10.9
billion, matching estimates. Revenue from new database licenses,
which accounted for two-thirds of Oracle’s license sales, was
unchanged in the fourth quarter. Sales of new applications
licenses rose 23 percent.  Sales of  computer hardware  and associated technical support
services fell 14 percent to $1.6 billion as Oracle pares less
expensive servers and storage computers gained in the Sun
acquisition from its lineup.  Net income in the quarter was $3.45 billion, or 69 cents a
share, compared with $3.21 billion, or 62 cents, a year earlier.  Oracle moved its earnings report, originally scheduled for
June 21, ahead by three days. Keith Block, Oracle’s executive
vice president in charge of North American sales, has left the
company, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named because the matter is private.  Joanne Olsen, an Oracle  senior vice president  in charge of
cloud computing software sales, is taking on additional
responsibility, Hurd said on the conference call.  “It’s a testament to cloud-computing being elevated to a
new level of importance,” said Zelnick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jillian Ward at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net  