-- Morgan Stanley May Settle Nuns U.K. Bond Lawsuit
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-19T10:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/morgan-stanley-may-settle-sisters-of-charity-u-k-bond-lawsuit.html
(Corrects to remove claims withdrawn by defendants in
fourth and fifth paragraphs of story published June 18.)  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is close to a
settlement with two groups of nuns, an Irish charity for
veterinarians and 129 private investors who say they lost $20
million in a bond sale.  Andrew Sutcliffe, a lawyer representing the private
investors, told a U.K. court today that a settlement is close to
being reached by Irish investors who said the investment bank
failed to sell notes soon enough after they were downgraded. No
figures were discussed at the court hearing in  London .  The  Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary , the Holy Faith
Sisters, the Irish Veterinary Benevolent Fund and individual
investors in 2010 sued Morgan Stanley and Saturns Investments
Europe Plc, a special-purpose vehicle set up by the New York-
based bank.  The investors bought the notes through the Irish brokerage
firm Bloxham, which has since been liquidated, in 2005,
according to documents filed at the U.K.  high court .  Investors lost more than $20 million as a result and Morgan
Stanley made 10 million euros, the investors said in court
documents filed at the U.K. court.  The lawsuit is “speculative and without merit,” Morgan
Stanley and the other defendants said in court documents.  Alon Riza, a spokesman for Stewarts Law LLP which
represents the 132 investors, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  Michael Wang , a spokesman for Morgan
Stanley in London, declined to comment.  Bloxham appointed a provisional liquidator at the end of
May after it suspended operations amid unrelated probe by
Ireland’s  central bank  into accounting irregularities.  The case is: The Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary & ors
v.  Morgan Stanley & Co , case no. 2010/960, High Court of
Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  