-- Ortiz Says ECB Can Stop European Crisis ‘Almost Immediately’
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-18T19:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/ortiz-says-ecb-can-stop-european-crisis-almost-immediately-2-.html
The European Central Bank can stop
the region’s sovereign debt crisis “almost immediately” by
carrying out a “massive” round of government-bond purchases,
said  Guillermo Ortiz , the chairman of Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB and Mexico’s former central bank governor.  “The European Central Bank has done quite a bit,” Ortiz
said today in an interview in Los Cabos, Mexico, where he was
attending the business summit of the Group of 20 nations. “The
problem is it needs to do more.”  The ECB halted its bond-buying program, known as the
Securities Markets Programme, in February after absorbing about
212 billion euros ($267 billion) since it began purchases in May
2010. Ortiz said the ECB may discuss new bond purchases at the
European Union summit on June 28 and June 29, adding that he
didn’t expect a decisive step to solve the crisis at the G-20
leaders meeting that starts today.  “The ECB can stop this almost immediately, activating a
massive sovereign debt purchase program,” said Ortiz, who
presided over  Mexico ’s monetary policy from 1998 through 2009.  Greece’s election over the weekend didn’t have much impact
on the markets today because there’s no clarity on the outlook
for Spain’s banking system and investors are concerned borrowing
costs will keep climbing in  Italy , the 63-year-old Ortiz said.  The best solution is central bank bond purchases, he said.  Financial Stability  “The Fed has done it, the  Bank of England  has done it, the
 Bank of Japan  has done it,” Ortiz said. “The ECB has been much
less active than the other central banks.”  EU leaders will pledge “to mobilize all levers and
instruments” to ensure financial stability and tackle the
sovereign-debt crisis, according to draft conclusions prepared
for the summit in Brussels later this month.  The 27-nation bloc should “rapidly examine” EU proposals on
bank capital requirements, deposit-guarantee programs and how to
handle cross-border  bank failures , according to the draft
conclusions dated June 15 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  European Central Bank  Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny said May 29 that the bank isn’t considering restarting
its bond-purchase program to stem rising borrowing costs for
governments in the euro area.  Ortiz said he expects only the “usual phrases of
commitment” from Europe and possibly more resources pledged to
the  International Monetary Fund  at the G-20 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  