-- Total Sticking With Emissions Cuts Through Economy Slump
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-06-18T18:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/total-sticking-with-emissions-cuts-through-economy-slump.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil
company, will continue curbing emissions to mitigate the
environmental impact of its operations despite the financial
crisis that’s roiling markets, said Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie.  Total will reduce the amount of carbon dioxide it emits
from producing oil and natural gas, Margerie said in an
interview at the the Rio+20 conference in Rio de Janeiro today.
Europe’s financial crisis is threatening to erode the weakest
global growth rate since the 2009 recession.  “You can’t drop your commitments because you have a
feeling it might not be any more the first priority on people’s
minds,” Margerie said.  The Paris-based company has also promised not to explore
inside the Virunga National Park in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo where it has a license, out of respect for the
environment. Virunga was the first national park created on the
African continent more than 85 years ago and hosts more than 200
species of mammals, including gorillas in danger of extinction,
the World Wildlife Fund said on its website.  “We will never, ever enter the park,” Margerie said
during a seminar at the conference. “Ït’s a promise. We’ve said
it before.”  More than 50,000 delegates from 190 nations are due to
attend the meeting about sustainability. It marks the 20th
anniversary of the first Earth Summit in the city. On the agenda
are 50 pages of recommendations on how to preserve the diversity
of plants, eradicate poverty, protect oceans and clean the air
as the population swells 29 percent to 9 billion by 2050 from
about 7 billion now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  