-- Lloyds Should Boost Capital With Debt Exchange, Hohn Says
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-18T17:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/lloyds-should-boost-capital-with-debt-exchange-hohn-says-1-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
second biggest publicly owned lender, should boost capital by
exchanging some of its debt securities for common equity, hedge
fund Children’s Investment Fund Management LLP said.  Lloyds’s Enhanced Capital Notes shouldn’t count toward core
capital because the threshold at which they convert into equity
is too low, Christopher Hohn, managing partner of London-based
TCI, wrote in a June 14 letter to  Andrew Bailey , head of U.K.
banking supervision at the Financial Services Authority. Lloyds
should replace the notes with 10 billion pounds ($16 billion) of
equity, he said.  “The existing securities have such a low strike price that
they are unlikely to be converted into equity and so do not
serve as primary loss-absorbing capital,” Hohn wrote in the
letter, a copy of which the firm sent to Bloomberg. “It would
need Lloyds to suffer a 20 billion-pound post-tax loss before
the FSA could force the company to issue equity.”  The fund called on the regulator to disallow the ECNs or
risk damaging the FSA’s reputation and the economy by allowing
an “under-capitalized U.K. banking system to remain
unchallenged and uncorrected.” The U.K. owns about 40 percent
of the London-based lender after Lloyds sought a bailout in
2008. TCI successfully pushed in 2007 for the break-up of ABN
Amro Holding NV, sparking the biggest takeover battle in the
financial-services industry.  “The U.K. government, as both effective regulator and
controlling shareholder, is conflicted in this issue,” Hohn
wrote in the letter, a copy of which the firm sent to Bloomberg.
“What is needed is for the FSA to act independently of the
government and force much more common equity capital into Lloyds
by disallowing the ECNs as valid capital and insisting the
government replaces them with common equity.”  Conversion Trigger  Lloyds spokeswoman Nicole Sharp declined to comment on the
contents of the letter. Officials at TCI declined to comment on
the firm’s interests in Lloyds. The stock fell 3.6 percent to
30.16 pence in London trading today, its steepest drop in three
weeks.  Lloyds’s so-called Enhanced Capital Notes convert into
equity should the bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio fall below 5
percent under Basel II rules, a feature that allows them to be
treated as core capital for regulatory purposes. Under the
stricter Basel III rules that trigger would fall to 2 percent,
Hohn said.  “Legally these securities cannot be coerced into such an
exchange offer, so it must be done on commercially appropriate
terms,” Hohn wrote. “Shareholders would benefit because the
new bank would have a much higher equity capital base of 10
billion pounds,” he said.  The U.K. Treasury said last week that banks should have
more than 10 percent of risk-weighted assets in core capital,
with an additional 7 percent buffer including loss-absorbing
debt. Under the Basel III rules, Lloyds has a core Tier 1 ratio
of just seven percent, Hohn said.  Lloyds’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, climbed to 11 percent in the first quarter, from 10
percent in the year-earlier period, Lloyds said on May 1.  TCI also said that the Enhanced Capital Notes’ average 12
percent yield-to-maturity made them an “extremely expensive”
form of capital that discourage the bank from lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  