-- Pension Reforms Have Their Day In Court
-- B y   A m y   M o n a h a n
-- 2012-06-18T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/pension-reforms-have-their-day-in-court.html
Many U.S. states and cities have
approved measures to help fix poorly funded public pensions. Now
courts will decide if they are  legal  or not.  Most efforts would affect the benefits of new hires. But
some changes -- such as one  approved  in San Jose, California,
this month -- would apply to plans of current government
workers.  Public-sector unions  are suing  to block them, arguing that
it is illegal to change the pension benefits for current
workers. There is no nice, simple rule that governs such
changes. Legal protections for public pensions are developed
under each state’s laws and vary significantly.  In some states, such as  Illinois  and  New York , a specific
constitutional provision protects public-employee pensions from
reduction. In other states, such as  Ohio , courts have held that
the government is free to change the benefits at any time before
retirement.  California has played an important role in the development
of law on public pensions. Historically, both federal and state
courts considered pension benefits provided to government
employees to be mere  “gratuities”  that could be amended or
withdrawn at any time. In the early 20th century, however,
several state courts began to characterize public pensions not
as gifts, but as a form of deferred compensation. Just as
employees are entitled to a salary promised by an employer for
work they have performed, so too are they entitled to the
pension benefits they have earned.  Contractual Benefits  California  courts went well beyond this level of
protection. Under what has come to be known as the California
 rule , pension benefits are treated as contractual in nature, and
can’t be reduced once an employee has begun working for the
state. Not only are earned benefits protected, but employees
also have a collateral right to earn future pension benefits at
an undiminished rate for as long as they remain employed.  Given this high level of protection, it wasn’t surprising
that representatives of city workers filed suit challenging the
changes almost immediately after the initiative in San Jose
passed. The case will almost surely proceed to the California
Supreme  Court . Under the California rule, the changes indeed
appear to be legally impermissible.  But the state’s courts owe it to the residents of
California to revisit their prior decisions regarding public-
pension benefits. Courts typically  don’t part  from longstanding
precedent, but there is good reason for them to do so here.  Generally speaking, when legislatures or city councils
adopt statutes or ordinances, these laws aren’t considered to
have created contracts. Instead, legislative enactments are
considered to be current policy positions that can be amended by
future legislatures. The  U.S. Supreme Court  has held that for a
statute to create a contract, the legislature’s intent to form
such a contract must be unmistakable. After all, if a court were
to bind a future legislature without having a clear indication
of the legislature’s intent to bind itself, significant
separation-of-powers issues are raised.  Nevertheless, in developing their rule on public-pension
benefits, California courts have never even tried to justify
their position based on the legislature’s intent to create a
contract. Although a contract can be implied from the offer and
from acceptance of employment with certain pension benefits,
such a contract would cover only benefits that had already been
earned for service performed. The implied contract would protect
pension benefits to be earned in the future only if there was
evidence of such a promise on the part of the state. But
California courts have found a legal right to future pension
accruals without ever providing evidence supporting the creation
of that right.  Unmistakable Intent  San Jose ’s city charter  provides  that “Subject to other
provisions of this article, the Council may at any time, or from
time to time, amend or otherwise change any  retirement plan  or
plans or adopt or establish a new or different plan or plans for
all or any officers or employees.” If the first step in a legal
analysis is to determine whether a statute or ordinance creates
a contract, and we are looking for unmistakable intent, there is
a good argument here that the city didn’t intend to create a
contract or make a promise on which employees could reasonably
rely.  Even if the court doesn’t find the charter language to
authorize the change, San Jose (or any other municipality or
state) has the authority to make pension changes under its
sovereign power if such change is reasonable and necessary to
serve an important public purpose.  This looks like a simple test on its face. It is in fact
quite hard for a government to meet, because the government must
establish that the change was the “least drastic” way to achieve
its policy goal.  The trade-offs are difficult. Is it less drastic to fire
some city workers, or to reduce future pension accruals? Is it
less drastic to raise taxes than it is to cut the pension
benefits?  There are no clear-cut rules. It comes down to the court’s
judgment. That is why predicting the outcomes of these cases is
difficult.  California courts once led the country in moving away from
the absurd gratuity approach to public pensions. My hope is that
the state’s courts will once again prove to be leaders in this
area of law, and take this opportunity to fix the flaws in the
California rule by announcing a clear, legally supported
standard. This isn’t an argument for simply approving the
changes in San Jose. It is a plea for the California courts to
return to first principles and establish the legal basis, if
any, for creating a right to future pension benefits.  (Amy Monahan is an associate professor of law at the
 University of Minnesota . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  welfare for Jamie Dimon  and
on  Greek elections ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Romney, Mormons and
Jews ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Grover Norquist’s latest fight ;  Betsey
Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on  equal opportunity in sports ;
 Thomas Cooley ,  Matthew Richardson  and Kermit Schoenholtz on
 rescuing Europe’s banks ; Simon Serfaty and Alexis Serfaty on
 optimistic news for Europe .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amy Monahan in Minneapolis at  Monahan@umn.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 