-- Pfizer’s Drug for Rare Nerve Disease Rejected by U.S. FDA
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-18T21:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/pfizer-s-drug-for-rare-nerve-disease-rejected-by-u-s-fda.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, failed to win U.S. regulators’ approval of its drug
to treat TTR-FAP, a rare and deadly genetic disorder affecting
8,000 people worldwide.  The  Food and Drug Administration  asked for a second
clinical trial showing the effectiveness of tafamidis meglumine,
New York-based Pfizer said today in a statement. The pill would
be the first approved treatment in the U.S. for TTR-FAP, or
Transthyretin Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy.  TTR-FAP robs patients of the use of their limbs from the
feet upwards, and as their digestive system turns against them,
they waste away and die in about a decade. In  Europe , the drug
was approved in November for sale under the name Vyndaqel.
Pfizer estimates there are 3,000 U.S. patients.  “TTR-FAP is a relentless and debilitating disease. We
understand the urgent need within the patient community and
stand firmly behind this innovative medicine,” Yvonne Greenstreet, senior vice president and head of medicines
development group for Pfizer’s Specialty Care Business Unit,
said in the company’s statement. “It is our intention to
request a meeting as soon as possible with the agency in order
to discuss a potential path forward.”  Tafamidis works by locking down transthyretin, a protein
made by the liver. In healthy people, the protein holds
together. In those with TTR-FAP, it breaks apart, forming toxic
plaques that attack the body’s longest nerves, paralyzing limbs
and ruining the digestive system.  Liver Transplant  The current treatment is a liver transplant -- the organ
produces the problematic protein and a new one can extend
patients’ lives.  Analysts haven’t estimated a market for the medicines.
Pfizer declined to comment on its European or potential U.S.
sales.  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY) , based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, also has a drug in early trials to treat TTR-FAP.
 Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) , based in Carlsbad,  California , and
London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc have teamed to develop a
treatment.  The Alnylam and Isis drugs stop production of the
transthyretin protein, said  Rodney Falk , director of Boston-
based Brigham and Women’s Hospital’s program for  cardiac
amyloidosis , a related disease where patients’ heart muscles are
damaged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  