-- Picasso, Miro Start $500 Million Test of Auction Market
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-06-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/picasso-miro-start-500-million-test-of-art-market-in-london.html
A painting by  Joan Miro  sold for a
record $37 million last night as billionaire buyers fought over
the most desirable works and passed on lesser Impressionist and
modern pieces.  Miro’s museum-quality 1927 abstract “Peinture (Etoile
Bleue)” had been estimated to fetch a hammer price of as much
as 20 million pounds ($31.4 million). It sold for 23.6 million
pounds with fees, a record for the artist at auction. It was the
most expensive of 48 offered lots at Sotheby’s in London.  The event was the first of a two-week series, estimated at
more than $500 million, that tests the desirability of high-
value art as a haven from volatile traditional investments.  “The good stuff is getting rarer,” said  Olivier Malingue , a
Paris-based dealer who bought a 1924 Wassily Kandinsky
watercolor for 713,250 pounds. “People remember what happened in
the early 1990s when the market collapsed. The prices of the
best things recovered and those of the middle quality didn’t.
Now the economy is low, buyers don’t want to take risks.”  Guaranteed to sell, thanks to a third-party “irrevocable”
bid, the Miro was bought by a telephone bidder represented by
 Tobias Meyer , Sotheby’s worldwide head of contemporary art,
underbid by the New York-based art adviser Stephane Cosman
Connery in the room.  The painting had been acquired by its unidentified seller
for 11.6 million euros at a Paris auction in 2007. Since then,
the market for the Spanish surrealist’s work has been boosted by
museum exhibitions and the record 16.8 million pounds paid for
his 1925 “Painting-Poem” at Christie’s International in
February.  Dix Fails  Other less-stellar works struggled to attract bidders. The
most conspicuous casualty was  Otto Dix ’s 1931 panel painting
“Seated nude with blond hair.” This uncompromising depiction of
an ageing woman in a wooden armchair, influenced by German  Old
Masters  such as Cranach, was estimated at 4 million pounds to 6
million pounds and failed to attract a bid.  The painting had recently been offered for sale in the
trade and this had put off prospective bidders, according to the
London-based dealer Richard Nagy.  The evening’s other most substantial prices were achieved
by  Pierre Bonnard ’s similarly dated, more sensuous “Nu debout,”
and  Pablo Picasso ’s 1972 “Homme assis,” both of which sold for
hammer prices that were below estimate.  Rockefeller Family  The Bonnard, provenanced to the family of Mr. and Mrs. John
D. Rockefeller 3rd, was bought for 4.5 million pounds with fees
by the New York-based dealer William Acquavella. The decorative
quality of this Post-Impressionist’s work had previously
attracted Russian buyers, said dealers.  Picasso’s large-scale canvas of a male seated figure
wearing a tricorn hat was one of 201 paintings by the artist
exhibited at the Palais des Papes, Avignon, in 1973. Offered,
like the Bonnard, for the first time at auction, it was bought
on behalf of a client by Helena Newman,  Sotheby’s (BID)  European
chairman of Impressionist and modern art, for 6.2 million
pounds.  “I had some strange memories of the late 1980s at this
sale,” said the Paris-based dealer Christian Ogier. “The prices
being asked are too high and the connoisseurs are sitting on the
sidelines. You can stay disconnected from the rest of the world
for only so long.”  Sotheby’s sale raised 74.9 million pounds with fees against
a low estimate of 72.9 million pounds, based on hammer prices,
with 69 percent of lots finding buyers. The equivalent auction
last year raised 97 million pounds with a 91 percent success
rate.  Tonight's Sale  Christie's equivalent sale this evening includes Pierre- Auguste Renoir's 1888 “Baigneuse,” which sold for a record $20.9 
million at auction in 1997. It will be reoffered with a value of 
12 million pounds to 18 million pounds.  Paul Gauguin 's recently rediscovered 1892 Tahitian 
landscape “Paysage aux troncs bleus,” entered from a Norwegian 
collection, is priced at 3 million pounds to 5 million pounds.  Picasso's 1962 painting “Femme au chien,” showing the 
artist's second wife  Jacqueline Roque  seated with an Afghan 
hound, is also making its auction debut, having been in the same 
family collection since 1974. Also subject to a third-party 
guarantee, this is estimated at 6 million pounds to 9 million 
pounds. The auction is valued at 86.5 million pounds to 126.7 
million pounds.  Impressionist and modern works achieved annual returns of 
5.75 percent over the last 25 years, compared with 10.4 percent 
for contemporary, according to the New York-based Mei Moses 
Index, which tracks successful repeat sales of works at 
Sotheby's and Christie's. The  S&P 500  yielded 9.3 percent during 
the same period, Mei Moses said.  More recently, quality works have been in shorter supply 
and new collectors have preferred more fashionable contemporary 
names, which are up for sale next week.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on  London 
restaurants,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  James Pressley  on
business books and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 