-- Gross Says Germany in Bond Bubble as Liabilities Increase
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-18T17:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/pimco-s-gross-says-germany-in-bond-bubble-as-liabilities-rise.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
 Germany  is in a bond market bubble as the country is saddled
with rising liabilities from Europe’s debt crisis.  “I would be leery of German bunds simply because there are
only a few scenarios in which they can do well,” Gross said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “Germany for
me is a credit risk. It’s not an attractive market.”  Germany is the largest contributor to Europe’s bailout
packages for  Greece  and a collapse of that nation’s economy and
its possible exit from the euro area may weigh heavily on
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s administration. While German bonds
have profited from Europe’s crisis, pushing yields on two-year
notes below zero this month for the first time, Gross said the
bonds have little room to rise further, except in a scenario
such as Germany leaving the euro.  German 10-year yields have advanced from a record low of
1.127 percent reached June 1 as Europe’s deepening crisis fueled
concern the currency bloc’s biggest economy will be left picking
up a mounting tab. The yield today closed at 1.44 percent.  ‘Cleanest Shirts’  The difference between the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note and comparable German bunds was at 17.35 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was as high as
49 basis points on April 4. The gap has narrowed as investors
have favored securities from outside the euro area amid the debt
crisis.  Gross, Pimco’s founder and co-chief investment officer,
said the U.S. and U.K. are the “cleanest dirty shirts” for
bond investors. Pimco is avoiding Spanish bonds because there’s
a high probability that they won’t return investors’ money at
par, he said.  “It’s not a safe environment as long as the EU and as long
as the global economy is delevering, which it continues to do,”
said Gross.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  