-- Plus Markets Shareholders Accept ICAP Offer for Exchange
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-06-18T15:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/plus-markets-shareholders-accept-icap-offer-for-exchange.html
Plus Markets Group Plc (PMK) ’s
shareholders approved a 500,000 pound ($783,000) takeover offer
for its stock-exchange unit from  ICAP (IAP)  Plc, bringing to an end
weeks of wrangling.  ICAP will recapitalize Plus and provide funds “to build
and develop the market,” the London-based broker said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today.  “This transaction gives the companies quoted on Plus the
security and confidence that their listing venue will continue
trading and be further developed by ICAP,” according to the
statement. ICAP will work “with issuers, sponsors, brokers and
employees to develop the market over the long term.”  Plus, holder of one of five U.K. exchange licenses, had
struggled to convince shareholders to accept ICAP’s offer after
rejecting a takeover bid by Gulf Merchant Bank Ltd. The trading
venue was scheduled to close after running out of money and
failing to agree terms with a buyer.  In May, ICAP, the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, agreed to pay 1 pound to buy Plus’s stock-
exchange unit. It raised its offer to 500,000 pounds last week
after “frustration” expressed by Plus Markets’ shareholders.  Set up by former  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
executives, Plus sought to compete with LSE, obtaining exchange
status in 2007. Still, it failed to attract sufficient listings
to be profitable or draw trading away from LSE, unlike other new
entrants such as Bats Global Markets and Chi-X Europe Ltd.  Plus was being wound down and had told companies listed on
its markets they needed to find an alternative venue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  