-- Prada Shares Outshine Facebook, China Bling: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   B i l l y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-18T08:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/prada-shares-outshine-facebook-china-bling-chart-of-the-day.html
Miuccia Prada has trumped  Mark
Zuckerberg  and Cheng Yu Tung in the battle of billionaires.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks from the first trading day
 shares (FB)  of companies that had the biggest initial public
offerings since Prada SpA’s  Hong Kong  listing a year ago. The
luxury-goods maker’s stock has climbed 29 percent from its offer
price through June 14, while Cheng’s Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Co.
plunged 40 percent and Facebook Inc. fell 26 percent from
theirs, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , which had
the only other IPO available to investors above $2 billion in
the period, slid 74 percent as the Spanish government took over
the lender.  Shares in Prada, the Milan-based owner of the Miu Miu and
Church’s brands, rose as first-quarter profit more than doubled
and Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli said in May that
the company would add 260 stores in the next three years.
Chairman  Miuccia Prada , her husband Bertelli and relatives own
an 80 percent stake that’s worth about $13.5 billion, based on
last week’s closing share price. The IPO raised $2.5 billion.  “Because Prada is under-penetrated compared to its peers,
it has more potential to open outlets in more locations,” said
Kok Chiew Sia, a Hong Kong-based analyst at DBS Vickers Research
Sdn. She has a buy rating on Prada.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s other big debutante,
Chow Tai Fook, which has more  stores  in China than McDonald’s
Corp., has dropped as gold prices sank 15 percent from last
year’s peak and  China’s economy  grew at its slowest pace in
three years. The IPO generated $2.1 billion. Cheng, who controls
the company, has seen his wealth shrink by $4.9 billion this
year, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He still
has a net worth of $15.2 billion, making him the 40th richest
person, the gauge shows.  Shares in Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, have
fallen amid concern ad revenue growth isn’t keeping pace with
surging membership at the world’s largest social network. The
offering raised $16 billion. Chief Executive Officer
Zuckerberg’s net worth has tumbled to $14.4 billion from $19.1
billion on May 18, when the stock listed in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  