-- Public-Workers’ Union Regroups After Wisconsin to Plot Comeback
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/public-workers-union-regroups-after-wisconsin-to-plot-comeback.html
Leaders of the largest U.S. union of
government workers this week will choose a new president amid
assaults on bargaining rights from statehouses and growing
hostility from voters who view their benefits as an
unsustainable expense.  The  American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees  biannual convention begins in  Los Angeles  less than
two weeks after voters in a pair of California cities approved
ballot measures to restructure benefits for city workers and, in
Wisconsin, rejected a union-led effort to recall Republican
Governor  Scott Walker .  “We need to adjust to the new situation we find ourselves
in,” said  Henry Bayer , a Chicago-based AFSCME vice president
who is chief negotiator for Illinois state employees, said in an
interview. “We’ll decide a course of action for the next two
years and assess the last two.”  In addition to public-sector job cuts and tight state and
local government budgets, the union is also facing its first
change in leadership in three decades. The delegates are
scheduled to vote June 21 for a successor for  Gerald McEntee ,
who has overseen the union since 1981. The race pits McEntee’s
No. 2 at the union against the head of its largest local, based
in New York.  McEntee is scheduled to speak today at the convention,
which runs through June 22.  Recent electoral setbacks reveal diminished public support
towards government workers, Richard Hurd, a labor relations
professor at  Cornell University , said in an interview.  Political Winds  “It’s going to be very difficult for unions to turn
themselves around,” Hurd said. “It’s how the political winds
blow.”  With 1.6 million members, AFSCME is the largest union for
employees such as nurses, correction officers, child-care
workers and trash haulers in state and local government.
Government workers have been one of the few bright spots for
organized labor and became the majority of union members in the
U.S. for the first time in 2009.  Republicans have targeted public-sector unions as a source
of cash and votes for Democrats. Knowing the union benefits are
paid with tax dollars leads to public resentment, said James Sherk, a senior policy analyst in labor economics at the
 Heritage Foundation  in  Washington .  “They don’t add value for taxpayers,” Sherk said.
“Instead they negotiate with elected officials for a greater
cut of tax dollars.”  Backed Clinton  The union was an early supporter of Hillary Clinton’s 2008
bid for the Democratic presidential nomination. It has already
endorsed President  Barack Obama ’s re-election, though it
publicly disagreed with him when he dropped an individual
mandate from health care legislation and extended George W. Bush-era tax cuts.  Obama, who stayed out of Wisconsin during the recall
election, doesn’t plan to address the convention, a change from
four years ago when he spoke to the workers during his first run
for president. Vice President  Joe Biden  is scheduled to appear
in his place.  In addition to the  Wisconsin  and California setbacks,
 Indiana  in February adopted a proposal that allows workers to
avoid paying union dues, while  Ohio  last year passed legislation
to limit collective bargaining. Unions fought back, winning a
referendum that repealed the Ohio law.  McEntee’s Rise  “We are under attack from anti-worker politicians
bankrolled by billionaires and Wall Street barons,” McEntee
said in a statement following the Wisconsin election.  McEntee has used his tenure to expand the political
influence of labor, serving as a vice president of the AFL-CIO
and chairman of its political-education committee.  The son of a sanitation truck driver, he earns a base
salary of $387,000 and has been criticized for his use of
chartered airplanes. His rise through the ranks began in the
1970s when, as head of the Pennsylvania local, he helped
persuade the state’s Republican governor and senate to give
workers collective bargaining rights. That led to 75,000 new
members.  The race to succeed him pits Lee Saunders, the union’s No.
2 executive, against Danny Donohue, who heads AFSCME’s largest
local, the Civil Service Employee Association of  New York . It is
a rematch from 2010, where they faced each other for union’s
secretary-treasurer post. Saunders won by about 3,000 votes.  Saunders’ Platform  Saunders, 60, is pushing for growth by organizing non-
traditional workers, such as home-care and childcare employees,
as well as adding members in southern areas that haven’t been
friendly to unions. Saunders aims to change the focus away from
workers who “have been demonized” for their benefits, said
Richard Abelson, the executive director of AFSCME’s district
 council 48  in  Milwaukee  and a volunteer for Saunders.  Donohue, 67, seeks more spending at the state level,
funding affiliates to push back against local politicians that
propose Wisconsin-like legislation. This would be a strategic
shift from McEntee who has pledged to increase support for
Democrats in federal campaigns 2012.  “We need to re-evaluate how we spend money,” Donohue said
in an interview. “We have become a top-town organization.”  Public Face  The union should aim to build relationships with city
councilmen, mayors and governors where money can go further than
on the national level, he said.  Understanding the tight state and local government budgets,
some unions have cut deals before more draconian legislation is
imposed. Last month, the mayor and union leaders in Providence,
 Rhode Island , agreed to cut pensions for workers including
police and firefighters, while preventing bankruptcy for the
city.  While both AFSCME candidates have similar goals, the public
face of the union can have a great impact, said Charles Craver,
a law professor specializing in labor relations George
Washington University in Washington.  “It matters more than ever with the unions really being
challenged,” Craver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  