-- Putin Urges Tighter Global Derivatives Regulation to Avoid Panic
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-06-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/putin-urges-tighter-global-derivatives-regulation-to-avoid-panic.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
urged Group of 20 nations to tighten regulation of derivatives
trading and implement stricter Basel III banking rules to lessen
the risk of bubbles in international  capital markets .  “Recent trends on the financial markets show an ever-
growing divergence with the fundamental indicators in the real
sector of the economy,” Putin wrote in an opinion article
published today in Mexican daily  El Universal . “This only
serves to further fuel the general lack of confidence and
instability that, as we know, can easily lead to outbreaks of
financial panic.”  Putin, who was inaugurated for his third term as president
last month, said Russia’s call for stricter financial
supervision will form the basis of its proposals at the two-day
G-20 summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  last
month reported $2 billion of losses related to derivatives
trading in a unit managing the bank’s risks.  The world’s leading economies are discussing a mix of
measures to secure the global recovery that will include  deficit
reduction  for some countries and pledges for additional stimulus
by others with sounder finances. Talks will be dominated by
 Europe ’s debt crisis, which leaders from  emerging markets  say
threatens to spread to economies that have so far sidestepped a
global slowdown.  Russia’s central bank will monitor the  derivatives market 
to better control its pace of expansion, Bank Rossii First
Deputy Chairman Alexei Simanovsky said on June 7. Lenders may be
trying to conceal risks with these instruments, he said then.  ‘Risks and Contradictions’  “The problems that have emerged in the banking sector and
the scale of speculation that has brought down markets show that
the global financial architecture is still in need of reform and
still contains many internal risks and contradictions,” Putin
wrote.  The Russian leader, who was also president from 2000 to
2008, called for “practical steps” in giving developing
nations an increased weight in global financial institutions and
encouraging the emergence of new reserve currencies.  The world’s leading economies also need to “stop
pretending and come to an honest agreement on the acceptable
level of protectionist measures that governments can take to
protect jobs in times of global crisis,” Putin said.  Russia , which is joining the  World Trade Organization  this
year, is particularly worried about the discord on trade
protectionism that “inevitably” results from financial
instability, Putin said.  ‘Sophisticated Ways’  “It’s time to recognize that governments are on the one
hand declaring protectionism unacceptable, but on the other hand
are devising ever more sophisticated ways to protect their own
economies, disguising protectionist measures as environmental or
technical restrictions,” he wrote.  Strains in the banking industry and the scale of
speculation show the need for overhauling the global financial
system and tying it to “real assets and values,” Putin said.  Putin reiterated Russia is “very much aware” of the need
to speed up the pace of the economy’s transformation to reduce
its dependence on natural resources.  The needed steps include “radically improving the
investment climate, making Russia a globally competitive place
to do business, reducing infrastructure bottlenecks, building up
its human capital, and modernizing the economy in general,”
while respecting all of its social commitments, Putin wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  