-- Quintain Gains on Partner for River Thames Project: London Mover
-- B y   R o s s   L a r s e n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-06-18T15:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/quintain-forms-greenwich-venture-with-cheng-kar-shun-company.html
Quintain Estates & Development Plc (QED) 
rose the most since December 2010 after a Hong Kong investor
agreed to provide 450 million pounds ($706 million) to help the
company develop Greenwich Peninsula, close to London’s Canary
Wharf financial district.  Quintain climbed as much as 27 percent in London trading.
Henry Cheng Kar-Shun’s Knight Dragon investment company agreed
to buy a 60 percent stake in the venture to build as many as
10,000 homes as well as shops, hotels and schools, the U.K.
developer said in a statement today. Quintain, an urban
regeneration specialist, will control 40 percent.  “This is a transformational deal for Quintain and is the
next step in realizing the inherent value in our key  London 
projects by attracting significant third-party capital,” Max James, who became chief executive officer on  May 25 , said in the
statement.  Greenwich Peninsula, a site on the  River Thames  that’s
dominated by the O2 concert and sports venue, is Quintain’s
second-most valuable asset after its properties in the northwest
London neighborhood of Wembley. Asian buyers have increased
their bets on London projects after  China  imposed curbs on the
housing market to rein in inflation.  Quintain was up 15 percent at 38 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close, giving the company  a market value  of about 198 million
pounds. The shares have dropped 37 percent in the past 12
months, while the FTSE SmallCap Index has declined by 9.5
percent. At the market’s peak in July 2007, Quintain traded at
454 pence.  Riverside Homes  Cheng is the chairman of New World Development Co. and his
family controls  Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Ltd. (1929) , which is
providing a guarantee of Knight Dragon’s obligations. Greenwich
Peninsula Regeneration Ltd. has the rights to develop 14 million
square feet (1.3 million square meters) of residential and
mixed-use land along the River Thames in greater London.  The deal will provide 150 million pounds of cash to the
venture as well as 300 million pounds of available financing,
according to the statement. Quintain will manage the project and
receive a fee of about 4 million pounds a year.  “Quintain will receive future development gains, which we
believe could reach around 10 million pounds a year for around
20 years” after construction at Greenwich begins, Osmaan Malik,
a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said in a note to investors.
Malik raised his rating for the developer’s shares to overweight
from neutral on June 1.  Luxury Hotel  Knight Dragon has committed to unconditionally finance the
first phase of 235 residential units, according to a
presentation on Quintain’s  website . It also plans to accelerate
development around three key areas of the land, including homes,
a four- or five-star hotel, student accommodation, a private
school and sales of plots of land to homebuilders.  Members of the Kwok family formed a joint venture with
Capital & Counties Properties Plc in December to develop sites
in London’s Earls Court neighborhood. On June 7, SP Setia Bhd.
and Sime Darby Bhd. of  Malaysia  agreed to buy Battersea Power
Station for 400 million pounds, six months after the London
property’s owner failed to pay debts and was put into
administration.  As part of the deal announced today,  Lend Lease Group (LLC)  sold
its 50 percent stake in the Greenwich Peninsula project to
Quintain, James said on a conference call today.  Lend Lease  is
 Australia ’s biggest property developer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 