-- Rand Set for Weekly Advance as Yields Fall on Stimulus
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-18T16:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/rand-set-for-weekly-advance-as-yields-fall-on-stimulus.html
The rand rose for a fifth day in its
longest winning streak in more than three months and bonds rose
as gains by pro-bailout parties in Greek elections boosted
demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated as much as 1.5 percent
before paring its gain, trading 0.2 percent stronger at 8.3387
per dollar as of 4:47 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand’s five-day
rally is its widest patch of advances since Feb. 28. Yields on
the country’s 6.75 percent bonds due in 2021 fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.53 percent, the lowest
since May 3.  Emerging-market stocks rallied after Greece’s New Democracy
and Pasok parties won enough seats to form a majority in the
300-member parliament, according to the parliament’s speaker,
easing concern that Greece would reject austerity measures
needed to qualify for international aid. Stocks and the rand
pared gains after Spanish bond yields climbed to a euro-era
record, spurring concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening.  “It all implies that a near-term exit from the  euro zone 
is unlikely to happen and that the euro zone will probably stand
firm in its support of the  Greek economy ,” Quinten Bertenshaw,
a Johannesburg-based analyst at Tradition Analytics, wrote in e-
mailed comments. “This pricing out of risk will be positive for
risk assets in general.”  Spanish borrowing costs climbed after the Bank of  Spain 
said bad loans as a proportion of total Spanish lending jumped
to the highest level since 1994.  The  premium  investors demand to hold South Africa’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. treasuries widened four basis
points to 228 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase EMBI
indexes.  “The focus will now shift to Spain,”  John Cairns  and
Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “With the country’s
yields hitting 7 percent, it appears they will need a full
bailout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  