-- Rangel’s 42-Year Tenure in House Hinges on N.Y. Latino Vote
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-18T16:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/rangel-s-42-year-stint-in-congress-hinges-on-n-y-latino-turnout.html
When New York Democrat Charles Rangel first ran for  U.S. Congress  in 1970, he was so friendly
with  Nelson Rockefeller  that the Republican governor wished him
happy birthday, handed him a map and a pencil, and told him to
draw his own district.  Rangel, 82, who wrote about the incident in his 2007
autobiography, “And I Haven’t Had a Bad Day Since,” reminisced
last week about how in his first campaigns he ran with
Rockefeller’s blessing, piling up votes on both the Democratic
and Republican lines.  “Those days are over,” he said.  This year, it was a federal judge that drew a new district
for Rangel, one that may end his 42-year House career. The
remapping takes away much of  Manhattan ’s Upper West Side, where
the co-founder of the Congressional Black Caucus has garnered
votes for decades, and stretches the district’s northern border
through Latino areas of the Bronx.  Adriano Espaillat, 57, a Democratic state senator, seized
the opportunity and has challenged him in a June 26 primary,
telling voters they could make history by electing the first
Dominican-American to Congress.  “Demographics are destiny for Charlie Rangel,” said
 William Cunningham , who has served as senior adviser to former
New York Governors Hugh Carey and  Mario Cuomo , chief of staff to
former U.S. Senator Daniel Moynihan and as Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s communications director.  Purple Heart  Rangel, who in the  Korean War  received a Purple Heart,
Bronze Star and Presidential Unit Citation for leading 40
comrades to safety from behind enemy lines, got to Congress by
defeating Adam Clayton Powell Jr.,  New York ’s first black
congressman. Powell had served 26 years and become enmeshed in
scandal.  As a member of the Judiciary Committee, Rangel made a name
for himself grilling witnesses during the Watergate hearings and
subsequent impeachment proceedings that forced President  Richard Nixon ’s 1974 resignation. Working his way up the seniority
system -- he has served longer than all but three current House
members -- Rangel in 2007 became chairman of the Ways and Means
Committee, which helps write U.S. tax and trade policy.  Then, in 2010, a House committee found him guilty of 11
ethical violations, including failure to pay some taxes and
disclose rental income on a Dominican Republic house he owned.
He lost the chairmanship, which he would have had to give up
anyway when Republicans seized control of the House that year.
Rangel has appealed the censure resolution, saying he has
evidence that it was tainted by partisan motives.  No Hiding  “He didn’t run away, he didn’t hide and he’s back asking
people to vote for him based on his record creating housing,
health care, education, economic-empowerment zones in depressed
areas, and his argument that all that experience and seniority
is beneficial to New York,” Cunningham said.  Rangel’s political future has become all the more
unpredictable because New York hasn’t had a June primary
election since 1973. It almost guarantees a low turnout, making
it difficult to measure how many residents will vote, said  Jerry
Skurnik , a Manhattan-based political consultant and demographic
analyst.  To identify those most likely to vote in the new district,
Skurnik isolated 70,126 who cast ballots in each of the last
three primaries. Of those, 38 percent had Latino surnames; 37
percent were probably African-American, based on name and street
address, and the rest were white or Asian, he said.  ‘Make History’  “Will it be Dominicans who think they’re going to make
history or will it be African-Americans who don’t want to lose
what they have?” Skurnik said. “Will Puerto Ricans vote like
Dominicans or will they recall Rangel’s record of service to
them?”  If the campaign were a war of endorsements, Rangel would be
winning. His supporters include Bloomberg, an independent, and
former Mayors Edward Koch and David Dinkins, Bronx Borough
President Ruben Diaz Jr., and U.S. Representatives Jose Serrano
and  Jerrold Nadler , all Democrats. The current mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “You can never be confident in an election when you expect
as small a turnout as this,” Rangel told reporters last week
after getting City Council Speaker Christine Quinn’s support.
“The victor will be the one who gets the most voters out.”  ‘Still Doing Good’  Sonia Gonzalez, 63, stood on the street in early June
waiting for Rangel to arrive for a campaign stop in front of her
apartment at 181st Street and St. Nicholas Avenue. A district
leader for 1199SEIU, a health-care workers’ union that has
endorsed Rangel, Gonzalez said she’s undecided.  “Rangel’s name is not spoken much around this Dominican-
dominated neighborhood,” said Gonzalez, who is of Puerto Rican
descent. “I love Charlie, he’s done a lot of good, but I also
believe in new blood coming in. It’s confusing because Charlie
is still doing good for the community.”  Espaillat’s backers include former Bronx Borough Presidents
Adolfo Carrion and Fernando Ferrer; the Transit Workers Union;
El Diario, a daily citywide Spanish-language newspaper; and the
Riverdale Review, a weekly publication in the most affluent
neighborhood in the Bronx,  New York City ’s poorest borough.  ‘The Equalizer’  He’s also benefitted from at least $5,500 worth of e-mails
and other anti-Rangel campaign materials circulated by a Texas-
based independent organization, the  Campaign for Primary
Accountability . Espaillat has raised a total of $333,637,
according to opensecrets.org, a Washington D.C.-based campaign
finance watchdog group.  “We act as the equalizer to help challengers overcome the
tremendous advantage that incumbents like Charlie Rangel have,”
said Curtis Ellis, a spokesman for the group.  Rangel has raised $1.1 million, with his largest corporate
support, $29,000, coming from employees of  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  of
Columbus,  Georgia , the world’s biggest seller of supplemental
health insurance.  His four next largest sources of organizational backing are
 Rosen Partners LLC , a New York-based real estate development
company, which gave $12,500; and the  American Association for
Justice , a Washington-based trial lawyers’ group, $10,000;
 Cablevision (CVC)  Systems Corp;  Hospital Hermanos Melendez , a Puerto
Rican medical center; and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , each of which
contributed $10,000, according to  opensecrets.org .  New Voice  Espaillat, an assemblyman for 14 years before winning
election to the state Senate in 2010, has been almost as
effective as Rangel in gathering votes, winning 80 percent or
more in general elections.  “We need a new voice in Congress that will articulate the
issues,” Espaillat said in an interview last week. “The
congressman is no longer as effective as he may have been
once.”  He usually avoids mention of Rangel’s ethical censure
during his campaign speeches.  “What do I need to say that people don’t know already?”
he said. “This is about the future, not about the past and the
favors that you did to cronies and friends.”  Rangel survived a primary challenge two years ago from Adam Clayton Powell IV, son of the congressman he defeated 42 years
ago, with 51 percent to Powell’s 23 percent in a six-candidate
field in which 51,000 votes were cast.  This year, Rangel faces three challengers in addition to
Espaillat, including Harlem-based Clyde Williams, 50, who has
worked as an aide to former President  Bill Clinton  and raised
$362,464 for the race, according to opensecrets.org.  ‘In Trouble’  “What is obvious is that Rangel’s in trouble,” Skurnik
said. “If Espaillat manages to become a real cause, he’ll get
Hispanics who never voted in a primary before, and then he
wins.”  Rangel’s years of service were celebrated along with his
birthday last week at a Manhattan fundraiser attended by about
500 who paid from $200 to $5,000. He danced on stage and
entertained the crowd with jokes, without the walking cane he’s
used since being hospitalized for a back injury this year.  Clinton, who established an office in Harlem, part of
Rangel’s district, after he left the White House, sent a  video 
with regrets that he couldn’t attend.  “You’ve made a difference in many lives,” Clinton said.
“Have another great year of health, happiness and success.”  Koch, 87, who served in Congress from 1969 to 1977 before
becoming mayor in 1978, said in an interview that Rangel played
a key role in helping Koch defuse tensions between blacks and
Jews in the 1980s.  “People ask why I’m supporting Charlie Rangel,” Koch told
the birthday party crowd. “He’s my brother. And when your
brother needs help, you’ve got to be there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  