-- Real Declines as Brazil’s GDP Outlook Cut, Spain’s Yields Soar
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-18T21:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/real-declines-as-brazil-s-gdp-outlook-cut-spain-s-yields-soar.html
The real fell for the first time in
three days after Spanish bond yields rose to a record following
Greece’s election and analysts in a Brazilian central bank
survey lowered their forecasts for economic growth.  The currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0590 per  U.S.
dollar . Yields on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell for the eighth time in nine days,
retreating four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.05
percent.  “There was a slight improvement with the Greek election,
but the situation continues to be uncertain,” Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The focus is back on  Spain .”  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 2.3 percent in
2012, compared with a forecast of 2.53 percent a week earlier,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of
about 100 analysts published today. The economy expanded 2.7
percent last year.  Mexico  will grow 3.72 percent this year, according to a
central bank survey of 29 economists released June 1. The
economists raised forecasts for a fifth straight month.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell, pushing yields above 7 percent
for the first time since the euro was introduced in 1999, as a
jump in bad loans fueled concern the debt crisis is deepening.
Greek bonds rallied after pro-bailout parties won enough seats
to control parliament.  ‘Permanent Uncertainty’  “The  exchange rate  depends on the foreign environment in
which  Europe  is in a crisis that keeps dragging on, with
permanent uncertainty,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at
Votorantim CTVM Ltda., said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s Finance minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in
Los Cabos, Mexico, today that Europe’s anti-crisis response has
been insufficient and the largest emerging-market nations will
announce their additional contribution to the  International
Monetary Fund  at a Group of 20 meeting in Mexico.  Yields on Brazilian rate futures dropped after the central
bank survey showed analysts expect policy makers to reduce
borrowing costs to a record low 7.5 percent this year, a bigger
cut than previously forecast.  “Projections for the Selic rate fell straight from 8 to
7.5 percent, without stopping at 7.75 percent,” Souza Leal
said.  More modest growth will help slow inflation, the central
bank survey showed. Consumer prices will rise 5 percent in 2012,
compared with a week-earlier forecast of 5.03 percent.  Economic Growth  The seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, rose 0.22 percent in April after
contracting a revised 0.61 percent in the previous month, the
central bank reported June 15. Analysts expected a 0.24 percent
increase, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 21 economists.  “Economic growth moved deeper below trend and continues to
slow, reinforcing  Brazil ’s underperformance against the rest of
the region,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a report
today. “The real will continue to underperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  