-- U.S. 30-Year Yields Touch One-Week Low Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-18T21:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/treasuries-decline-as-greek-vote-saps-demand-for-refuge.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields touched
the lowest level in more than a week before the  Federal Reserve 
opens a two-day policy meeting amid speculation on whether it
will take further steps to boost economic growth.  Long bonds briefly erased gains after the Fed bought $1.92
billion of long-term U.S. securities. Treasuries erased early
losses amid concern European leaders will struggle to stem their
debt crisis even after pro-bailout parties in Greece won enough
votes to form a government. Spanish bond yields climbed to more
than 7 percent for the first time in the euro era.  “The market shrugged off the good news from Europe and
continues to consolidate around these levels,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “A lot of people are waiting for the Fed, as there
are still tons of questions, and a lot of people are waiting on
the sidelines to see what happens.”  The  30-year bond  yield declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.66 percent at 5:06 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched 2.65 percent
earlier, the lowest level since June 6, after rising as much as
eight basis points. The yield dropped on June 1 to a record low
2.51 percent. The price of the 3 percent security due in May
2042 rose 1/2, or $5 per 1,000 face amount, to 106 31/32.  Ten-year note  yields were little changed at 1.57 percent
after falling earlier to 1.56 percent. the lowest since June 8.
They dropped on June 1 to 1.44 percent, a record.  Lower Volume  Trading  volume  dropped. About $188 billion of Treasuries
changed hands as of 5:01 p.m. through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker, compared with $212 billion on June
15. It was the lowest since May 25. The average volume over the
past year was $254 billion.  “All eyes are on  Europe  and the Fed,” said Thomas Simons,
a government-debt economist in New York at the primary dealer
Jefferies Group Inc. “There is a ton of stuff that is supposed
to happen later in the week, but until then we drift. It’s not
advised to put on any position in any direction given the amount
of uncertainty out there.”  The Fed  bought  Treasuries today due from February 2037 to
November 2041 as part of its Operation Twist program to replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries in an effort to lower borrowing costs.  The central bank sold $8.6 billion of Treasuries earlier
due from May 2013 to November 2013.  As the U.S. recovery slows and the central bank’s efforts
to boost growth expire, there’s no consensus among the biggest
bond dealers that the central bank will begin a fourth round of
economic stimulus with consumer and corporate borrowing costs
already at record lows.  Stimulus Bets  Signs of faltering growth amid European debt turmoil,
combined with inflation below the central bank’s 2 percent
target, mean the Fed will announce new steps to boost growth as
soon as this week, according to 12 of the 21 primary dealers.
The rest don’t expect action, and some say yields near all-time
lows limit the effectiveness of more measures by policy makers.  The Fed kept the economy growing for nine straight quarters
by pumping $2.3 trillion into the financial system in two rounds
of a tactic called quantitative easing, and by shifting $400
billion into longer-term debt. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
bond indexes show yields on corporate bonds have fallen to 3.44
percent from more than 8 percent in early 2009.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, a
primary dealer, forecasts a 60 percent likelihood of additional
Fed stimulus through more buying of longer-maturity issues or
additional asset purchases.  Inflation Outlook  Further action might have “diminishing impact, but if the
impact’s diminishing, that doesn’t mean they shouldn’t do it,”
said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond strategist at RBS in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The yield gap between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, which signals traders’ outlook
for the rate of inflation over the life of the debt, was 2.12
percentage points. It reached a 2012 low of 1.9 percentage
points on Jan. 3 and a high of 2.45 percentage points March 20.
The five-year average is 2.02 percentage points.  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes are at almost
the most expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.89 percent,
after reaching a record of negative 0.94 percent on June 1. The
average over the past year is negative 0.48 percent. A negative
reading indicates investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value.  Greek Election  Antonis Samaras, leader of  Greece ’s New Democracy party,
said he will work with pro-European parties to form a national
salvation government. Samaras, whose party came first in June 17
elections, spoke at the start of a meeting with President
Karolos Papoulias, where he received a three-day mandate to form
a government.  Group of 20 nations chiefs began a two-day meeting in
 Mexico  today as Spanish borrowing costs soared to a euro-era
record.  Spain ’s 10-year yield climbed as much as 41 basis points
to 7.29 percent, while the euro weakened 0.6 percent to $1.2564
after strengthening earlier to $1.2748.  German 10-year bund yields fell two basis points to 1.41
percent, reversing an  earlier  increase. They touched a record
low 1.13 percent on June 1. U.K. 10-year bonds were little
changed at 1.66 percent, after reaching 1.44 percent on June 1.  The U.S. and U.K. are the “cleanest dirty shirts” for
bond investors, according to  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
largest bond mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Gross said  Germany  is in a bond-market bubble, as the
country is saddled with rising liabilities from the region’s
debt crisis. He spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  