-- REC Rises as Japan Seeks to Expand Solar Investment: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-06-18T12:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/rec-rises-as-japan-seeks-to-expand-solar-investment-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC) , the
Norwegian maker of solar-energy components, climbed to a two-
week high in Oslo as  Japan  boosts incentives for producers of
solar power to reduce its reliance on atomic energy.  REC, based in Sandvika, gained as much as 7.9 percent to
2.698 kroner, the highest since June 1, and traded 5.6 percent
higher as of 1:20 p.m. in the Norwegian capital, making it the
biggest winner today in the  OBX benchmark index of stocks . The
stock gained for a fourth day, the longest run of advances since
the week ending Dec. 23, according to Bloomberg data.  Japan plans to cut its dependence on atomic energy that
provided about 30 percent of its power before the Fukushima
nuclear meltdown in 2011. Industry Minister Yukio Edano today
set a premium price for solar electricity that’s about triple
what industrial users now pay for conventional power.  That may spur at least $9.6 billion in new installations
with 3.2 gigawatts of capacity, according to a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance forecast, boosting demand for the cells and
wafers produced by companies including REC,  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-
Cells SE.  European solar-component makers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as consumption
slowed, causing wafer and cell prices to plummet. Demand has
also shrunk as Germany, France and  Italy  reduce subsidies to cap
booming solar installations.  REC has lost  99 percent  of its value since trading at an
intraday high of 224.017 kroner on Nov. 9, 2007. The company is
closing down its remaining wafer production in  Norway  as cost
cuts at the Heroeya plant were unable to keep pace with falling
wafer prices. Wafers, or thin slices of polysilicon, are used to
make photovoltaic cells, the basic component in most solar
panels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  