-- Renault Mulls New-Luxury Salvation as Europe Sales Fade
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-06-19T08:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/renault-mulls-salvation-in-new-luxury-as-europe-sales-fade-cars.html
Renault SA (RNO)  is considering adding two
upscale brands and further expanding in  emerging markets  to
decrease the automaker’s reliance on  Europe ’s shrinking volume
car market.  Renault may revive the Alpine marque to offer  sports cars 
and create another  high-end brand  to sell luxury models, Chief
Operating Officer  Carlos Tavares  said in an interview last week
at the French automaker’s headquarters in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt.  “You need to be competitive across the world,” Tavares
said. “That’s why we have been managing the change from a
European-focused company toward a global carmaker.”  Tavares’ ambition to create two new units comes as the 113-
year-old company faces slumping sales in western Europe, where
the automaker earned about 65 percent of 2011 revenue. The
region’s car deliveries will shrink 7 percent in 2012, the fifth
straight annual decline, as consumers hold back spending over
concerns the sovereign debt crisis will spread, the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said this month.  Under the plan, Renault would have four brands in total,
with the Romania-based Dacia selling no-frills autos, Renault
offering volume cars with more options, Alpine serving as the
sports-car make and the Initiale Paris insignia becoming the
luxury brand. With no high-end marques currently, Renault’s most
expensive car is the large minivan Espace, which has a base
price of 35,100 euros ($44,340). The flagship A8 sedan from
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi starts at 78,780 euros.  Deliveries Drop  “We may have one day a luxury brand,” he said. “That
would help from a profitability standpoint because everybody’s
always looking at VW and what Audi represents for the VW
group.”  Renault’s five-month European  deliveries  dropped 19
percent, compared with a 7.3 percent decline for the industry as
a whole in the region, according to ACEA data.  European carmakers are looking for ways to expand outside
their home region and grapple with rising excess production
capacity in western Europe, which may more than double to about
2 million vehicles in 2012, according to researcher IHS
Automotive.  General Motors Co. (GM)  said last week that it may close
a German factory, while  Fiat SpA (F)  shuttered an Italian plant at
the end of last year.  VW deliveries in the region fell just 1.9 percent through
May, buoyed by sales at Audi, which gained 4.2 percent. The VW
group’s European market share climbed to 24.1 percent from 22.8
percent. Audi accounted for 44 percent of the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker’s first-quarter operating profit even
though it delivered just 15 percent of the group’s vehicles.  Botched Probe  “All eyes in Europe are on VW, wondering how to compete
against the number one player,” said Mike Tyndall, a Barclays
analyst in  London . “So the question for Renault would be: can
an upscale offering be credible?”  Renault’s five-month deliveries worldwide fell 5.7 percent
to 1.07 million vehicles, according to the carmaker’s website.
The French automaker’s European market share during that period
dropped to 8.3 percent from 9.6 percent, according to ACEA data.
The carmaker, which hasn’t reported any profit figures for 2012
yet, posted a 0.7 percent decline last year in earnings before
interest and taxes to 1.09 billion euros.  Tavares, 53, is working to remake Renault one year after
replacing  Patrick Pelata , who stepped down following a botched
espionage investigation that led to the wrongful dismissal of
three senior managers. The Portuguese executive joined Renault
31 years ago as a test-driving engineer and held several
executive positions, most recently as head of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s
operations in the Americas. Renault owns 43.4 percent of Nissan.  Alpine’s Decline  Alpine was founded in the 1950s and became well-known among
sports-car enthusiasts for the A110 and Berlinette, which was
introduced in 1962. Alpine signed a partnership with Renault in
the mid-1960s and its cars were distributed through Renault
dealers. Renault bought a majority of Alpine in the early 1970s.
The carmaker stopped making Alpine models in 1995.  Renault is talking to potential partners to help revive the
brand and share in the development costs, Tavares said, without
providing additional details. Renault currently has two main
alliances: the one with Nissan, which started in 1999, and one
with Mercedes-Benz owner  Daimler AG (DAI) , which began in 2010.  ’Strategic Shift’  “Having a sports car brand such as Alpine would represent
a real strategic shift,” said Carlos da Silva, an analyst at
IHS Automotive in Paris. “Renault considered that option to be
much too costly up to now.”  Tavares pointed to Nissan’s development of the Infiniti
brand as a possible model for what he’s considering for a
Renault luxury marque. Infiniti originally started in 1989 in
the U.S. as a Nissan offshoot before evolving over a 20-year
period into a full-fledged luxury brand of its own.  Renault may do something similar with the Initiale Paris
label, which is currently used on special edition versions of
the brand’s models, Tavares said.  Renault plans to make a decision on the new strategy yet
this year, Tavares said. In Europe, Audi, Mercedes and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  dominate the luxury market.  “The creation of two high-end brands would represent the
first bold strategic move by Tavares,” da Silva said.  Renault also plans to expand outside Europe in emerging
markets, the COO said. The Renault-Nissan alliance targets
raising its Russian market share to 40 percent by 2015 from 33
percent following the takeover of Lada maker  OAO AvtoVAZ. (AVAZ)   Russia 
is forecast to surpass  Germany  as the largest auto market in
Europe in 2014.  The French carmaker has signed a tentative agreement with
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. to start producing cars in  China , the
world’s biggest auto market, by the end of 2015. Renault is also
in negotiations with the Algerian government to build a factory
in the country to expand in North Africa.  “You’ll be surprised in a few years to see the market
share that we have in some regions outside Europe,” Tavares
said. “The ambition we have in Europe is to make sure that you,
as a consumer, will hesitate between a Volkswagen and a
Renault.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  