-- ResCap Judge Asks Company to Justify Fortress as Lead Bid
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-18T17:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/rescap-judge-asks-company-to-justify-fortress-as-lead-bid.html
Residential Capital LLC must justify
the choice of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  as lead bidder for
its most valuable asset instead of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the
holding company run by billionaire  Warren Buffett , the judge
overseeing ResCap’s bankruptcy said.  During a hearing today in Manhattan, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn asked ResCap’s lawyers to explain why an affiliate
of Fortress deserves to be the lead bidder when Berkshire’s
offer has a lower breakup fee.  ResCap, Berkshire and Fortress’s Nationstar Mortgage
Holdings Inc. will return to court later today to argue about
who should be named the so-called stalking horse for a court-
supervised auction of ResCap’s mortgage-servicing unit.
Berkshire has offered to match Nationstar’s $2.4 billion price
for the unit while reducing the breakup fee to $24 million from
$72 million.  Before taking a break from the hearing, Glenn also
questioned whether any stalking horse should be named.  “Persuade me why I should approve any breakup fee,” Glenn
said, referring to the main benefit given to the lead bidder. A
breakup fee and other protections are designed to guarantee
interest in an auction, Glenn said.  Ally Bid  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy last month
after agreeing to name Nationstar as the stalking horse for the
mortgage unit. ResCap is also proposing to sell a portfolio of
loans at a separate auction with its parent,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) 
as lead bidder with an initial offer of $1.4 billion.  Ally, based in Detroit, supported ReCap’s bankruptcy filing
as a way to resolve legal claims related to mortgage-backed
securities. Ally is 74 percent-owned by the U.S. Treasury after
receiving a bailout.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  