-- Roche Acquires Rights to Alzheimer’s Drug Rights From AC Immune
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/roche-acquires-rights-to-alzheimer-s-drug-rights-from-ac-immune.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  bought the rights
to an experimental drug for Alzheimer’s disease from closely
held AC Immune, its second deal with the Swiss company.  Roche’s Genentech unit will pay an undisclosed amount for
rights to AC Immune’s anti-Tau antibodies, plus more than 400
million Swiss francs ($421 million) if the drugs meet targets,
Lausanne-based AC Immune said in a statement today. Roche will
also pay royalties on sales of the treatments.  The deal gives Roche treatments against the second of
what are thought to be the two main causes of Alzheimer’s,
after buying the rights to crenezumab, a drug fighting the
brain plaques that characterize the disease, from AC Immune in
2006. The memory-depleting disease affects 36 million people
globally, a number that may double in 20 years.  “Alzheimer’s is one of the biggest medical challenges of
our time,” said Alexander Schuth,  Genentech ’s head of
neuroscience business development, in a telephone interview.
“The science is breaking open in those fields. We’re on the
cusp of being able to make a difference.”  AC Immune’s antibodies target a protein called Tau that
causes abnormally high tangles in the brains of Alzheimer’s
sufferers. While scientists don’t know what role plaques or
tangles play in the disease, they’re thought to block
communication among nerve cells, according to the Chicago-
based  Alzheimer’s Association .  In mice, the antibodies have been shown to reduce the
number of tangles and improve memory, Andrea Pfeifer, AC Imune’s
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview. Human
trials may start in 18 months to three years, she said.  Roche expects results next year from mid-stage tests of
crenezumab in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s, the
company has said.  The U.S. National Institutes of Health said last month it
plans to test crenezumab in about 300 people in  Colombia  with a
genetic mutation that leaves them nearly certain to develop
Alzheimer’s in their 40s.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva on 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net 
Anna Edney in  Washington  on 
 aedney@bloomberg.net 
--With assistance from Naomi Kresge in Berlin. Editor: Guy Collins,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net  