-- Roger Clemens Acquitted of Charges Over Steroid Use
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/roger-clemens-acquitted-of-federal-charges-over-steroid-use.html
Roger Clemens , the pitcher who won
more than 350 games and struck out more than 4,600 batters in a
24-year Major League Baseball career, was found not guilty of
lying to Congress about his use of performance-enhancing drugs.  A federal jury of eight women and four men in Washington
yesterday acquitted Clemens of all six counts he faced. Over a
nine-week trial, 46 witnesses testified, including former
teammate  Andy Pettitte , Clemens’s wife and his chief accuser and
decade-long trainer, Brian McNamee.  “Mr. Clemens, you’re free to go,” U.S. District Judge
 Reggie Walton  said yesterday following the verdict. Clemens,
wiping away tears, hugged his wife and family.  The Justice Department’s defeat in the trial of Clemens
follows its announcement last week that it wouldn’t retry former
U.S. Senator  John Edwards  on campaign finance-related crimes,
following a mistrial. Meanwhile, federal prosecutors in New York
last week obtained a swift conviction of former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Director Rajat Gupta on insider trading charges. The
dual losses against a famous politician and sports figure are
likely to be scrutinized for the lessons they hold for future
prosecutions.  ‘Visceral Feelings’  “Both juries were able to set aside their visceral
feelings and look at the evidence and the evidence in both was
lacking,”  Marc Mukasey , a former federal prosecutor who is now
in private practice at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, said of the
Edwards and Clemens verdicts. “You try to learn from your
mistakes.”  The jury’s decision yesterday ends more than 4 1/2 years of
proceedings against Clemens, who racked up the third-most
strikeouts in major-league history for the  New York  Yankees,
 Boston Red Sox ,  Toronto Blue Jays  and  Houston Astros .  “It’s kind of uncomfortable for me to sit and hear people
talk about you, good or bad,” Clemens said after court. “I put
a lot of work into that career.”  “I want to thank everyone who came in to speak on my
behalf and tell their story, who took time to get on a plane and
come in,” Clemens said. He later signed a baseball for a fan
outside the courthouse.  ‘Happy Thing’  “This is a happy thing,” Janet Johnson, Clemens’s sister,
said about the verdict.  Clemens thanked his legal team, whom he said “from day one
listened to what I had to say.”  One of his lawyers,  Rusty Hardin , said after court
yesterday that “it’s a day of celebration. Justice won out.”  “Hopefully when a man says ‘I didn’t do it,’ let’s at
least give him the benefit of the doubt,” Hardin said. “I’ve
got nothing bad to say about anybody today.”  U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr. thanked the jury for its
service.  “We respect the judicial process and the jury’s verdict,
Machen said in a statement. ‘‘The U.S. Attorney’s Office also
wishes to thank the investigators and prosecutors, who pursued
this case with tremendous dedication and professionalism after
its referral to us from Congress.”  Clemens, 49, the winner of a record seven Cy Young Awards
as the best pitcher in his league, has denied using steroids and
human growth hormone since a Dec. 13, 2007, report by former
U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  accused him of using the drugs in
1998, 2000 and 2001. Clemens’s first prosecution ended in a
mistrial in July 2011 after government lawyers showed jurors
evidence the judge had excluded.  DNA Evidence  “These cases are tough to prosecute,” P.J. Meitl, a
criminal defense lawyer at Bryan Cave LLP in  Washington , said in
an interview before the verdict was announced. In a 2007 study,
Meitl found just six defendants in the past 60 years who went to
prison for charges related to lying to Congress.  “Here they had DNA evidence and a witness who said he did
it and they still couldn’t get a conviction,” Meitl said.
“Prosecutors are unlikely to go forward with these charges in
the future unless Congress demands it.”  Clemens was indicted on one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by Major League Baseball players. He was also
charged with three counts of making false statements to
congressional investigators and two counts of perjury stemming
from his public testimony to a House panel.  Future Prosecutions  He faced as long as 21 months in prison had he been
convicted of all the charges.  Steven Ross, general counsel to the House from 1983 until
1993, said an acquittal shouldn’t deter future prosecutions for
lying to Congress.  “For the long-term, power-of-Congress role to investigate,
the bottom line is that the rules requiring people testify
truthfully under oath apply in congressional settings,” said
Ross, who leads the congressional investigations practice at
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in Washington.  Clemens, a right-hander, was known as “the Rocket” for
his fastball and willingness to challenge opposing hitters he
felt might be getting too close to the plate or otherwise taking
too many liberties with what he considered his territory.  In one case, he picked up a piece of the shattered bat of
Mike Piazza and hurled it at the  New York Mets ’ catcher running
to first base during a 2000 World Series game between the New
York teams. In a regular season game that July, Clemens had hit
Piazza in the head with a pitch.  Intense Exercise  Known for his intense conditioning regimen -- running,
weightlifting, even exercising his hand muscles in a bucket of
dry rice on his off days -- Clemens pitched until he was 44
years old. He left the game after the 2007 season with a 354-184
record, a 3.12 earned run average and 4,672 strikeouts, a total
that in major league history was exceeded only by  Nolan Ryan  and
 Randy Johnson .  The charges stemmed from statements the ex-pitcher made in
February 2008 during a private interview with staff from the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and later in
a public hearing.  Under oath, Clemens denied ever using steroids or HGH,
according to the indictment, matching public denials since
Mitchell’s report alleged drug use on at least 16 occasions from
1998 to 2001.  Famous Athlete  After he testified, the committee’s Democratic and
Republican leaders asked the  Justice Department  to investigate
Clemens for perjury. He was indicted by a grand jury in August
2010.  In its closing argument, the government tried to overcome
jurors’ possible reluctance to convict a famous athlete.  “We know that you do not want to find Roger Clemens
guilty,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Courtney Saleski said. “He’s
an American icon in baseball. Nobody wants to believe that he
did this.”  The government’s case largely rested on whether jurors
believed McNamee, the only eyewitness to the alleged drug use.  McNamee, who spent about 26 hours on the stand, said he
gave the ballplayer injections of steroids during the 1998, 2000
and 2001 baseball seasons and HGH in 2000, while both men worked
for the Blue Jays and the Yankees.  Beer Can  The drug use began when Clemens asked for help with a
“booty” shot in June 1998 when the two returned to Toronto
after a team series in Florida, he told jurors.  The evidence included a needle and cotton with Clemens’s
DNA on them that tested positive for steroids, prosecutors said.
The material was given to investigators by McNamee, who said he
saved needles, gauze and vials from one of the injections in
2001.  He told jurors he kept some of the items in a Miller Lite
beer can that he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s
apartment. He brought the materials home, combined them with
other drugs Clemens told him to destroy and placed it all in a
FedEx box, he testified.  McNamee’s story shifted from his first conversation with
federal investigators in 2007 until he took the stand on May 14.
Under cross-examination, he said the beer can also contained
needles kept from injections he gave other ballplayers.  That admission allowed Clemens’s lawyers attack the
credibility of the government’s only physical evidence.  The defense portrayed McNamee as a liar who manipulated the
evidence he provided. During closing arguments, defense lawyers
contended that when confronted by federal investigators about
his connection to drug dealers, McNamee made up a story about
Clemens. He kept adding to that story, they said.  Diet Pills  “If you’re a really serious, serious pathological liar,
you take a little bit of truth and wrap a bunch of stuff around
it,” said Hardin, Clemens’s lawyer.  Hardin’s attack on McNamee included accusations of alcohol
abuse and engaging in a fraudulent scheme to obtain diet pills.
Hardin also got McNamee to admit he manipulated a dead body
while he was a New York police officer.  McNamee’s estranged wife, Eileen, was also used by the
defense to damage his credibility. The first-grade teacher
contradicted key facts from McNamee’s testimony about her
involvement in collecting and storing Clemens’s medical waste.  McNamee said he retained material from injecting Clemens
because his wife nagged him about the amount of time he spent
with the ballplayer and said he would be the one to take the
fall “if something bad ever happens.”  Steroid Shot  He also said he showed his wife some of the materials from
a steroid shot he gave Clemens the night he brought the
materials home.  She told jurors none of that ever happened.  Walton allowed jurors to participate in the trial by
submitting questions that he and the opposing lawyers vetted
after each witness testified. Walton said in court it helped
keep jurors engaged in a lengthy trial.  The questions provided clues about the leanings of each
juror who submitted them.  “Why should we believe you when you have shown so many
inconsistencies in your testimonies?” one juror sought to ask
McNamee, according to a transcript of a bench conference. That
question, which was rejected, was among 29 submitted for him.  The panel that decided the case included a cybersecurity
expert at the U.S. Treasury Department, a public school teacher
of deaf fourth graders, an administrative assistant at the
Canadian Embassy, a former executive director of a
psychologists’ association and a program analyst for the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission , who said during jury selection that he
has known people who used performance-enhancing drugs.  Only Witness  The only other witness tying Clemens to the use of HGH by
personal testimony was Pettitte, former pitching teammate on the
Yankees and Astros who is now playing for New York again after a
one-season retirement.  Pettitte, 40, said Clemens talked to him about using HGH
while the two were working out in either 1999 or 2000.  Clemens testified to Congress that he told Pettitte his
wife, Debbie, used HGH. Under questioning by Michael Attanasio,
another lawyer for Clemens, Pettitte agreed there was a 50
percent chance he misunderstood his teammate.  During closing arguments, Assistant U.S. Attorney Gilberto
Guerrero told jurors that Pettitte’s long friendship with
Clemens accounted for his inconsistent testimony.  “You think Andy Pettitte would put Roger Clemens in too
much harm’s way?” Guerrero asked. “He was almost jumping at
the opportunity on cross-examination to say 50-50.”  Lack of Certainty  Hardin told jurors that Pettitte’s lack of certainty
“takes him out of the equation” for weighing Clemens’s guilt.  “Put Andy Pettitte over here, then what are you left
with?” he said. “ Brian McNamee .”  Debbie Clemens supported the possibility that the
conversation with Pettitte had been about her by saying she
received a shot of HGH from McNamee around 2000, three years
earlier than McNamee placed the event.  One of the 13 allegedly false or misleading statements that
made up the criminal charges involved Clemens’s testimony that
he wasn’t present for his wife’s HGH shot.  Debbie Clemens backed him up on the witness stand.  With one eyewitness, the government called investigators,
forensic analysts and former trainers to bolster McNamee’s
credibility or rebut what Clemens told Congress.  Eugene Monahan, who was the Yankees’ athletic trainer from
1973 until last year, disputed Clemens’s account to Congress
that syringes containing B12 were lined up in the locker room
after games or that players received such injections through
their clothing.  Brian Cashman , the Yankees general manager, gave
similar testimony.  Backed Claims  Clemens’s defense team responded with former teammates and
coaches who backed Clemens’s claims that injections such as B12
were readily available.  The defense also called into question the physical evidence
linking Clemens to steroids, noting it was stored in a beer can
for seven years.  “Garbage in, garbage out,” said Bruce Goldberger, a
defense toxicology expert.  The defense highlighted government tests showing the DNA on
the needle allegedly used to inject Clemens was so scanty it
would match one of every 449 people.  In closing arguments, Hardin accused the government of
“horrible, horrible overreach” in going after Clemens for
defending himself against the accusations in the Mitchell
report.  “It is not arrogant to say ‘I didn’t do it,’” Hardin
said. “It is not arrogant to pay a price to be here. It is not
arrogant to say ‘I worked for 24 years to be the best there
was.’”  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington federal court at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington federal court at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  