-- Romania Succeeded in Keeping Leu Under Control: Ponta
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-18T11:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/romania-succeeded-in-keeping-leu-under-control-ponta.html
The Romanian central bank, together
with the government, managed to control the country’s currency,
amid regional depreciation pressures before a second Greek vote,
Premier Victor Ponta said.  Romania , whose leu has been the worst-performer in east
 Europe  so far this year, has been affected in the past weeks by
uncertainty over a Greek exit from the euro area after an
inconclusive election May 6 and a fresh vote yesterday, Ponta
said. The Balkan nation had “a special interest” in the Greek
vote as 17 percent of its banking industry is owned by Greek
lenders. Central bank spokesman Mugur Stet declined to comment
on the bank’s market actions when contacted by phone today.  “We have already been affected like all the countries in
the area in the last weeks, as the exchange rate came under
pressure of financial speculation,” Ponta told reporters in
Vienna today. “Fortunately, the Romanian central bank in
joining the efforts with the government, succeeded to keep the
 exchange rate  under control. But it was not easy.”  The market turmoil prompted by rising concerns over
 Greece ’s future in the euro region helped push the Romanian leu
to a record-low 4.5156 per euro on June 11, as Europe’s emerging
countries in the east are tied to Greece through banking and
trading ties. The leu has lost about 3.25 percent since the
start of the year, while the Polish zloty and the Hungarian
forint gained 4 percent and 7 percent.  Greek Vote  Greece’s two largest pro-bailout parties won enough seats
to forge a parliamentary majority in the election yesterday,
official projections showed, paving the way for a coalition
government and easing concern the country is headed toward
dropping the euro.  New Democracy  won 30 percent of the vote, or 130 seats,
enough to form a coalition with Pasok, whose leader  Evangelos
Venizelos  said he’d propose President Karolos Papoulias broker a
unity government which would include Syriza and Democratic Left,
the sixth-biggest party.  Ponta said the second Greek vote outcome is a reason to be
“a bit more optimistic,” while the future of eastern Europe is
difficult, and that he hopes Greece will keep its European path.  Adrian Vasilescu, an adviser to central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu, said May 23 that policy makers are “very closely”
watching the developments of Europe’s debt crisis and is using
“adequate instruments” to limit the impact of the turmoil on
the leu.  The leu has declined 1.8 percent against the common
currency in the second quarter, while the Polish zloty dropped
2.7 percent. The  Hungarian forint , the best regional performer
this year, gained 0.7 percent from the end March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net . 