-- Romney, Boehner Show United Front Against Obama in Ohio
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/romney-beohner-show-united-front-against-obama-in-ohio.html
Presidential candidate Mitt Romney
closed his first general-election bus tour of  Ohio  with U.S.
House Speaker  John Boehner , a native of the state, at his side,
the two Republicans showing a united front in a pivotal state.  Boehner, at a rally in Troy, which is within his
congressional district, said President Barack Obama and the
 Democratic Party  are blocking Republican legislation from
becoming law and that electing Romney would break the logjam.
Boehner stood alongside Romney and Senator  Rob Portman , an  Ohio
Republican  seen as a prospective vice presidential running mate.  “We need to get rid of that roadblock and we need to put
somebody in the White House who understands our economy and who
will work with us to put the American people back together
again,” Boehner said. “It’s  Mitt Romney .”  While Romney, 65, and Boehner, 62, haven’t had a close
personal relationship, several Romney advisers have ties to
Boehner and the Romney team has made a point of coordinating
messaging with Republican lawmakers -- unlike 2008 nominee
 Arizona  Senator  John McCain .  Boehner strained to be heard over anti-Romney protesters
who chanted “Romney, go home!” They continued their chants
through Romney’s remarks, prompting his team to ramp up the
volume. “Ohio’s going to make the difference,” Romney said.
Ohio, I need you to help me become the next president of the
United States.”  1961 Rambler Owner  Romney, Boehner, Portman and their wives also ate burgers
at K’s, a local restaurant where the presidential hopeful met
some of the local residents. Among them was a 20-year-old diner
employee who owns a 1961 Rambler, a model Romney’s father,
George, used to revive American Motors Corp when he served as
chairman and president of the auto-maker. The diner worker,
Michael Scheib, who bought the car three years ago, and he took
Romney outside to let him sit behind the wheel.  The stop in Troy capped a Father’s Day for Romney that
yielded thunderstorms and blazing sun, fans who waited hours in
the rain for the candidate to serve them pancakes, and
protesters who chanted their way straight through a series of
Romney events to try to drown out his message.  The former Massachusetts governor, whose six-state bus tour
moves to  Wisconsin  today, is sticking to the economy on the
stump. He’s said he’ll promote a climate friendlier to small
business, domestic energy production and  job creation , while
asserting that Obama has mismanaged the economic recovery.  Wisconsin Prospects  The Wisconsin visit comes two weeks after Republican
Governor  Scott Walker  defeated a recall effort in a June 5
election that may have boosted Romney’s prospects in a state
Obama has counted on. Romney declined to predict his own fate in
Wisconsin during a brief visit with reporters on his campaign
plane last night to Madison, Wisconsin, from Dayton, Ohio.  Asked what he hoped to accomplish in Wisconsin, Romney,
accompanied by his wife, Ann, and three of their grandchildren,
said he would “just see a lot of good folks.” The Nov. 6
election is “just such a long way off” that it’s too hard to
predict the outcome in the state, he said.  Romney and his advisers are using his first extended,
general-election trip through states Obama won in 2008 to try to
consolidate the support of former backers of other Republican
primary contenders including  Rick Santorum ,  Newt Gingrich  and
 Ron Paul  as well as independents.  Know Him Better  “There’s a process where they get to know Mitt Romney
better,” said Stuart Stevens, a Romney message adviser.  Julie and Bud Fischer, both 60, of Troy, said they had
supported Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, in the
primary. “I’ve actually started liking Romney more” since
then, Bud Fischer said. Julie Fischer said she backs Romney now
because “I would like to have someone leading this country who
knows how to make money and knows how to keep it.”  Romney, at a rally earlier in the day in  Newark , Ohio,
said, “We need someone who puts jobs No. 1, not Obamacare No.
1,” criticizing the president’s health-care law now under
review by the  Supreme Court . Obama has “tried to convince us
that he’s made things better but he hasn’t made things better,”
Romney said. “He’s failed. He deserves to go home and give
someone new a chance.”  ‘Job Killer’  Protesters cast Romney, a former private-equity executive
who co-founded the Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, as out of
touch with the middle class. In Newark, they chanted, “job
killer” and “go home, Romney.” A plane flew over the rally
trailing a banner that said, “Mitt -- Can see 3 of your houses
from here.”  In an interview that aired yesterday on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program, Romney said the  Federal Reserve ’s attempts at
stimulating the U.S. economy “did not have the desired effect”
and a new round of quantitative easing by the central bank
wouldn’t fare better.  The second round of quantitative easing, a series of bond
purchases referred to as QE2, “was not extraordinarily harmful,
but it does put in question the future value of the dollar and
it will obviously encourage some inflation,” Romney said. “A
QE3 would do the same thing.”  On CBS, Romney also said the U.S. isn’t going to support
European banks if the financial crisis there worsens.  The international economy is at its weakest since the 2009
recession and a failure by European leaders to manage the crisis
overseas would add to risks of a bigger slowdown in the  U.S.
economy .  No ‘Checks to Europe’  Europe “is capable of dealing with their banking crisis if
they choose to do so,” with a response heavily dependent on
Germany, Romney said. The U.S. is “not going to send checks to
Europe. We’re not going to bail out the European banks. We’re
going to be poised here to support our economy.”  He declined to say what he would do, if elected president,
about the policy Obama announced June 15 to end deportation of
800,000 illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children.  “I would work with Congress to put in place a long-term
solution,” Romney told CBS. He wouldn’t say whether he would
keep the policy in place until Congress reached an agreement.  White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  said yesterday
that congressional action on immigration is still needed. Obama
is ready to sign into law the Dream Act, which is designed to
provide a path to legal status for younger undocumented
immigrants. That legislation has been stalled in Congress.  Obama’s policy would make illegal immigrants brought to the
U.S. as children eligible for work permits, an election-year
action with appeal to Latino voters. Plouffe said the
president’s  immigration  decision wasn’t politically motivated
and didn’t expand his executive powers.  The policy is “fully within our ability,” Plouffe said on
CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program today. “This is not
amnesty, this is not citizenship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Troy, Ohio at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  