-- Ronaldo Reproduces Club Form at Euro 2012 as Portugal Advances
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-18T03:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/ronaldo-reproduces-club-form-at-euro-2012-as-portugal-advances.html
Portugal  captain Cristiano Ronaldo
delivered a match-winning performance against the Netherlands at
the European Championship when he and his team needed it most.  Ronaldo entered last night’s match under pressure to
reproduce his club form after failing to get a goal or assist in
Portugal’s opening two games. He scored twice in a 2-1 win that
took the Portuguese into the quarterfinals and eliminated the
Dutch at the group stage for the first time since 1980.  “I understood Ronaldo had a lot of criticism in the first
games but he was decisive today,” Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk  said in a news conference after the match in Kharkiv,
Ukraine. “Things can change very fast in football.”  Portugal gave away a two-goal lead in its 3-2 win against
 Denmark  on June 13 and Ronaldo was criticized by Portuguese
media for being unable to replicate the form that saw him get 46
goals in 38 league games for Real Madrid last season. He reacted
by saying even World Player of the Year Lionel Messi can’t do it
all on his own, citing the Argentine’s failure to help his
country get beyond the quarterfinals of the 2010  World Cup  and
last year’s  Copa America .  Ronaldo, for whom Real paid  Manchester United  a world
record 80 million pounds ($125 million) in 2009, also struck the
post twice last night in a display that lifted his team into a
June 21 quarterfinal against the  Czech Republic .  Germany 
finished atop Group B after beating Denmark 2-1.  Tournament-High  Ronaldo had a tournament-high 10 goal attempts last night,
half of which were on target. He took control after Rafael Van der Vaart put the Netherlands ahead in the 11th minute with a
curling shot from the edge of the area.  The tying 28th-minute goal was Ronaldo’s first at a major
tournament since completing the scoring in a 7-0 rout of  North
Korea  at the 2010 World Cup. He praised his teammates after
being named as the man of the match.  “The team were spectacular,” said Ronaldo, who became the
first Portuguese player to score at five major tournaments. “We
have achieved our big aim of qualifying for the quarterfinals.”  Portugal coach Paolo Bento refused to single out the Real
Madrid forward after being asked to summarize his performance.  “In some games some players show more of an individual
quality and in other games less,” Bento told reporters. “From
the point of view of how we played as a team, I’m very proud.”  The Netherlands, the World Cup runner-up two years ago, had
entered Euro 2012 as the bookmakers’ third favorite behind
defending champion  Spain  and record three-time winner Germany.  Offensive Approach  Needing to beat Portugal by at least two goals to stand a
chance of advancing, the Netherlands coach sacrificed defensive
midfielder Mark van Bommel, his son-in-law. He replaced him with
Van der Vaart, who scored off Arjen Robben’s pass as his team
pushed Portugal back.  “We had to take a risk and go forward,”  Van Marwijk  said.  Portugal responded and started to find gaps in its
opponent’s offensive formation.  Ronaldo struck the foot of a post five minutes after Van
der Vaart’s opener and had a 21st-minute header parried by Dutch
goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg . The Portugal captain made it
1-1 after timing his run to meet Joao Pereira’s pass.  Two minutes after half time, Ronaldo had a shot blocked
after being sent clear. He later burst down his flank to set up
Fabio Coentrao and then Nani, whose 77th-minute shot was blocked
by Stekelenburg on the goal line.  Nani returned the favor a minute later and Ronaldo turned
past defender Gregory van der Wiel before passing the ball into
the net to give Portugal the lead.  Van Der Vaart and Ronaldo then each struck a post in the
game’s final stages. When the final whistle blew, Ronaldo fell
on his back and pumped both arms skywards.  “We’ve reached a very important aim for the team and for
the whole country,” Bento said. “We have to keep up our work
and the quality that we have shown so far. Then maybe we can
even reach the semifinals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Metalist Stadium via the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  