-- Rubio Drops Immigration Plan After Some Deportations End
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-06-18T20:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/rubio-drops-immigration-plan-after-some-deportations-end.html
Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida
Republican, is dropping plans to introduce legislation that
could grant work visas to some young people brought to the U.S.
illegally, according to his spokesman.  Rubio, a potential running mate to Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , is suspending his plans after President
 Barack Obama  announced June 15 that the U.S. will immediately
stop deporting some illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as
children. Obama said they would be eligible for work permits, in
an election-year action with appeal to Latino voters.  “The president’s executive action takes a lot of momentum
out of Senator Rubio’s push for a consensus, legislative
solution,” said Alex Conant, Rubio’s spokesman, in an e-mailed
statement today. “The president’s action undermines the urgency
to pass something before the election -- a hard enough prospect
even without the newly inflamed politics surrounding the
issue.”  Rubio’s proposal would grant work visas to some young
people brought to the U.S. illegally as children, if they later
served in the military or pursued an education.  “Rubio was working hard to find a permanent solution to
this issue,” Conant said. “We were not briefed, let alone
consulted” before Obama made the announcement, he said.  Policy Change  Obama said June 15 the change in policy provides a degree
of relief and hope “to talented, driven, patriotic young
people” and makes the nation’s immigration system “more fair,
more efficient and more just.”  The new policy affects about 800,000 undocumented
immigrants who were brought to the U.S. before age 16, have been
in the U.S. for at least five years, have no criminal record and
are in school or have a high school diploma or equivalent,
according to the Homeland Security Department.  The administration’s action would bypass Congress, where
legislation known as the Dream Act designed to provide a path to
legal status for younger undocumented immigrants has been
stalled.  It pushes the issue back into the spotlight in the election
campaign between Obama and Romney, who has opposed the Dream
Act. Romney said in April that he would review Rubio’s proposal.  Rubio said on June 15 that Obama’s new policy “imposed by
executive order” is “a short-term answer to a long-term
problem.” Rubio, 41, hadn’t introduced his proposal in the
Senate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  