-- Rural Power Group Says EPA Rules Thwart Coal-Fueled Electricity
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-18T21:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/rural-power-group-says-epa-rules-thwart-coal-fueled-electricity.html
An electricity supplier serving 1.5
million customers in four rural states said separate regulations
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency are thwarting
plans to build coal-fired power plants.  Tri-State Generation and Transmission Association Inc., a
nonprofit in Westminster,  Colorado , can’t complete a proposed
plant in Kansas because of the rules, one aimed at curbing
mercury pollution and another aimed at greenhouse-gas emissions.  The rules to limit greenhouse-gas emissions from new power
plants don’t effect generating facilities that break ground
within the next year, such as Tri-State’s.  “This concession may well prove illusory,” Barbara Walz,
senior vice president of Tri-State, said in testimony  prepared 
for a hearing tomorrow of a House Energy and Commerce Committee
panel. That’s because EPA’s mercury rule “will likely prevent
us -- or anyone else -- from commencing the construction of a
new coal-fired plant in time to meet EPA’s one-year deadline.”  The Republican-led Subcommittee on Energy and Power is
holding a  hearing  on the EPA’s greenhouse-gas regulation. That’s
the first major rule to target carbon-dioxide emissions from so-
called stationary sources such as  power plants  or factories.  The  rules  will permit emissions from new power plants at
1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour, about the
level for a modern natural-gas plant. The limit would
effectively preclude construction of coal-fired plants, which
are struggling to compete with decade-low natural-gas prices.  Tight Rules  Walz in her testimony said the EPA has already prevented
construction because its mercury standards for new plants are so
tight that pollution at that level can’t even be measured now.
Tri-State serves mostly rural customers in Colorado, Nebraska,
 New Mexico  and  Wyoming , she said.  With the failure of Congress to cut  carbon emissions ,
agency actions are seen by environmental groups as the best
chance to combat global warming.  “The proposed new-source standard recognizes that the
market has already turned away from building new conventional
coal plants due to low-cost natural gas, strong growth in wind
and solar power, big opportunities to improve  energy efficiency 
and even the potential for nuclear power,”  David Doniger ,
policy director for the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said
in his prepared testimony.  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the Earth’s temperature in the past 50
years, threatening to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the U.S.  Global Change Research Program .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  