-- Russia’s Grain Crop Seen Falling by 7.2 Million Tons on Drought
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-06-18T17:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/russia-s-grain-crop-seen-falling-by-7-2-million-tons-on-drought.html
Russia , the world’s third biggest
wheat exporter, will lose about 7.2 million metric tons of
grains in three key growing regions this year due to drought,
according to estimates from regional governments and a producer.  Wheat for December delivery rose 3.2 percent to $6.7225 a
bushel in the Chicago Board of Trade by 9:01 p.m. Moscow time.  Krasnodar, Russia’s biggest grower which harvested 11.4
million tons of grains last year, may have 4 million tons less
wheat and may see its barley crop fall by 500,000 tons this
year, the region’s governor Alexander Tkachev said, according to
a statement on his administration’s  website  today. The wheat
yield is expected to fall to 4 tons a hectare (2.47 acres) from
5.5 tons a hectare, he said.  “There is a forecast saying we can lose up to a quarter of
the harvest,” Tkachev said. Krasnodar’s final grain crop may
fall 3 million tons to 8 million tons to 8.5 million tons in
2012, he said.  Valery Zerenkov, governor of the Stavropol region, Russia’s
second biggest grower, declared a state of emergency in half of
the territory today because of drought, according to an  order 
published on the region’s agriculture ministry website. The
grain harvest is expected to be 2.5 million to 3 million tons
smaller than last year’s 8.2 million tons, the government said
last week.  In Rostov, the country’s third biggest grower, where three
of the region’s 43 districts are in drought, rainfall on the
weekend wasn’t enough to save heat-damaged grains, said Andrey
Kruglikov, director of the agricultural division of OAO Rusgrain
Holding, a Russian grain and poultry producer.  Rostov’s Crops  Recent rains may have helped ear maturation on the grain
plantings that survived the drought and spring crops including
corn, sunflowers and sugar-beets that are still growing, he said
by phone from company’s fields.  Rostov may have lost up to 15 percent of its crop,
Kruglikov said. Last year, the area harvested 7.7 million tons
of grains, according to the state statistics data. That means
the region’s harvest may fall by as much as 1.2 million tons,
according to Rusgrain.  Heavy rain, hail and storms are forecast in Rostov and
Krasnodar regions for today, the Federal Hydrometeorological
Center said, without giving a forecast for Stavropol.  The U.S. is seen as the top wheat exporter, followed by
 Australia  in 2011-12, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  