-- Ryanair’s Aer Lingus Stake Being Probed Again by U.K. Regulator
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-06-18T14:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/ryanair-s-aer-lingus-stake-being-probed-again-by-u-k-regulator.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s
biggest discount airline, is facing a full investigation of its
30 percent stake in Irish competitor  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  after
a U.K. regulator said the holding may lead to higher prices.  The U.K. Competition Commission said today it will probe
the six-year-old minority share deal after it was flagged for
review by Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading . The stake gives
Ryanair the ability to weaken Aer Lingus as a competitor and
stifle investments from other airlines, the OFT said June 15.  The Competition Commission will decide by Nov. 29 “whether
the acquisition may be expected to result in a substantial
lessening of competition in any market” in Britain, the London-
based watchdog said in today’s  statement .  Ryanair has been fighting with regulators over the stake
since it acquired the shares in 2006 as part of a takeover bid
that was ultimately blocked by the European Union. The airlines
carry more than 80 percent of the 370,000 passengers that travel
between the U.K. and Ireland each month, the OFT said.  “We do not believe that this is a sensible or useful
expenditure of U.K. taxpayers’ monies or resources,” Ryanair
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in a statement last
week. The same comment applies today, the company said.  Aer Lingus supports the review, the carrier’s CEO,
Christoph Mueller, said in a statement last week.  The U.K. Court of Appeal ruled June 1 that Ryanair didn’t
have the right to challenge a lower court ruling that the OFT
was entitled to seek a full probe from the  Competition
Commission , which is the U.K.’s “second-phase” antitrust
watchdog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  