-- Saddling Spain With Bank Burden Repeats Irish Error: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-06-19T10:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/saddling-spain-with-bank-burden-repeats-irish-error-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s  surging borrowing costs 
suggest the nation is hurtling toward a full sovereign bailout
as the same aid policies that doomed Ireland to pariah status on
the  capital markets  are repeated in southern  Europe .  Spain’s 10-year bond yields jumped 76 basis points since the
government agreed June 9 to seek 100 billion euros ($126
billion) from the European Union to recapitalize its banks,
reaching 7.09 percent today after yesterday’s euro-era record of
7.29 percent.  Germany  is reluctant to sanction disbursements directly to
the region’s banks. Channelling payments via governments,
however, increases their debt burdens, undermining their
creditworthiness and stoking investor concern about ranking
behind official creditors for repayment.  “Germany still refuses to recognize its mistakes,” said
Ray Kinsella, a lecturer in banking and finance at University
College Dublin. “It is wrong that the burden of adjustment
should be borne by these peripheral countries, which are in
effect acting as the insurers,” of German and French banks
which benefited most from euro-region trade, he said.  Ireland’s banks needed 63 billion euros after a decade-long
real estate boom ground to a halt in 2008. In Spain, the
government is awaiting the results of an audit of the financial
industry by consultants  Roland Berger  and  Oliver Wyman .  Split Opinion  “There is significant support for the idea of funding the
banks directly in manner that would go off the sovereign
balance, but that support wouldn’t be very strong among the AAA
countries,” Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  told
lawmakers in Dublin on June 14. “The people who pay the piper
have a stronger say.”  Germany, which has AAA grades from all of the major rating
companies, is the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts, with
commitments to the European Financial Stability Facility worth
211 billion euros, which is 27 percent of the total.  EU leaders should commit to starting the European Stability
Mechanism, the 17-nation euro zone’s 500 billion-euro ($632
billion) firewall, by July 9, according to draft conclusions
prepared for a June 28-29 summit in Brussels obtained yesterday
by Bloomberg News. Lawmakers across the 17-nation currency union
must ratify the fund.  Toxic Link  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the nation’s debt
benchmark, yield about 7.41 percent, within about 35 basis
points of where Spain’s benchmark yields are. The cost of
insurance against Ireland defaulting using credit-default swaps
was unchanged at 683 yesterday, according to prices from data
provider CMA. In Spain, the figure is 624, implying a 41 percent
probability of the nation failing to meet its obligations within
five years.  Spain’s borrowing costs surged at its first auction since
becoming the fourth euro member to seek a bailout, with the
Treasury paying the most since at least 2004 to sell debt
repayable in one year. The Treasury sold 2.4 billion euros of
bills at 5.074 percent, up from 2.985 percent at a previous
auction on May 14.  The “toxic” link between the banks and sovereign is
“evident in Spain,” said  Alan Ahearne , former economic adviser
to Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan . “The only thing that
might have changed that was if the 100 billion euros being
earmarked for Spanish banks came from the ESM. That could have
been a game-changer” by funding the banks directly, he said.  Iceland pursued a different path to ease its economic
crisis, allowing its three biggest banks to default in 2008.
Now, even as the Europe’s debt crisis escalates, Iceland is
growing again and unemployment is falling. Much of Iceland’s
recovery results from its “unorthodox”  crisis management ,
according to  Fitch Ratings , which restored the island to
investment grade in February.  Burden Sharing  The Icelandic route is not available to euro members,
Ahearne said. Ireland took control of five of its six biggest
domestic lenders in 2008 after the  European Central Bank  told
the government to save its banks, and committed 34.7 billion
euros to rescue Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  “Ireland tried to share the burden with senior Anglo
bondholders, which would have reduced the burden on the
sovereign,” he said. “It was not allowed.”  Including the costs of the bank recapitalization,
Ireland’s debt to gross domestic product ratio will peak at
about 120 percent, according to International Monetary Fund
forecasts. That’s up from 25 percent in 2007. Spain’s debt will
peak at about 95 percent, Fitch said on June 7, as it cut the
country’s credit rating to ‘BBB’ from A.  As Spain’s creditworthiness deteriorates, bondholders are
wary of being subordinated to the EU agencies that might demand
priority repayment for supplying aid to the nation. Lenders to
 Greece  lost more than 70 percent of their investments when the
nation restructured its debts, while the ECB and other official
lenders were exempt from the discounts.  If EU leaders “wanted to be really radical they would
subordinate themselves to anyone buying primary debt from this
juncture onwards for a couple of years,” according to  Gary Jenkins , director of Swordfish Research Ltd. in Amersham,
 England . “That might actually encourage investors to buy
alongside them which is what they need to do if the euro zone is
going to continue. Lending money is all about confidence and
that is shot to bits right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net  