-- Samaras Seeks Greek Unity on Cuts After Career Stoking Divisions
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-06-18T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/samaras-seeks-greek-unity-on-cuts-after-career-stoking-divisions.html
Europe has told  Greece  to unite
behind a faltering austerity program to stay in the euro.
Antonis Samaras, poised to become Greek premier, has a history
of stoking divisions inside and outside his  New Democracy  party.  Samaras, 61, rejected Greece’s bailout in 2010 and used the
required budget cuts to hammer the Socialist Pasok government.
He kicked a rival out of his party for backing that program
before winning election this week as a champion of belt-
tightening. His brinkmanship led European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  to tell Samaras in November to stop playing
“political games.”  “Samaras has been a rather divisive person,” Stefanos Manos, a former New Democracy member whose Drasi party failed to
win enough votes on June 17 to enter parliament, said by phone
yesterday from his house near Athens. “He has to change now.
There’s no track record of achievements.”  Greece’s battle to stay in the German-designed single
currency after 240 billion euros ($302 billion) in aid pledges
from the euro area and  International Monetary Fund  has sparked
calls for unprecedented unity just when the domestic political
scene is more splintered than it has been in four decades. Since
the end of a military junta in 1974, New Democracy and Pasok
alternated in power.  The potential clash between European demands for more
budget cuts and Samaras’s ability to deliver may keep alive the
threat of Greece’s exit from the euro. New Democracy topped this
week’s vote with 29.7 percent, leaving Samaras dependent on the
third-place Pasok to form a government that can keep aid flowing
in the fifth year of recession.  Spendthrift Policies  Years of spendthrift policies by both parties culminated in
late 2009 with Pasok’s disclosure that New Democracy had
understated the  budget deficit . New Democracy’s supporting role
in driving Greece toward bankruptcy may make Samaras vulnerable
to attacks by opponents of austerity and increase his need for
the euro area to loosen the country’s fiscal straitjacket.  The other 16 euro-area nations reacted to the election
result by saying Greece, where unemployment is at record of more
than 22 percent, needs “continued fiscal and structural
reforms” and urging the “swift formation of a new Greek
government that will take ownership of the adjustment program.”  New Democracy emerged from the election just ahead of
Syriza, an anti-austerity party that rode a wave of public anger
over fiscal tightening. Syriza got almost 27 percent, up from
nearly 17 percent in an inconclusive May 6 election.  Syriza’s Gains  New Democracy improved on its top spot of almost 19 percent
last month after warning that a victory in June for Syriza, led
by Alexis Tsipras, a 37-year-old former student protester, would
threaten a return to the drachma and economic collapse.  That prompted people like Thanos Veremis, a professor
emeritus of modern history at  Athens  University, to set aside a
dislike of Samaras and vote for him.  “He’s not a very credible politician because of 20 years
of shenanigans,” Veremis said by phone yesterday in Athens. “I
voted for him to vote against Tspiras. The alternative would
have been disastrous.”  A champion tennis player in his youth and a former student
at  Amherst College  in the U.S., Samaras abandoned New Democracy
almost two decades ago when he founded a party to capitalize on
a dispute with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia over
its name. The issue is sensitive for Greeks because of concerns
it implies a claim on a northern region in Greece that’s also
called Macedonia.  Midnight Votes  He rejoined New Democracy about a decade later and took
over as leader when it was ousted in 2009 by Pasok. Samaras
spent the next two years trying to thwart then Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  in a series of knife-edge midnight votes -- as
Papandreou’s own Pasok support crumbled -- and Greece sought to
meet the terms of a first bailout agreed in May 2010.  In the process, Samaras kicked out of New Democracy a
stalwart named  Dora Bakoyannis , a former foreign minister and
ex-premier’s daughter whom he had defeated for the party
leadership, after she voted in favor of the first rescue of 110
billion euros. Bakoyannis created her own party that failed in
May to garner enough support to enter parliament and, as
speculation mounted about a possible Syriza victory in the June
election, she returned to New Democracy to bolster its chances.  Samaras, one of the signatories of the European Union’s
1992 Maastricht Treaty that paved the way for the euro because
he was Greek foreign minister at the time, yesterday began talks
on forming a ruling coalition by leaving the door open to
parties committed to keeping Greece in the single currency.  ‘National Salvation’  “My aim is to immediately form a long-term government of
national salvation with the parties who believe in a European
orientation for the country, who believe in the euro,” he told
President Karolos Papoulias while receiving the mandate to build
a coalition.  As prime minister, Samaras would have his work cut out for
him to win the confidence of creditors such as  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Finland  that are increasingly skeptical about
Greece’s ability to meet the terms of the rescue.  Greece must pursue budget cuts with “determination” to
win the release of further aid from the euro area and IMF, the
European Commission said on May 30. The country faces a
cumulative fiscal gap in 2013-2014 of 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product, according to the commission, the 27-nation
EU’s executive arm.  Falling Short  A lack of progress in bolstering tax collection, improving
public procurement and selling state-owned assets has left
Greece struggling to meet targets for narrowing a budget deficit
that in 2009 was more than five times the EU limit.  “There has been a lot of non-compliance,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc
in  London , said yesterday by phone. “There’s a lot that’s left
to be desired in terms of implementation. They must get to work
immediately on the difficult reforms.”  Greece narrowed its budget deficit from more than 15
percent of GDP in 2009 to 9.1 percent in 2011. The country’s
spending gap is due to fall to around 7 percent of GDP this
year.  Drasi’s Manos said Syriza, which has ruled out taking part
in a coalition with New Democracy, would be a “formidable”
opposition force in parliament. The new government will need “a
surplus of courage,” he said.  Together, a New Democracy-Pasok coalition would have 162
seats in the 300-member Greek legislature.  Mixed Signals  European leaders have sent mixed signals about granting
Greece leeway. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said “we will
continue to stand by Greece” after the election. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  sounded a more hard-line note, saying
yesterday “there can be no loosening on the reform steps.”  Mizuho International’s Barbieri said the euro area should
give Greece more time to meet budget limits. He said this would
help win domestic support for the fundamental changes needed for
Greece to stabilize the economy, revive growth and return to
bond markets from which it has been shut off since 2010.  “The stress-testing of the next Greek coalition would be a
very bad idea,” Barbieri said. “ Europe  must throw Samaras a
bone. There needs to be a compromise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Athens at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  