-- Samsonite Surges After Saying Luggage Is Safe
-- B y   A n j a l i   C o r d e i r o   a n d   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-06-18T10:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/samsonite-surges-after-saying-luggage-is-safe.html
Samsonite International SA (1910) , the
world’s largest branded-luggage maker, jumped the most in eight
months in Hong Kong trading after the company said its brands
were safe following a report some models contained carcinogens.  Samsonite  rose  7.6 percent, the most since Oct. 6, to close
at HK$13. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  climbed 1 percent.  Shares of the Mansfield, Massachusetts-based company
dropped 16 percent on June 15 after Choice Magazine, a monthly
publication of the Hong Kong Consumer Council, reported that
handles of some Samsonite luggage contained materials which
could cause cancer. The luggage maker said independent tests
showed they were safe to use, and that it withdrew its Tokyo
Chic model from  Hong Kong  outlets to “allay any concerns that
consumers may have.”  “We think this could be a good entry opportunity” with
the stock cheap after the decline on June 15, Barclays Plc
analysts Phoebe Tse and Vineet Sharma said in a note. “The main
risk we see is whether a significant amount of negative media
reporting that would impact customer purchases may follow.”  The magazine, which had mentioned the Tokyo Chic, Cubelite
and Westlake lines, had said the immediate danger is minimal.  Samsonite sent random samples of the products to
laboratories in  Germany  and Hong Kong to assess the levels of
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons in the handles, it said in a
statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange today. The test
results found levels that were “significantly lower” than
those reported by the consumer council, Samsonite said. It had
said June 15 independent tests showed the luggage models were
safe to use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  