-- Sandusky Showed No Sign He Abused Boys, Witness Testifies
-- B y   D r e w   G i n g r i c h ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/sandusky-lawyers-begin-defense-in-penn-state-sex-abuse-trial.html
Jerry Sandusky never showed signs of
abusing young boys, a character witness said at the trial of the
former Pennsylvania State University assistant football coach as
the defense began putting on its case.  “Jerry had a great reputation,”  Richard Anderson , a
retired member of the coaching staff who worked with Sandusky
and considered him a close friend, told a jury yesterday. “He
was well thought of in every regard.”  Anderson said he never saw anything inappropriate involving
Sandusky, 68.  The ex-coach faces more than 50 accusations of assaulting
10 boys over 15 years. He may spend the rest of his life in jail
if convicted. The trial, in state court in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania, began June 11.  Another character witness, retiree Booker Brooks, told
jurors he coached with Sandusky and went with him on scouting
trips.  Sandusky is “a great guy” and his reputation is
“exemplary, top-notch,” Brooks said.  Both witnesses said it wasn’t unusual for coaches to take
showers with youths.  Prosecutors earlier presented testimony of some of the
alleged victims, including accounts of purported shower
assaults. The men now range in age from 18 to 28.  Defense Lawyer  As the trial began, defense attorney Joseph Amendola urged
jurors to “keep an open mind” until they hear all the
evidence.  One earlier potential witness, former Penn State head
football coach  Joe Paterno , 85, died of cancer in January. He
was fired in November along with university President  Graham Spanier .  Sandusky is charged with multiple counts of involuntary
deviate sexual intercourse, each punishable by as long as 20
years in prison. Sandusky denies the allegations.  Judge John M. Cleland, who is presiding over the trial,
told jurors the defense may wind down its case by June 20, with
closing arguments possible on June 21.  ‘Outside Influences’  Cleland said that when they begin deliberating, jurors will
be sequestered, “isolated from outside influences.”  Prosecutors say Sandusky used the charity he founded in
1977,  the Second Mile , to recruit victims, “grooming” them
with gifts, trips to football games and money.  A 28-year-old man who met Sandusky through Second Mile
testified that Sandusky began touching him inappropriately in
1997 when he was about 13.  The man said Sandusky eventually forced him to perform oral
sex more than 40 times over five years. As the boy matured, he
would sometimes hide in a closet when Sandusky arrived looking
for him, the witness said.  According to testimony in a grand jury report released at
the time of Sandusky’s arrest, he abused boys in the showers of
a school athletic building and invited victims to Penn State
games as well as into his home.  Cross-Examination  Under cross-examination, Anderson said he’d seen Sandusky
showering with young boys.  “Do you shower with young boys?” he was asked by lead
prosecutor Joseph McGettigan.  “Yes, all the time,” Anderson replied.  Asked whether he hugged them, he said “no.”  “The first time I ever took a shower in high school was
with coaches, that was part of my life,” Anderson said.  When Brooks was cross-examined, he said that “throughout
my life as a football coach, I have showered with younger men
than myself.”  “That’s common,” he said. “You go into your local YMCA
today, you’ll see many individuals of different ages in the
shower.”  “If someone took your grandson and hugged him in the
shower, would that be agreeable?” McGettigan asked.  “Well, no,” Brooks said.  David B. Pasquinelli, a political consultant, testified in
Sandusky’s defense that the two worked together on a $7 million
mobile-fundraising campaign beginning in 2007 for Second Mile.  “Jerry was a local hero,” he said. “I saw mutual
admiration” between the charity’s youth and Sandusky. “I saw a
lot of goofing around. Jerry had a very unique way” of relating
to youngsters “that many of us were inspired by.”  The case is Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Gingrich in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 