-- Sanofi Blood-Clot Medicine Needs More Study, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-06-18T13:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/sanofi-blood-clot-medicine-needs-more-study-fda-staff-says.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s drug to prevent blood clots
in chemotherapy patients doesn’t have enough data to support
approval for that use, U.S. regulators said today.  The data Sanofi submitted on its semuloparin blood thinner
“do not provide meaningful support for the approval” as a
treatment for venous thromboembolism among high-risk patients
receiving chemotherapy for certain cancers, Food and Drug
Administration staff said today in a  report  ahead of June 20
advisory panel meeting on the medicine.  Semuloparin might bring in annual peak sales of 550
million euros ($693 million) by 2018 if approved, said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst with Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, in an
interview before the FDA’s report was released. The treatment
may compete with the company’s own Lovenox, he said. Lovenox,
first approved in 1993, helps prevent blood clots in patients
undergoing certain surgeries.  “Doctors may end up preferring cheaper Lovenox copies, now
available, rather than a new expensive product,” Le Berrigaud
said. “But it’s an important drug for Sanofi, nonetheless.
Because it’s one of its new medicines, it’s important for
sentiment.”  Sanofi fell less than 1 percent to 56.07 euros at 2:55 p.m.
Paris time.  Awaiting Decision  Sanofi also is awaiting FDA’s decision today on whether to
approve its multiple sclerosis drug Aubagio. The FDA hasn’t
approved a new drug from Sanofi since it cleared Jevtana on June
17, 2010, for prostate cancer patients whose disease has spread.  Sanofi, based in Paris, applied for semuloparin to treat
patients with pancreatic or lung cancers or advanced or
spreading solid tumors.  Blood clots in patients on chemotherapy for cancer “has a
substantial impact on care,” Giancarlo Agnelli, a professor of
internal medicine at the University of Perugia,  Italy , wrote in
the New England Journal of Medicine in February with other
researchers. The complication can lead to hospitalization and
chemotherapy interruption.  Symptoms of blood clots or related deaths occurred in 20 of
1,608 patients taking semuloparin in the clinical trial compared
with 55 of 1,604 on placebo, according to the journal article.
The drug didn’t increase the risk of major bleeding events.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  