-- Saudi King Names Defense Minister Salman as Crown Prince
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-18T16:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/saudi-king-names-defense-minister-salman-as-new-crown-prince-2-.html
Saudi Arabia ’s  King Abdullah  named
his defense minister and half brother as crown prince, making
the traditionalist former governor of Riyadh next in line to
lead the world’s largest oil supplier.  The appointment of Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz, born in
1935, was announced by Saudi state television. His predecessor
Nayef bin Abdulaziz died on June 16 in Geneva after about eight
months as heir to the throne. A day later, he was buried in an
unmarked grave in Mecca in accordance with the Wahhabi
interpretation of Islam.  “Salman is popular in the royal family,” Khalid al-
Dakhil, a professor of political science at King Saud
University, said in a phone interview from  Riyadh . “He has been
a public figure since the 1960s and is close to the traditional
line, which is strong within the government and royal family.”  Salman becomes crown prince as Saudi Arabia confronts
turmoil in the  Middle East  and high unemployment at home.
Unscathed by the popular uprisings in the Arab world that led to
the toppling of leaders in  Tunisia ,  Egypt ,  Libya , and Yemen,
King Abdullah spent an additional 224 billion riyals ($60
billion) last year to create jobs, build homes and increase
salaries for members of the armed forces.  Smooth Transition  King Abdullah and the royal family have moved to ensure a
smooth political transition after the death of Nayef this month
and Prince Sultan in October. Sultan was both defense minister
and crown prince. Abdullah appointed Prince Salman as defense
minister on Nov. 5 after naming Nayef as crown prince on Oct.
28.  Also today, Prince Ahmed bin Abdulaziz was named interior
minister, a role Nayef had held, state television said. He had
been deputy minister.  Salman served as governor of Riyadh from 1963 to 2011,
according to  the website  of the Saudi Embassy in  Washington . In
that time, the capital grew from a city of about 150,000 people
to about 5 million people, according to data on the website of
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.  “He turned a sleepy desert settlement into a metropolis,
which as capitals around the world go stands up pretty well,”
said  Robert Lacey , a British author and historian who has
written about the Saudi royal family.  In April, Salman traveled to Washington on his first
official visit as minister, where he met with President  Barack Obama  and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . The meeting was part
of continuing cooperation between the two countries on regional
issues, the  Saudi Embassy in Washington  said on its website.  U.S Relationship  “Salman has a very good relationship with the U.S. and the
U.S. military,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.
“Since becoming defense minister, he has had a number of
meetings with U.S. political and military officials to help keep
the U.S.-Saudi military relationship healthy.”  Salman, like Nayef, is one of the influential brothers
known as the Sudairi Seven, the sons of the kingdom’s founder
King Abdulaziz Al Saud, and one of his wives, Hassa bint-Ahmed
al-Sudairi.  His son, Sultan bin Salman, flew into space as a payload
specialist on the U.S. shuttle Discovery in 1985. His son Faisal
is the chairman of the Riyadh-based Saudi  Research and Marketing
Group . The group owns the London-based pan-Arab Asharq Al-Awsat
newspaper and the Jeddah-based Arab News English language paper.  Visiting Soldiers  Since taking on the role as defense minister, Salman has
raised his public profile by visiting soldiers around the
country. This year, Saudi forces have also announced military
exercises, including five-days of maneuvers in the  Eastern
Province  in February. The same month, Saudi forces held training
exercises with Oman in the sultanate.  The ministry said it has prepared a plan to “rebuild and
modernize” its armed forces as the kingdom confronts regional
risks, the Saudi Press Agency reported in November.  In December, about seven weeks after Salman was appointed
defense minister, Saudi Arabia signed a contract with the U.S
valued at $29.4 billion to sell  Boeing Co. (BA)  F-15 fighters to the
Gulf nation. The agreement includes 84 new aircraft and the
modernization of 70 existing aircraft.  “He had an instant impact on the defense ministry when he
took over,” Lacey said.  Six Kings  In Taif, a city near Mecca, King Abdullah received princes,
Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdulaziz al-Sheikh, military officers and
Islamic scholars offering  their condolences  for the death of
Nayef, the official Saudi Press Agency said.  Six kings have ruled since the formation of the kingdom in
1932. Abdullah changed the kingdom’s succession rules in 2007 to
give an appointed commission of princes, the Allegiance Council,
more power to select a new ruler and the new crown prince. The
1992 basic law stipulates that the king must be a son or
grandson of the kingdom’s founder, King Abdulaziz Al Saud.  Relations between Sunni-majority Saudi Arabia and Shiite
Muslim-led  Iran  remain tense. Saudi Arabia says Iran is seeking
to foment unrest among the Shiite communities in the region,
including Bahrain, where Saudi Arabia and other members sent
troops to help put down an uprising last year. Iran denies
interference and accuses Sunni Arab rulers of discriminating
against Shiites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  