-- Europe’s Banks Need a TARP of Their Own
-- B y   T h o m a s   C o o l e y ,   M a t t h e w   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   K e r m i t   S c h o e n h o l t z
-- 2012-06-18T22:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/saving-euro-starts-with-banks-cooley-richardson-schoenholtz.html
In spite of Sunday’s victory of pro-bailout parties in the Greek election, the European Monetary
Union remains in a battle for its survival. What began as a debt
predicament is now compounded by a rapidly expanding banking
crisis and growing political instability that threaten European
integration.  Recent European backing to stem the run on Spanish banks
was a welcome step away from the prevailing position that fiscal
and banking problems aren’t candidates for coordinated action.
Unfortunately, the details of the support for Spanish banks are
vague, and were insufficient to calm the financial markets.
Instead, the yield on Spanish 10-year government bonds has risen
above 7 percent to a euro-era high.  There is a good reason -- vague solutions that don’t
address the integrity of the entire European banking system
won’t work. Restoring confidence will require a full-fledged
euro-area banking union, including common mechanisms to backstop
bank liabilities and to resolve or recapitalize failed lenders.
A common set of rules as the European Commission recently
proposed isn’t enough.  With bank runs already under way, the immediate requirement
is a euro-area Troubled Asset Relief Program like that used in
the U.S. to clean up the banks during the 2008 financial crisis.
The existing European Financial Stability Facility and the
anticipated European Stability Mechanism aren’t up to the
challenge. Both mechanisms provide funding to recapitalize banks
through their sovereigns -- reinforcing the links between the
banks and their sovereigns in a vicious cycle of declining
creditworthiness. It also is unclear that they will have
sufficient resources to meet the growing challenge.  Triple Threat  Why does the euro region have such difficulty confronting
these problems? In part, it faces a classic policy “trilemma.”
Euro members aim to encourage a robust and stable cross-border
banking system, prevent runs on banks in particular countries
and preserve national sovereignty. Over time, you can choose any
two of these, but not all three. A robust cross-border banking
system requires euro-wide regulation, deposit insurance and
resolution mechanisms for insolvent banks. These are
inconsistent with strict preservation of national sovereignty.  The runs reflect doubts about the capacity of national
governments to recapitalize their banks, fear over the fiscal
consequences of loans as a solution and the lack of a credible
euro-wide backstop.  In the U.S. we have witnessed such instability only
recently. After the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in
2008, there was a run on major U.S. banks and securities firms.
However clunky the Treasury’s response -- the TARP program that
Congress eventually approved -- it had one great virtue: It
worked.  Is TARP a model for the euro nations? TARP worked because
it helped to take the critical issue of solvency of the banking
system off the table, creating breathing room for other
solutions to emerge.  By itself, TARP would have been insufficient. But putting
TARP capital into the major banking institutions set the stage
for a round of well-organized, transparent stress tests. Perhaps
most important, TARP served as a potential backstop to resolve
any systemic institutions that proved unable to raise private
capital after the publication of stress-test results. The
credibility of the tests facilitated a wave of private-equity
capital flows into the financial system, making additional TARP
injections unnecessary.  In  Europe , the lack of TARP makes it unrealistic to conduct
credible stress tests. No policy maker will announce the
insolvency of a bank without being prepared to resolve it.
Consequently, no bank creditor will believe any stress test if
the public backstop is unavailable.  TARP Worked  The details of the implementation of TARP were important to
its success. The U.S. Treasury provided additional capital in
exchange for preferred stock and warrants. The debt could only
be paid back by raising additional capital, and the use of
warrants meant the banks sold off the upside of any rebound,
decreasing the incentives to take big risks to recover. So far
the details of the Spanish bank rescue make it sound more like a
targeted loan to the government rather than a recapitalization.  We have no illusion that a TARP combined with credible
stress tests will be sufficient to address the problems of the
euro area. Ultimately, the region needs a new  treaty  or a
constitutional-level commitment that buttresses the credible
rules for monetary policy with equally credible rules for fiscal
and prudential policies.  Naturally, today’s European creditor nations want to ensure
that there are sufficient guarantees for their continued
solidarity and largesse. Achieving such a sustainable
arrangement will take considerable time -- far more than policy
makers have to halt the bank runs that threaten the monetary
union’s survival. If any country exits the euro, the difficulty
of halting bank runs elsewhere will increase.  Decisive collective action can get a financial system
through a crisis, and there is no alternative consistent with
preserving the euro. Letting market discipline weed out the
banks, though attractive in principle, could weed out the
banking systems of entire nation states -- a choice that no
nation can tolerate. Moreover, euro-area banking systems are
inherently interconnected and particularly fragile because of
the monetary union’s inconsistent objectives.  If it’s not too late for collective action to halt the
systemic runs, time is certainly running out. The question is
whether the euro’s members are up to the task.  (Thomas Cooley, Matthew Richardson and Kermit Schoenholtz
are professors at  New York  University’s Stern School of
Business. They are contributors to Business Class. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the authors of this article:
Thomas Cooley at  tcooley@stern.nyu.ecu ; Mathew Richardson at
 mrichar0@stern.nyu.edu ; Kermit Schoenholtz at
 kschoen@stern.nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 