-- ServiceNow Said to Start Pitching IPO to Investors This Week
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-18T22:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/servicenow-said-to-start-pitching-ipo-to-investors-this-week.html
ServiceNow Inc., the maker of cloud-
based software that helps companies manage information-
technology systems, will begin meeting with investors this week
to promote its initial public offering, a person with knowledge
of the situation said.  The San Diego-based company plans to complete the offering
by the end of the month, said the person, who declined to be
named because the information is private. ServiceNow  announced 
plans in March for an IPO to raise about $150 million. While the
company hasn’t yet indicated the number of shares or  price
range , the so-called roadshow typically lasts about two weeks
and follows a regulatory filing setting the terms.  Escalating concern about a worsening of  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis and a global economic slowdown have damped IPO
activity around the world in recent months, making this year’s
second quarter the slowest for initial sales since 2009.
ServiceNow’s offering may come after a month-long drought in
U.S. IPOs, after  Facebook Inc. (FB)  raised $16 billion in a May 17
IPO and dropped as much as 32 percent in the weeks following its
debut.  Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG were
hired to lead ServiceNow’s IPO, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The shares will list on
the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol NOW.  JMI Equity, the Baltimore-based firm that invests in
growth-stage Internet and software companies, owns 54 percent of
ServiceNow, according to the filing. Venture firms Sequoia
Capital and  Greylock Partners  also own stakes, the document
shows. Chief Executive Officer Frank Slootman, previously a
partner at Greylock, joined ServiceNow in May 2011.  Rhett Glauser, a spokesman at ServiceNow, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment. The Wall
Street Journal previously reported ServiceNow’s roadshow plans.  Exa’s IPO  Exa Corp. (EXA) , the maker of software that helps automakers do
aerodynamics testing, plans to raise as much as $81.3 million in
a June 27 IPO, Bloomberg data show. The Burlington,
Massachusetts-based company is offering 6.25 million shares for
$11 to $13 each, according to a filing today.  Stifel Financial Corp. is leading the offering and the
stock will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
EXA.  Companies worldwide have raised $35 billion in IPOs since
the beginning of April, on pace to achieve the smallest second-
quarter total since 2009, when initial sales raised only $10.5
billion following the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  