-- Simpson Wins First Major as Woods Leaves U.S. Open Stuck at 14
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-18T05:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/simpson-wins-first-major-as-woods-leaves-u-s-open-stuck-at-14.html
Wearing the gold winner’s medal
around his neck and hoisting the silver U.S. Open trophy over
his head,  Webb Simpson  continued a trend in major golf
championships with his win at  San Francisco ’s Olympic Club.  The sport’s crop of younger players are capable of pulling
off victories on the biggest stages, while  Tiger Woods , once the
most dominant golfer, continues his struggles to close the gap
on  Jack Nicklaus ’s record 18 major titles.  “Everybody is so competitive,” said Simpson, 26. “We
just kind of feed off each other.”  Simpson’s win yesterday follows April’s Masters Tournament
victory by 33-year-old Bubba Watson and 25-year-old Keegan Bradley at last year’s  PGA Championship . Bradley was in his
first full season on the U.S.  PGA Tour  when he pulled out the
unlikely playoff win over  Jason Dufner  in Atlanta in August.  “I respect his game a ton, but I feel like, Keegan Bradley
won one, I want to go win one,” Simpson said in a press
conference. “I played with these guys all my life. They’re
great players, but I wanted to do what they’re doing.”  Simpson became the ninth first-time winner in a row at
golf’s major championships and the 14th consecutive different
winner of the four Grand Slam events. Woods’s last major victory
came at the 2008 U.S. Open.  Simpson entered the final round in eighth place, four shots
behind third-round co-leaders  Jim Furyk  and  Graeme McDowell ,
both former U.S. Open champions. And with two-time  U.S. Open 
winner Ernie Els also making an early move up the leaderboard
yesterday, the victory was far from certain for Simpson, who was
making his second appearance in the tournament after finishing
14th a year earlier.  Simpson’s Challengers  Michael Thompson  of the U.S. and McDowell of  Northern
Ireland , the 2010 champion, tied for second at 2 over. Furyk,
the 2003 winner from the U.S., bogeyed three of the final six
holes after entering the last round tied for the lead with
McDowell. He finished at 3 over.  McDowell had a chance to tie Simpson with a downhill, 25-
foot putt on the 18th green. As Simpson watched from inside the
clubhouse with his wife, Dowd, McDowell’s putt slid by on the
left side of the hole.  Simpson said he was happy to avoid an 18-hole playoff.  “I was just as nervous watching on the telecast as I was
playing,” he said. “One of my thoughts on the back nine was,
‘I don’t know how Tiger has won 14 of these things,’ because of
the pressure. I couldn’t feel my legs most of the back nine.”  Woods’s Tournament  For Woods, the tournament was yet another detour along his
road to golf recovery. He came into the event off a confidence-
boosting win two weeks earlier at Nicklaus’s Memorial
Tournament. That victory appeared to be a turning point, as
Woods said his revamped swing was as consistent as it had been
since he began his makeover with coach  Sean Foley  almost two
years ago.  Players gushed over his ball-striking. Watson, who played
with Woods the first two days, said his play reminded him of
“the old Tiger. It was beautiful to watch.”  After the second round, Woods said his even-par round of 70
was a better accomplishment than the 1-under 69 a day earlier.
His caddie,  Joe LaCava , said his boss looked ready to win a
major again.  Then came his 5-over-par 75 in the third round, dropping
him five shots off the lead. He ended the tournament at 287 in
21st place, his worst U.S. Open placing over four rounds.  “There’s a lot of positives this week,” Woods told
reporters after the final round. “I hit the ball really well.
Unfortunately I just didn’t have the speed of the greens.”  First Six  Woods’s weekend troubles were most evident on the course’s
difficult first six holes. After playing the stretch at even par
the first two rounds, Woods was 9 over on the holes in the final
two days. A 2-over score would have been good enough to win the
tournament.  “The first six, I just didn’t play well at all,” he said.
“I just could never get anything going positively.”  Simpson played the first six holes 4-over par for the
tournament. Five of the first six holes ranked as the most
difficult in the tournament for the entire field.  Woods’s next chance to close the gap on Nicklaus’s major
record will begin July 19, when the British Open starts at Royal
Lytham and St. Annes Golf Club in Lancashire,  England .  Simpson’s win continues a trend of unlikely champions at
the Olympic Club, a course built into a hillside sand dune along
the  Pacific Ocean .  Janzen Wins  In 1998, Lee Janzen overcame a five-shot deficit in the
final round to beat Payne Stewart, who missed an 8-foot par putt
on the fast-rolling final green and was left with a 25-foot putt
coming back. He missed his second attempt. In 1987, Scott Simpson birdied three straight holes on the back nine to beat
eight-time major champion  Tom Watson .  In the first of five U.S. Opens to be played at the club,
Jack Fleck, a full-time professional for just six months,
birdied two of his final four holes in the fourth round and went
on to defeat Ben Hogan in a playoff.  Webb Simpson’s win may have helped avenge the 1966 loss by
 Arnold Palmer  at Olympic. That year, Billy Casper won in a
playoff after Palmer surrendered a 7-shot lead with nine holes
to play in the fourth round.  Simpson attended  Wake Forest University  in Winston-Salem,
 North Carolina , on an Arnold Palmer scholarship.  “He’s meant so much to me,” Simpson said of the 82-year-
old Palmer. “To win here with what happened to him, I hope he
can smile and I hope he was watching.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in San Francisco at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  