-- Spanish Yields at 7% Show Investors Slamming Door: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-06-18T10:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/spanish-yields-at-7-show-investors-slamming-door-euro-credit.html
Investors who oversee more than $3.2
trillion expect  Spain  to become the fourth euro member to need
external funding as borrowing costs surge to levels too punitive
for the nation to finance its needs on the  capital markets .  Spanish debt has slumped, pushing the  10-year yield  today
to a euro-era record of 7.14 percent, as investors at Fidelity
Investments, Frankfurt Trust and Principal Investment Management
say the nation may lose  market access . The bonds are the worst
performers among 26 developed markets since June 9, when Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said he would request as much as 100
billion euros ($127 billion) of emergency loans from the euro
area to shore up a Spanish banking system hobbled by bad assets.  “Yields are at levels at which Spain can’t really afford
to finance itself for more than a few months,” said Craig Veysey, head of fixed income at Principal Investment Management
in  London , part of Sanlam Group, which manages $72 billion.
“The banking bailout doesn’t really help Spain’s credibility in
the market and the probability is rising that it will be asking
for a bailout for the sovereign.” Veysey said he doesn’t own
Spanish government bonds and has no plans to purchase them.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called on  Europe ’s policy
makers last week to do more to support Spanish bonds after the
bank rescue failed to halt yields from climbing to levels at
which Greece, Portugal and Ireland needed to seek help. His
government is battling to reduce the nation’s debt load as the
recession in the euro area’s fourth-largest economy deepens,
leaving the jobless rate at more than 24 percent.  Greek Election  Adding to investor concern is  Greece , where analysts at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch say the country may run out of
money next month. The nation’s largest pro-bailout parties, New
Democracy and Pasok, will have a combined 162 seats, assuming
they govern together in the 300-member parliament after
yesterday’s elections, according to Interior Ministry
projections with 99 percent of the vote counted. The result
eased speculation that Greece was headed for an imminent exit
from the 17-nation euro area.  Spain’s 10-year bond rate has surged more than 2 percentage
points from this year’s March 1 low. The yield climbed 26 basis
points today. The yield difference to similar-maturity benchmark
German bunds widened to 572 basis points, the most since the
start of the euro.  Funding Needs  The nation’s bonds also risk incurring higher trading costs
at LCH Clearnet Ltd. as their performance relative to Europe’s
AAA rated benchmark deteriorates. LCH, Europe’s biggest clearing
house, increased the cost of trading Irish and Portuguese bonds
by 15 percent when yield spreads for those securities climbed
above 450 basis points.  A three-year, fully-funded program for Spain would probably
cost about 300 billion euros in addition to the 100 billion
euros already provided in the banking bailout, said Nick Eisinger, a sovereign analyst at  Fidelity Investments  in London,
a U.S. mutual fund company with $1.6 trillion of assets.  “The market is very skeptical because the bank deal
doesn’t really make any difference to the tricky and challenging
position of the Spanish economy,” Eisinger said. “There’s a
pretty strong likelihood that the Spanish sovereign will need
some kind of a funding program in the next six to nine months.”  Rising Debt  The bank aid will increase Spain’s debt to about 90 percent
of gross domestic product, Moody’s Investors Service said on
June 14, since the sovereign is responsible for repaying the
loans. That threatens to further limit its ability to sell
bonds, Moody’s said, as it dropped Spain’s rating three levels
to Baa3, one step above junk. Standard and Poor’s has a negative
outlook on Spain’s BBB+ rating, which is three steps above junk.  Natixis Asset Management is betting that Spanish bonds will
decline, as public debt rises after the bank bailout and
bondholders grow wary of being subordinated. Lenders to Greece
lost more than 70 percent of their investments when the nation
restructured its debts, while the  European Central Bank  and
other agencies were exempt from the discounts.  The  statement  on aid for Spanish banks didn’t specify where
the loans would rank or how the funds would be raised.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending at Spain’s
financial institutions jumped to 8.72 percent in April, the
highest since 1994, from 8.37 percent in March, the Bank of
Spain said on its website today, fueling concern that the
recession is forcing more companies, consumers and homeowners
into default.  The “biggest unknown” after the banking deal is whether
Spanish bonds would rank after European loans, said Axel Botte,
a strategist in Paris at the company that oversees the
equivalent of $704 billion. If bailout cash comes from the
European Stability Mechanism, it becomes a preferred creditor,
outranked by only the  International Monetary Fund .  Default Risk  “If you’re buying an asset that might be subordinate to
official loans, that makes it more risky and there has to be a
premium built in,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European interest-
rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The move in
Spanish yields reflects this.”  The cost of insuring against a default on Spanish
 government bonds  climbed to a record 607 basis points last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while bond investors
lost 3.3 percent, including reinvested interest, on Spanish
debt, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Foreign investors’ share of Spanish bonds dropped to 38
percent in April from 52 percent in December, Spanish Treasury
data show, while domestic lenders’ rose to 30 percent from 16
percent.  “The market looks at Spain as a nation which has problems
other than the banks,” said Ralf Ahrens, who helps manage about
$20 billion as head of fixed income at Frankfurt Trust, which is
underweight Spanish bonds. “There is a danger that if market
confidence doesn’t come back then Spain will have to ask for
further help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 