-- Spanish Cave Paintings’ Age Questioned by Archaeologist
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-18T12:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/spanish-cave-paintings-age-questioned-by-archaeologist.html
Cave paintings in  Spain  need to be
analyzed further before the works can be confirmed as the oldest
known examples in the world, an archaeologist said, casting
doubt over a paper published in the journal Science.  A team led by  Alistair Pike  of the  University of Bristol  in
 England  said in the paper that paintings at  El Castillo  cave
date back at least 40,800 years. That would make them about
4,000 years older than those at the  Chauvet  cave in  France ,
meaning the Spanish works could be the only cave art ever found
to have been painted by Neanderthals, according to Pike.  The findings at El Castillo need further confirmation,  Jean
Clottes , who led the research team that appraised the Chauvet
works in 1998, said in a telephone interview. Pike’s team used a
method based on the radioactive decay of uranium to analyze
calcium carbonate crusts formed on top of the paintings. This
contrasts with radiocarbon dating employed at Chauvet. The two
methods have arrived at conflicting dates in the past, according
to Clottes.  “You’ve got to keep a cool head and not go out of your way
to be sensational,” he said, adding that both methods should be
employed in further testing, where possible. Clottes is a former
scientific adviser on prehistoric art to the French government
and previously taught at the University of Toulouse. “You’ve
got to cross-check.”  Radiocarbon dating was eschewed at El Castillo as that
method doesn’t work when there isn’t any organic pigment, Pike
said. Furthermore, only small samples can be dated using this
method to minimize damage to the art, “magnifying the effects
of contamination and resulting in larger uncertainties,” he
said in the published paper.  Oldest Paintings?  The El Castillo artworks are “the oldest reliably dated
paintings in the world,” Pike said on a conference call last
week.  Uranium-series dating is also susceptible to inaccuracy, as
some of the uranium in the calcite may have been washed out by
later water flows, making samples appear older than they are,
Clottes said. This led to discrepancies between results from the
two methods to appraise cave paintings in Borneo in  Indonesia ,
he said.  Such an effect was minimized as the scientists analyzed the
top layers of the calcite, which would be younger than those
underneath, Pike said. In Borneo, samples taken from powdery
stalagmites may have yielded the differences in ages, while in
Spain, only “hard, coherent” stalagmites were chosen, he said.  Pike’s team is continuing to gather more samples in Spain
and France and will spend the next year analyzing them to
determine whether the paintings were authored by Neanderthals.  “This is only the beginning of the process, not the end of
the process,” he said in a phone interview. “This time next
year, we’ll either be scratching our heads saying, it’s still as
ambiguous as it ever was, or we’ll be able to come out with a
fairly definitive statement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  