-- Spanish Bad Loans Jump, Adding to Recession Concerns: Economy
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-18T11:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/spanish-bad-loans-jump-adding-to-recession-concerns-economy.html
More Spanish loans  went unpaid  in
April, suggesting the country’s recession is forcing more
companies and consumers into default as the government struggles
to restore investor confidence.  Bad loans  as a proportion of total lending jumped to 8.72
percent in April, the highest since 1994, from 8.37 percent in
March and 6.36 percent a year ago as 4.8 billion euros ($6.1
billion) of credit soured in the month, according to data
published today by the Bank of  Spain  in Madrid.  Spain’s 10-year government bond yields today reached a
euro-era record as concern the region’s debt crisis may deepen
outweighed optimism about the results of Greece’s election. Euro
finance chiefs called for a new government to emerge “swiftly”
from yesterday’s contest, which showed the pro-bailout New
Democracy party in a position to form a coalition.  “Major steps are necessary at the euro-zone level to
protect Spain and Italy from fresh bouts of contagion in the
future,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro 
in Amsterdam. “Judging by past form, European politicians tend
to take their foot off the gas when the pressure has gone. It is
to be hoped that this time will prove different, but there is a
significant risk that progress will be slower than hoped.”  The bad-loans ratio on consumer loans rose to 7.43 percent
in March from 6.86 percent in December and to 3.01 percent for
mortgages from 2.74 percent, the Spanish regulator said.  Record Yield  Concerns that more  bad loans  are still to come to light at
Spanish banks has driven up the country’s borrowing costs.
Spanish 10-year bond yields jumped 26 basis points to 7.14
percent at 12:25 p.m. in London.  Italy ’s 10-year yield climbed
14 basis points to 6.07 percent.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  called on Europe’s policy
makers last week to do more to support Spanish bonds after the
bank rescue news failed to halt yields from climbing to levels
at which Greece, Portugal and Ireland needed to seek help. His
government is battling to reduce the nation’s debt load as the
recession deepens, leaving unemployment at more than 24 percent.  The country on June 9 sought a European bailout of as much
as 100 billion euros for its banks, two weeks after the  Bankia (BKIA) 
group highlighted concerns about lenders’ balance sheets by
seeking 19 billion euros in state aid. Rising defaults on
consumer, company and mortgage loans have raised doubts about
the government’s strategy of focusing on making banks boost
provisions for real estate lending without acknowledging higher
losses on other types of credit.  Waning Confidence  The bad-loans ratio “has to go into double digits, and
there’s no point in denying that fact at this stage,” Andrea Filtri, an analyst at Mediobanca Securities in  London , said by
telephone.  Lending fell 3.5 percent from a year earlier and 1 percent
from March, the Bank of Spain said. Deposits dropped 5.4 percent
from a year ago and 2.5 percent from March.  The euro region’s debt crisis has already pushed at least
eight  member states  into recession as governments stepped up
spending cuts. European economic confidence slumped to the
lowest in 2 1/2 years in May and manufacturing and services
output dropped for a fourth straight month.  Germany’s Bundesbank said in its monthly report published
today there is greater uncertainty over the country’s economic
outlook. Europe’s largest economy is showing signs of slowing
after expanding 0.5 percent in the first quarter, with business
confidence declining to the lowest in six months in May.
Investor sentiment probably dropped in June, a Bloomberg survey
showed before a release tomorrow.  G-20 Summit  Group of 20 nations will discuss a mix of measures that
will include  deficit reduction  for some countries and pledges
for additional stimulus by others with sounder finances, a
Canadian official said as leaders prepared for a two-day summit
in  Mexico . The Group of Seven nations said in a statement that
they are looking forward to working with the new Greek
government.  “It will be tough for the Greek people,” Japanese Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters in Los Cabos, Mexico, before
the G-20 summit. “But by keeping to the plan that they have
been building on, I hope they make progress on mending their
finances -- by implementing the agreed-upon reforms and
receiving outside aid while staying within the euro framework.”  While central banks from  Brazil  to China have lowered
borrowing costs, India’s central bank today unexpectedly left
the benchmark repurchase rate at 8 percent to quell inflation.
India’s benchmark wholesale inflation accelerated to 7.55
percent in May, the fastest pace in the so-called BRIC group of
largest  emerging markets .  Budget Cuts  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, New Zealand’s
 consumer confidence  fell to the lowest level in five quarters as
budget cutbacks and the risk of slowing global growth made
households apprehensive about future income, a private survey
showed. An index of sentiment fell to 99.9 in the second quarter
from 102.4 in the previous three months, said  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller Ltd.  Spain is due to announce this week the findings of a stress
test of the banking system carried out by Oliver Wyman Ltd. and
Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. The results of a more
detailed audit of bank balances sheets by four accounting firms
is due July 31, the  Economy Ministry  said June 8.  The  European Central Bank  has signaled it’s reluctant to do
more heavy lifting after injecting more than 1 trillion euros of
three-year loans into the banking system and purchasing
 government bonds . The Frankfurt-based central bank earlier this
month kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent, matching a
record low.  “The ECB will probably cut interest rates at the start of
July,” said Rupert Watson, the Southampton-based head of asset
allocation of Skandia Investment Group, which oversees $15
billion. “If Spanish and Italian bond yields don’t fall in the
next week or two, the ECB will do another round” of longer-term
refinancing operations or resume bond purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid   at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  