-- Stanford Officer Pendergest Holt Said to Have Plea Deal
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/stanford-officer-pendergest-holt-said-to-have-plea-deal.html
Laura Pendergest Holt, the former
chief investment officer for R. Allen Stanford, has agreed to
plead guilty and serve three years in prison for her role in a
$7 billion fraud, three people familiar with the matter said.  Pendergest Holt, 38, will plead guilty to a single
obstruction charge, said one of the people, all of whom asked
not to be identified because the plea agreement isn’t public.  She faces a September trial on charges related to those
that resulted in Stanford being sentenced on June 14 to 110
years in prison. Prosecutors had requested a maximum sentence of
230 years against Stanford, based on investors’ losses on bogus
certificates of deposit sold by Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  Pendergest Holt has denied wrongdoing.  Dan Cogdell , her
lead attorney, didn’t return phone and e-mail messages yesterday
seeking comment on a plea agreement. Pendergest Holt is
scheduled for re-arraignment on July 21 in federal court in
Houston, according to court records.  Pendergest Holt had told Stanford Financial Group Co.
investors and the firm’s financial advisers that she oversaw a
stable of international money managers who were responsible for
the bulk of the bank’s assets, according to court papers. She
may have had authority over as little as 20 percent of the
bank’s assets, according to testimony during Stanford’s trial.  Three-Year Affair  Prosecutors charged her in June 2009 with conspiring to
mislead investors in conjunction with Stanford and Chief
Financial Officer James M. Davis, her boss and former lover.
During Stanford’s trial, Davis told jurors he had a three-year
affair with Pendergest Holt that ended in 2003, and that
Stanford approved of the romance between his two top deputies.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the reported plea agreement.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March by a federal court
jury in Houston of leading a massive fraud in which later
investors’ funds were used to pay above-market returns to
earlier investors. He was accused of secretly borrowing more
than $2 billion in depositors’ funds to finance a lavish
lifestyle and several money-losing businesses.  Stanford is appealing his March 6 conviction and his
sentence.  Joan Stack, former global human resources manager at
 Stanford Financial Group , testified during Stanford’s trial that
Davis and Pendergest Holt routinely hired unqualified relatives
and fellow church members to staff most positions in the
Memphis, Tennessee, research division that oversaw the bank’s
multibillion-dollar investment portfolio.  “They were family members who had no experience in doing
what we’d hired them to do,” Stack said.  Holt invested about $2 million of the bank’s portfolio in a
hedge fund run by her husband, a former personal trainer,
according to testimony.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  