-- State Sugar Project Harming Ethiopian Tribes, Rights Group Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-06-18T07:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/state-sugar-project-harming-ethiopian-tribes-rights-group-says.html
Human Rights Watch  said tens of
thousands of semi-nomadic people in southern  Ethiopia  may be
forced off their land to make way for state-owned sugar cane
plantations. The government denied any displacement would occur.  Last year, Ethiopia’s state-run Sugar Corp. began building
six processing factories and clearing as much as 175,000
hectares (432,000 acres) in the Lower Omo Valley area to produce
the sweetener. The government denied the Kuraz Sugar Development
Project would displace anyone and instead will bring
infrastructure, services and jobs.  “There is a real risk that the livelihoods of 500,000
people may be endangered, tens of thousands will be forcibly
displaced, and that the region will witness increased inter-
ethnic conflict as communities compete for scarce resources,”
the New York-based Human Rights Watch said in a  report  released
today.  Ethiopia, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second most populous nation,
is in the middle of a five-year plan to boost agriculture and
industry and create sustainable growth. The Horn of Africa
nation’s economy grew 7.5 percent last year and expansion
averaged 10.5 percent annually in the five years to July 2010,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Plantations covering 245,000 hectares will deprive the
eight ethnic groups access to the Omo river, HRW said, citing a
2010 study by European Investment Bank consultants. Large-scale
irrigation in the valley is possible because the Omo River’s
volume can be managed by controlling the flow from the  Gibe III 
hydropower dam that is being built.  No Relocations  “There is no one to be relocated at all, let alone forced
relocation, due to the sugar development project,” Sugar Corp.
spokesman Yilma Tibebu said on June 15 in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The state is spending 23.8 million birr ($1.3 million) “to
make the people benefit from a settled way of life” alongside
the sugar farms, he said. Around 2,250 resettled households will
be given 1,700 hectares of irrigable land, public services and a
grain mill, Yilma said.  The government estimates the Kuraz project will create as
many as 118,000 jobs for locals he said.  “With no education and no contact, they lived being
victims of natural disasters and harmful cultural practices
which gives them nothing except remaining to be an amusement for
foreign tourists,” Yilma said of the valley’s inhabitants.  Ethiopia is breaking its international and domestic human
rights obligations by starting the project without adequate
consultation or impact assessments, according to the report.  Consent from “tribal chiefs and the people” was obtained
beforehand and the state-owned Water Works Design & Supervision
Enterprise conducted a study on the orject’s effect that will be
made public, Yilma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  