-- Stony Brook Is Ousted From College World Series With 12-2 Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-18T04:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/stony-brook-s-college-world-series-run-ends-with-loss-to-fsu.html
Stony Brook  University’s best season
and first trip to baseball’s College World Series ended with a
12-2 loss to Florida State.  Stony Brook, which is 60 miles (97 kilometers) east of  New
York City  on  Long Island , was eliminated from the tournament in
Omaha,  Nebraska , when it lost consecutive games for the first
time in almost two months. The Seawolves, in their first trip to
the final round of the College World Series, lost their opening
game 9-1 three days ago to UCLA.  Stony Brook (52-15) began playing Division I baseball in
2000 and was the first school from the Northeast U.S. to qualify
for the College World Series’s eight-team final round since the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  abandoned geographic
regionals in 1987.  After allowing five first-inning runs in their loss to
UCLA, the Seawolves gave up a six-run third inning yesterday
against Florida State. All six of the Seminoles’ runs came with
two outs, including five after a throwing error by shortstop
Cole Peragine. Justin Gonzalez capped the scoring streak with a
three-run home run and Devon Travis added a two-run shot in the
fourth inning to put Florida State up 9-0.  Stony Brook hadn’t lost consecutive games since March 25.  The Seawolves were the worst seed among the eight teams to
advance to Omaha, having advanced from the opening round with
wins over the University of Miami, the University of Central
Florida and Missouri State University before stunning six-time
national champion Louisiana State in a best-of-three series.  Florida State, which lost its opening game in Omaha to the
University of  Arizona  4-3 in 12 innings, will next face UCLA in
an elimination game tomorrow. Arizona shut out UCLA 4-0 last
night as Konner Wade pitched a complete-game five-hitter.  The University of Florida plays Kent State today in an
elimination game in Omaha, while two-time defending champion
South Carolina faces Arkansas in a winner’s bracket matchup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  