-- Sudan Devalues Pound, Removes Fuel Subsidies to Help Economy
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-06-18T12:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/sudan-devalues-pound-removes-fuel-subsidies-to-help-economy-1-.html
Sudan  will devalue its currency,
remove fuel subsidies and reduce the size of its government as
part of an austerity package to stabilize the economy and deal
with a loss of oil revenue, President Umar al-Bashir said.  The official rate will be “moved” to 4.4 a dollar from 2.7
a dollar to “stabilize the local currency and reduce the gap
between the official price and the black-market price,” al-
Bashir told lawmakers today in Khartoum, the capital. The
currency currently changes hands among informal traders on the
streets of the city at 5.8 a dollar.  Sudan lost three-quarters of its oil revenue when  South
Sudan  seceded in July. Since then, the two nations have failed
to agree on fees that the landlocked south should pay to export
its crude through pipeline and processing facilities in Sudan.
The loss of income resulted in a $2.4 billion  budget deficit  and
a surge in inflation to 30.4 percent in May.  Opposition parties have announced plans to protest against
higher taxes and fuel prices, while the government last week
confiscated editions of two independent daily newspapers for
criticizing the plan. Students today rallied at Khartoum
University for a second day against the measures, following a
crackdown by police yesterday that included a nighttime raid on
female dormitories.  Government Size  Other measures announced by al-Bashir include reducing the
size of the North African nation’s national and regional
governments by as much as 56 percent. The government also plans
measures to cut domestic spending and reduce the need for hard
currency, he said.  “We’ve taken some decisions that aim at increasing revenue,
that include increasing imports taxes, value-added taxes, and
raising income tax on banks,” al-Bashir said. Fuel subsidies
will be reduced “gradually,” he said.  Sudan’s  Finance Ministry  will present a reviewed budget to
lawmakers on June 20 that will include the austerity measures,
Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasoul said in an interview
today in Khartoum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 