-- Sudan Anti-Austerity Rallies Continue in Khartoum for Second Day
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-06-18T09:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/sudan-anti-austerity-rallies-continue-in-khartoum-for-second-day.html
Sudanese students rallied at
Khartoum University for a second day against the government’s
planned austerity measures, following a crackdown by police
yesterday that included a nighttime raid on female dormitories.  Hundreds of students gathered today chanting “People want
the regime out” and “Khartoum University free, police out,”
Ibtisam Mohamed, a 21-year-old engineering student, said by
phone from Khartoum, the capital.  Police yesterday clashed with protesters at the campus and
raided the female dormitories at 10:30 p.m., using tear gas and
metal rods to beat students protesting high prices and spending
cuts, she said. The police, in a statement yesterday, said its
forces had contained a small demonstration and charged seven
students with “inciting riots.”  “It was nightmarish,” said Salwa Nasry, a 19-year-old
science student. “I was inside my room, half a kilometer away
from the clashes, and the smell of tear gas was suffocating me
and I could hear the screaming of girls being beaten up by armed
police.”  Police yesterday fired tear gas and warning shots earlier
in the day to disperse hundreds of university students
protesting austerity measures announced by President Umar al- Bashir’s government to cope with the loss of oil exports since
the secession of  South Sudan  in July.  The plans, due to be discussed in Parliament this week,
include the partial removal of oil subsidies and an increase in
public-transport prices. They’re intended to narrow a $2.4
billion  budget deficit .  The police, in a statement issued yesterday on the state-
run Sudanese Media Centre, urged citizens not to “follow
rioters and rumor mongers, who aim to destabilize the security
of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  