-- Suicides, Arrests Show Trouble at Korean Savings Banks
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-06-19T06:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/suicides-arrests-show-trouble-at-korean-savings-banks.html
On the day she was supposed to have
appeared before prosecutors for questioning last month, an
executive of a shuttered South Korean savings bank hanged
herself with her scarf in a  Seoul  motel.  The woman, identified by the police only as “Kim,” was a
credit officer at Mirae Mutual Savings Bank whose chairman was
caught fleeing to China in a fishing boat three weeks before.
She’s the latest casualty of a scandal that has been eating at
the periphery of Korea’s banking industry for more than a year.  So far, regulators have closed Korea’s 20 weakest banks.
Prosecutors have uncovered illicit lending and lax oversight,
leading to indictments of nearly 200 people and at least two
jail sentences. Four bank executives have committed suicide,
according to police. More than 88,000 depositors and
bondholders, many of them retirees, saw 1 trillion won ($857
million) of their savings in excess of insured levels vanish.  “Everyone’s become a victim,” said Nam Joo Ha, an
economics professor at  Sogang University  in Seoul. “Regulators
lost the people’s confidence. The savings bank industry lost
trust, a financial company’s most important virtue, and the
people lost their money.”  Before the closures, South  Korea  used to have more than 100
so-called savings banks, which are small, separately licensed
provincial lenders. They have narrower business models than the
country’s 18 nationwide institutions, such as Kookmin Bank and
Woori Bank, which collectively are 30 times larger by assets.  Mounting loan defaults related to property in South Korea’s
sluggish real-estate market following the global financial
crisis in 2008 led to capital and liquidity shortages.  Inadequate Capital  To survive, savings banks started selling customers
subordinated bonds that had low priority for repayment in the
event of default. The bonds became popular, particularly among
the elderly living on interest payments. The yields, as much as
10 percent annually, were almost double the savings account
rates at national banks.  The Financial Services Commission began suspending
operations of savings banks that had inadequate capital in
January last year. The first closures led to bank runs at other
lenders, leading to more shutdowns.  At 6 a.m. on Sunday, May 6, Korea’s regulator announced the
closing of four lenders including  Korea Savings Bank (025610) , whose more
than 10,000 depositors included 50-year-old Je Mi Young.  Je had been excited two days earlier when she received a
text message from the bank saying her 10 million won deposit
would mature in three days. Before the day could come, the Seoul
housewife sat trembling in her pajamas that Sunday morning, as
headlines streamed across her television screen delivering the
news that the bank was out of business.  ‘Bad Dream’  Her savings would be protected by state-run Korea  Deposit
Insurance  Corp., which guarantees as much as 50 million won at
both savings banks and larger lenders. Still, the additional 40
million won bond investment she made on behalf of her mother
would be wiped out.  “I wish it were a bad dream,” said Je, pulling her
trimmed black hair behind her ear while attending a KDIC meeting
on claiming restitution for the savings later that week. “I
always wondered what kind of stupid people put precious money
into messy banks. Now, I am one of them.”  Je recalls getting a text message in September 2010 from
Korea Savings pitching five-year notes yielding 8 percent
annually. It was easy, the bank promised. She invested her
mother’s savings, four times as much as her own, in bonds that
aren’t protected by deposit insurance.  “How can I tell my 80-year-old mother I’ve lost the funds
she lives on?” she said. “I was deluded by a couple of
percentage points of  interest rate . Now I can see it was only a
trap.”  Shares Plunge  Shares of Korea Savings Bank tumbled 49 percent this year
until trading of the stock was halted on May 7 following the
closure. Its  Jinheung Savings Bank Co. (007200)  unit, which is still
operational, was unchanged at 1,210 won in Seoul trading today.
The stock has dropped 63 percent this year.  Solomon Savings Bank (007800) , the largest such lender, had plunged
47 percent this year by the time it was shut last month.  Prime Minister Kim Hwang Sik was also swept up in the bank
closures. He lost 40 million won when Seoul-based Jeil Savings
Bank was shut down in a second round of closures by the FSC in
September, and was reimbursed through the KDIC along with other
depositors, according to Choi Hyung Du, a spokesman in Kim’s
office.  First Suicide  Jeong Gu Haeng, president of Jeil’s affiliated bank, was
the first to commit suicide. On Sept. 23, he jumped six floors
from his downtown Seoul office, according to an officer at Seoul
Metropolitan Police Agency who asked not to be identified,
citing agency policy. Jeil’s chairman Yoo Dong Cheon was
arrested in October for alleged embezzlement and breach of
fiduciary duty, according to the prosecutors’ office. Because
court proceedings aren’t public and the bank was sold, Yoo’s
contact information isn’t available.  Customers pulled their money from savings banks for the
next seven straight months, with deposits dropping 23 percent to
a four-year low of 54.8 trillion won, according to  Bank of Korea 
data. By contrast, deposits at nationwide lenders grew 4.4
percent to a record 963 trillion won in the same period.  “The savings bank industry is returning to what it was
supposed to be: a regional-based, small-loan provider to lower-
credit customers,” said Jeong Young Sik, a research fellow at
the Seoul-based  Samsung Economic Research Institute .  The government is currently discussing restitution measures
to pay back what are estimated to be more than 1 million
depositors the insured amount of their savings. The 70,650
account holders who had amounts exceeding the 50-million-won
limit, along with 17,445 bondholders, need to stand in line as
debtors through bankruptcies and civil suits.  Minimizing Disruption  To minimize disruption to lending for small businesses,
which relied on the savings banks, the government is offering
state-backed microloans. Small lenders now account for 1.2
percent of the country’s financial assets, down from almost 2
percent before the closures, according to the Financial
Supervisory Service.  “The mutual savings bank industry will shrink considerably
after last year’s closures and restructuring,” said Michael Na,
a Seoul-based banking analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “While
the clean-up removed contagion risks to the overall financial
system, the industry will need to accept downsizing.”  FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong said May 9, just after closing
four more banks and bringing the total to 20, that the
restructuring of the industry is over, and the market will judge
whether individual savings banks survive.  Daily Nightmare  “Without the income from high-risk borrowers such as
developers, savings banks can’t compete with bigger commercial
banks on deposit rates,” Na said. “There’s no merit for
depositors to go to the smaller, less-secure banks at this
point.”  While previously the savings banks paid one or two
percentage points more than their bigger rivals on deposits,
that margin has since shrunk, with the average  rate  at 4.47
percent in April compared with 3.7 percent at nationwide
lenders, according to the Bank of Korea.  Kang Sin Ah, a 43-year-old Seoul office worker, in January
moved 20 million won to a state-run lender from a savings bank
that had been paying as much as 3 percentage points more.  “What’s the advantage if I have a nightmare everyday about
losing it?” she said. “I feel much safer after moving my money
into a bigger bank.”  South Korea ’s savings bank industry was born in the
aftermath of  Asia ’s 1997-98 financial crisis. Regulators allowed
private lenders and rural cooperatives to call themselves
“savings banks” in 2001 to boost confidence in the usually
tiny, regional lenders.  Expanded Scope  The state then granted deposit protection equal to
insurance at nationwide lenders, which allowed savings banks to
grow. Deposits ballooned and in 2006 grew further as the
government eased lending rules for the industry. With assets
approaching their peak, savings banks expanded their scope to
include lending to the  property market , which became the source
of their downfall.  “Korean savings banks collapsed after expanding into real-
estate businesses, just like Spanish ones,” said Samsung’s
Jeong. “We’ve learned that banking businesses, regardless of
their size, require an extremely high level of transparency,
stringent regulations and qualified managers and owners.”  Greed, Immorality  The Seoul Central District Court in February handed down a
seven-year and a 14-year prison sentence, respectively, to Park
Yeon Ho, chairman of the defunct Busan Savings Bank, and his
deputy Kim Yang. The two, based in Korea’s largest port city on
the southeastern-most tip of the peninsula, were charged with
embezzlement, accounting fraud and causing 1.22 trillion won of
losses by owning and operating construction businesses with
depositors’ money, according to court documents.  Their “greed” damaged the society, the court stated in
its sentencing, calling the executives “immoral” for pursuing
high-risk returns instead of stability. The bank was closed in
February 2011.  In addition to investigating bankers, prosecutors have
widened their probes to include government tax and regulatory
officials, accounting firms, politicians and lobbyists. About
200 people have been indicted through February, according to the
latest tally announced by the special investigations team at the
prosecutors’ office.  Fishing Boat  The four bank executives that have committed suicide all
did so in the midst of being summoned by prosecutors. In
November, a 50-year-old credit officer at Tomato 2 Savings Bank,
an affiliate of a lender suspended in September, hanged himself
a day after he was summoned by prosecutors, according to an
officer at Gyeonggi Provincial Police Agency who asked not to be
identified citing policy. The executive, identified only as
“Cha,” was found after his wife received a text message from
him saying, “I’m sorry, I love you,” and asked police to find
him, according to the officer.  Then in January, the body of Kim Hak Heon, chairman of Ace
Mutual Savings Bank, which is based in Incheon, west of the
capital, was discovered in a Seoul hotel room on the day he was
to be questioned regarding allegations of illicit lending and
accounting fraud, police said.  In early May, Mirae Mutual Chairman Kim Chan Kyung was
found stowed away on a fishing boat heading to  China  and was
captured three days before his bank was closed, the  coast guard 
confirmed. According to the  Financial Supervisory Service , which
implements regulatory policy, he allegedly withdrew 13 billion
won of client money from the bank, which is based in the
southern island of Jeju, known as Korea’s  Hawaii .  Chairman’s Aide  Kim was charged with embezzlement, according to court
documents, and hasn’t entered a plea. A hearing scheduled for
yesterday was indefinitely postponed because of document
problems, according to the court’s website. He couldn’t be
reached for comment as he’s being detained by prosecutors, and
contact information for his lawyers isn’t available.  The Mirae Mutual woman identified as “Kim” who hanged
herself in May had been an aide to the chairman in her role as
credit officer, Yonhap News Agency reported.  Lee Dong Ok, a 65-year-old retired junior-high school
teacher, used to bank at Mirae Mutual’s branch in Seoul. Four
days after the closing, she was in the bank lobby waiting to
collect as much as 20 million won of her savings under a
government rule that allowed provisional withdrawals in order to
prevent a bank run.  Heart-Stopping  “When I first heard of the closures, I thought my heart
was going to stop,” she said. “I dashed over here and pounded
on the closed doors with several other customers.”  In the same lobby, a manager from a nearby branch of Hana
Bank, the country’s fourth-biggest lender by assets, was waiting
to pitch his products and offer Mirae customers the paperwork to
claim deposit-insurance refunds.  “To an old lady like me, 1 to 2 percentage points of extra
interest was big,” Lee said. “Now I realize safety is the most
important. I’ll never deal with savings banks again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  