-- Suntech Jumps on Japan Subsidies as Elong Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-18T21:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/suntech-jumps-on-japan-subsidies-as-elong-gains-china-overnight.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  led
advances in Chinese stocks, sending the benchmark index to the
highest level in three weeks, after Japan introduced incentives
to encourage greater use of clean energy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.1 percent to $92.39 at the
close of trading in New York, the highest since May 29. Suntech,
the world’s biggest solar manufacturer, surged the most in three
months after Japan announced the subsidies will go into effect
July 1.  Elong Inc. (LONG) , a Chinese online travel company whose
largest shareholder is U.S.-based  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , had the biggest
gain in 11 weeks after announcing a share buyback.  Japan Industry Minister Yukio Edano yesterday set a premium
price for solar electricity that’s about triple what industrial
users now pay for conventional power. That may spur at least
$9.6 billion in new installations with 3.2 gigawatts of
capacity, Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecast. Suntech
acquired Japanese company MSK Corp. in August 2006.  “These kind of subsidies are a positive factor for the
solar industry,” Mehdi Hosseini, an analyst at Susquehanna
Financial Group LLLP in  San Francisco , said yesterday by phone.
“Suntech is better positioned than other Chinese solar
companies to benefit from increased demand in Japan because
consumers there are likely to prefer a local brand name.”  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , the nation’s second-biggest
carrier by passengers, gained the most in three weeks after the
company said total cargo volumes increased 11 percent in May,
the most since February.  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.3 percent to $34.57
while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.1 percent to
1,344.78. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.4 yesterday to
2,316.05 and the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in  Hong Kong  advanced 0.8 percent to 9,818.76,
the highest price this month.  The dividend yield of the Hong Kong Hang Seng Index rose
above 4 percent this month, a level that had only been reached
four other times since 1993, coinciding with the benchmark’s
trough, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
yield of companies on the gauge surpassed 4 percent in October
as the European debt crisis deepened. The index followed with a
23 percent surge in the next four months.  Greek election winner Antonis Samaras raced to build a
coalition to keep bailout aid flowing as officials in Europe,
 China ’s largest trading partner, indicated a willingness to ease
rescue terms. The world’s second-largest economy cut its
benchmark  interest rates  on June 7 for the first time since 2008
while the U.S. Federal Reserve will meet today and tomorrow to
consider stimulus measures as unemployment remained above 8
percent for 40 consecutive months.  ‘Relief Rally’  “Investors have been looking for an excuse for a relief
rally, and the news out of Europe is at least good enough to
trigger it,” Elena Ogram, who manages $50 million in emerging
market assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am Bellevue AG
in Zurich, said by phone. “China eased credit last week, and
without a comprehensive solution in Europe, investors are
looking to the U.S. Fed and other central banks to boost
liquidity.”  Suntech advanced 9.2 percent to $2.01, a four-week high,
and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of wafers,
rose 1.8 percent to $2.21, its highest price since May 25.  Japanese utilities will pay 42 yen (53 cents) a kilowatt-
hour for 20 years to solar power producers, almost twice the
rate in  Germany , the world’s biggest market by installations.
The solar tariff was among incentive rates for clean energy
announced yesterday by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry.  Airlines Rise  China Eastern  gained 6.3 percent to $15.26 while  China
Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger
numbers, added 6.3 percent to $21.48 as its cargo traffic
increased 13 percent in May, also the most since February.  Elong, China’s second biggest online travel company, jumped
4 percent to $11.22 after saying it may spend as much as $30
million to buy back its own shares.  China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY)  posted the biggest two-day
drop since April in New York after Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP
said bondholders of the Beijing-based medical device company
filed a petition for liquidation.  American depositary receipts  of China Medical traded on the
U.S. over-the-counter market dropped 8.6 percent to $4.65
yesterday in New York, after tumbling 14 percent on June 15.  ‘Winding-Up Petition’  Debt holders of China Medical directed Wilmington Trust to
file a so-called winding-up petition with the Grand Court of the
Cayman Islands on June 15, Jayme Goldstein, a lawyer at Stroock
& Stroock & Lavan said by phone yesterday, adding his firm
represents individual bond holders in the case. He declined to
name his clients or give further details, citing the firm’s
policy.  E-mailed messages sent after hours to China Medical’s
investor relations manager and the company’s general information
address weren’t returned.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of the country’s biggest real
estate website, rose 2.4 percent to $18.00, advancing for the
fifth day in six after data showed China’s home values fell in a
record 54 of 70 cities tracked by the government in May as
developers cut prices to boost sales. Soufun has advanced 23
percent this year after losing 18 percent in 2011.  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , which sells telecommunication
software to China’s biggest wireless carriers, slipped 2.3
percent to $12.50 a day after gaining 15 percent after Reuters
said the company may be acquired in a deal valued at more than
$1 billion. The Beijing-based company will have “no further
comments to provide to the public as we are still in the middle
of the potential deal,” Jimmy Xia, AsiaInfo’s investor
relations director, said yesterday in a voice-mail message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  