-- Swiss Stocks Advance After Greek Elections; Swatch Climbs
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-18T14:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/swiss-stocks-advance-after-greek-elections-swatch-climbs.html
Swiss stocks  climbed for a second
day amid optimism Greece will stay in the euro after pro-bailout
parties won enough seats in yesterday’s elections to form a
government.  Swatch Group AG, the world’s biggest watchmaker, advanced
2.5 percent as Berenberg Bank recommended buying its shares.
 Syngenta AG (SYNN)  rose 1.4 percent and  Novartis (NOVN)  AG added 1 percent.
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  rose 0.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.5 percent to 5,939.71 at 4
p.m. in Zurich, after earlier jumping as much as 0.8 percent.
The gauge added 0.7 percent last week amid optimism central
banks will take steps to stimulate the global economy. The
measure has still dropped 6.3 percent since its 2012 high on
March 16. The broader Swiss Performance Index added 0.4 percent
today.  “The relief is big at first,” Jan Amrit Poser, chief
economist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich, wrote in a report today.
“Now the moderate forces have won, which leads many to expect
that the requirements of the troika will be met and that Greece
is guaranteed to remain in the euro. Even so, all these measures
aren’t enough to counter the corrosive uncertainty.”  The so-called troika refers to Greece’s creditors from the
European Union, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Greek Elections  New Democracy ’s Antonis Samaras will begin his second bid
in six weeks to form a coalition as New Democracy and the Pasok
party won enough seats to form a majority in the 300-member
parliament, easing concern that Greece would reject austerity
measures needed to qualify for international aid.  European officials indicated a willingness to ease the
terms of rescue loans as long as Greece, with just weeks of cash
in the bank, re-commits to their austerity demands. The prospect
that Samaras would lose to anti-bailout leader Alexis Tsipras
rattled markets concerned that Greece may be forced to leave the
17-nation currency union.  The two-day Group of 20 summit starting today will agree to
increase the $430 billion firewall the IMF announced in April,
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon , the meeting’s host, said on
June 16.  Swiss stocks pared earlier gains as Spain’s 10-year
government bond yield rose to more than 7 percent, the most
since the country started using the euro in 1999.  Swatch, Richemont  Swatch (UHR)  advanced 2.5 percent to 370.40 francs for the
biggest gain on the SMI, as Berenberg initiated coverage of the
stock with a buy rating and a price estimate of 475 francs.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier
brand, climbed 1.6 percent to 53.20 francs.  Syngenta, the world’s largest crop-chemical company, gained
1.4 percent to 307.60 francs.  Novartis, Europe’s biggest drugmaker, rose 1 percent to
51.50 francs.  Julius Baer , the wealth manager established in 1890, pared
earlier gains of as much as 2.8 percent, rising 0.3 percent to
32.71 francs. HSBC Holdings Plc raised the stock to neutral, the
equivalent of hold, from underweight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  