-- Tyrannosaurus Bones Must Return to Mongolia, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-06-18T23:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/u-s-attorney-wants-tyrannosaurus-returned-to-mongolia-correct-.html
The U.S. is seeking to return a
Tyrannosaurus bataar to  Mongolia  after officials there said the
dinosaur bones were smuggled into the U.S.  The skeleton, which spans 24 feet in length and is eight
feet tall, had been shipped to the U.S. from the U.K. via
 Florida  and then to  Texas  before arriving in New York in 2010.
It was auctioned by Texas-based Heritage Auctions Inc. in New
York in May for more than $1 million.  The auction proceeded even though the president of Mongolia
obtained a restraining order in a Texas court before it took
place. Under Mongolian law, dinosaur fossils are considered
property of the Mongolian government and “one-of-a-kind rare
items” that are prohibited from being moved abroad.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said the bones,
discovered sometime between 1995 and 2005, were looted from
Mongolia’s Gobi Desert.  “The skeletal remains of this dinosaur are of tremendous
cultural and historic significance to the people of Mongolia,”
Bharara said in a statement. “When the skeleton was allegedly
looted, a piece of the country’s natural history was stolen with
it, and we look forward to returning it to its rightful place.”  Misstated Origin  Bharara alleges the customs documents for the dinosaur
misstated the bones’ country of origin as  Great Britain  instead
of Mongolia. The government’s paleontologists concluded the
skeleton must have come from Mongolia because the dinosaur was
native to that region and its bones have only been discovered
there.  The Tyrannosaurus bataar, which lived about 70 million
years ago, was first discovered by paleontologists in 1946,
Bharara’s office said. Since 1924, Mongolia enacted laws making
any dinosaurs discovered there to be government property.  The complaint also alleges the bones were priced too low
in the customs documents, with the value listed at $15,000
instead of the $950,000 to $1.5 million listed in the Natural
History Auction catalog. The bones sold at auction on May 20 for
$1,052,500.  The auction catalog describes the dinosaur as “an
incredible complete skeleton, painstakingly excavated and
prepared” and is “a stupendous, museum-quality specimen of one
of the most emblematic dinosaurs ever to have stalked this
earth.”  Broken Bones  By contrast, the customs documents described the imports as
“two large rough fossil reptile heads, six boxes of broken
fossil bones, three rough fossil reptiles, one fossil lizard,
three rough fossil reptiles and one fossil reptile skull.”  The final sale at the auction is contingent on the outcome
of the case, Bharara’s office said.  Jim Halperin, co-chairman of Heritage Auction, said in
statement, “We can’t comment on the lawsuit because we haven’t
seen it yet.”  The case is U.S. v. One Tyrannosaurus bataar skeleton,
12CV4760, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  