-- Multiple Blasts Hit Nigeria’s Northeastern City of Damaturu
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-06-18T22:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/multiple-blasts-hit-nigeria-s-northeastern-city-of-damaturu.html
At least two explosions and sporadic
gunshots hit parts of the Sabon Pegi area of the northeastern
Nigerian city of Damaturu, in Yobe state, in renewed attacks
carried out by the Boko Haram Islamic sect, amid military
spokesman said.  “We are on top of the situation, we have sent
reinforcement from Maiduguri, and I can assure you that the
situation is under control,” Victor Ebhaleme, field operations
officer of a military joint  task force  in the region said by
phone. He didn’t provide information about any casualties, and
the police spokesman in Damaturu, Saliyu Adamu, didn’t respond
to phone calls seeking comment.  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, blame
Boko Haram for attacks in the mainly Muslim north and the
capital Abuja that have killed hundreds of people this year.
Boko Haram is a movement seeking to impose strict Islamic law in
the country.  At least 53 people were killed yesterday in a series of
suicide explosions that targeted churches around the northern
Nigerian cities of Zaria and Kaduna,  Shehu Sani , president of
the Civil Rights Congress, whose organization helped in rescue
operations, said.  Nigeria , Africa’s most populous nation and the continent’s
biggest oil producer, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim
north and predominantly Christian south.  U.S. and European officials have grown increasingly
concerned about the growth of Islamic terrorist groups such as
Boko Haram in northern Africa from Somalia through Niger and
 Mali  to  Mauritania , U.S. officials said last week.  Boko Haram has been growing in size, reach, and lethality,
Amanda Dory, the U.S. deputy assistant secretary of defense for
African affairs, told the Africa Center for Strategic Studies’
senior leader seminar today in Nigeria.  While the U.S. Defense Department is helping to bolster the
Nigerian military, the effort to defuse the group “must focus
on addressing underlying socioeconomic, political, environmental
and governance challenges from a Nigerian basis,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  