-- UN Envoys Close to Deal on Energy, Sustainability Goals
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-06-18T22:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/un-envoys-close-to-deal-on-energy-sustainability-goals.html
Envoys from 190 nations attending a
United Nations  conference  in  Rio de Janeiro  are close to
reaching an agreement that will mark one of the broadest steps
yet to harmonize economic development with global efforts to
protect the environment  Delegates at the UN Conference on Sustainable Development
are working through a 50-page text, with 287 paragraphs,
addressing ways to encourage cuts in fossil-fuel subsidies,
support the use of renewable energy and defining “broader
measures of progress” than gross domestic product, according to
the draft agreement.  The delegates’ goal is to finalize the terms before June 20
when 130 world leaders are due to attend the event and may
formally endorse the agreement, Nikhil Seth, head of the UN
secretariat governing the talks, said at a briefing in Rio
today.  “The trickle of agreements has now turned into a flood,
and large parts of the text have been agreed to,” Seth said.
Negotiators are “galloping toward the finish line.”  The discussions cap more than a year of meetings aimed at
establishing goals for nations to follow. The conference comes
two decades after the first Earth Summit, which was also in Rio
de Janeiro.  Lobbying groups including Greenpeace International and
delegations from  Europe  to Bangladesh said the final text may be
so weak it will have little meaning.  “There is considerable margin for improvement,” German
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said in a briefing today.
“We want to use every hour and minute over the next couple of
days to see what we can do to make the conclusions clearer,
sharper and more ambitious.”  Imminent Deal  Brazil’s envoys, who are coordinating the talks, said they
are confident the text will be agreed upon as early as tonight.
Still being debated are the ways the goals will be implemented
and the wording on how oceans will be protected, said Luiz
Alberto Figueiredo, Brazil’s climate negotiator.  “The negotiations are still ongoing,” he said during a
press briefing today. “There is a very positive mood. It is now
6 p.m., and I expect to have to go a few more hours. We are
absolutely convinced the text will be finished and concluded
tonight.”  More than 50,000 delegates are expected to attend the
conference, making it the biggest ever gathering organized by
the UN. Participants spread across Rio in hotels and at an
airport-sized convention center in the west of the city are
discussing issues from  carbon emissions  associated with fossil
fuels to ensuring arsenic from mining operations doesn’t
contaminate water supplies.  They’re also working on plans to map out “sustainable
development” goals that will be negotiated in the next few
years.  Big Loopholes  “The text is a nice signal, but you could drive a truck
through all the loopholes,” said Jake Schmidt, director of
international climate policy at the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , a New York-based environmental group. “All of the
tangible outcomes were weakened or removed.”  The agenda this week takes the issue of environmental
protection beyond the annual round of UN-sponsored climate
talks, which are focused on drawing up a treaty limiting fossil-
fuel emissions blamed for damaging the atmosphere. The Rio
summit 20 years ago initiated the climate talks and a treaty on
biodiversity.  Early Draft  Host-nation  Brazil  late on June 16 published a 50-page set
of draft conclusions for the so-called Rio+20 conference after
taking over an earlier, lengthier document that the UN had
described as 37 percent agreed. Brazilian and UN diplomats had
wanted to get approval by tonight for the paper, titled “The
Future We Want,” in time to prepare for the arrival of world
leaders.  Instead, negotiators are expecting the dialog to go through
the night. The Brazilian text represents an effort to chart the
middle ground between countries such as the European Union’s 27
members, which want to push the “green economy” including
renewable power and energy-efficiency measures, and poorer
nations whose priority is lifting people out of poverty rather
than pursuing expensive clean technologies.  “To ensure a transition to a green economy it will be a
huge cost for  developing countries ,” said Quamrul Chowdhury, an
envoy from  Bangladesh  who negotiates on finance for the G77
group of developing nations. “Who is going to bear that cost?
If countries like Bangladesh invest in a green economy, that
means we have to cut back programs to fight poverty.”  ‘Weak Words’  WWF, an environmental group, said the new text is full of
“weak words” such as “encourage” and “promote,” rather
than “will” and “must.” The group put the tally at 514 weak
words to 10 strong ones. The agreement being planned won’t be
legally binding.  “The weak words appear in the parts of the text we most
need hardened up,” said Lasse Gustavsson, the chief of WWF’s
delegation in Rio. “The section on green economy launches a
process which they already launched in 1992.”  The document doesn’t go far enough, he said. “The language
around much-needed  sustainable development  goals and around
energy could have been written by the oil and gas industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  