-- Hungary Hails Compromise on Bank Bill as Aid Talks Eyed
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-06-18T16:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/hungary-hails-compromise-on-bank-bill-as-aid-talks-eyed-3-.html
Hungary reached a compromise on a
disputed central bank bill, which blocked the country’s bailout
talks for seven months, according to Mihaly Varga, the country’s
chief negotiator for international aid.  A new amendment “appears” to have “everyone’s support,”
including Magyar Nemzeti Bank President  Andras Simor , Varga told
MR1 state radio in an interview today. The bill will be
submitted to Parliament this week and lawmakers may approve it
next week, Antal Rogan, head of the ruling party’s parliamentary
group, told reporters in Budapest.  Hungary requested  International Monetary Fund  aid in
November as the country’s credit grade was cut to junk and the
forint fell to a record low against the euro. Talks have yet to
start because the IMF, the European Union and the  European
Central Bank  objected to a central bank law, which they said
threatens monetary-policy independence.  “We’ve reached a compromise that, according to the current
information, is favorable to everyone,” Varga said. “It
appears that the central bank will also be a partner in sending
a supporting letter to the IMF, ECB and European Commission to
inform them” of the bill.  Forint Gains  The forint gained 0.6 percent to 292.01 per euro by 6:08
p.m. in Budapest, reaching the strongest intra-day level since
May 15.  Greece ’s election result, where gains by pro-bailout
parties reduced the chances of contagion and improved the
outlook for Hungary’s debt financing, helped the currency, Varga
said. The results eased concern that Greece would be forced out
of the euro.  The compromise on the central bank includes a letter Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  will send to the ECB and the European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm in Brussels, assuring them
that he won’t name additional rate-setters to the Monetary
Council and won’t name a new vice president before Simor’s term
expires in March.  The bill will also limit the number of non-executive
Monetary Council members so they don’t exceed twice the number
of executive members, Varga said. The Monetary Council currently
has seven members, three executive members composed of Simor and
his two deputies and four non-executive members.  “This weekend it seems that we’ve succeeded in concluding
talks about the central bank bill and we’ve managed to draw up
an amendment which we can submit this week,” Varga said. “I
think with this the last serious obstacle to starting talks has
been overcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  