-- Egypt Army Under Fire After Appropriating More Powers
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-19T12:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/muslim-brotherhood-says-mursi-wins-egypt-vote.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood
challenged the army’s appropriation of wider powers, after the
ruling generals stripped the presidency claimed by the Islamist
candidate of much of its authority.  The Brotherhood said it was joining youth activists in a
mass rally in Cairo today to protest the military council’s
decision to give itself executive and legislative powers and
safeguard its budget from scrutiny. That followed a court ruling
last week dissolving parliament, where the Brotherhood’s party
formed the largest bloc.  The army’s constitutional  decree  was issued hours beforeMohamed Mursi claimed a presidential election victory yesterday.
It fueled charges that the army is derailing Egypt’s transition
to democracy, adding to tensions that have hurt the $240 billion
economy and dimmed prospects of quickly luring back investors.
Egyptian  stocks  and bonds extended declines today.  “There’s no way this is going to be a smooth transition,”
 Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha Center,
said by phone. “That opportunity was lost” with the military’s
declaration on June 17, he said.  Mursi today reiterated his claim of victory over Ahmed Shafik, who served as premier under ousted leader  Hosni Mubarak ,
in the two-man runoff election. The Brotherhood candidate won 52
percent of the vote based on complete results from the country’s
13,000 polling stations, his campaign said at a televised press
conference in Cairo. Shafik’s campaign has also claimed victory.
Official results are due June 21.  ‘Overthrow of Democracy’  The Brotherhood warned that Egyptians are ready to continue
the struggle to prevent “the military council’s hegemony over
the reins of power, and the overthrow of democracy,” in a
statement on the Facebook page of its political arm, the Freedom
and Justice Party.  Egypt’s  EGX30 stock index  slumped 4.5 percent at 1:30 p.m.
in Cairo, extending its slide since the first-round election
last month to 18 percent. Yields on dollar bonds maturing in
2020 rose 1 basis point to 6.95 percent.  Economic growth stalled after last year’s revolt as
tourists and investors stayed away. The government’s  borrowing
costs for one year  debt have surged by about 50 percent since
the start of last year, and the central bank has spent more than
half of the country’s currency reserves. Conflicts between
parliament and the military-appointed interim government and
parliament have thwarted efforts to negotiate a $3.2 billion
International Monetary Fund loan.  ‘Egypt Needs More’  The military’s declaration has created a government that
has authority to run the country’s day-to-day affairs, yet
“can’t introduce policy,” Said Hirsh, an economist at  Capital
Economics  in  London , said by phone. “Obviously, Egypt needs a
lot more than this” to allay investor worries, he said.  Under the military decree, the president loses the title of
the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, while the army would
play a key role in the drafting of a new constitution.  The U.S., which backs Egypt’s military with more than $1
billion of aid a year, has urged the generals “to relinquish
power to civilian-elected authorities and to respect the
universal rights of the Egyptian people and the rule of law,”
Pentagon press secretary  George Little  said yesterday.  ‘State Above State  Amr Hamzawy, an independent member of the parliament
annulled by the court last week, said on his Twitter account
that the decree means the military has “become a state above
the state” that is “immune to any challenges.”  As it battles the generals, the Brotherhood also faces a
legal threat. An administrative court in Cairo today deferred
until September a hearing in two lawsuits seeking to dissolve
the group on the grounds that it was not properly registered.  The conflict between the Brotherhood and the military is
likely to continue, said Hani Sabra, an analyst at the New York-
based Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk for
investors.  While the military “ultimately remains more powerful than
the Brotherhood, it does not want to, nor is it able to totally
dominate Egyptian politics,” Sabra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  