-- Venezuela Approves Sidetur Expropriation Funds, Chavez Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-06-18T21:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/venezuela-approves-sidetur-expropriation-funds-chavez-says-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
approved funds to finalize the expropriation of Siderurgica del
Turbio SA, a steel products company known as Sidetur.  Chavez said today he agreed a loan of $21 million from the
off-budget development fund known as Fonden and 298 million
bolivars ($69 million) from state banks to fund the
nationalization. The company’s assets have a book value of 1.2
billion bolivars ($288 million), Oscar Sahmkow, finance director
of Caracas-based Sivensa S.A.C.A., Sidetur’s parent company,
said in December.  In October 2010 Chavez seized seven processing plants
belonging to Sidetur, accusing it of inflating prices. Until
February, Sidetur’s management had continued to operate the
company as it waited to conclude compensation talks with the
government. After that, Chavez appointed a temporary state-run
board.  “I’m approving a credit from Fonden of $21 million and 298
million bolivars from the public banks to conclude the
expropriation, payment and relaunch of Siderurgica Nacional,
which we’re creating from what was the private company
Sidetur,” Chavez said during a phone call broadcast on state
television.  The price on Sidetur’s 10 percent bonds due in 2016 rose to
82 cents on the dollar today from 80 cents on June 15 and from
69.13 cents on Oct. 29, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
yield fell to 17.7 percent from 19.26 percent since October.
Sidetur has about $80 million of 10 percent bonds outstanding.  Guarantee Clause  The bonds contain a clause that guarantee holders payment
of 101 cents if there’s any change in company ownership. The
steelmaker will buy back its debt once it receives compensation,
Sahmkow said December 6.  “At this point, it isn’t clear who the funds are destined
to pay - they owe owners, shareholders and bondholders, but the
$90 million Chavez allotted is not enough to pay them all,”
said  Russell Dallen , head bond trader at Caracas  Capital Markets 
in Miami. “Chavez does have a history of paying bondholders
first and might be more inclined to let the shareholders - which
include the family of former opposition presidential candidate
Maria Corina Machado -- swing in the wind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 