-- Verizon Raises Prices On Faster FiOs Quantum Web Service
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-06-18T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/verizon-raises-prices-on-faster-fios-quantum-web-service.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, introduced an  Internet
service  called FiOS Quantum that doubles its broadband speed
while increasing prices.  Verizon, seeking an edge against cable providers, is
emphasizing faster connections as part of new FiOS bundles of
Internet, television and phone service. The offerings are aimed
at users with multiple Internet devices and bandwidth-hogging
applications, who may pay more for speed.  Beginning today, customers can pick from five speeds. The
basic 15-megabit-per-second rate will carry the same price of
$99 a month for triple play, which includes phone and television
service. The plans will top out at 300 megabits per second for
an Internet-only service that costs $204.99 a month with a two-
year contract, according to a statement.  “Verizon has the choice of lowering prices or increasing
speeds, and they are certainly not interested in cutting
prices,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst with Recon Analytics LLC
in Dedham,  Massachusetts .  The previous 25-megabit-per-second FiOS triple-play bundle
that cost $94.99 will be replaced with a 50-megabit package for
$109.99, said Bill Kula, a spokesman for New York-based Verizon.
The $109.99-a-month 35-megabit plan will become 75 megabits for
$114.99 a month, he said.  Comcast, Cablevision  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable provider, offers
rates of as much as 105 megabits for $199.95 a month, according
to the company’s website.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-
largest cable carrier, offers speeds of 50 megabits, with an
“ultra” package that boosts it to 101 megabits, for $104.95.  “We think the speed will attract more people since
competitors don’t have comparable speeds at these prices,” said
Arturo Picicci, the director of  product management  for FiOS.  Verizon shares rose less than one percent to close at
$43.82 in New York. The stock has climbed 9.2 percent this year.  Most home Internet customers won’t see much benefit from
the fastest speeds, said Jonathan Atkin, an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  “Once you get beyond 25 to 50 megabits, it’s all
marketing,” Atkin said last month when Verizon first announced
the new FiOS speeds.  Picicci disagrees, saying the increased number of Internet-
connected devices and the growing availability of higher-
definition video and games have changed the market.  “Getting over 50 megabits is important for families who
have a lot of devices,” Picicci said. “It’s all about options
and having choices.”  The faster speeds also may help improve the reputation of
Verizon’s underlying technology, Entner said.  “They may be seen as having a better network,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  