-- Veronica White Named NYC Parks Commissioner, Succeeding Benepe
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-18T18:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/veronica-white-named-nyc-parks-commissioner-succeeding-benepe.html
Veronica White, the founding
executive director of  New York ’s poverty-fighting  Center for
Economic Opportunity , was appointed parks commissioner by Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg .  White, 53, will replace Adrian Benepe, who has headed the
department for the past 10 years. He is leaving to join the San
Francisco-based Trust for Public Land, the mayor said today in a
statement.  Under Benepe, 55, the department added 730 acres to the
system and was planning 2,000 acres of new parkland at  Fresh
Kills , a former landfill on  Staten Island . Since 2002, the city
has budgeted $4.5 billion for building new parks and renovating
existing ones, $3 billion of which has already been spent, the
mayor’s office said.  “Adrian Benepe has done extraordinary work as parks
commissioner, leading transformative changes in every corner of
 New York City ,” Bloomberg said in an e-mail.  The Parks & Recreation Department controls about 29,000
acres ranging from the Coney Island boardwalk to Central Park to
community gardens, including 550 tennis courts, 66 pools, 50
recreational facilities, 17 nature centers, 14 miles of beaches
and 13 golf courses. It has a proposed 2013 operating budget of
about $305 million, about $66 million less than last year. Plans
also call for $339 million in  capital spending .  Innovation Award  White is a Harvard Law School graduate with a master’s
degree from Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy. Appointed in 2006, she runs an office that implements
experimental antipoverty programs, some with private funding.
Five of the center’s programs have been copied by other cities,
Bloomberg said, including job training and “conditional cash
transfers” to families as incentives to take better care of
their health and improve school attendance and performance.  The office won a February award for innovation from Harvard
University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government.  Benepe’s new job, which begins in September, will be to
replicate programs he implemented for the city for the  Trust for
Public Land , a nonprofit land-conservation organization that
helps create and preserve parks and open space, Bloomberg said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  