-- Weaker Corporate Liquidity May Lead to Downgrades, Moody’s Says
-- B y   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-18T11:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/weaker-corporate-liquidity-may-lead-to-downgrades-moody-s-says.html
Weaker liquidity caused by the
deepening euro-region sovereign debt crisis could result in
downgrades for lower-rated companies, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  The “robust liquidity position” of companies in  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  has begun to deteriorate amid a
worsening of market conditions, Moody’s said in a report. While
a jump in defaults is unlikely, companies rated B and below may
face downgrades, Moody’s said.  “A deterioration in liquidity conditions will not trigger
a significant surge in the default rate over the near term,”
Jean-Michel Carayon, a Moody’s senior vice president, said in
the report. “However, weaker liquidity profiles may lead to
rating downgrades, particularly for speculative-grade companies
with limited flexibility to conserve cash.”  Moody’s said the risk on financial covenants is “currently
moderate,” though at the lower end of the rating scale,
headroom has weakened. One in three junk corporates have
“tight,” or restrictive, covenants, defined as less than 20
percent headroom, compared with a fifth of issuers in 2010.  The New York-based ratings firm said it anticipates further
deterioration as revenues and cash flow are pressured by
economic weakness and banks become more cautious in accepting
covenant resetting.  A total of $582 billion of corporate debt will mature by
March 2013 in the EMEA region, mostly concentrated in the
utilities (15 percent), automotive (13 percent),
telecommunications (11 percent) and energy (11 percent) sectors,
Moody’s said.  In the firm’s study of 571 rated corporate borrowers, 91
percent of issuers “appear” to have sufficient liquidity to
cover their debt maturities over the next 12 months, the same
percentage as in 2011, Moody’s said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  