-- Webb Simpson Wins U.S. Open Title as Furyk Falters Near End
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-18T03:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/webb-simpson-wins-u-s-open-title-as-jim-furyk-falters-near-end.html
Webb Simpson  won the U.S. Open by
collecting four birdies in a five-hole stretch midway through
the final round and then watching fellow American  Jim Furyk  make
two late bogeys to hand him the victory.  Simpson, 26, who became the ninth straight first-time
winner at golf’s four major championships, shot 1-over 281 at
the foggy Olympic Club in San Francisco.  Simpson, who finished earlier, watched the final holes on
television with his wife, Dowd, inside the clubhouse.  “I never felt nerves like I did today,” Simpson said
while accepting the winner’s trophy. “A lot of times I had to
hit my legs, because I couldn’t really feel them.”  Simpson began the day tied for eighth place at 3 over. He
did not take the lead by himself until Furyk had bogeys on the
13th and 16th holes. He’s the first player to win the title with
an over-par score since 2007, when Argentina’s  Angel Cabrera  won
at 5 over at Oakmont Country Club outside Pittsburgh.  Furyk, 42, who won the title in 2003, was trying to become
the oldest  U.S. Open  champion since Payne Stewart in 1999.  Michael Thompson  of the U.S. and Graeme McDowell of
 Northern Ireland , the 2010 U.S. Open champion, tied for second
at 2 over. Furyk, who also bogeyed the 18th, was among five
golfers at 3 over.  “I had my opportunities and my chances and it was right
there,” Furyk told reporters. “It was my tournament to win.”  Tiger Woods , who was tied for the lead entering the third
round yesterday, ended at 7-over 287 in a tie for 21st place --
his worst four-round finish as a professional at the U.S. Open.  After four bogeys and a double bogey through the first six
holes today, Woods rebounded with three birdies over his final
nine holes.  “The first six, I just didn’t play well at all,” Woods
told reporters. “I got off to such an awful start. I tried
coming in, but I was too far out.”  Tiger’s Finish  His combined 8-over-par score over the final 36 holes was
his worst weekend performance in a U.S. Open since his combined
9-over score at  New York ’s Shinnecock Hills in 2004.  Coming off his second win of the season two weeks ago at
the Memorial Tournament, Woods shot 69 and 70 in the first two
rounds and entered the weekend tied for the lead at 1 under. The
14-time major tournament winner then shot 5-over 75 in the third
round, dropping him five shots off the lead.  With no players finishing under par, the Olympic Club
course was a dramatic turnaround from last year’s U.S. Open at a
damp Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,  Maryland . Rory McIlroy set or tied 12 tournament records a year ago, including
his winning score of 16 under par.  McIlroy, of Northern Ireland, missed the 36-hole cut this
year, as did England’s  Luke Donald , the No. 1 player in the
Official World Golf Ranking.  Mickelson’s Tournament  Five-time U.S. Open runner-up  Phil Mickelson , who turned 42
yesterday, shot an 8-over 78 in the fourth round and finished
the tournament at 16 over.  “If you played anything less than perfect golf it was
extremely penalizing, and I played far from perfect,” Mickelson
told reporters.  Beau Hossler, an amateur from Southern California who
hasn’t yet started his final year in high school, shot 6-over 76
in the final round and ended the tournament at 9 over. He held
the lead briefly in the second round and began the final day
four shots off the lead, one ahead of Woods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Buteau in  San Francisco  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  