-- Where Lady Gaga Is Treated Like a Foreign Investor
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-18T21:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/where-lady-gaga-is-treated-like-foreign-investor-william-pesek.html
As economic indicators go, Lady Gaga
isn’t a big market mover.  The pop superstar’s decision to scrap a sold-out concert in
 Indonesia  last month had the country in the news for all the
wrong reasons. Threats and protests by Islamic hardliners made
it easy for the performer -- who advocates gay rights and
features sexually suggestive dance routines in concert -- to
bypass Jakarta on her Asian tour.  Such local sensitivities risk upending something bigger:
the very direction of  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy.  International investors rarely know what to do with
displays of social or religious intolerance. Lady Gaga’s
cancellation came two weeks before Alexander Aan was sentenced
to 2 1/2 years in jail for posting “God does not exist” on
Facebook. Although this stands as a blight on Indonesia’s
democratic credentials, it’s an ambiguous signal to an American,
British or Singaporean investor.  The same can’t be said when intolerance extends to economic
matters. The poster child of this is the proposed $7 billion
takeover of  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  by  Singapore ’s DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. The deal is in question as Indonesia considers
restricting foreign ownership of lenders for reasons that smack
more of emotion than rationality. New taxes on metals, curbs on
raw-material shipments and laws that require some foreign
companies to divest stakes in local projects have left
Indonesian stock markets with some of the weakest  returns  in the
region this year.  Nationalistic Noise  Why all this nationalistic noise now, when foreign
investment is sorely needed? Why engineer such a gaping self-
inflicted wound at a time when the world economy is reeling? It
really does make you wonder what President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is thinking.  Foreign direct investment jumped 20 percent last year to a
record $19.3 billion. In the first quarter, foreign and domestic
investments increased by $7.5 billion. That’s quite a feat
considering the deepening crisis in  Europe  and the U.S.
slowdown. In the space of five weeks in December and January,
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service raised Indonesia’s
debt to investment grade.  More capital is essential. Yudhoyono took Indonesia from
bankrupt dictatorship to fiscally stable democracy. Expectations
were low when the retired general was elected in 2004. Three
presidents had already come and gone since 1998, when Suharto
was ousted by huge street protests. The vast kleptocracy he
built over three decades is still being dismantled. Although
much work remains, Yudhoyono increased transparency and began
attacking the corruption that squanders so much of Indonesia’s
$700 billion of annual output.  After winning re-election in 2009, Yudhoyono wisely focused
on Indonesia’s abysmal infrastructure. Ask any chief executive
officer why he or she doesn’t put more factories in Indonesia
and the dire state of roads, ports, railways, airport terminals
and power grids is sure to come up. Yudhoyono wants to spend $18
billion this year on upgrades.  Getting there requires lots of foreign money. It’s worth
noting that the biggest source of foreign-direct investment in
2011 was neighboring Singapore, where  DBS (DBS)  is trying to invest in
Indonesia’s development. Sadly, traders are betting that
Southeast Asia’s largest banking takeover will unravel.  One can understand the impulse. Indonesia’s long history of
colonialism bred resentment of foreigners seeking to develop
resources. Many Indonesians say  oil companies  are to blame for
the nation’s paradox of plenty: Amid energy riches, about 110
million  people  -- almost half the population -- live on less
than $2 a day.  Lukewarm Welcome  Many still seethe over the 1997-1998 Asian crisis. When
Indonesia’s banking sector crashed, a number of institutions
were sold to foreign banks. Now, as a booming Indonesia looks to
expand overseas, including in Singapore, the welcome seems
lukewarm from Jakarta’s point of view.  Indonesia needs to find a middle ground. Reading from the
playbook of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  won’t get you very far.
Reducing corruption, increasing productivity and improving
education are important pursuits, but so is creating a stable,
predictable regulatory environment. If Indonesia seeks a better
overseas reception for its banks, why not go further to
strengthen its financial sector? Even those who argue that
Indonesia isn’t alone in limiting foreign ownership have to
admit the government is handling the process clumsily.  As with the Lady Gaga story, this is a tale of misplaced
anger. Taste and decorum are in the eye of the beholder.
Indonesia is home to the world’s largest Muslim population, and
if its people find an entertainer too racy for local
consumption, then so be it. Beyonce has run into similar trouble
in  Malaysia . It would be nice if there were comparable outrage
over the grinding pace of reducing corruption and poverty.  There should be anger, too, at every retrograde policy step
that holds back the nation’s 238 million people. Attracting more
foreign capital is vital to rectifying much of what ails
Indonesia. Increased international involvement makes graft
harder to hide and perpetuate. It makes the economy more
competitive. It helps create the good-paying jobs needed to
raise  living standards .  Investment is what propelled last year’s 6.5 percent
growth, the fastest since the Asian crisis, and more is needed
to sustain that pace. Local sensitivities have their place. Just
not when they are such clear roadblocks to a nation’s potential.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 