-- World Bank Keeps Kenya 2012, 2013 GDP Growth Forecast at 5%
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-18T08:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/world-bank-keeps-kenya-2012-2013-gdp-growth-forecast-at-5-1-.html
Consumption should drive  Kenya ’s
economy to grow at 5 percent in 2012 and 2013, although
expansion could slow to 4.1 percent if global financial shocks
and domestic political risks materialize, the World Bank said.  Expansion in  East Africa ’s largest economy eased to 4.4
percent last year, the Washington-based lender said in a
statement handed to reporters today in Nairobi, the capital.  “More than ever, Kenya’s economy is out of balance,” the
World Bank said. “Kenya needs to rebalance its economy,
increase savings and create more incentives for exports.”  Political uncertainty before next year’s elections may
stifle investment, after deadly violence at the last vote in
2007, while the debt crisis in  Europe  could crimp tourist
arrivals, cut remittances and weaken demand for exports from the
world’s largest grower of black tea, it said.  Kenya’s economy is showing signs of rebounding after good
rains this year eased drought and boosted agriculture, an
industry that generates a quarter of output, and helped curb
inflation that accelerated to a peak of 20 percent in November.  Shilling Risks  Six months of slowing inflation has increased scope for the
central bank to lower its policy rate from a record 18 percent
and turn its attention to spurring economic growth. A sharp
interest-rate reduction may also reverse foreign exchange
inflows and cause currency volatility, the  World Bank  said.  The shilling, which has rebounded from a record low of
106.75 per dollar, was trading 0.4 percent stronger at 84.60, by
9:57 a.m. in Nairobi, heading for its highest closing level
since June 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya needs to spur manufacturing investment, remove
regulatory burdens and cut regional trade barriers to narrow its
current account deficit, the World Bank said. The gap widened to
13.1 percent of GDP last year, one of the worst in the world,
and is forecast to hit a record 15 percent in 2012, the bank
said.  The government should also introduce policies to control
consumption-led growth and encourage savings and investment to
improve the trade deficit, the World Bank said.  “Kenya is consuming above its means,” Johannes Zutt, the
bank’s country manager, told reporters today in Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryson Hull at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net  