-- WTO-China Steel, Facebook-SEC, Gupta Verdict: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-18T12:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/wto-china-steel-facebook-sec-letters-gupta-verdict-compliance.html
China broke global commerce rules by
imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on more than $200
million of U.S. steel products, the World Trade Organization
said in a ruling June 15.  Judges agreed with the U.S. that China failed to prove that
imports of grain-oriented flat-rolled electrical steel, produced
by companies such as West Chester, Ohio-based  AK Steel Holding
Corp. (AKS)  and Pittsburgh-based ATI Allegheny Ludlum Corp. had caused
injury to Chinese rivals. The panel also found that China began
its anti-subsidy proceedings without adequate evidence showing
U.S. companies were receiving illegal government aid.  The Chinese mission to the WTO said in a statement from
Geneva that judges backed China’s “key claims” and ruled in
favor of its use of “facts available” in calculating “subsidy
rates, the disclosure of information on the dumping margins and
the disclosure of information on the subsidy benefit relating to
the government purchase of goods.”  The U.S. argued that China didn’t follow WTO procedures by
failing to disclose the facts underlying its legal conclusions
and not explaining its calculations.  Both governments have 60 days to appeal the panel’s
findings. China said it “will conduct further evaluation and
reserves the right to appeal.”  Compliance Policy  Basel Group Seeks Deal on Nationally Systemic Bank Controls  Global financial regulators, after reaching a consensus
last year on tougher capital rules to govern banks that would
roil the world economy if they collapsed, will try to hammer out
a deal this week on controls for lenders with the potential to
bring down national economies.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision plans to publish
draft rules for so-called systemic lenders that aren’t covered
by last year’s plans requiring global banks deemed too-big-to-
fail to hold additional capital of as much as 2.5 percent of
their risk-weighted assets, according to two people with
knowledge of the discussions.  To reach a deal, nations in the group will need to bridge
differences over whether the planned rules for these so-called
domestically systemic banks should also apply to subsidiaries of
the global lenders targeted last year, said one of the people,
who declined to be named because the talks are private. The
split centers on whether local regulators should be free to
impose stricter capital rules on these units than those the
parent bank must follow, one of the people said.  The euro area’s efforts to contain its debt crisis have
been frustrated by weakness on some banks’ balance sheets,
including those of smaller to mid-size lenders.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
regulators, finance ministry officials and central bankers from
the Group of 20 nations, published a provisional list of 29
globally important banks that may face these surcharges,
including Deutsche Bank AG,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  It also said that these globally important lenders
should be subject to tougher supervision.  While regulators don’t intend to publish a list of the
nationally important banks, the plans will include guidance for
supervisors on identifying and regulating them. Regulators will
discuss the plans at a two-day meeting starting tomorrow in
Stockholm, the people said. Should the Basel group agree on the
draft rules, they would then seek public comment.  CSRC Encourages Selling of Fixed-Income Products, Journal Says  The China  Securities Regulatory Commission  is encouraging
fund companies to issue more fixed-income products, the China
Securities Journal reports, citing an unidentified person.  The regulator hopes fixed-income products will rise to
50 percent of the total assets of funds from about 25 percent
now, the person was cited as saying.  Israeli Panel Approves Easing of Mobile Phone Import Rules  Israel’s parliamentary economics committee approved the
easing of rules for mobile phone imports, a move which may
increase competition in the market, the panel said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  U.S. Regulator Said to Exempt Small Branches From Swaps Rules  Some overseas branches of U.S. banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may win exemptions from Dodd-Frank Act
collateral and clearing requirements, according to two people
briefed on the matter.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission on June 21 may
propose letting non-U.S. branches with less than 5 percent of a
bank’s aggregate notional swap business be free of some
requirements, according to the people, who requested anonymity
because the guidelines haven’t been proposed. The banks would
still face reporting requirements and need to show that risk
from the overseas trades isn’t brought back to the U.S., one of
the people said.  The Dodd-Frank law is designed to increase transparency by
having swaps cleared on public exchanges. CFTC Chairman  Gary
Gensler  has said JPMorgan’s loss of at least $2 billion on
derivatives trades conducted in London underscores the need for
U.S. regulators to ensure that banks’ foreign branches and
subsidiaries are covered by the new rules.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
branch threshold.  Compliance Action  SEC Pressed Facebook for Details on Mobile Revenue Before IPO  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pressed
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  executives to explain in more detail how a user
shift to mobile devices could impact the company’s profits,
according to documents made public June 15.  “Assuming that the trend toward mobile continues and your
mobile monetization efforts are unsuccessful, ensure that your
disclosure fully addresses the potential consequences to your
revenue and financial results rather than just stating that they
’may be negatively affected,’” the agency wrote to Facebook on
Feb. 28.  Facebook shares have fallen about 24 percent since the
stock began trading at $38 on May 18 in part because of concern
about the company’s mobile strategy.  Facebook amended its IPO filing on May 9, about a week
before its $16 billion sale, to say that its revenue may be
negatively affected by users accessing the site on mobile
devices rather than personal computers.  Separately, Facebook Inc. told regulators ahead of its
initial public offering that the midpoint of its proposed price
range wasn’t “meaningfully different” from its $30.89 per-
share fair value estimates.  The SEC also  sought details  on fair value of equity part of
Instagram purchase.  Facebook correspondence with the SEC was released June 15.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Gupta Verdict  Naftalis Says He’ll Fight for Gupta’s ‘Innocence’  Gary Naftalis , attorney for Rajat Gupta, talked with
reporters about the June 15 verdict in Gupta’s trial on insider
trading charges.  Gupta was found guilty of conspiracy and three counts of
securities fraud. He was acquitted of two other securities fraud
counts.  For the video, click here.  Gupta Convicted of Insider Trading for Tipping Rajaratnam  Rajat Gupta, who reached the pinnacle of corporate America
as managing partner of McKinsey & Co. and as a director at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was convicted
by a federal jury of leaking inside information to hedge-fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam .  Gupta, 63, was found guilty of securities fraud and
conspiracy by a federal jury in Manhattan June 15 in its second
day of deliberations. Securities fraud carries a maximum prison
sentence of 20 years, and conspiracy carries a five-year
maximum. Gupta will remain free on bail until his sentencing on
Oct. 18.  Gupta showed no reaction while the verdict was read. The
outcome is a victory for the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in their
assault on insider trading, which used tools normally employed
against organized crime, including phone taps and informants.  Gupta is the most prominent of those convicted at trial or
to plead guilty since the nationwide crackdown began in October
2009. To date, the U.S. has brought cases against 66 traders and
their sources from  Wall Street  to Silicon Valley. No one has won
an acquittal; six cases are pending.  Besides his tenure at Goldman Sachs and McKinsey, which he
ran from 1994 to 2003, the Kolkata-born Gupta served on the
boards of the Rockefeller Foundation and the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation, and raised millions of dollars for education
and health-care programs.  For more, click here.  In Gupta, Jurors Saw the American Dream and Convicted Anyway  After delivering a guilty verdict in the insider-trading
trial of Rajat Gupta, jurors talked about their experience.  Jury foreman Richard Lepkowski, 51, didn’t want to convict
Gupta of insider trading. To him and other jurors, Gupta had
lived a “story-book life” and “the American dream,” he said.
In the end, though, the case was just too strong, Lepkowski
said.  Jurors weighed the evidence for 9 1/2 hours over parts of
two days before convicting Gupta of one count of conspiracy and
three counts of securities fraud, the maximum sentence for which
is 20 years in prison. They acquitted him of two counts of
securities fraud.  When the 12 jurors returned to the courtroom to deliver
their verdict at 11:38 a.m., two were in tears. They said they
wrestled with many issues before filing into the courtroom for
the last time.  For more, click here.  Gupta’s Judge Ignored U.S. Sentence Requests in Insider Cases  The judge who will sentence Gupta for insider trading has a
track record of cutting the government’s recommended punishment
in some cases by half or more.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan is to sentence
Gupta, once a managing partner of McKinsey & Co., for tipping
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. In September, the
judge sentenced Winifred Jiau, a Stanford University-educated
consultant convicted of corrupting friends and selling
confidential information, to four years in prison, less than
half of the maximum 10 years sought by federal prosecutors.  The Jiau sentence came as a surprise after Rakoff initially
appeared to agree with the government’s recommendation last
fall.  Rakoff’s ultimate sentence for Jiau was below the term of
78 to 97 months suggested by federal guidelines. Others
convicted in the government’s insider trading probe, such as
former Primary Global Research LLC executive James Fleishman,
received a 30-month term instead of as many as 108 months sought
by the U.S. Former SAC Capital Advisors LP manager Donald
Longueuil also received a 30-month term instead of the 46 to 57
months sought by the prosecution; and Rakoff sentenced Manosha
Karunatilaka, a former Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
manager, to 18 months in prison while the U.S. sought a term of
37 to 46 months.  In a 2006 opinion, which has been cited by defense
attorneys seeking leniency for clients, Rakoff called the
prosecutor’s request for an 85-year sentence in an accounting
fraud case “patently unreasonable” and “absurd.”  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Taylor Bean Official Gets Five Years in Prison, U.S. Says  Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.’s former finance
chief was sentenced to five years prison for helping his boss,
 Lee Farkas , commit what prosecutors say was one of the largest
bank frauds in U.S. history, according to U.S. Attorney Neil
MacBride.  Delton de Armas, 41, was sentenced June 15 by U.S. District
Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria, Virginia, after pleading
guilty on March 20 to one count of conspiracy to commit bank and
wire fraud and one count of making false statements.  De Armas admitted he participated in a scheme that
contributed to the failures of Montgomery, Alabama-based
Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup, once among the
nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  Farkas, the ex-chairman of Taylor Bean, is serving a 30-
year sentence. He was convicted in April 2011 of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud in what
prosecutors said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage
assets.      The case is U.S. v. Armas, 12-00096, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Deutsche Boerse Asks EU Court to Cancel NYSE-Euronext Merger Ban  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  asked a European Union court to overturn
a ban on its planned merger with  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , saying
regulators made errors when reviewing the deal that would have
created the world’s biggest exchange.  Regulators “failed to properly assess” offers made by the
companies to eliminate antitrust concerns and wrongly ruled that
the two exchanges’ rivalry limits fees for customers, Deutsche
Boerse argued in a  filing  at the EU’s General Court in
Luxembourg published in the EU’s Official Journal on June 16.  The European Commission blocked the $9.5 billion deal in
February because it would have led to a “near monopoly” in
European exchange-traded derivatives. The acquisition of NYSE
Euronext would have put more than 90 percent of Europe’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of stock
trading in the hands of one company.  “The commission inaccurately accepted only some of the
efficiencies as verifiable, merger-specific and likely to
benefit customers, and incorrectly claimed that they were
insufficient to counteract the competitive effects of the
merger,” Deutsche Boerse said in the filing.  The EU tribunal can cancel regulators’ decision or ask them
to reexamine the deal if it backs any of the Frankfurt-based
exchange’s claims.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Thomas Butler as Head of New Credit-Ratings Office  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission named Thomas
Butler, a former Morgan Stanley managing director, to head a new
credit-ratings office created as part of the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory overhaul.  Ratings-firm examinations required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
act had been done by the SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations before the creation of the new office, the
regulator said in the statement.  Butler, who starts June 18, will run a staff of about 25
lawyers, accountants and examiners responsible for monitoring
the nine registered nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations, the SEC said in a  statement  June 15. The office
will issue an annual report on each of the ratings firms, which
are led by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  U.S. Health Insurance Regulator Larsen to Leave Government  Steve Larsen, the government administrator directing
enactment of U.S. insurance regulations created by the 2010
health-care overhaul, said he is leaving to take a job with
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   Larsen will resign as head of the Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight in July to become an
executive vice president at UnitedHealth’s Optum unit, he said
in an e-mail. Larsen worked for  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) , a Virginia
Beach, Virginia-based insurer specializing in Medicaid plans,
before joining the Department of  Health and Human Services  in
2010 and had served as Maryland’s insurance commissioner.  Larsen’s departure was announced  Marilyn Tavenner , the
acting administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services. He will be replaced temporarily by Mike Hash, an
adviser to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen
Sebelius, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 