-- Yamana Gold to Buy Extorre for $404 Million to Add Mine
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-06-18T20:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/yamana-gold-to-buy-extorre-for-404-million-to-add-mine-1-.html
Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI) ,  Canada ’s third-
largest producer of the metal by market value, agreed to buy
 Extorre Gold Mines Ltd. (XG)  for about C$414 million ($404 million)
to gain control of the Cerro Moro project in  Argentina .  Extorre shareholders will receive C$3.50 in cash and 0.0467
percent of a share of Yamana, Vancouver-based Extorre said in a
statement today. That’s an implied deal price of C$4.26 a share
and 54 percent more than Extorre’s 20-day volume-weighted
average price, according to the statement.  Extorre said it pursued a sale after a decline in gold-
mining shares, economic uncertainty and the situation in
Argentina meant financing Cerro Moro on its own became too
expensive. Extorre slid 66 percent in the year through June 15
amid investor concern about foreign resources companies in
Argentina after the country seized control of oil producer YPF
SA from  Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   “The deal is being done at a very attractive price, which
has been made possible by sector valuations and the recent
rise” in political risk in Argentina, Steven Green, a Toronto-
based analyst at TD Securities Inc., said in a note. The
acquisition “makes a lot of sense from Yamana’s perspective,
adding a high-quality project opportunistically.”  Extorre rose 68 percent to C$4.27 at the close in Toronto.
Yamana increased 2.4 percent to C$16.75.  Operational Experience  Yamana has the operational experience and financial
strength to develop the gold and silver project, which is
located in Argentina’s Santa Cruz province, Extorre said.  The deal “is a relatively small transaction in that it
represents only 3 percent of Yamana’s market capitalization,”
Toronto-based Yamana’s Chief Executive Officer Peter Marrone
said in a separate statement. Still, it could eventually deliver
more than 10 percent of the company’s so-called gold-equivalent
production, he said.  Yamana’s 2012 production will be 1.2 million to 1.3 million
gold-equivalent ounces, a measure that includes silver output,
it said May 1. Output may rise to about 1.75 million ounces by
2014, it said at the time.  Yamana also said today it approved an 18 percent increase
in its  quarterly dividend  to 6.5 cents a share.  There have been about $2 billion of takeovers of gold
companies valued at $100 million or more announced this year,
with an average premium of 41 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There were about $10.4 billion of deals
in the same period last year, the data show.  The Extorre takeover agreement includes a C$15 million
breakup fee. Extorre has agreed not to solicit other offers.  Yamana’s financial advisers on the deal were  Barclays
Capital  and CIBC World Markets Inc. and its legal advisers were
Cassels Brock and Blackwell LLP. Extorre was advised by
Canaccord Genuity Corp. and  law firm  Gowling Lafleur Henderson
LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  