-- Yankees’ Winning Streak Hits Nine Games With Sweep of Nationals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-18T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-18/yankees-winning-streak-hits-nine-games-with-sweep-of-nationals.html
The  New York Yankees  have won a
season-high nine straight games after beating the Washington
Nationals 4-1 to complete a three-game sweep of the interleague
series between division leaders.  Curtis Granderson and  Robinson Cano  hit solo home runs for
the Yankees yesterday in Washington, while pitcher Ivan Nova won
his fifth consecutive Major League Baseball start.  The Yankees (40-25) have swept three straight series of
three games or more for the first time since 1998, when they won
a franchise-record 114 games and the World Series title. Before
traveling to Washington, the Yankees also had three-game sweeps
of the  Atlanta Braves  and  New York Mets .  “You feel like your guys are going to get it done when
you’re playing as well as we are,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi 
told reporters. “No matter what the situation is, you feel like
you’re going to get it done.”  The Yankees open another three-game set at home today
against the Braves before visiting the Mets for three games.
They’ve won 17 of their last 20 games against National League
opponents dating to last season.  Nova improved his record to 9-2 on the season after
allowing one run over 7 2/3 innings.  “I’ve got five in a row, but we’ve got nine in a row,”
Nova told reporters. “That’s amazing for me, the way I feel
right now. I’m so happy the way we’ve been throwing the ball.”  Adam LaRoche’s solo homer in the second inning yesterday
was the lone run for the Nationals (38-26).  The Mets lost to the Cincinnati Reds 3-1 yesterday, their
sixth loss in nine games. After getting swept by the Yankees
this month, the Mets won three straight games against the Tampa
Bay Rays and then were swept by the Reds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  