-- 
Time Warner’s HBO Leads Emmy Nominations With 104 as CBS Tops Broadcasters

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-14T16:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/-dexter-friday-night-lights-nominated-for-drama-series-emmy.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO  cable channel
led this year’s Emmy award nominations with 104, including nods
for “Game of Thrones” and “Boardwalk Empire.” CBS grabbed 50
nominations, the most among broadcasters.  “Dexter,” “Friday Night Lights,” “Game of Thrones,”
“Boardwalk Empire,” “Mad Men” and “The Good Wife” were
nominated for best drama series, the Academy of Television Arts
& Sciences said today in  Los Angeles .  “Thrones” and “Empire” finished their first seasons on
HBO, which plans to air its final season of “Entourage”
starting July 24. The HBO miniseries “Mildred Pierce,”
featuring Kate Winslet, took the most nominations for a single
show with 21, followed by 19 for “Mad Men,” the AMC series
about a New York advertising agency in the 1960s.  “The work being done on cable right now has a strong point
of view,” John Shaffner, the academy’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview. “It’s original and it’s important.”  “The Kennedys” on ReelzChannel was nominated for top
miniseries, best actor for Greg Kinnear -- his first Emmy
nomination -- and eight others. HBO’s “Cinema Verite,” PBS’s
“Downtown Abby (Masterpiece),” Starz’s “Pillars of the
Earth” and HBO’s “Too Big to Fail” were also singled out.  The Emmy nominations were announced by Melissa McCarthy of
CBS’s “Mike & Molly” and Joshua Jackson from Fox’s “Fringe.”
The 63rd annual awards show is scheduled to air Sept. 18 on  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox with Jane Lynch of “Glee” as host.  Last year’s live Emmy telecast on NBC drew its largest
audience in four years, according to Nielsen Co. data released
at the time.  Comedy Nominees  While less-regulated cable networks drew more drama
recognition, all six best comedy nominations went to shows on
broadcast networks. The shows are “Big Bang Theory” on  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s most-watched U.S. network; “Glee” on Fox; “Modern
Family” on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC; and “The Office,” “Parks
and Recreation” and “30 Rock” on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC.  “Modern Family,” last year’s comedy winner, led the
category with 17 nominations, followed by 12 for “Glee.”  Emmy nominations for best reality show went to CBS’s “The
Amazing Race”; Fox’s “ American Idol ,” the most watched show
on television, and “So You Think You Can Dance”; ABC’s
“Dancing with the Stars”; Lifetime’s “Project Runway”; and
Bravo’s “Top Chef.”  Comedy Central’s “Colbert Report” and “The  Daily Show 
with  Jon Stewart ”; NBC’s “Late Night with  Jimmy Fallon ” and
“Saturday Night Live”; TBS’s “Conan”; and HBO’s “Real Time
with  Bill Maher ” were nominated for best variety, music or
comedy series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  