-- 
Air Pollution Found at Five Natural-Gas Sites in North Texas

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-07-14T23:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/air-pollution-found-at-five-natural-gas-sites-in-north-texas-1-.html
Five natural-gas sites in  Fort
Worth , Texas, last year produced air pollution that exceeded
state regulations, according to a  study  on the effects of
drilling and production in the city.  Eastern Research Group Inc., a consultant hired by the Fort
Worth City Council, also found visible emissions at 296 of 388
gas well sites it examined. The study was posted on the city’s
website today.  The city requested the study in response to resident
concerns that gas drilling, fracturing, compression and
collection in the area’s Barnett Shale gas field may have an
adverse effect on  air quality .  The study may have implications in other onshore fields,
such as the Marcellus Shale in  Pennsylvania  and  New York , the
Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  and the Fayetteville Shale in
 Arkansas , Jason Lamers, a city spokesman, said in an interview.
It’s the first study to test for emissions during all phases of
gas development, including drilling, hydraulic fracturing, well
completion, pipeline operations and compression, Lamers said.  “I’m very optimistic that the results of this study will
advance the knowledge base, not just for the Barnett but for all
of the U.S.,” Ramon Alvarez, a scientist in Austin with the
Texas office of the advocacy group the Environmental Defense
Fund, said in an interview.  Drilling Fort Worth  Exploration companies including Devon Energy Corp.,
Chesapeake Energy Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp. have drilled more
than 1,200 producing wells in Fort Worth, which sits atop about
6 percent of the 5,000-square mile (13,000 square kilometer)
Barnett Shale field, Lamers said.  Eastern Research, based in Lexington,  Massachusetts , used
infrared cameras that can detect air pollution to inspect sites.
The company took air samples at sites where it found emissions
and tested the samples for pollutants. The company also built
computer models showing the dispersal patterns of the emissions
and calculated the emissions from compressor sites.  Most of the emissions were found to be gas; the tests also
found volatile organic compounds such as benzene, along with
carbon monoxide and formaldehyde, according to the study. In
most cases, the pollutants dispersed quickly and posed no health
risk for surrounding residents, the study said. The pollutants
can contribute to the formation of ozone, which is the main
ingredient in smog, Michael Gange, assistant director of
transportation and public works for the city, said in an
interview.  Tighter Regulations  The  Texas  Commission on Environmental Quality is
considering tighter regulations on the release of volatile
organic compounds from tanks and other equipment associated with
oil and gas production.  “Though the most toxic pollutants these sources emit are
released in relatively low quantities, all reasonable
precautions to reduce emissions from the well pads and
compressor stations should be made,” according to the study.  Eastern Research recommended installing vapor recovery
equipment to capture emissions from  storage tanks  at well sites
and using electric motors on compressor stations.  Many companies are already using those techniques, said Ed
Ireland, executive director of the Barnett Shale Energy
Education Council, an industry group.  “Those are pretty much best management practices in the
industry,” Ireland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  