-- 
Measat Said to Hold Talks on Selling Satellite Stakes, Forming Partnership

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-07-14T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/malaysia-s-measat-said-to-hold-talks-on-selling-satellite-stakes.html
Measat Global Bhd., controlled by
Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, has held talks with
 Eutelsat Communications (ETL)  SA and Asia Satellite Telecommunications
Ltd. on selling stakes in satellites, according to three people
familiar with the discussions.  The negotiations may also lead to a partnership between
Measat and one of the companies, two of the people said,
declining to be identified because the discussions are private.
An agreement would give them access to Measat’s four satellites
and help share costs of future launches.  A sale would help Ananda Krishnan, Malaysia’s second-
richest man, raise funds after buying out three companies last
year for a total 7.9 billion ringgit ($2.6 billion). The
billionaire, whose wealth was estimated to be $9.5 billion last
year by Forbes magazine, also owns a majority stake in
Malaysia’s largest mobile-phone company,  Maxis Bhd. (MAXIS)   “It makes sense to have such alliances as it enables the
parties involved to leverage on each other capacities as long as
there is no overlap,” said Clare Chin, head of research at
Kuala Lumpur-based CLSA Securities Malaysia Sdn. “It would also
help them to save capital expenditure costs.”  Measat  may be interested in sharing assets, splitting the
costs of new launches, and exchanging satellite stakes, two of
the people said. Chief Executive Officer Paul Brown-Kenyon
wasn’t immediately available for comment when contacted by
telephone and e-mail.  Rising Prices  Demand from broadcasters and phone carriers in emerging
markets including  China ,  India  and Indonesia is rising, driving
up average bandwidth prices by more than 5 percent annually in
 Asia , C.W. Cheung, Asia Pacific director at telecommunications
consultants Ovum, said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday.  “In some markets prices of satellite bandwidth are starting
to go up, and this is driving investment activities in the
sector,” said Cheung said.  Kuala Lumpur-based Measat, which beams signals to Asia, the
Middle East,  Europe  and  Australia , said on June 7 it’s ordering
a new satellite costing about 1 billion ringgit scheduled for
launch by the end of 2013. Ananda Krishnan, 73, delisted Measat
along with Kuala Lumpur-based power and gaming company Tanjong
Plc and pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia Networks Plc last year.  Paris-based Eutelsat is the world’s third-largest fixed
satellite operator, with a fleet of 27 satellites covering much
of the world, according to its  website . Vanessa O’Connor, a
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Hong Kong-based Asia Satellite, or AsiaSat, has three in-
orbit satellites covering the Asia-Pacific, according to its
 website . Winnie Pang, corporate affairs manager, declined to
comment.  This month, Ananda Krishnan raised $888 million from the
initial public offering of Bumi Armada Bhd., the country’s
biggest supplier of support vessels for the oil and gas industry.
The billionaire is in talks to sell his gaming company Pan
Malaysian Pools Sdn. for more than 2 billion ringgit, Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd.’s analyst Yin Shao Yang said in a report in
March.  -- With assistance from Joyce Koh in Singapore and Chiara
Remondini in Milan. Editors: Barry Porter, Anand Krishnamoorthy  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho in  Tokyo  at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 