-- 
’Black Swan’s’ Taleb to Advise IMF on Risk

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r
-- 
2011-07-14T15:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/taleb-to-advise-imf-on-how-to-detect-risks-of-financial-crisis.html
Nassim Taleb , author of “The Black
Swan,” will work with the  International Monetary Fund  on
drawing up measures to detect hidden risks in the financial
system for G-20 ministers and central bank governors.  Taleb will team up with the IMF’s Monetary and Capital
Markets department on a paper for the G-20 to develop ways to
apply his method for identifying tail risks, or the chances of
low probability, high-impact events, according to a letter from
Elie Canetti, an IMF adviser. He won’t be paid for his work and
he won’t speak on behalf of the IMF in public, Canetti said.  The IMF’s decision gives Taleb’s ideas recognition among
policy makers, whom he has accused of papering over risks by
bailing out banks during the financial crisis. His best-selling
book “The  Black Swan ” argued that history is littered with
high-impact rare events known in quantitative finance as “fat
tails.” Taleb has criticized economists and Wall Street
analysts for using traditional models such as value-at-risk,
which banks use to decide how much to wager in the market.  “We will work together to develop financial, and
potentially fiscal applications of your simple heuristic to
detect fragility, model error and hidden tail exposures,”
Canetti wrote.  Taleb will testify today before the U.S. Congress’s
Committee on Financial Services about the establishment of the
Office of Financial Research, set up under the Dodd-Frank
financial reform act. The OFR, as part of the  U.S. Treasury , is
aimed at improving the quality of financial data available for
policy makers to analyze the financial system. In his testimony,
Taleb said throwing money at the office may create new risks.  “This aims at the creation of an omniscient Soviet-style
risk manager,” he said, according to an advance copy of his
testimony. “It makes us fall into the naive illusion of risk
management that got us here.”  Taleb’s work with the IMF comes after it was asked in 2009
to draw up proposals for G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors for strengthening the collection of data and plugging
information gaps in global financial markets.  His “research is part of the fund’s broader efforts to
strengthen its early warning capacities, and will be among the
many inputs to the IMF’s response to the G-20’s request,” IMF
spokesman William Murray said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Baker in London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  