-- 
America Movil Mexico Regulator Mulls Price Hike, Expansion Says

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T20:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/america-movil-mexico-regulator-mulls-price-hike-expansion-says.html
America Movil SAB may face a rule in
 Mexico  forcing it to charge higher prices for mobile-phone
services to convince consumers to move to other carriers,
Federal Telecommunications Commission President Mony de Swaan
said in an  interview  published by Expansion magazine.  “When one operator has 72 percent of the mobile-phone
market and there are practices to displace others, you have to
do something to benefit competition and the consumer,” de Swaan
said, according to the magazine’s July 18 edition. “We have to
be extremely cautious in mobile telephony and its fees for users
or we could generate distortions.”  The agency has two options, to increase or decrease America
Movil’s prices for users, he said. While reducing prices would
be popular, it would cause the carrier to gain market share, de
Swaan told Expansion. Raising prices would help push consumers
to move to rivals  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Grupo Iusacell SA and  NII
Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , balancing the market, he said.  As a hypothetical example, de Swaan said the agency could
set a price of 1 peso per minute of airtime, reducing the price
as America Movil’s market share fell. The risk would be that
competitors would raise their own rates, he said. Consumers also
might not understand why the agency would increase prices when
it has been working to reduce the fees carriers charge each
other to connect calls, he told the magazine.  The telecommunications agency is preparing a plan to
auction two national digital television channels, de Swaan said.
The agency may present the plan for the tender in September and
may select winners in the next 18 months, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  