-- 
Amtrak Must Cede Operations for High-Speed Rail, Mica Says

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-07-14T18:44:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/amtrak-must-swap-n-e-trains-for-investors-mica.html
Amtrak  will have to give up some
rights to operate trains in the Northeast U.S. to attract
private investment in high-speed train service, said John Mica,
chairman of the House transportation committee.  Amtrak will “never be able” to build a high-speed rail
system, the Florida Republican said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s Washington office.  “Amtrak can move this forward,” Mica said. “But they are
going to have to give up some of the operational activity.
Nobody is going to come into this unless they get a piece of the
pie.”  Mica  has proposed a bill  to transfer ownership of the 457-
mile corridor between Boston and Washington from Amtrak to the
Department of Transportation, which would then solicit bids from
investors to develop and operate 220 mile-per-hour service.  “The private sector, if you put this up for tender and say
you can share in the profits, they will invest the money to help
you build this thing,” Mica said.  Amtrak carried 10.4 million passengers in the Northeast in
fiscal year 2010, with 3.2 million riding the Acela and 7.2
million taking the Northeast Regional service.  “I’ll bet we could do three times that easily” with
private companies running operations, he said.  Aviation Impact  Mica said a well-run high-speed service would induce more
fliers to choose the train, and free capacity at Northeast
airports by reducing or eliminating shuttle flights. “I’m not
hurting aviation. In fact, aviation can come in and partner as
an operator or something and make money off of that,” he said.  Fewer shuttle flights would allow airlines to offer
“longer-distance service and other service that makes sense. It
gives me additional capacity,” Mica said.  Amtrak in April requested proposals for financing its 30-
year, $117 billion  plan  for a dedicated corridor in the
Northeast for 220-mph trains that involves building on its
existing right-of-way.  “Congress will never, never, even no matter what happens,
they’re never going to give them $117 billion,” Mica said.
“They might give them a little bit here and little bit there.
But then you get a half-assed, half-baked approach.”  Private Investment  Amtrak isn’t asking for $117 billion from the federal
government, Steve Kulm, a spokesman for the national passenger
rail service, said in an e-mail.  “We will try to maximize private investment” to reduce
the government’s share of the cost, he said.  The rail company is evaluating the business plans submitted
and hopes to chose one in August, Kulm has said.  “Amtrak is confident we can attract private capital and
maintain our role as operator of the service,” he said in the
e-mail.  Amtrak estimates it covers the cost of its operations in
the region and makes an operating profit on its Acela service,
which has a top speed of 150 mph. It owns 363 miles of the
corridor. Amtrak says the Acela has captured 69 percent of the
combined air and rail travel market between  Washington  and  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  