-- 
Marriott Declines Most Two Years as Growth in Room Revenue Trails Industry

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-07-14T20:35:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/marriott-declines-most-in-a-year-as-growth-in-room-revenue-trails-industry.html
Marriott International Inc., the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, fell the most two
years after reporting room revenue that trailed industry growth
and saying timeshare sales declined.  Revenue per available room, a measure of occupancy and
rates, rose 6.6 percent for company-operated properties in  North
America  in the second quarter, the Bethesda, Maryland-based
hotelier said after the close of trading yesterday. Across the
industry, revpar in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed 9.8 percent
this year through May, according to Smith Travel Research Inc.  “This was a weaker-than-expected quarter for Marriott,”
Steven Kent, an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New
York , said today in a note to clients. Revpar has been “weaker
than U.S. statistics for five quarters in a row,” he wrote.  The shares fell $2.45, or 6.6 percent, to $34.69 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The decline
was the biggest since Feb. 10, 2009. The company’s brands
include Ritz-Carlton, Courtyard and Renaissance.  Contract sales in Marriott’s timeshare segment fell to $163
million in the second quarter from $167 million a year earlier,
excluding a $6 million allowance for fractional and residential
contract cancellations. The company is planning to spin off the
business, which accounts for about 13 percent of its revenue,
this year.  ‘Exceptionally Weak’  The “timeshare business was exceptionally weak vs. our
expectation,” Kent wrote.  Marriott, the first of the major U.S. hotel chains to
report second-quarter earnings, led declines among hospitality
stocks.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , which will
announce results July 28, dropped 2.2 percent to $55.65.  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H) , scheduled to report on Aug. 2, fell 4.8 percent to
$39.27.  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  slumped 2.3 percent to $33.23.  Marriott’s “troubling timeshare results could be a
negative indicator for Wyndham’s operations,” Kent said.
Wyndham is scheduled to release its results July 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  