-- 
Harry Potter Battles Voldemort in Fiery Hogwarts Finale: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-14T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/harry-potter-battles-voldemort-in-fiery-hogwarts-finale-movies.html
“ Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows, Part 2 ” opens with Harry kneeling at the beachside
grave of house elf Dobby. Death is ever-present in the thrilling
finale of the top-grossing franchise in movie history.  Several major characters from the world of Silver Sickles
and Whomping Willows are killed off as Harry moves inexorably
toward a climactic showdown with evil Lord Voldemort.  During his decade-long run as the orphaned wizard,
 Daniel Radcliffe  has grown from a gawky 11-year-old boy into a
21-year-old leading man. Likewise, the movies about J.K.
Rowling’s orphaned wizard have matured from mostly juvenile
entertainment into darker, more sophisticated fare.  It’s the fourth straight “Potter” film directed by David Yates, and his familiarity with the material shows.  Those craving pulsing action and eye-popping special
effects will have to wait a while, but the delayed gratification
is worth it. You’ll see the collapse of the Covered Bridge,
Harry fleeing a blazing fire, a giant spider and an ethereal
scene in a light-bathed train station.  The acting and the storytelling have improved since “Harry
Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone” opened in 2001. Radcliffe,
Rupert Grint and  Emma Watson , who were all kids back then,
initially showed their inexperience playing bosom buddies Harry,
Ron and Hermione from the Hogwarts School. Now they’re veteran
actors capable of adult emotions and subtle acting tricks.  British Stars  Once again, the cast includes a Who’s Who of British stars,
including  Ralph Fiennes  as Voldemort,  Michael Gambon  as Albus
Dumbledore, John Hurt as Ollivander, Alan Rickman as Severus
Snape, Maggie Smith as Minerva McGonagall and Helena Bonham Carter as Bellatrix Lestrange. If nothing else, “Harry Potter”
has been the biggest blessing for British actors since
Shakespeare.  In “Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” Harry and his friends try
to destroy the remaining Horcruxes that make Lord Voldemort
immortal. But the killer of Harry’s parents is armed with the
powerful Elder Wand, one of three Deathly Hallows that help him
ward off death.  The final confrontation between Harry and the Dark Lord
takes place in the ruins of Hogwarts, where it all began. The
story has come full circle and, for Harry’s devoted fans, the
end will surely be bittersweet.  “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” from
 Warner Bros. Pictures , opens tomorrow across the U.S. Rating:
***1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 