-- 
Asian Stocks Decline as Concern Over U.S. Debt Rating Threatens Exporters

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-14T15:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/asian-stocks-slide-amid-u-s-debt-concern-david-jones-plummets.html
Asian stocks fell for the third day
this week after Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. under
review for a credit-rating downgrade, hurting the outlook for
exporters reliant on a global economic recovery.  Esprit Holdings Ltd., a global fashion retailer, sank 2.9
percent in Hong Kong. Sony Corp., which gets about a quarter of
its revenue from the U.S., lost 1 percent as the yen advanced
against the dollar for a fifth day.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) ,
Australia’s No. 2 department-store chain by sales, tumbled 18
percent in Sydney after cutting its profit and sales forecasts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 135.84 as
of 9:34 p.m. in Tokyo, even after the U.S. Federal Reserve
signaled it may add more stimulus to stop economic growth
stalling.  “We’re seeing cautious trade as investors assess the
likelihood of a U.S. debt de-rating that may increase the
chances of a double-dip recession that would hurt Asian
exporters,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
global equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Moody’s
action is a shot over the bows telling U.S. politicians that
failure to reach agreement on the debt ceiling would have dire
consequences for the economy.”  About twice as many stocks declined as advanced on the
Asia-Pacific index today. Last week, the gauge extended its
rally for a third week as European Union leaders hammered out
proposals to roll over debt to prevent  Greece  from defaulting
and after reports showed retail sales in the U.S. rose in June
and  China ’s latest interest-rate increase sparked speculation a
tightening cycle may soon end.  Faster Pace  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average lost 0.3 percent today.
South Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.5 percent.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index
slid 0.4 percent, even as a report showed the economy expanded
at a faster pace, signaling the nation is recovering from its
deadliest quake in 80 years.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent today. In  New York , the index pared gains to 0.3 percent
from as much as 1.4 percent yesterday.  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. -- rated Aaa since
1917 -- under review for a credit-rating downgrade for the first
time since 1996 on concern the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit will not be raised in time to prevent a missed payment of
interest or principal on outstanding bonds and notes even though
the risk remains low.  The rating would likely be reduced to the Aa range and
there is no assurance Moody’s would return its top rating even
if a default is quickly cured.  Debt Ceiling  “If the debt-ceiling issue isn’t resolved in a suitable
timeframe it wouldn’t be great, as regaining the Aaa rating
would be hard,” said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to $7
billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the
central bank is prepared to take additional action, including
buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears to be in
danger of stalling.  The Fed last month completed a $600 billion program of
Treasury bond purchases that aimed to stimulate the economy by
reducing borrowing costs, boosting stock prices and spurring
 consumer spending .  ‘Patchy Growth’  “The Fed is saying growth is patchy and may require
stimulus and that they’re prepared to step in to provide it as
required,” said Pengana’s Schroeders.  Esprit sank 2.9 percent to HK$22.05 in  Hong Kong  after CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets also cut its rating to “underperform”
from “buy,” citing a disappointing earnings outlook as
European and North American retail industries slow. Samsung
Electronics Co., which gets about a fifth of its sales in
America, lost 1.4 percent to 831,000 won in  Seoul .  Sony, an electronics manufacturer, retreated 1 percent to
2,127 yen in Tokyo.  Japan’s currency appreciated to as high as 78.47 against
the dollar, compared with 79.56 at the close of stock trading in
Tokyo yesterday. A stronger yen reduces income at Japanese
companies when overseas revenue is converted into their home
currency.  Australian Retailers  David Jones plunged 18 percent to A$3.20 in Sydney, its
biggest slide since listing in 1995.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,
Australia’s largest department-store chain by sales, slumped 6.4
percent to A$2.48. Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
biggest furniture and electrical retailer, fell 4.6 percent to
A$2.30.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 4.8 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.1 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.3 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Gold producers were among stocks that advanced today. Korea
Zinc Co., which produces gold and silver, climbed 5.9 percent to
434,000 in Seoul, while  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s
biggest gold producer, gained 2.2 percent to A$39.80. Zijin
Mining Group Co., China’s No. 1 gold producer by market value,
jumped 5.5 percent to HK$4.39 in Hong Kong.  Gold surged to a record after Moody’s announcement and as
talks stalled on Europe’s debt crisis, boosting demand for a
safe haven. Bernanke’s comments that additional stimulus may be
needed also helped drive gold futures up for the eighth straight
day today in New York.  In New Zealand,  Vector Ltd. (VCT) , the nation’s largest
electricity distributor, climbed 1.2 percent to N$2.54 and
Property for Industry Ltd., an investor in warehouses and
factory buildings, advanced 1.7 percent to NZ$1.23.  New Zealand’s economy in the first quarter expanded more
than twice as much as the central bank forecast. Gross domestic
product rose 0.8 percent in the three months ended March 31 from
the previous quarter, when it increased a revised 0.5 percent,
Statistics New Zealand said in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Satoshi Kawano in  Tokyo  at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 