-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rises to Record for Second Day

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-07-14T21:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-rises-to-record-for-second-day.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Rises to Record on ‘Witch’s Brew’ of Debt, Currency Woes  Gold futures rose to a record for the second straight day
on speculation that debt woes in the U.S. and  Europe  will
escalate, boosting the appeal of the precious metal as a haven.
Silver climbed to a nine-week high.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Boom Turns Bust for Stillwater Holders on Copper Deal: Real M&A  Stillwater Mining Co. is so sure commodities will keep
surging that it’s willing to spend more than the Montana
palladium producer itself is worth to buy and develop copper and
gold projects in  Argentina .  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines on Concern Demand May Diminish in  China , U.S.  Copper fell for the first time in three days on concern
that demand may wane in China, the world’s leading metal user,
and the U.S., the second-biggest.  Rio Tinto’s Iron-Ore Production Gains 12%, Recovers From Floods  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company,
said  iron ore  and coking coal production rose in the second
quarter, recovering from Australian floods that disrupted
operations in the previous three months.  MINING:  China Almost Doubles Rare-Earth Export Quota; EU Criticizes Move  China, the world’s biggest supplier of rare earths, almost
doubled its export quota for the second half of 2011, a change
the European Union said actually adds restrictions to overseas
shipments.  Metorex Recommends $1.36 Billion Takeover Bid From Jinchuan (2)  Metorex Ltd., the African copper producer subject to a
$1.36 billion takeover bid, said it’s recommended the offer from
China’s Jinchuan Group Co. and agreed not to seek further
approaches.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Niger Gives Gold, Base Metal Licenses to Cassidy, Ami, Gecko (1)  Niger awarded gold and base-metal exploration licenses to
Canadian miners Cassidy Gold Corp. and Ami Resources Inc. and
the local unit of Geodrill-Ghana, the government said.  AGRICULTURE:  Saskatchewan Spring Grains Are 53% Behind Normal Development  Spring-grain crops in Saskatchewan were 53 percent behind
normal development as of July 11, while 52 percent of oilseeds
and 50 percent of pulse crops trailed, the provincial government
said today in a report.  Wheat Drops as Russian, Ukraine Supplies May Cut U.S. Exports  Wheat fell for the first time in three days on speculation
that demand for shipments from the U.S., the world’s leading
exporter, will shrink as supplies increase from Russia and
Eastern Europe.  Soybeans Rise as Hot Temperatures May Threaten U.S. Production  Soybeans rose, extending the longest rally since August, on
speculation that unusually hot weather during the next month
will curb crop yields in the U.S., the world’s biggest grower
and exporter.  Colombia  Coffee Output Tumbles 40% in June After Storms (2)  Colombia, the world’s second-largest producer of arabica
coffee beans, said output slumped 40 percent last month after
storms ravaged crops.  Cotton Futures Tumble as Importers Cancel More Orders From U.S.  Cotton futures declined the most allowed in  New York  as
importers canceled more orders from the U.S., the world’s
leading shipper.  Corn Falls on Speculation Rising Wheat Supplies Will Cut Demand  Corn futures fell from a four-week high on speculation that
demand for the feed grain will slow as cheaper wheat prices
encourage livestock producers to switch.  Cattle Fall on Signs Heat Wave Will Curb Meat Demand; Hogs Drop  Cattle futures fell the most since May on speculation that
a heat wave in the U.S. will curb red- meat consumption. Hog
futures also declined.  Sugar Falls as  Brazil  Crop Concerns Ease; Coffee, Cocoa Slide  Sugar fell the most in eight weeks on signs that production
in Brazil, the world’s biggest grower, will be higher than some
analysts expected. Coffee and cocoa retreated.  SHIPPING:  Ships Quit Pacific as Hire Costs Slide on Shortage of Cargoes  The cost of hiring panamax bulk carriers, the largest ships
that can transit the Panama Canal, slid as the number of vessels
available in the  Pacific Ocean  outstripped available cargoes and
some left the region.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Retail Sales Stagnate on Higher Unemployment (1)  Sales at U.S. retailers stagnated in June, highlighting
weakness in consumer demand that accounts for 70 percent of the
economy.  Bernanke Has No Plans ‘At This Point’ for More Bond Buying (2)  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that
the central bank isn’t currently ready to embark on a third
round of government bond-buying to stimulate the economy.  Reinhart, Rogoff Say Rising Debts Pose Risk to U.S., Europe  Rising government debts pose a significant risk to economic
growth and financial stability in the U.S. and Europe,
economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  wrote in a column
for Bloomberg View.  U.S. Jobless Claims Declined More Than Forecast Last Week (3)  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  dropped last week to the lowest level
since April, a sign weakness in the labor market may be starting
to abate.  IMF Says Ireland May Return to Market If Leaders Stem Contagion  International Monetary Fund Deputy Director Ajai Chopra
said Ireland has a good chance of returning to markets if
European leaders are able to stem contagion from the region’s
debt crisis.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Fall as Bernanke Damps Speculation on More Stimulus  U.S. stocks fell, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to the lowest level of the month, as  Federal Reserve  Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said he’s not prepared to take immediate action
to stimulate the economy.  Dollar Gains on Bernanke Inflation Comments; Kiwi Surges on GDP  The dollar gained against the majority of its most-traded
counterparts after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told
Congress inflation has moved higher, boosting speculation the
central bank won’t take further steps to support the U.S.
economy.  Yen Gets Boost as Yields to Treasuries Shrink: Japan Credit  The yen is getting a boost as the prospect of further
monetary easing by the Federal Reserve causes the difference in
yields between Japanese  government bonds  and Treasuries to the
least in almost 2 1/2 years.  Oil Falls After Bernanke Says Fed Cautious on More Stimulus  Oil fell the most in three weeks after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed isn’t planning more bond-
buying to stimulate economic growth.  Moody’s Downgrade Warning Adds Pressure on Debt Deal (4)  Moody’s Investors Service raised the pressure on U.S.
lawmakers to increase the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
by placing the nation’s credit rating under review for a
downgrade.  SPORTS:  Clemens Mistrial Declared After U.S. Shows Barred Evidence (4)  The perjury trial of former Major League Baseball pitcher
 Roger Clemens  ended in a mistrial on the second day of witness
testimony after prosecutors showed the jury evidence that
violated a court order.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 