-- 
Tata Consultancy Says Global Uncertainty Spurs Outsourcing Opportunities

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-07-15T12:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/tata-consultancy-profit-rises-28-on-computer-service-outsourcing-orders.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software exporter, said it continues to see
strong demand for its computer services as the global economic
uncertainty prompts customers to adapt and outsource more work.  “The macro uncertainty is real and it’s not going to go
away in the near future,” Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said yesterday. “Everybody is getting adjusted
to the operating environment but staying pretty much focused on
what they have to do. That is driving opportunities.”  Tata Consultancy, which yesterday reported a 28 percent
jump in quarterly profit, joins larger rival  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in
signaling corporations are boosting spending on computer
services and consulting. Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam
has said the company expects to sustain 20 percent sales growth
for the foreseeable future as outsourcing demand grows.  “Globally, information technology spending is expected to
grow this year,” said Hitesh Shah, vice president of research
at IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “And as of now, that looks
to be on track.”  Worldwide spending on information technology services is
forecast to rise 6.6 percent to $846 billion this year, after
growing 3.1 percent last year,  Stamford , Connecticut-based
researcher Gartner Inc. said in a report last month.  ‘Pretty Strong’  Net income increased to 23.8 billion rupees ($535 million)
in the three months ended June 30, from 18.6 billion rupees a
year earlier, Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy said yesterday. The
company stated earnings as per International Financial Reporting
Standards, while profit was projected at 22.7 billion rupees
under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles according to
the median of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue climbed 31 percent to 108 billion rupees.  Demand remains strong across the company’s main markets in
 North America , the U.K. and Europe, which contributed 78 percent
of revenue in the last quarter, Chandrasekaran said.  “We’re continuing to see business momentum,” he said.
“The deal pipeline is pretty strong. If you look at the top 15
deals we’re chasing today, four of them are in U.S., four in the
U.K., four in  Europe , and one each in emerging markets areas.”  The  software company  added 24 clients last quarter,
increasing the number of $50 million customers to 33 from 27,
according to the statement.  Shares of Tata Consultancy climbed 2 percent, the most
since June 24, to 1,146.05 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, while the benchmark Sensitive Index fell 0.3 percent.  Volume Jump  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to clients including Citigroup Inc. and Singapore
Airlines Ltd., had a 7.5 percent increase in volume last quarter
from the preceding period. First-quarter volume at Infosys Ltd.,
India’s second-largest software exporter, grew 4 percent, Chief
Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said July 12.  Information technology services companies define volume as
the number of man-months workers spend on projects for clients.  Infosys shares fell the most in almost three months in
Mumbai on July 12, after the Bangalore-based company forecast
sales that missed analysts’ estimates. The software-services
provider projected revenue in the year to March to range from
$7.1 billion to $7.3 billion. That lagged behind the $7.5
billion average of 56 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy said it added a net 3,576 employees during
the quarter, for a total of 202,190. The company remains on
course to hire 60,000 workers in the 12 months ending March 31,
said Ajoyendra Mukherjee, vice president for human resources.  Wage Increases  Workers left Tata Consultancy at a rate of 14.8 percent in
the three months ended June, according to the statement, up from
13.1 percent for the same period last year. Infosys reported
employee attrition of 15.8 percent for the quarter.  Operating margin at Infosys may come under pressure during
the year ending March because of higher salaries paid to attract
and retain talent, CFO Balakrishnan said July 12.  Tata Consultancy also gave its largest wage increases in
three years, damping operating margin by 131 basis points from a
year earlier to 26.2 percent last quarter, Chandrasekaran said.  “The uncertain global macroeconomic environment demands
that we adopt an entrepreneurial approach and remain agile to
capture growth opportunities as they emerge,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  