-- 
Atossa, Oracle, Stillwater, Ali: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-14T14:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/atossa-oracle-stillwater-kirkpatrick-intellectual-property.html
Atossa Genetics Inc., a
biotechnology company focused on cellular and molecular
diagnostic tests, said it acquired a patent for  breast cancer 
diagnosis and risk assessment.  Atossa got patent 7,879,614 and a pending unpublished
patent application from  the Dr. Susan Love Research Foundation 
of Santa Monica, California, the Seattle-based company said in a
statement. The patent, which was issued Feb. 1, and the pending
application cover the manufacture, use and sale of a biomarker
test to examine carbohydrates in nipple aspirate fluid.  In a recent clinical trial at the  University of California 
at  San Francisco , according to the statement, the test was
positive in all the women in the study who had previously been
diagnosed with cancer and negative in 75 percent of the women
tested who were cancer-free.  The test uses no radiation, is painless and inexpensive and
takes less than five minutes to administer, according to Atossa.
It’s intended to be used as an adjunct to mammography for women
40 to 75 and for younger women at high risk for breast cancer.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, the application for the issued patent was filed in
December 2007 with the assistance of Knobbe, Martens, Olson &
Bear LLP of Irvine, California.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  SAP Asks Court to Cut Oracle’s $1.3 Billion Damage Award  SAP AG (SAP) , the business-software maker ordered by a jury to
pay $1.3 billion to Oracle Corp., told a judge the verdict was
based on speculation about Oracle’s losses and should be cut to
no more than $408 million.  A lawyer for SAP, Greg Lanier, said at a hearing yesterday
in federal court in Oakland, California, that during a trial
last year Oracle overstated its losses from copyright
infringement by an SAP unit. SAP asked U.S. District Judge
Phyllis Hamilton to reduce the damage award or order a new
trial.  “I have not decided what I am going to do,” the judge
said. She later told lawyers on both sides not to read too much
into an earlier ruling denying an SAP motion for summary
judgment, a decision in its favor without trial. “I didn’t say
Oracle was entitled to such damages. It is still up to Oracle to
present non-speculative evidence of damages.”  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , won a lawsuit in
November accusing SAP’s U.S.-based TomorrowNow software-
maintenance unit of making hundreds of thousands of illegal
downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s software to
avoid paying licensing fees and to steal customers. The jury
award was the largest ever for copyright infringement.  Oracle maintained at trial that its damages should
represent the value of a hypothetical license that the unit
would have had to pay for the software it infringed.  Such a license would never have existed between two fierce
competitors, so the damage award should have been based on
profits Oracle lost and SAP gained as a result of the
infringement, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said in court filings.
That number is $28 million to $407.8 million, SAP said.  Geoffrey Howard , an attorney for Oracle, argued yesterday
that SAP’s request to reduce the damages “would require the
court to reverse itself on motions it has made repeatedly and
require the court to weigh trial evidence” that was already
decided by the jury.  If a new trial is ordered, Hamilton should allow Oracle to
present evidence of its expected revenue from certain sales it
would have made if not for the infringement, something she
excluded from the case, Oracle said in filings. That would boost
the hypothetical license value by another $500 million, the
company said in the filings.  The case is  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  v SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Stillwater Artisanal Ales Says Stillwater Brewing Co. Infringes  Stillwater Artisanal Ales LLC , a Baltimore-based brewery,
sued beermaker  Stillwater Brewing Co.  of Stillwater,  Minnesota ,
for trademark infringement.  Stillwater Brewing “knowingly and willfully” used an
identical copy of the Maryland brewer’s trademark in connection
with its sale of beer, Stillwater Artisanal Ales said in a
complaint filed July 12 in federal court in Minnesota. Those
actions are causing confusion in the marketplace and at beer
competitions and festivals, according to the complaint.  Stillwater Artisanal Ales objected to the Minnesota
company’s participation in the American Craft Beef Fest for
“the specific purpose of competing against” the similarly
named brewer in the national and international marketplace.  Zachary S. Morgan, one of the Minnesota brewery’s co-
owners, said in an e-mail yesterday that his company is named
Stillwater after the town where it is based. “The name denotes
a geographic location in which the brewery is operated,” he
said.  Stillwater Artisanal Ales asked the court to bar the
Minnesota brewer’s use of the Stillwater mark, and for the
destruction of all infringing promotional materials. It also
seeks cancellation of the stillwaterbrewingco.com Internet
domain name, and awards of profits related to the alleged
infringement, money damages, attorney fees, litigation costs,
and extra damages to punish the brewery for its actions.  The Maryland brewery is represented by  Elizabeth A. Zidones 
and  Scott W. Johnston  of Minneapolis-based Merchant & Gould PC.  The case is Stillwater Artisanal Ales LLC V. Stillwater
Brewing Co LLC., 0:11-cv-01878-JRT, SER, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota.  Belgian  Law Firm  Loses Challenge to Domain Name Registration  Office Kirkpatrick SA, a 159-year-old Belgian IP consulting
firm, lost an Internet domain-name dispute with a Las Vegas
resident.  An administrative panel of the World  Intellectual Property 
Organization’s Arbitration and Mediation Center turned back the
challenge by the La Hulpe, Belgium-based firm to Fred
Kirkpatrick’s registration of “Kirkpatrick.com.”  The law firm argued that Fred Kirkpatrick’s domain name was
confusingly similar to its trademark and that it was registered
or acquired just for the purpose of trying to sell it to the
trademark owner. It also said Fred Kirkpatrick earns referral
fees from advertisers who place their ads on his otherwise
inactive site.  The panel said that Fred Kirkpatrick had adequately
demonstrated a legitimate interest in the domain name, and that
it couldn’t be proven he had registered it in bad faith.  The panel found that the law firm didn’t act in bad faith
in challenging the registration. It said that the firm “has not
been shown to have been aware of the fatal flaw in its case,
namely that the respondent is a real person.”  The firm can be found online at  Kirkpatrick.eu .  The case is  Office Kirkpatrick SA v. Fred Kirkpatrick,
D2011-0767, WIPO Arbitration and Mediation Center Administrative
Panel Decision.  Muhammad Ali Sues Kobo for Using ‘Butterfly’ Slogan in Ad  Muhammad Ali Enterprises LLC sued Kobo Inc., accusing the
digital bookseller of using the former boxer’s “Float like a
butterfly, sting like a bee” slogan in an advertisement without
permission.  The trademark infringement complaint, filed yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan , alleges that Kobo improperly used
the slogan last month in a full-page  New York  Times ad for its
eReader. Ali’s New York-based company has registered the phrase
as a trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The ad “made commercial use of the Muhammad Ali slogan and
Muhammad Ali’s name without permission from or compensation to
Muhammad Ali Enterprises,” according to the complaint.  Karina Tang, spokeswoman for Toronto-based Kobo, had no
immediate comment.  According to court papers, Muhammad Ali Enterprises was
formed in 2006 for “promoting Muhammad Ali’s legacy throughout
the  United States  and the world, including the licensing of
Muhammad Ali’s identity.” The company said it has all right,
interest and title to the boxing champion’s identity.  Ali’s website -- www.ali.com -- has an application for
potential licensees and a list of companies that are licensed to
use IP related to the boxer. Among current licensees are  Vringo
Inc. (VRNG) ,  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , JEM Sportswear Inc., DC Comics, Sony
BMG Music Entertainment International Inc.,  Japan ’s Uniqlo Co.,
and  Italy ’s A Moda SpA and Dolce & Gabbana.  Mohammad Ali Enterprises is represented by  Robert L.
Sherman  and  Natalie G. Furman  of Los Angeles-based Paul Hastings
Janofsky & Walker LLP.  The case is Muhammad Ali Enterprises v. Kobo Inc., 1:11-cv-
04825, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Edwards Angell Snares Head of MoFo’s New York IP Practice  Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP said it hired Rory
Radding, the former head of Morrison & Foerster LLP’s  New York- 
based intellectual property practice.  Radding , a litigator, has also previously practiced at the
now-defunct New York IP specialty firm Pennie & Edmonds, Boston-
based Edwards Angell said in a July 11  statement .  Before he was a lawyer, Radding was a pharmaceutical
chemist at Wellcome Research Laboratory and an environmental
chemist at Union Carbide Corp., according to the  profile  on the
firm’s website.  He has represented clients in trial and appellate courts
and before the U.S. International Trade Commission, the firm
said. He has litigated IP cases involving LED lighting, plastic
manufacture, ring laser gyroscopes, avionics, communications,
drugs, computer controllers, data compression, impact sensors,
bicycles, candy, wine, personal-consumer products, and
television commercials, according to the profile.  Radding got his undergraduate degree from Hamilton College
and his law degree from Albany Law School of Union University.  Loeb & Loeb Adds Brian G. Arnold to Expand IP Ligation Group,  Loeb & Loeb LLP hired Brian G. Arnold for its IP litigation
group, the Los Angeles-based firm said in a  statement .  Arnold  joins from  Irvine , California-based  Thomas Whitelaw .
He has also practiced at  Chicago ’s Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  He has litigated patent cases involving portable digital
audio devices, software, spinal instrument systems, computer
storage devices, optical displays, injectors for medical imaging
systems, slot machines, automotive service equipment, computer-
related imaging systems and food, according to the statement.  He has also done transactional work involving IP licensing,
the firm said.  Arnold has an undergraduate degree in mathematics from
Pomona College, a master’s degree in education from the
Claremont Graduate University and a law degree from Loyola Law
School Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 