-- 
Australian Dollar Heads for Second Weekly Loss as Stocks, Commodities Fall

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-15T02:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/australian-dollar-heads-for-second-weekly-loss-as-stocks-commodities-fall.html
Australia ’s dollar headed for a
second weekly loss against the greenback and the yen as concern
the global economic recovery is slowing sapped demand for assets
linked to growth.  The so-called Aussie traded near an eight-month low against
 New Zealand ’s dollar as traders bet Australian policy makers
will be less likely to raise  interest rates  than those in the
smaller nation. New Zealand’s currency was poised for a third
weekly gain versus the dollar after a report yesterday showed
the economy grew twice as fast as the central bank forecast.  “The market still remains very worried,” said Mike Burrowes, a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “Against that backdrop, risk sentiment does look a
little bit vulnerable. The Aussie is taking its cues from
developments offshore.”  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0736 as of 11:52 a.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0724 in  New York  yesterday, heading for a 0.2
percent loss this week. The currency was at 84.86 yen from 84.86
yen, having dropped 2.1 percent since July 8.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 84.35 U.S. cents from 84.21
cents, on course for a 0.7 percent gain this week. The so-called
kiwi traded at 66.69 yen from 66.63 yen.  Stocks, Commodities  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of shares fell 2 percent this
week, snapping three weeks of gains. It was little changed today.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19  Raw Materials 
slumped 1.3 percent.  Demand for the two South Pacific currencies against the
greenback was boosted after  Standard & Poor’s  became the second
ratings company to say it may downgrade the U.S.’s top credit
grade. Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. rating on review
July 13 for a downgrade on concern officials won’t raise the
nation’s debt limit in time to prevent a default.  A report yesterday showed U.S. retail sales stagnated in
June as falling home prices and unemployment above 9 percent
damp growth in the world’s largest economy.  New Zealand’s currency advanced against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts this week as wagers the central bank will lift
borrowing costs increased after first-quarter gross domestic
product rose 0.8 percent, exceeding the central bank’s
prediction for a 0.3 percent advance.  ‘Encouraging Signs’  “In New Zealand, growth has sort of really languished for
quite a while, but now there are pretty encouraging signs that
growth is picking up,” Burrowes said. “We expect the kiwi-
Aussie interest-rate differential to continue to narrow, which
obviously supports a move lower” for Australia’s dollar versus
the kiwi.  Traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut
its benchmark rate by 34 basis points over the next 12 months,
compared with a forecast for 69 basis points of increases in New
Zealand, Credit Suisse Group AG indexes show.  Australia’s currency traded at NZ$1.2730 from NZ$1.2734
yesterday, when it depreciated to NZ$1.2679, the weakest level
since Nov. 22.  Ten-year Australian bond futures for September delivery
were little changed today at 95.035 on the  Sydney Futures
Exchange . Australia’s 10-year bond yields climbed four basis
points to 4.96 percent.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, was little changed at 3.43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 Kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  