-- 
Bank of Korea Keeps Rates on Hold to Monitor Europe Sovereign Debt Crisis

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 
2011-07-14T03:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bank-of-korea-keeps-its-benchmark-rate-unchanged-in-likely-temporary-pause.html
The Bank of  Korea  kept interest
rates unchanged after an increase in June as policy makers
monitor the threat posed by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board held the benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent, the central bank said
in a statement in  Seoul  today. The decision was predicted by 13
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It raised rates by
a quarter-percentage point each in January, March and June.  With inflation exceeding its 4 percent target limit every
month this year, the central bank will probably boost borrowing
costs twice more in 2011, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The unanimous rate
decision today reflected policy makers’ concern about  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis, Governor Kim said.  Future moves by the  Bank of Korea  “will really depend on
how the global markets cope with the sovereign issues that are
going on right now, and the pace of global growth,” Shaun Cochran, head of Korea research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,056.08 per dollar as of 12:05
p.m. in Seoul after the decision. The South Korean currency has
climbed more than 6 percent against the dollar so far this year,
the fastest among major Asian currencies. The Kospi stock index
dropped 0.6 percent.  The Bank of Korea will put a “greater emphasis” on  price
stability  while ensuring sound growth, it said in a statement
after the decision, reiterating its stance stated last month.  Accelerating Inflation  Consumer prices in South Korea rose 4.4 percent in June
from a year earlier, the sixth month in a row they overshot the
central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent increases
through 2012. Core prices, which exclude energy and food,
advanced 3.7 percent last month, the fastest gain in two years.  With a pending increase in electricity rates and relatively
low prices a year earlier to compare with, inflation “will
likely stay high above 4 percent until the fourth quarter,”
said Ma Tieying, an economist with DBS Bank in  Singapore .  Seven out of eight analysts expect the Bank of Korea to
raise its benchmark rate to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent during
the current quarter, and six out of the eight forecast a further
increase to 3.75 percent in the fourth quarter, according to a
survey by Bloomberg News.  ‘Sensitivity to Inflation’  “We are still expecting two more rate hikes, from as early
as August, given that  core inflation  appears to be worsening,”
said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital  in Singapore. “The sensitivity to inflation is also
rising,” with elections coming up next year, he said.  Parliamentary elections are scheduled for next spring while
the presidential election is slated for December 2012.
Persistent inflation is weighing on popular support for
President  Lee Myung Bak , with his approval rating at 32.5
percent this month compared with 76 percent when he came to
power in February 2008, according to Seoul-based Realmeter.  Exports, equivalent to about half of the economy, increased
at the slowest pace since October 2009 last month. Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of televisions, said
last week its second-quarter profit decreased 26 percent due to
a slump in flat screen sales.  Higher borrowing costs may discourage people from taking
out new loans, helping slow the increase in  household debt , Ma
said. Such debt climbed to a record 801.4 trillion won ($759
billion) at the end of the first quarter.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said this week that borrowing
levels may cause a “considerable shock” to the economy if
interest rates rise quickly or the  property market  weakens.  South Korea ’s economy expanded 1.3 percent in the three
months through March from the previous quarter after a 0.5
percent gain in the final quarter of 2010.  The central bank has raised interest rate from a record-low
2 percent since last July as it expects consumer prices to rise
3.9 percent this year, while the economy will grow 4.5 percent.
The bank will revise its growth and inflation forecasts tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  