-- 
Bank of America Said to Offer MBIA Deal in Mortgage Suit

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-14T20:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bank-of-america-said-to-offer-mbia-settlement-in-defective-mortgages-suit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, has made a preliminary offer to bond insurer  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  aimed at settling a legal dispute tied to defective
mortgages, according to two people briefed on the discussions.
MBIA shares surged as much as 13 percent.  The two companies remain split on how much the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based bank would have to pay to resolve the
disagreement and it is unclear when an agreement can be reached,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Bank of America, and
 Kevin Brown  of Armonk, New York-based MBIA declined to comment.  A settlement would help revive the fortunes of MBIA, the
biggest bond insurer before the financial crisis, which has
posted cumulative losses of more than $5 billion since the end
of 2006. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is working to resolve demands from bond buyers and
insurers over defective mortgages created by Countrywide
Financial Corp., acquired by his predecessor in 2008.  “We will fight and represent your interest to the point
where we got the interests represented,” Moynihan said in a
June 1 conference. “There is a point where fighting doesn’t
have any value.”  Toxic Loans  MBIA rose 84 cents, or 9.2 percent, to $10.02 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock sold for
more than $73 in 2006 before defaults on mortgage bonds began to
multiply. Bank of America slipped 13 cents to $10.07. The bank
has this year announced settlements with  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie
Mac , bond insurer Assured Guaranty Ltd. and institutional
investors tied to soured home loans.  The lawsuit is among several between Bank of America and
MBIA, which guaranteed Wall Street’s toxic mortgage debt. Bank
of America bought Countrywide in 2008 and Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2009, two of the largest participants in the market for subprime
home mortgages.  In response to an analyst’s question during a May
conference call, MBIA Chief Financial Officer Charles Edward Chaplin said that cases over loan repurchases “typically do not
go all the way through trial.”  MBIA has booked $2.7 billion in estimated recoveries on its
balance sheet for mortgage-bond repurchase claims as of the
first quarter, the firm said in a May filing. The insurer said
it believes it is entitled to collect the full $4.6 billion of
losses it has incurred on the debt. Through September, MBIA had
paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage securities sponsored by
Countrywide, Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown said in February.  An eventual settlement may cost Bank of America “in the
higher end” of a $2 billion to $3 billion range, Robert Haines,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said this week in an interview.  Countrywide, once the biggest U.S. home lender, was
criticized by regulators for sloppy underwriting that
contributed to record defaults on loans bundled into bonds that
MBIA guaranteed. Defaults ran so high that Countrywide faced
bankruptcy before it was rescued by Bank of America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net 
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ; 