-- 
Bank Delays May Push 1 Million U.S. Foreclosure Filings to 2012

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-07-14T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bank-delays-push-1-million-u-s-foreclosures-into-2012-in-ominous-shadow-.html
Lender delays in processing home-
loan defaults will push as many as 1 million U.S. foreclosure
filings from this year to 2012 or beyond, casting an “ominous
shadow” on the housing market, according to  RealtyTrac Inc .  The number of properties receiving a notice of default,
auction or repossession plunged 29 percent in the first half of
2011 from the same period last year, the  Irvine , California-
based data seller said today in a report. About 1.17 million
homes got a filing, or one out of every 111 households.  Procedural delays caused by a probe into bank documentation
errors, combined with weak consumer sentiment and a jobless rate
above 9 percent, are weighing on a property recovery by adding
to a backlog of distressed homes, RealtyTrac said. A clogged
foreclosure pipeline may prevent real estate prices from finding
a bottom as the housing slump enters its sixth year.  “If you accept the premise that foreclosures are the black
cloud hanging over the market, we’re not going to get price
stability and people won’t leave the sidelines until that cloud
is cleared away,” Nicolas Retsinas, professor of real estate at
 Harvard Business School  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in a
telephone interview.  U.S. home prices fell 33 percent from a July 2006 peak
through April, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of 20
cities. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in
testimony to Congress yesterday that ongoing weakness in home
values is reducing household wealth and limiting  consumer
confidence .  3.2 Million Forecast  RealtyTrac in January forecast as many as 3.2 million
foreclosure filings for 2011. Delays have persisted as state
attorneys general investigate “robo-signing,” the practice of
pushing through documents without verifying their accuracy.
Total filings for the year are likely to be about 2 million at
the current pace, compared with 2.9 million in all of 2010,  Rick Sharga , senior vice president, said in a phone interview.  “This casts an ominous shadow over the housing market,
where recovery is unlikely to happen until the current and
forthcoming inventory of distressed properties can be whittled
down to a manageable number,” James J. Saccacio, RealtyTrac’s
chief executive officer, said in today’s report.  Any settlement between lenders and attorneys general won’t
guarantee a “huge increase” in filings, and housing may become
a campaign issue in the 2012 election, Sharga said. Further
delays in processing beyond the current scandal are “likely to
come from the political arena,” he said.  Three-Year Low  Foreclosure filings in the first half declined 25 percent
from the last six months of 2010, according to RealtyTrac. The
second-quarter total was the lowest in more than three years.  The drop in filings is keeping  home prices  above where they
should be, said Greg Hebner, managing director for Community
Rebuild Partners, an investor in distressed real estate.  “You’re seeing an artificial floor,” he said in a
telephone interview. “If supply flooded the market without all
the delays, you’d see another 10 percent price drop.”  Nevada  had the highest rate of foreclosure filings per
household in the first half, with one in 21 receiving a notice.
The number of notices in the state fell 17 percent from both the
previous six months and a year earlier, RealtyTrac said.  Arizona had the second-highest rate, at one in 36
households, and  California  was third at one in 51.  California Leads Total  California had the most filings, with 263,500 properties in
the state receiving a filing in the first six months, down 13
percent from the previous period and almost 23 percent from a
year earlier.  Florida  ranked second in total filings with
113,641 and  Arizona  was third at 77,525.  The length of time that homes spend in the foreclosure
process is increasing. In the second quarter, U.S. properties
had an average 318 days from the initial bank notice to the
completed seizure, up from 298 days in the first quarter and
from 277 days a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac.  The foreclosure process took longest in  New York  at an
average 966 days, followed by  New Jersey  at 944 days and Florida
at 676 days. The process was shortest in  Texas , 92 days,
followed by Virginia at 106 days.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the  U.S. population .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  