-- 
ECB, Banks, EU Meet in Rome on Greek Plan, Official Says

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-07-14T14:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/banks-ecb-eu-meet-in-rome-on-greek-plan-italian-official-says.html
Officials from the  European Central
Bank , the European Commission and private lenders are meeting in
Rome to discuss a second rescue plan for  Greece , an Italian
Treasury official said.  Today’s talks are part of European efforts to get creditors
to share the burden of a second Greek bailout a year after a 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) package failed to stop the debt
crisis from spreading.  The meeting is focusing on involvement of private investors
in a new Greek package, said the official, who declined to be
named because of internal policy. The discussions are organized
by the  Institute of International Finance , or IIF, and chaired
by Vittorio Grilli, the head of the European Union’s Economic
and Financial Committee. The EFC is a group of officials who
help prepare the regular meetings of European finance ministers.
Grilli also is director general of the Italian Treasury.  After today’s talks in  Rome , a “meeting or extraordinary
EU summit could be called because a final, clear answer must be
given to markets,” Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
said in  Athens  today, according to an e-mailed transcript from
the  Finance Ministry . The meeting is now underway, he added.  Greece’s credit rating was cut yesterday three levels to
CCC from B+ by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the lack of a credible
program for the debt-laden nation, uncertainties on the role of
private creditors in funding and the growth outlook. Fitch was
the third rating agency to cut Greece to the bottom tier of its
rankings. It was cut to Caa1 by Moody’s Investors Service on
June 1 and CCC by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13.  Bailout  Euro-area finance ministers agreed this week that investors
should play a role in the second bailout of Greece currently
being discussed, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels on July 12.
The credit rating companies have all threatened to cut Greece to
default if the EU goes ahead with its original plan to ask
private investors to voluntarily roll over their maturing Greek
bonds into longer-term debt.  The minister’s final statement singled out the ECB as
opposing a “credit event or selective default.” Luxembourg
premier  Jean-Claude Juncker , the chairman of the region’s
Finance chiefs, said that doesn’t mean that European governments
“would do everything in order to provoke a  credit event .”  Today’s talks in Rome follow similar meetings organized by
the banking lobby IIF on June 27 and July 6, the Italian
official also said. IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara  said
euro-zone finance ministers took an important step this week and
suggested they were converging on “more fundamental
approaches” for handling Greece’s debt, the Wall Street Journal
reported on July 12, citing an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   Acullen8@bloomberg.net  