-- 
Bank of Korea Cuts Its 2011 Growth Forecast on Expected Slowdown in Demand

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-07-15T01:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bank-of-korea-reduces-economic-growth-forecast-for-2011-on-demand-slowdown.html
The Bank of  Korea  lowered its
economic growth forecast for this year on an expected slowdown
in domestic demand, while raising the projection of inflation to
its target limit.  South Korea ’s economy will expand 4.3 percent, compared
with the 4.5 percent growth estimated in April, the central bank
said today in a statement. Consumer prices are expected to rise
4 percent, higher than the earlier 3.9 percent gain forecast.  The  Bank of Korea  board’s unanimous decision to hold
 interest rates  steady yesterday reflected policy makers’ concern
about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, Governor Kim Choong Soo
said. Still, with inflation overshooting the central bank’s 4
percent target limit every month so far this year, the bank will
probably increase borrowing costs twice more in 2011, according
to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “If risks to growth loom larger, the central bank may
pause again next month,” Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst
at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the
announcement. “They may wait until the dust over  Europe  and the
U.S. is settled a bit more.”  Prices have been rising on surging food costs, increasing
demand due to economic growth and inflation expectations, the
Bank of Korea said yesterday.  ‘Downside Risks’  “High prices are damping domestic consumption and
construction investment is too weak,” Lee Sang Woo, director-
general of the Bank of Korea’s research department, told
reporters today. “We see greater downside risks to growth, given
the possibility that the sovereign debt problems in the euro
area may spread and the U.S. may recover at a slower pace.”  The Bank of Korea said today it expects inflation to slow
to 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter after a 4.2 percent rate in
both the second and third quarters, as accelerating price gains
in the last quarter of 2010 affected the year-on-year comparison.  It forecasts economic growth of 5.2 percent in the fourth
quarter following a 4.2 percent expansion in the third quarter
and a 3.5 percent increase in the second quarter.  The  Finance Ministry  on June 30 raised this year’s
inflation forecast to 4 percent from 3 percent while slashing
its growth projection to 4.5 percent from 5 percent.  Next year, economic growth will likely accelerate to 4.6
percent while inflation will moderate to 3.4 percent, the
central bank said. Core prices, excluding food and energy, will
rise 3.5 percent this year and 3.7 percent next year.  Current-Account Surplus  The current-account surplus is expected to widen to $17
billion in 2012 from $15.5 billion this year. Unemployment will
likely fall to 3.4 percent next year from 3.5 percent this year,
the Bank of Korea said.  The Bank of Korea kept the benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate at 3.25 percent yesterday. Seven out of eight analysts
expect the central bank to raise its benchmark rate to 3.5
percent during the current quarter, and six out of the eight
forecast a further increase to 3.75 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to a survey by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  