-- 
Bars Count Shots as Minnesota Shutdown Threatens Booze Reserves

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bars-count-shots-as-minnesota-shutdown-threatens-booze-reserves.html
Trevor Berg says he’ll have no
choice but to close Hoss’ All American Liquor store in Walker,
 Minnesota , if the state government shutdown drags on: The $20
permit Berg needs to restock his wares expires July 17.  “As the shelves go bare, I’ll tighten the noose up on my
own neck,” Berg, 43, said in a telephone interview from
Minneapolis. “The more I sell, the faster I’m going to go
bankrupt.”  There are 300 bars, restaurants and liquor stores so far
that can’t purchase alcohol because their so-called buyer’s
cards expired, and the state can’t renew them with workers
forced to stay home and computers offline, said Doug Neville, a
Public Safety Department spokesman. The state has told
MillerCoors LLC to pull 39 varieties of beer because the brewer
didn’t renew $30 brand-label registrations, Neville said.  Many restaurants and bars have only a couple weeks’ supply
and must stop selling alcohol or close if the shutdown persists,
said Bob Pallansch, a member of the Minnesota Licensed Beverage
Association Board. Crippling an industry that produced $329.1
million in  tax revenue  last year may outrage the public enough
to force a settlement, he said.  “Throughout the state of Minnesota, the local tavern, bar
and grill are kind of the social hub,” Pallansch, 65, said in a
telephone interview from  Grey Eagle , a town of about 320 where
he owns the Double “R” Bar and Grill. “If they’re locked up,
it’s going to be a big outcry.”  Road Trip  The stalemate, the  longest  of the nation’s six state
government shutdowns since 2002, began July 1 after Democratic
Governor Mark Dayton and Republican legislative leaders failed
to resolve an impasse about how to address a $5 billion  budget
deficit . Republicans want spending cuts alone, and Dayton is
pushing for taxes to preserve services.  Dayton yesterday traveled to Rochester, which is home of
the Mayo Clinic, and Albert Lea, about 10 miles (16 kilometers)
from the Iowa border, to meet with people with disabilities and
senior citizens to “discuss what is at stake in the state
budget,” according to an e-mail from his office.  Meanwhile, legislative Republicans sent out an e-mail with
charts showing the impact of the shutdown on areas including
schools and parks in those two cities. It didn’t mention a booze
drought.  Although businesses can sell alcohol with city liquor
licenses, they can’t purchase new product without the state
buyer’s card, Neville said in a telephone interview from  St.
Paul . Cards for 300 of 10,000 businesses have expired since the
shutdown began July 1, and that will increase to 424 by the end
of the month, Neville said.  Beating the Deadline  Atlanta-based  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  renewed and received its
Minnesota buyer’s card before the government shut down on July
1, Leslie Parker, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  has renewed the buyer’s cards
expiring for its Minnesota locations and received them before
the shutdown, Chris Arnold, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The Costco Wholesale Group warehouse in Burnsville knew its
card was expiring and renewed it in time, Brian Roberts, the
assistant general manager, said in a telephone interview.  The Minnesota Licensed Beverage Association has posted a
 “special compliance notice”  on its website reminding retailers
that if their permit expires, they must go dry.  “If a wholesaler is willing to sell to you illegally, you
should not be tempted,” the notice said. “You must respect the
legal requirement of a buyer’s card.”  Less Filling  There may be less beer available to purchase even for those
authorized to do so. The state told MillerCoors it must pull its
39 brands, including Miller, Miller Lite, Coors Light and
Foster’s, from bars, restaurants and stores because its brand-
label registrations expired and can’t be renewed during the
shutdown, Neville said.  The registrations, which cost $30 each and must be renewed
every three years, are required to manufacture, distribute or
sell alcohol, Neville said. The state has asked the company, a
joint venture between  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and  Molson Coors Brewing
Co. (TAP) , for a plan showing how it will remove the beer and wants
that to happen “within days,” he said.  The company disputes the claim that it failed to file the
paperwork and fees in time and is talking with state officials,
Julian Green, a spokesman for the company, said yesterday.  Running a Tab  In fiscal 2010, the most recent data available, the
Minnesota Department of Revenue collected $253.5 million from
liquor retailers in gross receipts and sales tax and $75.6
million in excise taxes from wholesalers and distributors,
according to an e-mail from Lynn Andrews, a spokeswoman.  Berg and Erik Forsberg, who owns the Ugly Mug, a
 Minneapolis  bar and restaurant, said they will ask a judge to
let businesses deposit their $20 renewal fee in trust and
continue buying alcohol until the shutdown ends and the state
can process the renewals.  Sitting outside The Ugly Mug having a cocktail, Paul
Lawson, 24, said he was shocked that the stalemate is affecting
bars and restaurants, which pay liquor, sales and income taxes,
as well as the lottery and other ventures that make money for
the state.  “Why have they shut down the profit centers that bring in
all the taxes?” said Lawson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  