-- 
Berlusconi Faces Final Confidence Vote on Austerity Plan to Stop Contagion

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-07-15T08:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/berlusconi-faces-final-confidence-vote-on-austerity-plan-to-stop-contagion.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  faces a final confidence vote on an austerity package
that aims to balance the budget in 2014 and shield Italy from
the region’s debt crisis.  Berlusconi, staking the future of his government on the
outcome, survived a first confidence motion yesterday when the
Senate in Rome approved the plan, 161 to 135. The Chamber of
Deputies, where he has a narrower majority than in the Senate,
holds a confidence vote at about 7 p.m. to secure final passage
of the measure.  “Without balancing the budget, our debt, which is a
monster that comes from our past, would devour the entire
country,” Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  told the Senate
yesterday. “What we need now is to get down to hard work in the
interest of everybody.”  Berlusconi pushed for quick passage of the bill after
investors began dumping Italian securities on concern that
 Italy , with the region’s second-highest debt, would become the
next victim of  Europe ’s sovereign crisis. The selloff pushed the
10-year bond yield to a 14-year high 6.02 percent on July 12 and
sent the benchmark  stock index  to the lowest since July 2009.  Bonds Decline  The yield premium that investors demand to hold Italian
debt over German bunds rose 11 basis points today to 300 basis
points today and the 10-year yield gained 6 basis points to 5.69
percent.  Tremonti said that Italy and even the region’s strongest
economies would remain vulnerable until European policy makers
come up with a solution for the debt crisis that led  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts. “Like with the Titanic,
even the first-class passengers can’t be saved,” Tremonti told
the Senate.  Berlusconi resorted to confidence votes to pass the package
to end debate and force allies to back the measure or risk the
government’s collapse. His popularity has fallen to a record low
amid corruption allegations and sex scandals that prompted
dozens of his deputies to abandon his government last year.  “You haven’t been up to the task -- you haven’t had the
courage to be,” Anna Finocchiaro, chief whip in the Senate for
the main opposition  Democratic Party , said of the ruling bloc
during debate in the upper house yesterday. “When markets were
routing us, you were fumbling around.”  Wages, Pensions  The budget package extends a freeze on public servant
wages, cuts funding for regional governments and ministries,
speeds a planned increase in the  retirement age  and will force
Italians to pay 25 euros for some non-emergency hospital visits
and 10 euros above existing fees to see specialists. Taxes will
be raised on trading accounts holdings with more 50,000 euros in
securities and on bonus and stock options.  Warnings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s that they were reviewing Italy’s rating for a possible
downgrade, coupled with opposition within the government to the
budget plan designed by Tremonti, helped drive yields higher
this month.  The backlash against Tremonti over the budget cuts and the
fallout from a corruption investigation into one his closest
collaborators had prompted speculation that the minister, the
enforcer of the fiscal rigor that kept the deficit in check,
would resign. Tremonti, in an interview with the Wall Street
Journal today, said he wasn’t stepping down and had no reason
to.  The surge in Italy’s bond yields is already boosting the
cost of financing its deficit. Italy priced 1.25 billion euros
of five-year bonds at an auction yesterday to yield 4.93
percent, the highest in three years and up from 3.9 percent at
the previous sale on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 