-- 
Bernanke Has No Plans ‘At This Point’ for More Bond Purchases

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-14T19:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bernanke-says-fed-has-no-plans-at-this-point-to-make-more-bond-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that the central bank isn’t currently
ready to embark on a third round of government bond-buying to
stimulate the economy.  “We’re not prepared at this point to take further
action,” Bernanke said today, in response to a question from
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a Democrat from
 South Dakota . Johnson asked Bernanke why the Fed wasn’t
immediately starting a new stimulus program given the weak
economic recovery and rising unemployment.  Stocks fell, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the
lowest level of the month. The S&P declined 0.7 percent to
1,308.89 at 3:17 p.m. in  New York  after rising as much as 0.7
percent. Gold futures pared gains after reaching a record
$1,594.90 an ounce.  In House testimony yesterday, Bernanke said the Fed still
has tools to spur growth, and that “we have to keep all the
options on the table,” driving share prices higher. Bernanke
told Senators today that policy makers want to see if the
economy rebounds as anticipated in the coming months, and that
they are keeping a close eye on inflation.  Should the economy turn out to be weaker than expected, the
central bank may provide more monetary stimulus, Bernanke said.
A third round of quantitative easing, or QE3, is an option if a
recent economic slowdown persists and deflationary forces re-
emerge, he said.  Not Close  “Bernanke walked the market back a bit” by saying the Fed
wasn’t prepared to start a QE3 program “at this point,” said
Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  and a
former Fed economist. “The market overly interpreted the
chairman’s remarks yesterday” as a signal that QE3 is close at
hand, Gapen said.  Bernanke said, “we just want to make sure that we have the
options when they become necessary,” adding “at this point,
we’re not proposing to undertake that option.”  Bernanke said the Fed faces conditions that are different
today than they were last August, when he signaled a second
round of large-scale asset purchases. At that time, the economy
was in danger of stalling, he said, and the Fed was concerned
the country may experience deflation, a widespread and prolonged
drop in prices, wages and the values of assets such as homes and
stocks.  “Today the situation is more complex,” Bernanke told
lawmakers. “Inflation is higher. Inflation expectations are
close to our target,” he said. “We are uncertain about the
near-term developments in the economy. We’d like to see if, in
fact, the economy does pick up, as we are projecting.”  Close to Target  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the committee’s senior
Republican, told Bernanke that he has concerns additional bond
purchases will fuel inflation.  “It appears that the Fed may be going in the wrong
direction,” Shelby said, referring to Bernanke’s testimony of
today and yesterday leaving the door open to additional stimulus
should the recovery appear to be fizzling out.  “The last thing our weak economy needs right now is an
inflation scare,” he said.  Shelby criticized the Fed in November when it launched a
$600 billon bond-buying program to rejuvenate the economy,
saying the purchases, which ended last month, could trigger an
inflation surge. Shelby also said bond buying by the Fed could
prompt a wave of speculative buying on  Wall Street , leading to
asset-price bubbles.  Need for Flexibility  As he emphasized yesterday in testimony before the House
Financial Services Committee, Bernanke told lawmakers today that
the Fed must be flexible and prepared to shift in either policy
direction. The Fed may tighten credit if inflation were to rise
more than anticipated, he said.  “We’re not proposing anything today,” he said. “The main
message I want to leave is that this is a serious situation. It
involves a significant loss of human and economic potential.”  The nation’s unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent in June,
the third straight monthly increase. Employers added 18,000 new
jobs, the fewest in nine months.  Bernanke yesterday predicted economic growth will pick up
in the second half of this year at a pace above 3 percent. He
estimated the economy expanded at a 2 percent rate during the
first six months of this year, or slightly less than necessary
to reduce the  unemployment rate .  Bernanke also again urged Republicans in Congress and
President  Barack Obama  to come to an agreement to boost the
nation’s $14.3 trillion borrowing authority. If a deal isn’t
reached before Aug. 2, the government won’t be able to pay its
bills. The U.S. risks losing its Aaa,  credit rating .  “It’s a very important asset and losing that credit rating
is, again, I think a self-inflicted wound,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  