-- 
Bernanke Says Failure to Raise Debt Limit Would Be ‘Self-Inflicted Wound’

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-07-14T18:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bernanke-says-failure-to-raise-debt-limit-would-be-self-inflicted-wound-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned lawmakers that they would cause a “self-
inflicted wound” should they prompt a credit-rating downgrade
by failing to raise the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling.  Congress should recognize it’s “tremendously important
that we have the confidence of the world in terms of willingness
to hold Treasuries, to trade in Treasuries, to maintain a liquid
market in Treasuries,” he said today in testimony to the Senate
Banking Committee. “It’s a very important asset and losing that
credit rating is, again, I think a self-inflicted wound.”  The Fed chairman, responding to lawmakers’ questions, urged
Congress to reach a solution on the debt ceiling and a broader
fiscal deal before U.S. borrowing authority expires Aug. 2. He
warned of higher unemployment and the risk of global financial
market instability, while noting that a lower  credit rating 
would increase borrowing costs, further widening the deficit.  “Loss of investor confidence could potentially raise
 interest rates  quite significantly” and complicate efforts to
reduce the deficit, Bernanke told Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat
from  Rhode Island . “If you raise interest rates, that means
your interest costs go up substantially, and you’re actually
making -- you’re regressing rather than progressing in this.”  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose 5 basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.93 percent at 2:26 p.m. in  New York .
The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,313.29
after Bernanke said “We’re not prepared at this point” to take
further action to stimulate the economy.  Calm Before Storm  “Maybe it is the calm before the storm,” said Richard Schlanger, a vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston ,
which oversees $20 billion in fixed-income securities. “Bond-
market participants believe there will some kind of resolution
of the debt ceiling and the government will meet its
obligations.”  Moody’s Investors Service raised the pressure on U.S.
lawmakers to increase the debt limit by placing the nation’s
credit rating under review for a downgrade yesterday.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review for the
first time since 1996 on concern the debt threshold won’t be
raised in time to prevent a missed interest or principal payment
on outstanding bonds and notes, Moody’s said in a statement. The
risk of such an outcome is low, Moody’s said.  The rating may be reduced to the Aa range, and there is no
assurance Moody’s would restore its top rating, even if a
default is quickly “cured.”  President  Barack Obama  is considering summoning
congressional leaders to Camp David this weekend to work on a
plan to raise the debt ceiling after yesterday’s negotiations on
a deficit-cutting plan of at least $2 trillion stalled,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; 