-- 
Bernanke Signals Fed Has Tools to Spur Growth If Economy Fails to Rebound

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-07-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bernanke-signals-fed-has-tools-to-spur-growth-if-economy-fails-to-rebound.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank has more tools for monetary
easing should the economy weaken and stymie efforts to generate
jobs for 14.1 million unemployed Americans.  The Fed could pledge to keep the main interest rate at a
record low and hold its balance sheet at $2.87 trillion for a
longer period, Bernanke said yesterday in congressional
testimony. It could also buy more bonds, increase the average
maturity of its securities holdings or cut the interest rate it
pays banks on their reserves, he said.  “We have to keep all the options on the table,” Bernanke
said in semi-annual testimony to the House Financial Services
Committee. The “economy still needs a good deal of support.”  After predicting the economy will strengthen during the
second half of 2011, Bernanke left open the door to further
stimulus by saying that sagging home prices, hard-to-get loans
and 9.2 percent unemployment pose long-term obstacles to growth.
Stocks rose and the dollar weakened after Bernanke’s comments.  “If we see another month or two of weak jobs data, then
that will be a green light for further monetary stimulus,” said
Gregory Daco, U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts .  The Fed chief is scheduled to testify today to the Senate
Banking Committee beginning at 10 a.m. in Washington.  Bernanke also told Congress yesterday that high U.S. budget
deficits, if not curbed, could slow the economy and prompt an
increase in  interest rates . At the same time, he said Congress
needs to be a “little bit cautious” about “sharp cuts” in
federal spending in the near term because they could hurt the
recovery.  Moody’s Action  Hours after he spoke, Moody’s Investors Service put the
U.S. under review for a credit rating downgrade as talks to
raise the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit stalled, adding
to concern that political gridlock will lead to a default.
Bernanke, in his testimony, said a default would be a “major
crisis.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,317.72 as of the 4 p.m. close of trading in  New York , trimming
its gain from 1.4 percent.  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke said. The Fed “remains prepared to respond
should economic developments indicate that an adjustment of
monetary policy would be appropriate.”  At the same time, Bernanke said there is also the
possibility that inflation could pick up in a way that would
require the Fed to begin tightening credit and exit its record
monetary stimulus.  High Hurdle  The “hurdle remains very high” for a new dose of bond
purchases in part because inflation expectations have moved up,
said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at BTIG LLC in New
York.  Break-even inflation rates calculated from yield
differences on 10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S.
government bonds of similar maturity stood at 2.3 percent
yesterday. That’s up from 1.62 percent when Bernanke signaled
the possibility of a second round of bond purchases at his Aug.
27 speech last year in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Fed policy makers disagreed on whether additional monetary
stimulus will be needed even if the outlook for economic growth
remains weak, minutes of their meeting last month showed. Some
members said a further slowdown in growth would signal a need
for additional support, while others said the growing risk of
inflation would require withdrawing stimulus sooner than
currently anticipated.  Fisher Comments  Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  President  Richard Fisher 
underscored those differences in comments to reporters after a
speech yesterday.  “We’ve exhausted our ammunition,” Fisher said in Dallas.
He holds a vote this year on the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee .  Bernanke’s comments were his first since a government
report on July 8 showed employers added 18,000 jobs in June,
less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Bernanke said “disappointing” job growth
in May and June was partly a result of temporary effects, such
as high energy prices.  He predicted that the pace of economic expansion would
accelerate above 3 percent in the second half of 2011. That
compares with growth “in the vicinity of 2 percent or maybe
even a little bit less,” in the first half of this year, which
is too slow to reduce unemployment, Bernanke said.  ‘Uncertainties’ to Outlook  Bernanke acknowledged there are “uncertainties” in both
directions -- about the strength of the economic recovery and
the prospects for inflation -- over the medium term. He also
reiterated his view that inflation won’t be a problem because
gasoline and food prices, which had surged earlier this year,
are now moderating.  Inflation, excluding food and energy, will be slightly
higher this year, between 1.5 percent and 1.8 percent, Fed
officials predicted last month. That’s up from a range of 1.3
percent to 1.6 percent under the forecast in April.  “As we go forward, we’re going to obviously want to make
sure that as we support the recovery that we also keep an eye on
inflation,” Bernanke said.  Unemployment by the end of the year will decline to between
8.6 percent and 8.9 percent, according to the Fed’s forecast.
That’s higher than the range of 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent under
the previous forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net  