-- 
BHP to Acquire Petrohawk For $12.1 Billion, Betting Natural Gas Will Climb

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-15T20:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bhp-agrees-to-purchase-petrohawk-energy-for-12-1-billion-in-all-cash-deal.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, agreed to buy  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  for
about $12.1 billion in cash in its biggest acquisition, betting
natural gas demand will gain in the U.S.  BHP will pay $38.75 a share using cash and debt, the
companies said in a statement today. That’s 61 percent more than
Houston-based Petrohawk’s average price over the past 20 trading
days and compares with the 25 percent average premium in 17
deals worth at least $5 billion for oil and gas producers in the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal marks Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers’s
second foray in shale gas, forecast to make up half of U.S. gas
output by 2030, after the $4.75 billion purchase of  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  assets in March. BHP, based in Melbourne, sees
total spending on developing Petrohawk assets of as much as $65
billion by 2020, Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note today.  “BHP wants to increase the scale of its oil and gas
business given that most of its existing energy assets are
mature,” said Jason Teh, who helps manage about $3 billion,
including BHP stock, at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “This
acquisition nearly doubles BHP’s resource base.”  BHP fell 1.9 percent to 2,340 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
in  London , the lowest price since June 27. It dropped 1.6
percent to A$42.89 in Sydney. Petrohawk had its biggest gain,
increasing $14.68, or 62 percent, to $38.17 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have more than
doubled this year.  Bigger Premium  The premium is “probably a little bit more than
expected,” Cameron Peacock, a market analyst at IG Markets Ltd.
in Melbourne, said by phone. Paying in advance for future growth
“is something the analysts often don’t like to see,” he said.  The cost of protecting BHP’s debt against default rose 3
basis points to 80.5 basis points as of 2:28 p.m. in Sydney,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services said it’s A+  credit rating  on BHP remains unchanged
because the company’s cash flow can support the acquisition. The
takeover also includes $3 billion in Petrohawk debt, BHP said.  The deal adds three fields across about 1 million net acres
in  Texas  and  Louisiana  and takes BHP into the top 10 of oil and
gas companies. The offer values Petrohawk CEO Floyd C. Wilson’s
0.99 percent stake in the company at about $117 million.  Rejected Deals  Kloppers, 48, has had three deals totaling more than $100
billion aborted or rejected in the past four years, including
hostile bids for Rio Tinto Group and Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. BHP is committed “to be in every aisle of the
energy supermarket,” he said today on a conference call.  “There has been growing pressure on  Marius Kloppers , or a
feeling among the board at least anyhow, that they have to do
some sort of deal,”  Gavin Wendt , director at Sydney-based Mine
Life Pty Ltd., said by telephone. “They’ve spent a significant
amount of time, money and energy coming up with nothing.”  Still, “shareholders may well have some concerns,
considering BHP is planning on spending a total of about $20
billion on an entirely new business that they don’t know that
much about,” he said.  Formed in 2003, Petrohawk expanded by acquiring companies
including Missions Resources Corp. in 2005 and KCS Energy Inc.
in 2006 before “aggressively” buying shale acreages in 2007,
the developer’s  website  shows. It has about 650 employees. BHP
expects to complete the acquisition in the third quarter.  Acreage Tripled  Petrohawk held 3.4 trillion cubic feet of reserves at the
end of 2010. It produced 825 million cubic feet of gas as of
March this year, of which 10 percent was in the form of liquids
such as oil. The company expects to produce 950 million cubic
feet of gas a day this year, with liquids accounting for 15
percent of output, according to its website.  The Chesapeake purchase gave BHP 487,000 net acres of
properties in central  Arkansas  with 2.4 trillion cubic feet of
proven reserves. Petrohawk’s million acres triple BHP’s acreage
in U.S. oil and gas fields.  BHP will become the seventh-largest independent upstream
oil and gas company based on total resources, BHP said in an
investor presentation, citing Wood MacKenzie Consultants Ltd.
The U.S. gas market is the world’s largest, BHP said.  “Petrohawk are extremely well regarded as innovative but
aggressive operators,” Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.7 billion, including BHP shares, at Sydney-
based Platypus Asset Management Ltd. said by phone. “You might
find that they have made a very smart acquisition.”  Record Deal  The proposed deal would be the biggest all-cash takeover by
any Australian company, according to Bloomberg data. BHP is
being advised by  Barclays Capital  and Scotia Waterous. Barclays
will act as dealer manager for the offer, the statement said.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising Petrohawk.  BHP is paying 18.4 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, versus a median of 13.5 times for
seven purchases by producers over the past five years, the data
show. It’s paying $2.54 a barrel of oil equivalent for
Petrohawk, compared with $2.79 a barrel for the Chesapeake
assets, Morgan Stanley Melbourne-based analyst Cameron Judd said
today in a note to clients.  “BHP has valued this asset for growth,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Grant Sporre, Rob Clifford and Gaetan De Buyer, said in
an e-mailed note. “BHP is increasingly confident on the future
of gas and shale in particular as they continue their broadened
push into the shale gas sector.”  BHP Debt  The company, which forecasts the acquisition will boost
earnings in its first full year, asked Barclays Capital to
coordinate a $7.5 billion credit facility to help finance the
purchase. BHP expects to have net cash of $7.4 billion in fiscal
2012, according to a May report by Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  BHP, which this year committed to spend $80 billion on
mines and oilfields by 2015, joins Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron
Corp. in ramping up acquisitions in gas prospects previously
considered too costly and difficult to exploit. Shale-rock
formations require injection of water, sand and chemicals to
release gas. Environmental groups have opposed using the process
called hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  Transactions for shale gas properties in the Eagle Ford
area of Texas, where some of the Petrohawk assets are located,
accounted for 20 percent of energy deals in the second-quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The purchase would be
the largest acquisition of a U.S. exploration and production
company since Exxon announced its $34.9 billion purchase of XTO
Energy in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Mergers and acquisitions in the industry will continue as
“various majors and others consolidate their positions to get
scale, synergy, and so on,” Kloppers said on a conference call.
“It’s very highly likely that you’re going to continue to see
us participate in that as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  