-- 
Big U.S. Companies Should Put Cash to Work, Bank of America Says

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-14T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/big-u-s-companies-should-put-cash-to-work-bank-of-america-says.html
A rapid recovery from the worst
global recession since the Great Depression has left U.S.
companies with record cash levels that they should be using to
offer dividends and issue debt, Bank of America Corp. said.  Companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have too much
money on their balance sheets and should either boost dividends
or issue long-term debt to fund share repurchases, according to
David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.  “People have been surprised about the magnitude of the
earnings recovery,” Bianco said in an interview. “Everyone is
shocked by how fast they’ve been able to get to record
profitability.” In his report, he said “companies that refuse
to pay a reasonable dividend are out of touch with the realities
of the current market, namely the secular rise in the demand for
income-producing assets at a time of limited supply, and the
record tax advantage of dividend income vs. interest income.”  Bianco said S&P 500 companies excluding those in the
financial industry are holding a record $1.1 trillion in cash
and net debt equal to 15 percent of their market value. The S&P
500 dividend payout ratio of 29 percent is at a record low.  Cash hoards depress  shareholder value  and may be a sign of
corporate-governance problems, Bianco said in the report. He
said corporate officials also may be concerned about the
uncertainty of future tax rates, as well as the appearance of
slowing growth that issuing dividends can create.  Link to Company News: BAC US <Equity> CN  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  