-- 
Bloomberg Launches Cloud Archiving For Microsoft Office 365

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-14T13:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bloomberg-launches-cloud-archiving-for-microsoft-office-365.html

Press Release  Alliance Helps Firms Meet Record Retention & eDiscovery Guidelines  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg announced today that Bloomberg Vault, its electronic
communications compliance offering, integrates with Microsoft Office 365.
Bloomberg Vault gives financial services firms using Microsoft Office 365 a
cloud-based solution for meeting global regulatory and risk management
guidelines for electronic communications.  Bloomberg’s strategic alliance with Microsoft allows Office 365 subscribers to
easily add Bloomberg Vault as a managed service that includes essential features
such as real-time policy management, search analytics, eDiscovery and secure
archiving for corporate emails and messages.  “Financial services firms are struggling to meet regulatory and legal demands
for the management and storage of electronic communications,” said Harald
Collet, global business manager for Bloomberg Vault. “Compliance mandates are
increasingly complex  and the  capital costs  can be significant. The aim of
Bloomberg Vault-Office 365 is to help financial services organizations embrace
the cloud and meet stringent regulatory requirements.”  Key Bloomberg Vault functionality for Office 365 includes:  -Integrated and secure archiving of all electronic communications as a hosted
service, helping companies to reduce overhead costs by leveraging the cloud;  -Specialized features designed to help financial firms meet compliance
requirements through real-time policy management, advanced search, eDiscovery
and electronic records retention and preservation;  -Biometric security for compliance officers to enhance access controls.  “Bloomberg is a key Office 365 solution provider, dedicated to delivering
additional value to customers,” said Giovanni Mezgec, General Manager of
Microsoft Office Division Marketing.“Bloomberg Vault for Office 365 is an
example of how customers and partners can quickly customize Office 365 and
benefit fromthe latest business communication and collaboration service from
Microsoft.”  More than 300 financial service companies have adopted Bloomberg
Vault to manage growing legal and regulatory mandates governing
corporate data. Since information management regulations and
prudent records retention processes apply to all industries, the
combined service from Bloomberg and Microsoft can also aid non-
financial organizations.  “Companies like Capstone are looking for technology that provides the tools and
functionality we need to run daily operations efficiently. Hosted email and
compliance solutions allow us to spend more time on front office activities,
while reducing overhead costs,” said A. Monty Hall, Director of Technology,
Capstone Investment Advisors.  Rosalie Nicosia, Chief Operating Officer at Whitaker Securities, LLC, an
institutional inter-dealer brokerage, said, ``Bloomberg Vault supports our
efforts to leverage hosted solutions and simplify our IT infrastructure.
Integration with Office 365 gives us flexibility, strengthens our compliance
process, and helps us avoid the costs associated with an in-house deployed email
solution.''  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and news leader, gives
influential decision makers a critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic
network of information, people and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering
data, news and analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which provides real time
financial information to more than 300,000 subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s
enterprise solutions build on the company’s core strength, leveraging technology
to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and effectively. For more
information go to www.bloomberg.com  Contact for Bloomberg  -Vera Newhouse, Bloomberg LP,  vnewhouse@bloomberg.net , +1-212-617-6420  -Sophie Fischman, Cognito-US,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com , +1-646-395-6300  -Stuart Macaulay, Cognito-EMEA,  BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com ,
+44-20-7438-1100  -Anne Karumo, Cognito-APAC,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com , +65-
8112-6409
 