-- 
BMW Cautious on U.S. and Europe as Emerging Markets Surge

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-14T15:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bmw-cautious-on-u-s-and-europe-as-emerging-markets-surge-1-.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  said new
models are spurring sales growth in emerging markets to as high
as 70 percent, just as demand in Greece and southern  Europe 
drops and economic data suggests a cautious outlook in the U.S.  Markets including  China ,  Brazil ,  South Korea  and Turkey are
exhibiting sales growth of 60 percent or more, while Europe is
“a tale of north and south,” BMW Marketing Director  Ian Robertson  said today in an interview.  “While we’re enjoying a lot of success with new models and
seeing many markets moving very strongly, we also see some
potential risk,” Robertson said in London. “Certain economies
around the world will go into a more difficult situation.”  BMW’s automotive division lifted its profit and sales
forecasts two days ago, saying strong second-quarter demand will
continue in coming months. The Munich-based carmaker anticipates
selling 1.6 million vehicles this year, with earnings before
interest and taxes exceeding 10 percent of revenue.  The U.S. auto market is still a long way off its peak of
about 17 million sales in 2007, and may reach 12.5 million to 13
million in 2010 from a low of about 10 million, Robertson said.  “There are a number of economic indicators in the U.S.
that tell us we should be more cautious,” he said. “Unemployment
is not coming down, and the housing market is not recovering.”  ‘Disappeared’  American employers added jobs at the slowest pace in nine
months in June and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to
9.2 percent, a U.S. government report said July 8. U.S. home
values have declined 34 percent since peaking in 2006, according
to figures from S&P/Case-Shiller.  Northern Europe is “doing pretty well” and in the U.K.
fleet sales are “good,” though the retail environment has been
“more challenging” Robertson said. “Southern countries have
been extremely difficult,” he added, and “the Greek market has
virtually disappeared.”  BMW will replace about 60 percent of its model range with
new products by the end next year, the executive said, and has
already introduced an overhauled X3 sport-utility vehicle and a
refurbished 6-series convertible this year.  The Welshman was in the U.K. to promote BMW’s involvement
in next year’s  London  Olympics. The German company will provide
the organizer with 4,000 cars, cycles, motorbikes and scooters
and is also sponsoring a mobile application to aid navigation
and another, “Park at My House,” which will help match
motorists with the owners of vacant off-street parking spaces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  