-- 
Borders to Seek Court Approval for Liquidators’ Bid Over Offer From Najafi

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-14T18:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/borders-to-seek-approval-of-bid-by-liquidator-spurning-najafi-s-offer.html
Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt
bookstore chain, will start its asset auction with an offer from
liquidators after failing to persuade a private-equity firm to
keep the company running.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today
approved a procedure to auction Borders’ assets that makes a
group of liquidators, rather than Najafi Cos.’ BB Brands, the
so-called stalking-horse bidder. Such bids, which provide
protections for interested parties who do work valuing assets,
become default purchase agreements if no other bids are made.  Borders remains hopeful it will be able to stay in
business, company lawyer Andrew Glenn, no relation to the judge,
said in court today. Najafi has said it may bid at the auction
and Borders has received other inquiries, he said, without
saying how many.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  “gave us an offer for certain
assets,” Andrew Glenn said. “They could come in and team with
the liquidators,” he said.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for New York-based Barnes
& Noble, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Judge Glenn’s ruling came after a last-minute reversal for
Borders, the second-largest bookstore chain after Barnes &
Noble. After negotiating all through last night, creditors and
Najafi failed to reach an agreement that would have forced the
Phoenix-based firm to keep the company operating as a going
concern, Borders’ lawyers said.  Online Sales  “With few companies willing to bid on Borders during the
bankruptcy, markets agree that the bookstore industry is
shifting into a more technology driven environment with online
sales and ereaders,” Mary Gotaas, an analyst at  Santa Monica ,
California-based market-research firm IBISWorld, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Sales at bookstores are expected to continue declining as
more consumers shop over the Web and shift to e-books, Gotaas
said in a March research note. By 2016, annual revenue in the
book-selling industry is expected to fall to $18.2 billion, from
$19.2 billion this year, she said.  Borders has throughout its Chapter 11 case pursued a
“dual-track process” so it could proceed with a sale to
liquidators if it isn’t acquired as a going concern, according
to court filings. The liquidators include Hilco Merchant
Resources and Gordon Brothers Retail Partners LLC.  Intellectual Property  If the company is going to liquidate its remaining 400
stores, creditors would prefer to have it done under the control
of the company, with its chosen liquidators, creditors’ lawyer
Bruce Buechler said. Any valuable assets, such as intellectual
property and real estate, could be sold separately, possibly
bringing in more money for creditors, he said.  The agreement with liquidators is based on an estimated
$350 million to $395 million cost value of all Borders
merchandise, according to court papers. An auction is still set
to test for higher offers. If there isn’t enough interest to
conduct an auction, Borders will notify the  bankruptcy court  by
July 18, according to court papers.  Judge Glenn said that if Borders gets a bid to keep the
company running, the court will hold a special “bifurcated
hearing” to evaluate its merits over a liquidation.  “Everybody will get their day in court, or night in
court,” the judge said. ‘We will do everything necessary.”  A final deal is scheduled to be approved by the court at a
hearing on July 21.  Creditor Objections  A committee of Borders creditors yesterday objected to the
sale process that the company had intended to seek court
approval for today. Creditors disputed Borders’ claim that the
offer from the Najafi unit was the highest and best so far.  Borders is still seeking to resolve objections from
landlords who said the sale process doesn’t give them
information about whether the company will keep or reject
leases. The company can’t give landlords assurances until it
knows the outcome of the auction, Andrew Glenn said.  “We’re shooting in the dark because we don’t have a going-
concern bid,” he said.  Borders, founded 40 years ago as a single used-book store,
had 642 stores in February when it sought court protection. It
closed 237 stores during the Chapter 11 case, leaving 405
operating.  The book chain, which once operated more than 1,000 stores,
lost business as customers switched to e-readers such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s  Kindle , introduced in 2007. Barnes & Noble
invested in its own Nook device to attract customers.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 