-- 
Brazil Growth Held Back by Inflation, Currency as BlackRock Stays Bullish

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-07-14T20:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/brazil-growth-held-back-by-inflation-currency-as-blackrock-stays-bullish.html
Brazil  is being held back by a
strengthening currency, the fastest inflation in six years and
an increase in government spending, damping growth prospects in
the world’s second-largest developing economy.  The country risks becoming a “prisoner of its own hype”
as it faces the twin dilemmas of a currency that’s strengthened
47 percent versus the dollar since the end of 2008 and consumer
price increases above the central bank’s target,  Christopher Sabatini , senior policy director for the Council of the
Americas, said today at the Bloomberg Brazil Conference. Brazil
has “hit the limit” of sustainable growth, said Augusto de la
Torre, chief economist for Latin America at the  World Bank .  “We have a very bright prospect, creating a euphoria,” de
la Torre said at the conference in  New York . “The expectations
have exceeded the capacity. In Brazil, you’ve hit the limit.”  The benchmark Bovespa stock index fell 12.5 percent this
year through yesterday on concern quickening inflation may damp
domestic demand while a slowdown in global economic growth could
cut prices for commodity exports. Foreign investors pulled 866.1
million reais ($549 million) from Latin America’s biggest equity
market this year through July 5, according to the exchange.  The Bovespa’s decline shows the “true story” of Brazil as
the country heads for a cycle of boom and bust amid an
unsustainable surge in corporate borrowing, said Simon Nocera,
co-founder of San Francisco-based hedge fund Lumen Advisors LLC.  ‘Outrageous’ Expectations  Brazilian stocks are unjustifiably pricing in
“outrageous” growth while the country is hobbled by a shortage
in skilled labor, among other problems, Nocera, a former
economist at the  International Monetary Fund , said today.  “In this environment, the Bovespa is the only indicator
that is telling you the true story about Brazil,” Nocera said.
“You still have some sectors of the Brazilian stock market
pricing in growth of 20 percent,” which is “simply
outrageous.”  Brazil’s economy is about to have “a modern democratic
recession” as the central bank raises interest rates too fast,
said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management.  “We are in a situation where the central bank will do too
much for too long,” Shaoul said at the Brazil conference.
Marketfield sees risks over the next nine to 18 months and is
short-selling fast-growing banks and consumer stocks, he said.  Investment Opportunities  Amid the pessimism, BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment
Management Co. see attractive investment opportunities because
of economic growth and high relative interest rates. The
Bovespa’s valuation dropped to 9.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities traded at a
ratio of 11 times earnings.  Will Landers, manager of the $1 billion  Latin America  Fund
at BlackRock, and Curtis Mewbourne, head of  portfolio management 
at Pimco, say the government will be successful in taming
inflation, removing an obstacle to gains in asset prices.  “Brazil is slowly moving in the right direction,” Landers
said at the New York conference today. “Inflation has been the
main issue for the stock market underperforming.”  Alan Gandelman, chief executive officer of ICAP Brazil,
said the recent decline in the Bovespa has provided a great
opportunity to buy Brazilian stocks based on valuations.  The Bovespa fell for the seventh day in eight today,
dropping 1.6 percent to 59,679.35 at 4:20 p.m. New York time and
reaching the lowest closing price since May 25. The real
weakened 0.1 percent to 1.5774 per  U.S. dollar .  Growth Outlook  Economic growth, which reached 7.5 percent last year, will
slow to about 4 percent this year, according to central bank
estimates, after President Alexandre Tombini raised the
benchmark Selic rate at all four policy meetings this year, to
12.25 percent, as part of efforts to tame inflation.  Art Steinmetz, chief investment officer in New York at
OppenheimerFunds Inc., said that Brazil will eventually be able
to bring down real  interest rates , which measure the cost of
borrowing relative to inflation, bolstering the economy.  “We expect over the coming years a secular decline of real
rates,” he said at today’s conference. “It’s entirely possible
for us to be long-term investors.”  Consumer prices rose 6.71 percent in June from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since 2005.  Middle-Class Country  Brazil offers attractive returns even as  capital controls 
meant to curb gains in the currency limit access to some
investments, said Pimco’s Mewbourne.  “We continue to see very good opportunities,” Mewbourne
said at the conference, highlighting companies such as Vale SA,
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Embraer SA. “We see high growth
rates. We are witnessing a transition of a low-wage country to
middle class.”  Brazil’s job market is growing, supporting the consumer
market, Zeina Latif, a senior economist for Latin America at RBS
Securities Inc. said at the conference.  Still, jobs could be imperiled if Brazil’s strong currency
reduces employment by making exports more expensive in dollar
terms, hurting manufacturers.  The central bank last week changed currency rules to reduce
banks’ exposure to currency risk and combat the real’s rally.
Brazil will require that banks make non-interest bearing
deposits with the central bank equivalent to 60 percent of short
dollar positions that exceed $1 billion dollars or their capital
base, whichever is smaller. In March, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
administration increased to 6 percent a tax on new corporate
loans and debt sales abroad by banks.  Government Spending   Brazil is boosting spending on infrastructure as it
develops the biggest  oil fields  in the Americas since 1976 and
prepares to host the 2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic
Games . Expenditures to improve airports, ports, highways and the
 power grid  are set to rise to 160 billion reais by 2012 from 121
billion reais in 2009, according to the Sao Paulo-based
 Association of Infrastructure and Industries .  The country’s efforts to contain inflation are at odds with
a surge in lending by state development bank BNDES, said Mauro Leos-Lopez, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. Brazil’s
credit rating is unlikely to be upgraded again this year without
fundamental changes to its macroeconomic structures, and major
reforms probably won’t go through “any time soon,” he said.  Moody’s rates Brazil Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade, one step up from Panama,  Peru  and  Colombia .  “For them to move to the A category, something has to
change fundamentally,” he said. “We are not too optimistic
about reforms in Brazil. It’s hard to see major fundamental
changes in Brazil any time soon.”  Brazil’s economy may still run into credit problems even
though the nation’s debt levels are low compared with other
Latin American economies, said Lisa Schineller, a sovereign
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  A rapidly growing debt burden, weak lending practices and
high interest rates all pose risks to consumer borrowers that
need to be monitored, Schineller said at the Bloomberg Brazil
Conference in New York today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  