-- 
Pato, Neymar Score Two Each to Lift Brazil Into Copa America Quarterfinals

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-14T04:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/brazil-beats-ecuador-4-2-to-advance-to-copa-america-soccer-quarterfinals.html
Alexandre Pato and Neymar each
scored twice as  Brazil  beat Ecuador 4-2 reach the Copa America
soccer quarterfinals as group winner ahead of Venezuela.  Pato got his second goal in the 61st minute and Neymar put
the Brazilians 4-2 ahead 10 minutes later after Felipe Caicedo
twice leveled for Ecuador last night at the Estadio Mario Kempes
in Cordoba,  Argentina . Brazil goalkeeper Julio Cesar allowed the
ball past on both occasions after getting behind it.  “That was the game we wanted to play,” AC Milan striker
Pato said in a televised interview. “We wanted to win and to
take top spot.”  Eight-time winner Brazil, seeking its fifth title in the
past six editions of South America’s continental championship,
finished atop Group B on goal difference ahead of  Venezuela ,
which scored twice in the last three minutes to tie Paraguay 3-3.  The Paraguayans advanced as the second-best third-place
team and will face Brazil in the quarterfinals on July 17, when
Venezuela meets  Chile  for a place in the semifinals.  Host nation Argentina takes on Uruguay, with whom it shares
a record 14 titles, a day earlier. Group A winner  Colombia  plays
Peru, which had the best record of the third-place teams, in the
first quarterfinal.  Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, who have nine World Cup
titles between them, all came away with wins in the final round
of group games following draws in their opening two matches.  After Argentina and Uruguay secured quarterfinal berths
with shutout victories, Brazil twice let the lead slip against
Venezuela before Pato bundled in a rebound to make it 3-2.  Santos striker Neymar, who has been linked with a move to
European clubs including Chelsea and Real  Madrid , completed the
scoring in the 71st minute when he flicked Maicon’s cross past
Ecuador goalkeeper Marcelo Elizaga from close range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  