-- 
Brazil Real Falls After Bernanke Comments Lower Changes of More Stimulus

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-14T21:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/brazil-real-rises-on-government-debt-concern-in-u-s-europe.html
Brazil’s real weakened after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he won’t take immediate
action to stimulate the economy, reducing demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.5791 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, from 1.5755 yesterday. The currency earlier
strengthened as much as 0.4 percent.  The Fed won’t immediately embark on a third round of bond
buying because of faster inflation this year, Bernanke said at a
Senate hearing. He said yesterday that policy makers are
prepared to take additional action should the economy appear to
be in danger of stalling.  “The market is just trading on headlines,” said Ram Bala
Chandran, a Latin America currency and rates strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “Bernanke’s comment today meant QE3
will not come, which triggered a selloff of higher-risk
assets.”  Brazil’s growth prospects are being limited by the strength
of the real, which has climbed 47 percent since the end of 2008,
as well as external factors, said Augusto de la Torre, the chief
economist for Latin America at the  World Bank , at the Bloomberg
Brazil Conference today in New York.  The country risks becoming a “prisoner of its own hype”
as it faces the twin dilemmas of a strengthening currency and
consumer price increases above the central bank’s target,
 Christopher Sabatini , senior policy director for the Council of
the Americas, said at the same conference.  Growth Outlook  Brazil’s economy, the biggest in  Latin America , will expand
4 percent this year, the  United Nations ’ economic unit for the
Latin American and Caribbean region, known as Cepal, said in a
report yesterday. The growth slowed to 4.2 percent in the first
quarter, from 5 percent in the previous three months.  The  credit rating  for Latin America’s largest economy is
unlikely to be upgraded again this year without fundamental
changes to its macroeconomic structures, according to Mauro
Leos-Lopez, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. The agency
raised Brazil’s debt rating by one level to Baa2 last month.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to
12.47 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  