-- 
Dia Is ‘Progressing’ on Brazil Franchise Accord, Curras Says

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-08-30T16:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/btg-pactual-in-talks-to-revive-brazil-merger-for-carrefour-pao-de-acucar.html
Distribuidora Internacional de
Alimentacion SA, the world’s third-largest discount retailer,
said negotiations to reach a major franchise agreement in  Brazil 
are “progressing.”  The Madrid-based company, spun off July 5 from  Carrefour
SA (CA) , aims to close a deal in Brazil before the end of the year,
Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Curras said on a webcast
conference call today.  “We are targeting an accelerating growth pace in store
openings in emerging markets, especially in Brazil, during the
second half as other mature markets such as France are suffering
really tough times,” Curras said.  Brazilian retail sales are being bolstered by  consumer
lending  that’s growing at a 20 percent annual pace and rising
employment. The  unemployment rate  in Latin America’s biggest
economy fell to 6 percent last month, the lowest since December,
according to the national statistics office.  Consumer confidence 
rose 5.4 percent to a record high in July. The broadest measure
of retail sales rose 9.5 percent in the year through June, while
supermarket sales climbed 4.8 percent in July from a year ago.  Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour, which is
trying to improve its domestic business, decided to spin off Dia
after approaches by potential buyers of the unit came to
nothing, Chairman and CEO Lars Olofsson said in May. Olofsson
has said the priority is Carrefour’s domestic market, the
retailer’s largest, after a decade in which sales barely grew.  Carrefour approved a proposal last month to merge its
Brazilian assets with Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao
de Acucar, the nation’s largest retailer. The merger plans fell
through after  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the French retailer
that shares control of Pao de Acucar with Brazil’s Diniz family,
rejected the offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  