-- 
Bumper Wheat Harvest in Australia May Cool Near Record Global Food Prices

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-07-14T10:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/bumper-wheat-harvest-in-australia-may-cool-near-record-global-food-prices.html
Australia , the fourth-biggest wheat
exporter, is set for its second straight bumper harvest as rains
in the west boost crops, helping curb global food costs.  The crop may be 25 million metric tons in the coming year,
according to the median estimate of six analysts and traders
surveyed by Bloomberg. While that’s 5 percent below the record
26.3 million tons the previous year, it’s 15 percent above the
drought-hit 21.8 million tons in 2009-2010, government data show.  Sustained supply from Australia may cap global prices that
jumped 15 percent this month as the U.S., the biggest exporter,
cut its estimate for domestic inventories next year. The crop
may help constrain near record global food costs tracked by the
 United Nations  that advanced in June for the 10th time in the
past year, a trend that helped drive 44 million people into
poverty since mid-2010, the  World Bank  says.  “Production has been responding,” said  Michael Creed , an
agribusiness economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
 Melbourne , who predicts a 15 percent decline to $6 a bushel by
the yearend. “It certainly expands global supply.”  Wheat soared to $9.1675 a bushel on Feb. 14, the highest
level since 2008, as drought in China threatened crops and
unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa spurred government
stockpiling. The price plunged to $5.92 a bushel on July 1 after
Russia eased its export ban and as rains eased concern over
droughts in  China  and  Europe . The grain traded at $7.055 today.  Stockpile Boost  A decline in costs may offset the increase in rice prices
that resulted from a slump in U.S. acres and a planned increase
in guaranteed farm prices in  Thailand , the biggest shipper. Rice,
the staple for half the world, has surged 14 percent this month
to $17.07 per 100 pounds, the most expensive since 2008.  The bumper harvest in Australia may help replenish global
stockpiles of wheat that the U.S. government predicts will drop
to a three-year low of 182.2 million tons before the 2012
harvest as demand exceeds production for a second year.  Australia’s government forecaster increased its estimate
for the coming crop by 7.8 percent to 26.2 million tons in June
after rains in the west and good soil moisture in the east
improved prospects and growers boosted plantings.  “It’s not out of the realms of possibility,” said  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , who predicts a 24.3 million ton crop. The western
growing areas may have a slightly above-average season and
conditions in the southeast are mostly favorable, he said.
Harvesting starts around October.  ‘Much Better’  CBH Group, the top grain handler in Western Australia,
lifted its estimate for the state grain crop by 1 million tons
June 30 after rain. Total output may be 9 million tons to 11
million tons, said Max Johnson, manager of grain operations.  “They’ve had rain and conditions are looking much
better,” said Neil Burgess, a senior commodity analyst at
Westpac Banking Corp., who forecasts a 26 million ton harvest.
“They still need some more rain but certainly for those export
markets out of the west coast, there’s more optimism.”  Shipments may climb 8.5 percent to 19.8 million tons in
2011-2012 because of large  stockpiles  and production, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics &
Sciences said June 15. Exports from  Western Australia  may jump
13 percent to 6.2 million tons, it said.  Mice in eastern growing states and a dry spring may reduce
the crop potential, said Creed from National Australia Bank.  Mice Plague  Winter crops in New South Wales, the biggest producer last
season, were threatened by the worst plague of mice in nine
years, the state’s Department of Primary Industries said in May.
Poison was provided to farmers as about two-thirds of the state
reported  mouse activity , according to its website.  “The outbreak of mice has been highly variable by region,
yet in the worst affected areas -- where bait has been
ineffective or undersupplied -- some farmers have had to re-sow
entire crops and many others are concerned about the degree of
crop establishment,” Rabobank said this week.  New South Wales is likely to have an average to above-
average harvest because of rain and subsoil moisture, said Rob
Proud, general manager distributions and grower services at
 Emerald Group Australia Pty . He predicts a national crop of 23.7
million tons and as much as 7.5 million tons in New South Wales.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 