-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Declines on Higher U.S. Fuel Stockpiles

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-14T19:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/canadian-natural-gas-declines-on-higher-u-s-fuel-stockpiles.html
Canadian natural gas fell after the
U.S. government reported a larger-than-expected increase in
stockpiles, lowering demand for the power-plant fuel.  Canadian gas prices, which usually follow their U.S.
counterparts on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, dropped 1.3
percent after the U.S. Energy Department reported that gas
inventories increased 84 billion cubic feet in the week ended
July 8 to 2.611 trillion. Analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg forecast a gain of 79 billion.  “For the third week in a row, the inventory injection in
the East is underestimated,” Laurent Key, vice president of
natural gas research at Societe General in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It looks like it is a combined effect
with the current weather pattern in the U.S. and production
might be higher than what we think out of the Appalachians.”  Alberta  gas for August delivery fell 4.5 cents to C$3.47
per gigajoule ($3.43 per million British thermal units) as of
2:50 p.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. September gas dropped 4.75 cents to C$3.46. Gas traded
on the exchange goes to users in Canada and the U.S. and is
priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas on the Nymex fell 2.5 cents to settle at $4.378
per million Btu.  Weather Outlook  The price drop came as below-normal temperatures for the
West Coast and normal temperatures for the eastern third of the
country are forecast until July 18, MDA EarthSat Weather of
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in a note to clients.  Cooling demand in  San Francisco  and Seattle will be zero
until at least July 20, said Weather Derivatives, based in
Belton,  Missouri . Power plants use 30 percent of U.S. gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  The high in  Los Angeles  today may reach 74 degrees
Fahrenheit (23 Celsius), 10 degrees below normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. of State College, Pennsylvania.  Power plants  use 30 percent of U.S. gas supplies, and
industrial consumers account for about 28 percent, according to
Energy Department estimates.  Volume on TransCanada’s Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.87 billion
cubic feet as of 1:30 p.m. in New York.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.62 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  Gas Flows  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.89 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 998 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.76 billion cubic feet today, about 64 percent of its
capacity of 2.76 billion.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
fell 4.21 cents to $4.4596 per million Btu as of 1:34 p.m. New
York time today on the Intercontinental Exchange. Alliance is an
express line that can carry 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the
Midwest from western  Canada .  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas fell 2.98 cents to $4.0732.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 