-- 
McConnell’s Strange Plan Signals New Seriousness on Debt: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/mcconnell-s-strange-plan-signals-new-political-seriousness-on-debt-view.html
Congratulations to Senator  Mitch McConnell  for suggesting a strange but plausible device to avoid
a U.S. government default, should talks on a debt-limit deal
break down. Let’s agree to forget the recklessness, cynicism and
intellectual incoherence that have characterized this debate and
just say: Good, now let’s get on with the hard work.  McConnell’s plan -- which has received tentative support
from some lawmakers, including Democratic Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  and, notably, some Republicans -- would authorize
President  Barack Obama  to request an incremental increase to the
debt limit to avoid default. Congress could pass resolutions
blocking each increment. But the president could veto those
resolutions. Overriding a veto would require a two-thirds
majority.  In brief: The debt limit would get raised, and members of
Congress would still be able to say they voted against it.  It’s a jury-rigged approach, to be sure, but the very fact
that McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, has suggested it
indicates that he and other members of his party recognize that
default would imperil the fragile  U.S. economy .  A Positive Element  There is a positive element to all this. The months-long
debt-limit upheaval and the many plans offered to resolve it
have unearthed the outlines of an agreement that would reduce
deficits and put in place the structural reforms needed for
long-term economic health.  Any such deal will require a commitment to spending cuts
from Democrats and to modest revenue increases by Republicans.  We believe it should include an overhaul of the subsidies,
deductions and credits that distort the  tax code , and an
increase in income taxes for families making more than $250,000.
Affluent older Americans should pay more for their Medicare, and
Social Security’s cost-of-living increases should be adjusted to
save money and better conform to recipients’ actual living
costs.  These conditions are subject to negotiations -- which are
far better conducted without a catastrophe looming in the
background.  In an ideal world, the changes recommended by Obama’s
 fiscal-reform commission  would serve as a broad model. In the
real world, we’ll settle for a plan that gets serious about
reducing deficits without seriously harming the social compact.  Given all that Americans have endured, it doesn’t sound
like an unreasonable request.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 