-- 
CFTC Will Postpone Dodd-Frank Regulations for $601 Trillion Swaps Market

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-07-14T21:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/cftc-approves-six-month-delay-of-dodd-frank-rules-governing-swaps-market.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  finalized a plan delaying until as late as the end of
the year new regulations for the $601 trillion swaps market.  The CFTC published an order today that would provide
“temporary relief” from Dodd-Frank Act rules that had been
slated to take effect on July 16, a year after the law’s
enactment. The delay will give the CFTC time to write more than
40 rules aimed at reducing risk and boosting transparency after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  “This order enables the commission to continue its
progress in finalizing rules,” Gary Gensler, CFTC chairman,
said in a statement. The rule was approved by the agency’s five
commissioners, according to  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman.  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  on June 15 also
decided to postpone Dodd-Frank rules, scheduled to take effect
on July 16, that govern trades conducted by banks such as
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Under the CFTC plan, measures scheduled to take effect July
16 and that refer to agency rules that haven’t been finalized
will be delayed until those rules are adopted, though not later
than Dec. 31. The agency’s commissioners also could decide to
push the deadline into 2012 if they find that more time is
needed, the CFTC said in the order.  The CFTC has begun finalizing Dodd-Frank rules, including
new powers for the agency’s enforcement lawyers to pursue
fraudulent manipulation of derivatives and commodities markets.  The agency has scheduled a July 19 meeting to complete
rules related to whistleblowers and the processing of trades in
clearinghouses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  