-- 
Chile May Hold Rate for First Time Since January as Price Pressures Ease

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-14T15:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/chile-may-hold-rate-at-two-year-high-after-inflation-moderates.html
Chile’s central bank probably will
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged for the first time
since January after consumer prices rose less than expected last
month on slowing domestic demand and a stronger currency.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose  De Gregorio , will hold the benchmark rate at 5.25 percent today,
according to 20 of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Four
analysts forecast policy maker will raise borrowing costs by a
quarter point to 5.50 percent, the 13th increase in 14 months.  The highest interest rates in more than two years have
helped rein in job growth and  consumer spending  in  South
America ’s fifth-biggest economy, prompting the central bank last
month to cut its annual inflation forecast to 4 percent, the
upper limit of its target range.  “All the short-run economic indicators we’ve seen at the
local and international level without exception point to a stall
and even a reversal in inflationary pressures,” said Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Santiago-based Banco de Credito e
Inversiones,  Chile ’s fourth-largest lender. “It’s important to
stop and look at the contribution that the recent rate increases
are having and will have.”  After keeping the benchmark rate at a record low 0.5
percent for almost a year to help pull the $200 billion economy
out of recession, policy makers since June 2010 have raised
borrowing costs by 4.75 percentage points. In 2011, Chile has
boosted lending rates faster than any other major interest rate-
setting economy tracked by Bloomberg except Belarus.  Wages, Jobs, Peso  After holding at 5.25 percent today, policy makers will
raise the benchmark rate to 5.5 percent in August and 5.75
percent by year-end, according to the median estimate of 65
economists in a monthly central bank survey published July 12.  Annual inflation will end 2011 at 4 percent, according to
the survey, which matches the central bank forecast published
June 20. The bank, whose target range is 2 percent to 4 percent,
cut its 2011 forecast from 4.3 percent in April.  Since June 14, when policy makers last met, two-year
breakeven inflation, which reflects views of average price
increases, has declined 35 basis points to 3.21 percent at 11:33
a.m. New York time.  Inflation forecasts have declined because of higher
interest rates, government efforts to cut planned spending by
0.4 percent of gross domestic product and a decrease in global
price pressures, according to Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, a
non-voting member of the central bank board.  “The news since the last  monetary policy  meeting indicates
inflationary pressures are falling,” Selaive said. “We’ve had
a decline in salary growth, a decline in the rate of  job
creation , a decline in retail sales growth and a major
appreciation of the  exchange rate .”  ‘Space for Pauses’  Consumer prices climbed 0.2 percent in June, the national
statistics agency said July 8, lower than the 0.3 percent median
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, and half the 0.4
percent pace recorded in May. Prices rose 0.8 percent in March.  “With these lower-than-estimated increases, and as
inflation expectations moderate, there could be space for
pauses,” Larrain told reporters after the report. “My personal
vision is that we’re very close to the end of the process of
returning the monetary policy rate to normal.”  Unemployment rose to 7.2 percent in the three months
through May from 7 percent through April as salaries declined
0.1 percent in May from the previous month, the Statistics
Institute reported June 30 and July 7 respectively.  Retail sales growth, which averaged 16 percent in the first
quarter, decelerated to 8.7 percent in April and 8.5 percent in
May from last year, the institute said June 29.  Currency  The peso has appreciated 5.8 percent against the dollar in
the past six months, the third-best performance among the seven
major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
 Brazil ’s real and  Colombia ’s peso. A stronger peso can reduce
the price of imports.  In trading today, the currency rose 0.1 percent to 462.65
per dollar at 11:57 a.m. from 462.95 yesterday.  To be sure, the central bank eventually will raise interest
rates around levels that would neither stimulate nor constrict
economic growth and consumer prices, De Gregorio told senators
on June 20.  “Monetary policy must be located around its neutral
level,” De Gregorio said in prepared remarks. “The best advice
is to continue removing the monetary stimulus. The timing of
such changes will have to be revised meeting to meeting,
including pauses to evaluate the effects of the adjustments on
the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  