-- 
EU Says China Is Tightening Rare-Earth Access Even as Sale Quotas Increase

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-07-15T05:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/china-almost-doubles-rare-earth-export-quota-in-second-half-after-wto-move.html
China , the world’s biggest supplier
of rare earths, almost doubled its export quota for the second
half from a year ago, a change the European Union said actually
adds restrictions to overseas shipments.  Less than two weeks after the  World Trade Organization  said
Chinese limits on raw-material exports break global trade rules,
the country yesterday raised the quota for 26 companies to
15,738 metric tons. That compares with 7,976 tons a year earlier
and brings the limit to 30,184 tons for 2011, little changed
from 30,258 tons in 2010, government figures show.  China produces at least 90 percent of the world’s  rare
earths , used in Boeing Co. helicopter blades,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
missiles, Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars and wind turbines.
China curbed output and exports since 2009 to conserve resources
and protect the environment, prompting users such as  Japan  to
seek other sources. Ferrous alloys containing rare earths have
been added to the quotas, said Lynas Corp.  “The quota is actually being tightened because more
products will compete for limited allowances,” said rare-earth
developer Lynas in a statement from Sydney today. There is at
least a 7 percent cut in the released 2011 export quota compared
with 2010 after taking the new material into account, it said.  The EU criticized the latest quota as bringing about no
“noticeable change” in the amount of rare earths that China
will ship to the 27-nation bloc. The addition of ferrous alloys
means the quota is actually being tightened because more
products will compete for limited allowances, said  John Clancy ,
the EU’s trade spokesman.  ‘Highly Disappointing’  “This is highly disappointing and the EU continues to
encourage the Chinese authorities to revisit their export-
restrictions policy to ensure there is full, fair, predictable
and non-discriminatory access to rare-earth supplies as well as
other raw materials for EU industries,” Clancy said in a
statement from Brussels yesterday.  China takes factors such as protection of domestic
resources, and domestic and international demand when setting
export quotas for rare earths, Commerce Ministry spokesman Yao Jian said at a regular briefing in Beijing today. The category
covers 17 chemically similar metals include lanthanum, cerium
and neodymium. The composite price of eight rare earths found at
the Mount Weld project in  Western Australia  surged to $223.16 a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) on July 11 from $92.84 on March 31 and
$11.59 in 2007, according to figures on Lynas’s website.  Ferrous Alloys  China’s decision in May to allow ferrous alloys containing
more than 10 percent of rare-earth elements by weight to be
included in the export-quota license-management system may mean
at least 2,000 tons of previously excluded material have been
added to the latest allowance, Lynas said in the statement,
citing an estimate by industry sources.  The new quota is “below the requirements of the non-China
market and will keep supplies tight,” Matthew James, a Lynas
spokesman, said by telephone yesterday. “This situation could
remain until new suppliers enter the market.”  The July 5 WTO judgment followed complaints by the U.S.,
the EU and  Mexico . China said then it was assessing the report
and Mei Xinyu, a professor at a government trade institute, said
an appeal was highly likely. The EU and the U.S. said after the
ruling was made public that it means China should be required to
step up exports of rare earths.  Strained Ties  The Geneva-based WTO issued its decision after an 18-month
investigation of Chinese quotas, export duties and license
requirements on industrial ingredients such as coke, zinc and
bauxite. Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said countries
with abundant reserves of rare earths shouldn’t criticize
China’s export restrictions, the People’s Daily reported on July
7, without saying where he spoke.  Raw-material restrictions stoked tensions between China and
its trading partners, who said the world’s fastest-growing major
economy has unfair commerce and currency policies. The U.S. has
threatened to lodge a WTO complaint specifically over China’s
curbs on rare earths and last year asked business groups and
unions to provide evidence that China is hoarding the elements.  The United Steelworkers union has said the restrictions
give an unfair advantage to Chinese green-energy manufacturers,
which rely on rare earths.  Meeting Standards  “China seems to have increased the second batch of quotas
from the same period last year,” Ju Guoxian, a Shenzhen-based
analyst at Minsheng Securities Co., said yesterday. “China
sharply reduced the quota last year to rein in over-exploitation
and environmental degradation caused by illegal mining.”  Now that some companies have upgraded operations to meet
environmental standards and received proper licenses, the
government appears willing to increase quotas, Ju said.  The world’s most populous nation will raise standards for
exporters and won’t approve new project expansions in an effort
to curb overcapacity, illegal mining and sales, the government
said in May. The Ministry of Land and Resources said it wants to
set aside some rare-earth deposits as reserves.  The market for the minerals may double to as much as $6
billion by the middle of the decade, according to an April 21
report by Ernst & Young LLP analyst Michel Nestour.  Lynas fell as much as 4.1 percent in Sydney trading today
and at 2:22 p.m. local time was down 3.3 percent to A$1.91.  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , which plans to bring its Californian mine
into production in the second half of 2012 and double the mine’s
annual capacity to 40,000 tons by the end of 2013, was down 4.6
percent to $51.85 at the close of regular trading on the New
York Stock Exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  