-- 
China to Intensify Housing Curbs in Smaller Cities as Price Gains Quicken

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-15T07:39:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/china-to-intensify-housing-curbs-in-smaller-cities-as-price-gains-quicken.html
China  will expand its efforts to
curb the growth in residential prices to smaller cities after
limiting home purchases in Beijing and Shanghai, according to a
summary of a State Council meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  The government said so-called second and third-tier cities
which have seen excessive price gains should restrict the number
of homes each family is allowed to buy, according to the  State
Council  or cabinet yesterday. China’s property stocks fell to
the lowest in more than three weeks today.  China is intensifying property restrictions nationwide
after developers posted gains in first-half sales and housing
transactions climbed 31 percent last month, even after more
curbs were added earlier this year. The central bank last week
raised  interest rates  for the fifth time since October.  “If the government doesn’t step up to say anything at the
half-year point, the market will interpret it as the government
is tolerant to gains in the housing market,” said Yao Wei, an
economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “China is facing
a big pressure from inflation and there’s no way the government
will relax property curbs now.”  China’s June housing transactions increased to 499.2
billion yuan ($77 billion), compared with 380.9 billion yuan in
the previous month, based on first-half economic data provided
by China’s statistics bureau on June 13. Sales in the first half
climbed 22 percent to 2.1 trillion yuan from a year earlier,
according to the data.  Property Stocks Fall  The measure tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai 
Composite Index fell 1.2 percent to the lowest since June 29 at
the 3:00 p.m. close, making it the worst performer among five
industry groups on the benchmark. China Vanke Co., the country’s
biggest listed developer, dropped 1.8 percent to 8.43 yuan in
Shenzhen, while Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-largest,
lost 2.8 percent to 10.6 yuan.  The property boom is shifting from Beijing and Shanghai as
government measures to curb the market haven’t kept prices from
rising in secondary cities. Urumqi in the northwest and
northeastern Dandong posted the biggest gains in May home prices,
according to the statistics bureau. The data for June is
scheduled to be released on July 18.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15 cut its outlook on Chinese
developers, echoing concerns of a property bubble aired by bears
such as hedge fund manager  Jim Chanos .  China Vanke, the country’s biggest developer, reported last
week that sales in the first six months rose 79 percent to 65.7
billion yuan, while Evergrande Real Estate Group said on July 11
that sales more than doubled to 42.3 billion yuan.  ‘Proper and Adequate’  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the developer controlled by Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , said yesterday it is “proper and
adequate” for China to impose measures to cool down its
 property market . Rising home prices run the risk of becoming a
social problem, Executive Director Justin Chiu said in Shanghai,
where he unveiled three new projects in the city.  “We do hope prices will remain stable, otherwise the
government will take more action,” Chiu told reporters. “As a
property developer, we don’t want prices to rise too quickly
either and want prices to be stable.”  China’s rising inflation, which hit a three-year high in
June, also boosted the investment data with higher costs for
materials and wages, the statistics bureau said this week.  “The property policies are at a critical moment,” the
State Council said in the report. “We must strictly uphold the
direction of the curbs and won’t ease the tightening measures.”  Rental Curbs  June home prices climbed 0.4 percent from May, rising for a
10th straight month, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website. The increase was driven
by smaller cities, while prices in larger ones including Beijing
and Shanghai either posted slower gains or declines from May,
SouFun said.  China will also curb gains in housing rents, the State
Council report said. The government will ensure the construction
of 10 million units of social or affordable housing begins by
the end of November, according to the report.  “If they don’t continue to tighten the market, it will
rebound soon,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, citing this week’s property
sales data. “The property curbs haven’t showed positive
effects.”  --Bonnie Cao, Liza Lin. Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or  llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  