-- 
Chris Paul Says His $16.3 Million Pay Gives Perspective at NBA Labor Talks

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-07-14T21:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/chris-paul-says-his-16-3-million-pay-gives-perspective-at-nba-labor-talks.html
Chris Paul , the four-time All-Star
point guard for the  New Orleans Hornets , tells Scott Soshnick in
the July 18 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek why he works on the
National Basketball Player’s Association executive committee to
help reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the
league.  “I’ve been in the NBA six years now, and I joined the
union’s executive committee four years ago. Look, if you work at
Apple and the company has a meeting, you’d want to be there,
right? I wanted to know what was going on at these conference
tables because the decisions made affect not only me but the
other guys in the league.  “I was 13 years old during the last lockout, and I had no
idea what it was about. All I knew was that there was no
basketball, which is why, this time around, it was so hard to
walk away from the negotiating table without a deal. I know --we
know -- how much it affects the fans. And we know that if it
weren’t for the fans, there would be no us.  “We hate to see something like a lockout take place, but
we can’t just take a huge step back. There are so many players
that came before us --  Michael Jordan , Patrick Ewing -- who got
the game to where it is today. And what about the kids in high
school who aspire to be in the NBA? We don’t believe in making
sure it’s OK for ourselves now, but more difficult for them
later.  Sacrifices Made  “There’s a cross-section of players on the executive
committee, which has to represent everyone. I felt there should
be a guy with a maximum contract to give perspective (Paul will
be paid $16.3 million by the Hornets next season). Whatever
sacrifices have to be made are worth it to make sure we get a
fair deal, a deal that represents the whole. Some kids go to
college knowing they’re only playing one year before turning
pro, and it was fitting that the last meeting we had with the
owners came the day after the draft. We’re standing up for those
players because they don’t have a say-so. We’re their voice:
It’s a big-brother mentality.  “All the players are competitors. We want to get out
there, but adjustments are going to have to be made. The pain
will be not getting to stand in front of the fans and compete,
but hopefully cooler heads will prevail. My son just turned 2.
Maybe one day he can sign a nice contract and be proud that his
dad fought for him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  