-- 
Clean Energy Investment Rises 22% on Solar Boom, New Energy Says

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-14T07:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/clean-energy-investment-rises-22-on-solar-boom-new-energy-says.html
New investment in clean energy rose
22 percent from a year ago to $41.7 billion in the second
quarter following a jump in funding for solar thermal power
plants, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  The figure was 27 percent higher than in the first quarter
and the third-highest on record, the London-based researcher
said. BrightSource Energy Inc. raised $2.2 billion for its 392-
megawatt project in the U.S. while funds also flowed to Nextera
Energy Resources LLC and Eskom Holdings Ltd.  The findings contrast with a 13 percent slump during the
quarter for the WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index,
which tracks 93 clean energy companies. The  Standard & Poor’s 
500 index of leading U.S. shares was little changed in the
period.  “The explanation is partly to do with ongoing investor
worries, perhaps overdone, about future policy support, and
partly to do with the fact that this is a highly competitive
sector, in which costs are falling and high manufacturer margins
are hard to sustain,” said Michael Liebreich, chief executive
officer of New Energy Finance, said in a statement released
today.  Private equity and venture capital investment rose 74
percent to $3.1 billion last quarter, the highest for any
quarter since 2008.  Equity capital investments through initial public offerings
and other measures fell 7 percent to $3.4 billion from the first
quarter.  While China remained the biggest investor in clean energy
projects, its funding fell 11 percent to $12 billion from the
first three months of the year. In the U.S., investment almost
tripled to $10.5 billion, the third-highest figure ever.  Mergers, acquisitions and refinancing were not included in
the investment figures. Those funds rose 93 percent to $21.7
billion following the French  oil company   Total SA (FP) ’s purchase of
 SunPower Corp. (SPWRA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  