-- 
Roger Clemens Judge Declares Mistrial After U.S. Displays Barred Evidence

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-07-14T20:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/clemens-judge-calls-mistrial-after-u-s-shows-barred-evidence.html
The perjury trial of former Major
League Baseball pitcher  Roger Clemens  ended in a mistrial on the
second day of witness testimony after prosecutors showed the
jury evidence that violated a court order.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington said today
that he’s considering barring further prosecution of Clemens on
double-jeopardy grounds and set a hearing for Sept. 2 on whether
to let the case proceed.  Clemens, 48, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is accused
of lying to Congress about his use of steroids and human growth
hormone. Prosecutors said that  Andy Pettitte , a former teammate,
would testify about his close relationship with Clemens and how
Clemens told him in 1999 or 2000 that he had used HGH. Clemens
told Congress that Pettitte misheard the conversation.  Walton said that prosecutors violated a court order today
when they showed the jury of 10 women and two men a video clip
of the 2008 hearing where Pettitte’s wife was discussed. Walton
ruled earlier that any reference to an affidavit given to
Congress by Laura Pettitte couldn’t be admitted into evidence in
the government’s presentation of its main case.  “Mr. Pettitte’s testimony is critical as to whether this
man goes to prison,” Walton said, noting that the video
improperly bolstered Pettitte’s credibility with the jury. “I
don’t see how to unring the bell.”  ‘Better Not’  Clemens’s defense attorney,  Rusty Hardin , when asked to
comment after today’s proceeding, said, “I’d love to, but I
better not.”  Bill Miller , the spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office
in Washington, said in a statement that Walton’s order barring
anyone involved in the case from discussing it precluded
comment.  Clemens’s mistrial is the second federal perjury trial of a
former Major League Baseball player in three months to end
inconclusively.  Barry Bonds , the home-run record holder, was
convicted in federal court in  San Francisco  in April of
obstructing justice for statements he made to a grand jury in
2003 when asked whether his trainer ever gave him anything that
required a syringe injection.  Jurors in the Bonds trial couldn’t agree on whether he lied
in saying he didn’t knowingly take steroids and take human
growth hormone or receive injections by his trainer. A mistrial
was declared on those counts.  The U.S. has yet to say whether he will be retried.  Thirty Years  Clemens was charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers use of performance-enhancing
drugs. If convicted on all charges, he faces as long as 30 years
in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  The charges stem from statements Clemens made to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  During the public hearing on Feb. 13, Clemens testified
while a few feet away from the government’s main witness in the
trial, his former trainer  Brian McNamee , who said he injected
Clemens with both drugs while Clemens pitched for the  Toronto
Blue Jays  and the  New York Yankees .  Opening Statement Stopped  Walton stopped Durham during his opening statement as the
prosecutor told jurors that Clemens’s former Yankee teammates
Pettitte, Chuck Knoblauch and Mike Stanton would be called to
testify how they used HGH. Walton ordered jurors to disregard
the reference to the other players, which violated a pre-trial
order.  Walton also ruled July 6 that the government was barred
from using or referring to any part of an affidavit by
Pettitte’s wife, Laura, who swore her husband had told her about
a conversation with Clemens in which Clemens acknowledged using
the drugs.  Laura Pettitte could only be brought up in the trial to
rebut information from the defense, Walton ruled.  Third Witness  The trial was stopped as Durham took testimony from the
government’s third witness, Phil Barnett, the House staffer who
deposed Clemens.  Durham played a clip of Representative Elijah Cummings
questioning Clemens during the Feb. 13, 2008 hearing. As the
video played, a transcript of what was being said was
highlighted on the lower portion of the screen.  Cummings mentioned an affidavit the committee received from
Pettitte’s wife.  Walton stopped the trial and ordered the lawyers to the
bench. After a few minutes, he sent the jurors out of the
courtroom.  “I clearly ruled that Mr. Pettitte’s wife and what Mr.
Pettitte said to his wife could not come in,” Walton said.
“This clearly runs afoul of my pretrial rulings.”  Walton said that he was “perplexed” that the government’s
exhibits hadn’t been altered after his ruling.  “A first-year law student knows you can’t bolster the
credibility of one witness with clearly inadmissible evidence
from another witness,” Walton said.  A half hour later he declared the mistrial.  Normally, a criminal defendant can’t be tried twice for the
same crime. Exceptions include when a jury fails to reach a
unanimous verdict, said Stanford University criminal law
professor Robert Weisberg.  ‘Procedural Goof-Up’  “A procedural goof-up shouldn’t preclude a retrial, unless
the judge believes it involves intentional, egregious misconduct
by the prosecutor,” said Weisberg, citing a Supreme Court
ruling.  A mistrial so early in a case is “almost unheard of,”
Weisberg said.  The government’s last high-profile loss in a  Washington 
courtroom was the case against the now-deceased Alaska
Republican Senator Ted Stevens. U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  threw out Stevens’ 2008 conviction for corruption the
following year because federal prosecutors withheld evidence
from the defense. Sullivan ordered an investigation into whether
the government’s “shocking” conduct was criminal.  During the course of a  Justice Department  probe of the
matter, one of the prosecutors, Nicholas Marsh, killed himself.
Unlike the Clemens case, Stevens prosecution was handled by the
Justice Department’s public corruption unit, not by the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Washington.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 