-- 
Clinton to Tackle Mideast Turmoil, Asian Tensions on Trip

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-14T17:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/clinton-to-tackle-mideast-turmoil-asian-tensions-on-trip.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
begins an around-the-world trip today to address Mideast unrest,
U.S. business competitiveness and tensions over the South China
Sea.  Clinton starts her 11-day trip in Turkey for a meeting with
foreign ministers from countries supporting NATO’s effort in
Libya to protect civilians and support the Libyan rebels trying
to topple Muammar Qaddafi.  Some members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization are
expressing impatience about the length of the five-month
conflict. Norway has reduced its role in the air strikes and
plans to withdraw its warplanes entirely at the end of the
month. The French Senate voted July 12 to continue the military
operation in Libya after intense debate.  While in  Turkey  July 15-16, Clinton also plans to discuss
the political turmoil in neighboring Syria with Turkey’s
President Abdullah Gul, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and
Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu.  Clinton said July 11 that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
has lost legitimacy amid a crackdown on dissent across the
country and mob attacks on the U.S. and French embassies in
Damascus. The U.S. has not yet taken the further step of calling
for Assad to give up power.  Clinton travels to  Greece  on July 17-18 to meet with
leaders there, including President Karolos Papoulias, Prime
Minister George Papandreou and Foreign Minister Stavros Lambrinidis. Her visit comes as Greece is in economic crisis,
trying to avoid the euro bloc’s first sovereign debt default.  India  Dialogue  Clinton then makes a two-day stop in India to continue the
U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue on issues including the U.S.
withdrawal from Afghanistan and counterterrorism cooperation.
Clinton said yesterday that she was going ahead with the visit
after terrorist bombings in Mumbai, the nation’s financial hub.  In addition to talks in New Delhi, Clinton plans to become
the first U.S. secretary of state to visit Chennai, in southern
India, where  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  have
manufacturing plants. U.S. Consulate General in Chennai issued
142,565 non-immigrant visas in 2010, the most among Mission
India’s five consular sections, according to the consulate’s
website.  Clinton plans to discuss trade in a city that “has emerged
as a hub for trade, investment and people-to-people engagement
in this thriving U.S.-Indian relationship,” said  Robert Hormats , the State Department’s Under Secretary for Economic,
Energy and Agricultural affairs, July 11 at the East-West Center
in  Washington .  Regional Talks  From India, Clinton will travel to Bali, Indonesia, attend
a meeting of the Association of South East Asian Nations, host a
meeting with Japanese and Korean officials, and talk with
Indonesian officials.  Spokesman Victoria Nuland said Clinton also will host a
meeting of the Lower Mekong Initiative, with foreign ministers
of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam.  The group was founded to deal with regional disputes
including over the oil- and gas-rich South  China  Sea. China, the
Philippines, Vietnam, Taiwan, Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand,
Brunei and Singapore have overlapping claims to various islands
and strategic shipping lanes in the area.  Clinton will end her trip in  Hong Kong , where she is
scheduled to deliver remarks underscoring U.S. economic
leadership in the Asia-Pacific region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  