-- 
Commodity Boom Turns Bust for Stillwater Holders on Copper Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-07-14T14:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/commodity-boom-turns-bust-for-stillwater-holders-on-copper-deal-real-m-a.html
Stillwater Mining Co. (SWC)  is so sure
commodities will keep surging that it’s willing to spend more
than the  Montana  palladium producer itself is worth to buy and
develop copper and gold projects in Argentina.  Stillwater, which offered to buy  Peregrine Metals Ltd. (PGM)  for
$487 million in cash and stock this week, projects it will cost
as much as $2.5 billion to develop the Altar project in western
Argentina over the next seven years, Chief Executive Officer
Francis McAllister said on a conference call. The combined cost
is about a billion dollars more than the Billings, Montana-based
company’s market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The takeover will hand shareholders of Vancouver-based
Peregrine a more than threefold gain after extracting from
Stillwater the second-largest premium for any mining acquisition
in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While Stillwater
is betting that it can profit from diversifying away from
palladium as copper approached a record and gold climbed to an
all-time high this week, the company’s shares slumped 23 percent
since the deal was announced through yesterday.  “This foray into another continent to buy a different kind
of metal that is far from developed and pay a high price -- it
raises a lot of question marks,” said Jim Grefenstette, a
Pittsburgh-based  fund manager  at Federated Investors Inc., which
oversees $354.9 billion, including Stillwater shares. “It’s a
disappointment.”  John Beaudry, a spokesman at Stillwater, and Peregrine’s
Brooke Clements, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  Acquisition Details  Stillwater -- once a unit of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel,
 Russia ’s biggest mining company -- gets more than half its
revenue from palladium and platinum. Those precious metals are
used in catalytic converters to make exhaust fumes less toxic.  The company agreed to pay $1.35 a share and 0.08136 of its
own stock for each share held by holders of Peregrine, according
to a statement on July 11.  Based on Stillwater’s closing price of $23.72 on July 8,
the deal valued Peregrine Metals at $3.28 a share, the statement
said. That’s 279 percent higher than the target’s price in the
20 trading days before the deal was announced, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The premium is the second-highest for any
announced deal over $100 million in the  mining industry .  Peregrine shareholders have seen the value of their
holdings increase 216 percent since the deal was announced
through yesterday, boosting the company’s market capitalization
by about C$207 million ($216 million) to C$302 million.  Pricing Power  Stillwater’s market value has decreased by about $570
million to less than $1.9 billion over the same period.  Shares of Stillwater slipped 4 percent to $17.46 at 10:22
a.m. in  New York  today, while Peregrine fell 1.2 percent to
C$2.53 in Toronto.  “I’d like to give them the benefit of the doubt that they
did their due diligence and they know something that the rest of
us don’t,” said Rick de los Reyes, a manager at T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. in Baltimore, which oversees about $510 billion
including Stillwater shares. “But it’s hard to believe the
market is so inefficient that it’s pricing Peregrine at a huge
discount.”  Stillwater’s bid for Peregrine came after copper and gold
outperformed palladium this year. Palladium, which climbed more
than fourfold from the end of 2008 through 2010, has slipped 2.4
percent this year through yesterday.  Copper for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange has more than tripled since the end of 2008 to $9,650 a
ton, leaving it within 5.6 percent of a record of $10,190.  Metal Prices  While prices of copper and gold may peak in 2011, analysts
estimate lower average prices in the next two years.  Copper, used in electric wire, roofing and plumbing, will
average $10,000 next year before dropping to $8,542 in 2013, the
median of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Gold futures rose to a record $1,588.90 an ounce on the
Comex in New York yesterday as a slump in the dollar and
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurred demand for precious metals. The
average price of gold will slide to $1,413 next year and $1,231
in 2013, analysts’ estimates show.  Peregrine’s Altar mine has the potential to produce an
annual average of 280 million pounds (127 million kilograms) of
copper and 24,000 troy ounces of gold with a 36-year mine life,
according to Stillwater’s July 11 presentation.  At that level, the project would boost Stillwater’s annual
copper production almost ninefold from the 37 million pounds its
mine in Marathon, Ontario, is projected to extract each year,
according to the  company’s presentation  and data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stillwater got less than 5 percent of its sales from
copper, gold, silver and nickel last year.  Head Scratcher  The acquisition also means Stillwater may lose investors
who owned the company because they wanted to bet exclusively on
palladium, said  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM
Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “To get into a different field from what they know, it’s
got me scratching my head,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior
portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati,
which manages $14.8 billion. “The easy money in a lot of the
metals has already been made.”  Stillwater’s shareholders will have to wait at least six
years before the Altar mine produces any copper, according to
 Leon Esterhuizen , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London.
Stillwater still needs to conduct more exploration, design the
mine and raise more money to pay for the project, he said.  ‘Nice Little Pocket’  Stillwater  began mining palladium  in 1986 and controls the
“only significant source of platinum group metals in the  United
States ,” according to its website. Buying an undeveloped mine
in  Argentina  for copper and gold may be not be worth the risk,
Federated’s Grefenstette said.  “This is a challenge, because they’ve gone into a
geography they’ve never gone into before,” he said. “You have
this nice little pocket in Montana, and that’s cool, because you
can isolate your opportunities, you can isolate your risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 