-- 
ConocoPhillips Seeks Identity With Planned Spinoff

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-07-18T17:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/conocophillips-seeks-new-oil-identity-with-planned-spinoff-of-refineries.html
(Corrects rise in Marathon Oil’s market value in sixth
paragraph of story originally published July 14.)  ConocoPhillips (COP)  will conclude a
three-year restructuring program by shedding its fuel-making
business next year to refocus the company on more profitable oil
and natural-gas production.  The company will become two separate, publicly traded
entities by the end of next June, Houston-based ConocoPhillips
said today in a statement. Chief Executive Officer  Jim Mulva ,
who engineered the creation of ConocoPhillips through a $25
billion merger in 2002, will retire once the spinoff is
finished.  The decision to split the company is the culmination of a
$17 billion asset sale program Conoco began in 2009 and expanded
earlier this year. The company also has backed out of planned
refinery projects and sold its 20 percent in  Russia ’s OAO
Lukoil.  “Conoco’s been one of those companies that’s been stuck
with respect to a business plan,” said  Ted Harper , who helps
oversee about $6.8 billion in assets at Frost Investment
Advisors in Houston, including about 116,000 ConocoPhillips
shares. “They’re kind of grappling for an identity.” The
spinoff is a “first step” in deciding what kind of company it
wants to be, Harper said.  ConocoPhillips rose $1.21, or 1.63 percent, to $75.61 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares earlier climbed as much as 7.7 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since May, 8, 2009.  Shrinking Refining  Oil and gas producers such as Chevron Corp. and  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO)  have been trimming refining holdings as they shift
more spending to the global search for more hydrocarbons.
Through the July 13 closing price, Marathon’s spinoff of its
refinery network, completed June 30, has yielded shareholders a
28 percent bonanza since it was announced in January.  After the split, ConocoPhillips will become the largest
U.S. independent oil and gas producer, a category defined as
companies without refining, chemical or retail fuel businesses.
The company expects output equivalent to about 1.7 million
barrels of oil a day in 2011 before any additional asset sales,
Mulva said in a conference call today.  The company’s production is more than double that reported
by other big independent producers in the first quarter.  Apache Corp., currently the largest U.S. independent, had
output of about 732,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the
first quarter. ConocoPhillips said it expects additional
production of 800,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2015.  Buybacks, Dividends Continue  The company hasn’t hashed out all the details of the split,
including the future location of its chemical venture with
Chevron Corp., or its midstream venture with Spectra Energy
Corp, Mulva said today.  The new exploration and production company will maintain
its 66-cent quarterly dividend, Mulva said today. The spinoff
will occur in the form of a special dividend to shareholders.
All of the company’s existing corporate bonds will remain with
the oil business, he said.  Most of ConocoPhillips’s $11 billion in planned share
repurchases will occur this year, before the split, Mulva said.  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer &
Co., who rates the shares “outperform,” approved of the spin
off plan. “It worked for Marathon and it will work even better
for ConocoPhillips. ConocoPhillips is a much better company.”  Largest U.S. Independent  Following the split, ConocoPhillips’ fuel business will be
the largest U.S. independent refiner, with more than 2 million
barrels of daily processing capacity. The capacity includes two
plants held jointly with Canadian oil-sands producer Cenovus
Energy Inc., though no decision has been made yet on where to
put that venture. Valero Energy Corp. will be No. 2, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Independent refiners don’t own
 oil wells .  ConocoPhillips controls about 10 percent of U.S. processing
capacity and also owns five plants outside the country,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips may not benefit from its split as much as
Marathon has, said Mark Gilman, a New York-based analyst for
Benchmark Co. Marathon’s shares were severely discounted prior
to its announcement, which isn’t the case for ConocoPhillips,
said Gilman, who rates the stock “sell” and owns none.  “I don’t think they’re a strongly positioned company,”
Gilman said. “Doing this doesn’t change anything. It’s
monkeying with pieces of paper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  