-- 
Copper May Rise on Concern About Supply Shortages, Survey Shows

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/copper-may-rise-on-concern-about-supply-shortages-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise as lower ore grades,
adverse weather and labor actions hamper production, feeding
concern supply will fall short of demand, a survey showed.  Six of 13 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 46 percent, said prices will gain next week. Five
predicted a drop and two forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was down 0.1 percent for this week at
$9,650 a metric ton by 4:30 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal
Exchange.  Production of the metal from mines slid 24 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, Rio Tinto Group said
yesterday. Winter storms in  Chile  this month disrupted output at
copper mines including Escondida, the world’s biggest. Workers
at Santiago-based Codelco, the industry’s top producer, this
week held the first companywide strike in 18 years.  “The supply side continues to underperform,” said  Gayle Berry , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London. “The results
by Rio illustrate just how challenging the industry is finding
it to grow mine production.”  World consumption of copper is set to exceed production by
377,000 tons this year, according to the International Copper
Study Group. Rio cited lower ore grades at Escondida and
Kennecott Utah Copper in the U.S.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of July 8.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
70 of the past 145 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 6 Bearish: 5 Hold: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  