-- 
Credit Suisse Buys Inflation Bonds as Food Prices to Jump: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-14T22:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/credit-suisse-buys-inflation-bonds-as-food-prices-to-jump-mexico-credit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, is buying Mexican inflation-
linked bonds as a bet a rebound in food prices will extend the
debt’s outperformance over fixed-rate notes to a fourth month.  Yields on bonds tied to the  consumer price index  that
mature in 2012 dropped 55 basis points, or 0.55 percentage
point, in the past month to 0.49 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on similar-maturity fixed-rate
securities yield fell eight basis points in the same period to
4.95 percent. The inflation-linked bonds have beaten fixed-rate
debt for three straight months, the longest streak since August.  “There are some points on the curve that still offer
opportunities for investors,” Fernando Buendia, chief
investment officer for private banking in  Mexico  at Credit
Suisse, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City office.
“From here on, there is a moment to take advantage of the
premium offered by inflation-linked debt.”  Credit Suisse, whose Chief Investment Officer Stefan Keitel
oversees $200 billion, holds Mexico’s inflation-linked notes due
in 2012, Buendia said.  Food prices  in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy will
increase after posting their biggest tumble in six years in
June, helping fuel inflation, Buendia said. The costs of food
items from tortillas to tomatoes fell 6.4 percent last month,
helping slow inflation increases to an almost five-year low of
3.28 percent in June. Policy makers held the lending rate at a
record low 4.5 percent July 8, the only major Latin American
country to keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  Breakeven Rate  Inflation will quicken to 3.6 percent by the end of the
year, Buendia said. Consumer prices rose at a 3.04 percent
annual rate in March, the slowest since May 2006. In  Brazil , the
region’s biggest economy, annual inflation accelerated to 6.71
percent last month, the fastest pace since June 2005.  The yield gap between Mexican inflation-linked debt due in
2012 and similar-maturity fixed-rated bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for price increases, widened to 446 basis points
yesterday, the most since Feb. 26, 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In  Colombia , the so-called breakeven-rate
is 334 basis points, up from 331 a month ago.
 Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-Ixe in Mexico City, recommends investors buy bonds that
protect against consumer price increases as rising food costs
will drive inflation to 3.7 percent by year end.  ‘Head Higher’  “The inflation we are going to see for the rest of the
year is going to be much higher than at the beginning,” Padilla
said in a telephone interview. “Prices for agricultural goods,
which helped keep inflation in check earlier, are going to head
higher for the rest of the year.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 9 basis points
to 140 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point to 115 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in February fell 4 basis points to 4.96 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate
that month.  Inflation Outlook  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 11.7215 per  U.S. dollar ,
paring its gain this year to 5.3 percent. It’s up 17 percent
over the past two years.  The peso, which is driving down the cost of imports, and
the government’s 100-billion-peso subsidy for fuel will help
keep prices in check, said  Rafael Camarena , an economist at
Banco Santander SA in Mexico City. Banco Santander SA on July 7
cut its 2011 inflation forecast to 3.4 percent from 3.7 percent.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch lowered its estimate on July 12 to
3.66 percent from 3.76 percent.  “We’re seeing very moderate internal demand,” Camarena
said in a telephone interview. “There’s no evidence of pressure
on the demand side.”  The economy may expand as much as 5 percent this year,
after growing 5.4 percent last year, the most in 10 years, the
central bank said on May 11.  The yield on the inflation-linked notes due in 2012 has
dropped 79 basis points this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on fixed-rate bonds due the same year rose one
basis point during the same period.  “The inflation bonds have performed well and this
performance is likely to continue,” said Banorte-Ixe’s Padilla.
“It’s a good strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  