-- 
Daily Dose of Gilead Drugs Cuts Heterosexual HIV Infection

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-07-14T20:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/daily-dose-of-gilead-drugs-prevent-heterosexual-hiv-infection-study-shows.html
A daily dose of drugs made by  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to treat HIV helped prevent infection in two
studies that bolster earlier research showing existing
medication can work to keep the disease from spreading.  The newest data, reported yesterday from trials undertaken
in  Africa , showed that those who used the Gilead drugs --
including uninfected people with partners who have HIV, and
healthy heterosexual individuals -- had a much lower risk of
infection than those on placebos.  The findings support conclusions of a study last year that
showed Gilead’s Truvada, a  $12,000-a-year  drug, cut transmission
of HIV in gay men. A separate trial in May found that  treating
the disease  earlier than guidelines suggest reduces the risk to
sexual partners. In total, the research suggests use of pre-
exposure prophylaxis can stop the cycle of infection that
affected the lives of 2.5 million people with newly diagnosed
cases in 2009, according to United Nations data.  “On all fronts there are new, highly effective approaches
for prevention,” including use of existing drugs, clean needles
for injection drug users, male circumcision and vaginal gels,
said  Robert Grant , an associate professor at the Gladstone
Institute of Virology and Immunology at the University of
 California ,  San Francisco . “These new opportunities demonstrate
that we can win the war on HIV, if we act now.”  Proof the drugs inhibit HIV may bring more people in to
get tested, and could mean that people who are newly infected
and unaware would be less likely to spread the disease, Grant
said in a statement.  Drop in Infections  The number of people who were infected with the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus that causes AIDS in 2009 was about 21
percent less than in 1997, when annual infections peaked at
about 3.2 million,  UNAIDS  said in a report last year.  Still, only 36 percent of 15 million people who need
treatment in  developing countries  in Africa and  Asia  get it, the
report said, and the latest findings could renew debate about
the best way to use the potent drugs, particularly in poor
countries where access to treatment is scarce.  Gilead fell 34 cents to $41.27 at 4 p.m. in New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained 19 percent
in the past year.  A study taking place in Kenya and  Uganda , run by the
University of  Washington , was halted early after a safety board
concluded it was unethical to continue the trial. People
receiving Truvada, AIDS drugs sold by  Foster City , California-
based Gilead, were 73 percent less likely to contract HIV than
those getting a placebo, according to the report yesterday.  All of the subjects were given counseling about HIV
prevention, as well as condoms and regular HIV testing.  1,200 Heterosexual Volunteers  The second study, dubbed TDF2, was conducted in Botswana
and funded by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. That trial, to be presented at the International
AIDS Society meeting in  Rome  next week, involved 1,200
heterosexual volunteers who didn’t have HIV infections.  Nine patients taking Truvada contracted HIV during the
study, compared with 24 patients given a placebo. The results
show a 63 percent reduction in risk, the researchers said. Among
those with consistent access to their drugs, the risk was even
lower at 78 percent, they said.  “We now have findings from two studies showing that PrEP
can work for heterosexuals, the population hardest hit by HIV
worldwide,” said Kevin Fenton, director of the CDC’s national
Center for HIV/AIDS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  