-- 
Danish Mortgage Lenders Rethink Bonds Amid Moody’s Onslaught

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-07-15T10:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/danish-mortgage-lenders-rethink-bonds.html
Denmark ’s mortgage lenders may offer
new kinds of securities to reduce refinancing risks after being
hit by downgrades from Moody’s Investors Service last month.  Lenders in the world’s third-largest mortgage bond market
are looking into the possibility of phasing out adjustable-rate
mortgage bonds with maturities of one year and introducing five-
year securities with yearly adjustments to the interest rate,
 Karsten Beltoft , the head of the Copenhagen-based  Danish
Mortgage Bankers’ Federation , said in a phone interview
yesterday.  “We have to develop loan products that can give the
variable interest rate but not the refinancing,” Beltoft said.
That would help lenders to “avoid the huge refinancing every
year,” he said.  The industry is searching for ways to avoid further
downgrades after Moody’s June 10 warned a surge in adjustable-
rate debt is infusing the market with risk. The bonds have
doubled since 2008 to about $233 billion this year, or half the
market, the central bank estimates. The ratings cuts have come
as Denmark tries to persuade the European Union to soften rules
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that question
the liquidity of the securities.  Beltoft, whose federation represents the home-loan units of
Danske Bank A/S and Nordea Bank AB, said the new bonds would
allow issuers to reduce a refinancing risk that Moody’s in June
warned may hamper timely repayment. Lenders would only need to
tap debt markets to finance mortgages every five years instead
of as often as every year.  ‘More Expensive’  The new securities would be “more expensive and less
flexible” for the homeowner, Beltoft said. “But it could be a
way of reducing the proportion of adjustable-rate mortgages.”
Lenders need to explore new products in the event that ratings
cuts and political pressure make the current adjustable-rate
structure untenable, he said.  The central bank in May warned that the country’s mortgage
lenders face refinancing risks that have yet to be addressed.
The European Commission also raised concerns in a June report.  “If the ratings companies, the central bank, the ministry
the European Union, if all these stakeholders think we have a
problem, then we have to look at it,” Beltoft said.  The difference between yields on Realkredit Danmark’s 5
percent 2041 bond and  Germany ’s 30-year bund widened three basis
points to 177 basis points today, the widest this month.  The Right Price  Bonds with longer maturities and regular interest-rate
adjustments already exist in the commercial mortgage market.
Residential loans account for 80 percent of all mortgage lending
in Denmark, according to the Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks, which represents Nykredit A/S, the country’s biggest.  Still, the existing model for adjustable-rate bonds works
well because “investors have to have money out of their pockets
to buy these bonds every year,” said Jacob Skinhoj, chief
analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen. “So both borrowers and
investors are sure that it is the right price and interest
rate.”  In the past 15 years, Denmark’s mortgage-bond market has
moved away from traditional fixed-rate, callable-at-par
securities into more varied debt instruments. Adjustable-rate
mortgages were introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which
the central bank has criticized for exacerbating volatility in
the country’s property market, were sold from 2003. So-called
capped floaters, which offer a floating interest rate with a
ceiling on how high borrow costs can rise, came in 2004.  Mismatch  Moody’s argues that Denmark’s adjustable-rate mortgage
bonds represent a bigger refinancing risk because they, unlike
other Danish covered bonds, don’t match the maturities on the
loans linked to them. The adjustable-rate bonds tend to have
maturities of one to three years compared with an average loan
maturity of 20 to 30 years.  Danish lenders typically hold three adjustable-rate bond
auctions a year, with the biggest sale taking place at the end
of the year. Issuers in December refinanced $97 billion in the
securities.  Moody’s last month lowered the so-called timely payment
indicator on some mortgage bonds, including those issued by
Nykredit A/S and Realkredit Danmark A/S, to “high” from “very
high.” The rating company also raised the over-
collateralization rates on some covered bonds that it said are
needed to avoid downgrades on the debt.  “They changed a parameter in the model, the timely payment
indicator. No one knew the indicator,” Beltoft said. “We got a
bit anxious about what change might come again in a month or two
with dramatic consequences for the Danish mortgage companies.”  ‘We Have a Challenge’  Realkredit Danmark, the mortgage unit of Denmark’s biggest
lender Danske Bank, said June 23 it is dropping Moody’s after
the rating company told it to cough up an extra $6.14 billion in
collateral to keep its covered debt graded Aaa.  Nykredit,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of covered bonds backed
by mortgages, on June 21 separated its funding for adjustable-
rate debt into a separate capital center to protect the credit
grades on its fixed-rate bonds. It said the move meant it may
have to accept a lower rating on adjustable-rate securities.  Beltoft said the new bonds would incorporate aspects of
products already available, namely capped floaters. Totalkredit
A/S, now a unit of Nykredit, offered mortgage bonds in the late
1990s that had floating rates on longer maturities.  “We have a challenge in the refinancing in that we’re
going to sell many more bonds every year,” Beltoft said. “And
we’re working on that. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  