-- 
Democrats May Add Spending Cuts to McConnell Debt Plan

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-14T18:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/democrats-consider-adding-spending-cuts-to-mcconnell-s-debt-reduction-plan.html
Senate Democrats are considering an
option to avert a U.S. default by including spending cuts in the
Senate Republican leader’s plan that would in effect give
President Barack Obama unilateral power to raise the debt limit.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-
ranking Democratic leader, said that while Democrats still want
to see a larger deal emerge from White House-led talks, they are
considering modifying the plan Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, offered this week as a “last-
choice” option.  McConnell’s proposal would allow Obama to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit in phases. Schumer said
McConnell’s proposal might be acceptable if a package of
bipartisan spending cuts were added to it.  “We believe we have to avoid default obviously, but we
have to reduce the deficit and lower the debt,” Schumer told
reporters.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today he is
discussing the option with McConnell and White House officials  The president and congressional leaders plan to meet today
at 4:15 p.m. local time after yesterday’s round of White House
negotiations ended on a tense note and Moody’s Investors Service
warned the stalemate could jeopardize the U.S.’s credit rating.  Camp David  Obama considered inviting the lawmakers to Camp David for a
weekend negotiating session, according to two people familiar
with the matter. Obama press secretary  Jay Carney  said today
that a Camp David summit “is not currently planned,” and that
meetings in the coming days are planned for the White House.  Obama told the lawmakers they have until tomorrow to decide
whether a deal can be reached to cut the deficit or settle for a
way to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before U.S.
borrowing authority expires Aug. 2, two Democratic officials
said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that
there is “no way to give Congress more time” on lifting the debt
ceiling. He made his comments after meeting with Democratic
lawmakers at the Capitol.  The increasing tension between Democrats and Republicans
was underscored by dueling accounts of yesterday’s White House
meeting and its sour ending. Obama “got very agitated” and
left the room after House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  suggested
a vote on a smaller deal, Cantor said in an interview. “Don’t
call my bluff; I am going to the American people,” Obama said,
according to Cantor, a Virginia Republican.  ‘Childish’  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said today that Cantor has shown
“he shouldn’t be at the table,” adding that “it was
childish” when Cantor quit attending earlier negotiating
sessions led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  Laena Fallon, a spokesman for Cantor, responsed by saying,
“This isn’t a question about personalities -- Eric, President
Obama or Harry Reid -- it’s about doing what is right for the
country.”  Other Democratic officials disputed Cantor’s
characterization of Obama’s demeanor. White House officials,
meanwhile, concede they may have to accept a smaller accord as
Republican opposition to tax increases as part of a deal hardens
and both sides acknowledge a government default could send the
 U.S. economy  into a tailspin.  ‘Calamity’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House
Financial Services Committee yesterday that failure to raise the
debt limit would lead to a “huge financial calamity” that
could add to unemployment. Unless the debt ceiling is raised, he
said, the economy could be in greater peril than when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in September 2008.  Both sides have few options for resolving the standoff
quickly. Obama said he would veto any plan that doesn’t raise
the debt ceiling through the 2012 elections. Republicans demand
$2 trillion or more in spending cuts without any tax increases.  Democratic officials, speaking on condition of anonymity,
disputed Cantor’s assertion that Obama’s departure was abrupt
and said the president had emphasized he believed the lawmakers
were engaging in too much political posturing.  In a sign of concern within the financial community, the
U.S.’s Aaa bond rating was put under review by Moody’s, a
possible prelude to a downgrade that would trigger higher
borrowing costs.  “There is a small but rising risk of a short-lived
default,” Moody’s said.  Treasuries declined after Moody’s statement. The 10-year
Treasury yield rose four basis points to 2.92 percent at 10:10
a.m. today in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  Medicare Cuts  As part of a broader $4 trillion accord, Obama was poised
to accept cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and possibly Social
Security in exchange for $1 trillion in revenue, mostly from
repealing President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans after 2012.  Absent that tradeoff, the two sides had identified about $1
trillion in discretionary spending cuts and $500 billion in
other savings from agriculture subsidies and other non-health-
care-related spending.  That isn’t enough for the $2 trillion minimum in spending
cuts that  House Republicans  are demanding in exchange for
raising the debt ceiling through the next election. The White
House insists that any deal of that magnitude must include more
revenue.  McConnell’s Plan  The stalemate prompted Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  this week to offer a “last-choice” plan to give
Obama power to raise the debt ceiling, three steps unless
Congress disapproves by a two-thirds majority -- a near
impossibility with the Senate controlled by the Democrats --
while Obama would also be required to offer spending reductions.
Those cuts would be advisory, and the debt-ceiling increase
would occur regardless of whether lawmakers enact the cuts,
McConnell said. The idea drew criticism from both sides of the
aisle, particularly from Republicans who said it would fail to
curb spending.  Recounting how the 1995 government shutdown helped
President  Bill Clinton  win re-election the following year,
McConnell warned fellow Republicans any impasse that drove down
the nation’s credit rating and led to government checks being
delayed could have the same result for Obama.  “He will say Republicans are making the economy worse,”
McConnell said in an interview with radio host Laura Ingraham.
“It is an argument that he could have a good chance of winning,
and all of the sudden we have co-ownership of the economy. That
is a very bad position going into the election.”  Obama and the lawmakers discussed discretionary and other
spending yesterday and plan to discuss health care and revenue,
including an employer payroll tax holiday, at a meeting
scheduled for today at the White House, a Democratic official
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  