-- 
Obama Tells Congress Leaders to Report in Two Days on Options for Debt-Cap

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-15T00:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/democrats-may-add-spending-cuts-to-mcconnell-debt-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  told
congressional leaders to report to him within two days on what
debt-limit options their members can support, Democratic and
Republican officials said after today’s negotiating session.  The president scheduled a news conference tomorrow to
discuss the debt talks. Obama and congressional leaders, who met
today at the White House for an hour and 20 minutes, don’t plan
another session tomorrow and instead will focus on sounding out
their party members in Congress, Democratic and Republican aides
said on condition of anonymity.  After the meeting ended, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
announced it may downgrade the U.S. top-level credit rating,
saying there is an increasing risk of a substantial policy
stalemate enduring beyond any near-term agreement to raise the
debt ceiling.  The deadlock on fiscal policy has “only become more
entangled” since April 18, when S&P placed a negative outlook
on the U.S. AAA long-term rating, the service said in a
statement. Moody’s Investors Service placed the nation’s credit
rating under review for a downgrade yesterday.  Jeffrey Goldstein , Treasury undersecretary for domestic
finance, said in a statement the warning highlighted the need to
“act expeditiously to avoid defaulting on the country’s
obligations and to enact a credible deficit-reduction plan that
commands bipartisan support.”  House Republicans and Democrats scheduled separate caucuses
tomorrow morning. Obama told the lawmakers he may call another
meeting over the weekend if no path forward has emerged by the
following day, officials from both parties said.  Aug. 2 Deadline  U.S. borrowing authority will be exhausted on Aug. 2 if
lawmakers don’t reach an agreement to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt limit, according to the Treasury Department. Republicans
have demanded major spending cuts in exchange for their votes on
the debt limit, while rejecting Democrats’ call for more  tax
revenue  from high-income people.  Arriving back at the Capitol from today’s negotiating
session, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
described it as “a good meeting.”  Officials from both parties described the session as
cordial, following a tense meeting the previous day, and largely
devoted to a presentation of options related to health-care
spending and tax revenue. The White House pressed for an
extension and possible expansion of the current 2 percentage
point payroll tax deduction set to expire Dec. 31, said a
Democratic official.  Broad Agreement  Obama continued to press for a broad agreement, which he
told negotiators could include $2 trillion in deficit reduction
if all sides gave a little, said a Democratic official. The
president said the alternative would be a plan to raise the debt
limit enough to get through the next election with smaller
deficit savings, the official said.  Before the White House negotiating session, the fifth in as
many days, Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and
Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky were engaged in
their own talks on backup options to avert a U.S. default by
adding spending controls to a plan that would grant the
president unilateral power to raise the debt limit, Reid told
reporters today.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-
ranking Democratic leader, said while Democrats still want to
see a comprehensive deal emerge from the White House-led talks,
they are considering modifying a plan McConnell offered earlier
this week as a “last-choice” alternative.  Installment Increases  McConnell’s proposal would grant Obama authority to raise
the debt limit in installments unless Congress disapproves by a
two-thirds majority -- a near impossibility with the Senate
controlled by Democrats -- while Obama would also be required to
offer spending reductions.  Those cuts would be advisory, and the debt-ceiling increase
would occur regardless of whether lawmakers enact the cuts,
McConnell said. The idea drew criticism from both sides of the
aisle, particularly from Republicans who said it would fail to
curb spending.  Schumer said one option under consideration to build
legislative support would couple the McConnell plan with a
package of spending cuts smaller than the amount Republicans
have demanded -- a dollar in spending reductions for every
dollar increase in debt authority.  Another possible means of attracting votes would be to add
a commission modeled along the military base-closing panels to
recommend additional spending cuts, said two Republican aides
familiar with the talks who requested anonymity.  Not Credible  Still, Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat, cast doubt on the options under
discussion.  “I have not yet heard a package that I believe is credible
in dealing with the debt that builds off of the McConnell
plan,” he said.  Senior financial regulators came to the Capitol to
highlight the economic consequences of a U.S. government
default.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said there is “no way
to give Congress more time” on lifting the debt ceiling. He
commented after meeting with Senate Democrats.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee that lawmakers would
cause a “self-inflicted wound” if they prompt a credit-rating
downgrade by failing to raise the debt ceiling.  Investors Unperturbed  Investors showed few signs of being fazed by the drama in
 Washington , largely because bond traders said they considered
the possibility of default remote.  The Treasury attracted higher-than-average demand for a
third consecutive sale at today’s auction of 30-year bonds. The
bid-to-cover ratio on the $13 billion in bonds, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount offered, was
2.80, versus a 2.64 average at the past 10 sales.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries was 2.95 percent as of 3:35
p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader, after
falling to a low this year of 2.81 percent on July 12. That
compares with an average of 7 percent during the past four
decades.  “The market seems to believe that the debt-limit situation
will be resolved satisfactorily,” said Jeffrey Caughron, a
partner at Baker Group LP in  Oklahoma City  who advises community
banks on investments of more than $30 billion. “Most market
participants see it unthinkable that the president and the
Congress would allow a default, even a partial default on U.S.
obligations.”  Increasing Tension  The increasing tension between Democrats and Republicans
was underscored by dueling accounts of yesterday’s White House
meeting and its sour ending. Obama “got very agitated” and
left the room after House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  suggested
a vote on a smaller deal, Cantor said in an interview.  “Don’t call my bluff; I am going to the American people,”
Obama said, according to Cantor, a Virginia Republican.  Cantor didn’t speak at today’s session, a Democratic aide
said.  Reid, a  Nevada  Democrat, said Cantor has shown “he
shouldn’t be at the table,” adding “it was childish” for
Cantor to quit attending earlier negotiating sessions led by
Vice President  Joe Biden .  Laena Fallon, a spokesman for Cantor, responded: “This
isn’t a question about personalities -- Eric, President Obama or
Harry Reid. It’s about doing what is right for the country.”  Other Democratic officials disputed Cantor’s
characterization of Obama’s demeanor. White House officials,
meanwhile, concede they may have to accept a smaller accord as
Republican opposition to tax increases hardens and both sides
acknowledge a government default could send the  U.S. economy 
into a tailspin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  