-- 
Clarke, Glover Share One-Shot Lead in the Second Round of British Open

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-15T20:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/denmark-s-bjorn-holds-one-stroke-lead-at-british-open-golf-over-jimenez.html
Darren Clarke of  Northern Ireland 
and
 Lucas Glover  of the U.S. share a one-stroke lead at 4-under par
after two rounds of golf’s  British Open .  Clarke shot his second straight 2-under 68 at Royal St.
George’s in Sandwich, England, and Glover, the 2009 U.S. Open
champion, had with an even-par 70.  “It was a little bit more adventurous today than
yesterday,” Clark, in his 20th Open, said at a news conference.
“There was some good and some not so good, but overall 68 is
very pleasing.”  Denmark’s  Thomas Bjorn , who was tied for the lead after the
first round, shot 2-over-par 72 to drop to 3-under. He’s joined
by American Chad Campbell, who shot 68; U.S. PGA champion  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany , who finished with 69; and Miguel Angel Jimenez of  Spain , who had 71.  Eighteen players are within three shots of the leaders with
bad weather expected for the weekend. Heavy rain and gusting
winds are forecast for tomorrow morning, with more rain called
for on the final day, according to the U.K.’s Met Office.  “It’s obviously going to be a little more difficult
tomorrow and Sunday because of the weather, but if you strike it
well you should be fine,” Kaymer told reporters. “I just hope
my form continues into Sunday.”  Masters Tournament winner  Charl Schwartzel  of South Africa
and 1996 Open champion Tom Lehman of the U.S. both shot 67 to
get to 2-under. They’re joined by five others, including  Davis Love III , two shots off the pace.  English Amateur  Tom Lewis, the 20-year-old amateur from  England  who shared
the overnight lead with Bjorn, struggled today to a 4-over-par
74 to drop to 1-under. Among the four golfers with him is four-
time major winner  Phil Mickelson , who shot 69.  “It’s fun to be in contention at any major, but it’s fun
for me to be in contention at the Open Championship because I
haven’t been there that often,” said Mickelson, who never has
won the tournament.  U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy shot 69 to reach even-par.
The Northern Irishman made four birdies and three bogeys to get
within four of the leaders.  “It would have been nicer to be a couple better, but I’ll
take that going into the weekend,” McIlroy told reporters.
“I’m very happy with my position and within striking distance
of the leaders.”  Glover and Clarke both played in the morning and reached 5-
under to tie Bjorn, who teed off in the afternoon.  Glover’s Round  Glover was at 5-under twice before a bogey at the 10th hole
dropped him to 4-under. He finished with eight consecutive pars.  “I hit it better than I hit it yesterday, just didn’t make
as many putts,” Glover told reporters. “Got to put those two
together to win a big tournament like this.”  Clarke, whose best Open finish was a tie for second in
1997, also got to 5-under with a birdie at 13. He bogeyed two of
the next three holes before finishing with a birdie.  Bjorn bogeyed the second through fourth holes to quickly
drop out of the lead. He got back to 5-under with a birdie at
the par-3 11th, but bogeyed two of the next three holes.  “I got off to a bad start,” he told reporters. “But I
managed to stay with it today. It wasn’t the prettiest of days
golf-wise, but I’ll take where I stand in the championship right
now.”  Watson’s Ace  Tom Watson, who played in Lewis’s group the first two days,
made a hole-in-one on the par-3, 167-yard sixth. The 61-year-old
American said it was his 15th career hole-in-one. He shot 70 and
is 2-over.  “If my putting was a little bit better, I’d give myself at
least an outside chance,” the five-time Open winner said.  Defending champion  Louis Oosthuizen  of  South Africa  also
shot 70 to match Watson at 2-over.  Among those missing the cut at 3-over to play the final two
rounds were Luke Donald and Lee Westwood, the top two in the
Official World Golf Ranking, and former Open champions  Padraig Harrington , Ernie Els and Ben Curtis, who won the last time the
tournament was held in Sandwich in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal St. George’s at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  