-- 
Deutsche Boerse Shareholders Approve $9.4 Billion NYSE Euronext Takeover

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-14T21:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/deutsche-boerse-shareholders-approve-9-4-billion-nyse-euronext-takeover.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  shareholders
approved its $9.2 billion takeover of NYSE Euronext, surmounting
the biggest hurdle yet to gain control of the 219-year-old
exchange company and create the world’s biggest bourse operator.  Owners holding more than 80 percent of  Deutsche Boerse 
shares backed the agreement, surpassing the 75 percent needed
for approval, the Frankfurt-based exchange said in a statement
today. The all-stock transaction will give Deutsche Boerse 60
percent of the combined entity, while NYSE Euronext Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  will run the organization.  The agreement clears the second of three main obstacles for
the takeover after NYSE shareholders voted in favor of the
transaction on July 7. European regulators, who set an initial
deadline of Aug. 4 to rule on the deal, are reviewing the
transaction because it would unite venues that handle more than
90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives.  “Using an American football analogy, it’s another first
down,” said  Richard Repetto , an exchange analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York  who rates NYSE “buy.” “They
still need to clear the regulators, particularly the European
Competition Commission before they reach the end zone.”  Singapore Exchange , ASX  There have been $37 billion of exchange merger
announcements since  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  said Oct. 25 that it
would pay A$8.35 billion ($8.99 billion) for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , according
to Bloomberg data that include planned, unsolicited and
terminated bids. The Australian government rejected the
Singapore deal in April.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  dropped
its 2.13 billion-pound ($3.4 billion) bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X) 
last month, citing a lack of shareholder support.  NYSE Euronext shares fell 0.1 percent to $33.81 at 4 p.m.
in New York. The stock has climbed 1.2 percent since Feb. 8, the
day before the company and Deutsche Boerse said they were in
merger negotiations. The German company’s shares fell 0.5
percent to 53 euros in  Frankfurt .  “We expected support from both shareholder groups, so
today’s announcement comes with little surprise,” Alex Kramm, a
New York-based exchange analyst at UBS AG, wrote in e-mailed
comments. “We still see significant upside in the shares, but
it might take some time until investors give full credit to the
earnings power of the combined entity and outlined synergies.”  2008 Talks  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Deutsche Boerse held talks in late 2008
about a merger that ended without a deal. They restarted
negotiations in August 2010, according to regulatory filings.
The companies aimed for a premium of 10 percent or more than the
NYSE Euronext stock price of $33.41 on Feb. 8, the filings show.  The combined company would have operations in 11 countries
and generate 5.6 billion euros ($8 billion) in sales and 869
million euros in profit annually, according to a regulatory
filing. Earnings before interest and taxes for the combined
exchange would have been 1.1 billion euros for the year that
ended Dec. 31.  NYSE Euronext-Deutsche Boerse would own three of the nine
U.S. options exchanges, with 41 percent of the industry’s
volume, according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC. In
addition to the three U.S. stock exchanges NYSE Euronext already
owns, the company would have a 32 percent stake in  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which runs two
markets, putting 5 of the nation’s 13 equity exchanges under
common ownership.  European Regulators  The deal may encounter resistance from European regulators,
who could take issue with giving one firm control of the Eurex
and NYSE Liffe derivatives markets, the two largest in  Europe .
The joined entity would also control about 29 percent of the
region’s stock trading, according to data compiled by Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats Global Markets.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse traded or cleared 4.8
billion futures and options contracts last year, according to
data including equity options and futures contracts from the
Washington-based Futures Industry Association. That was more
than Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which is in second place at
3.1 billion contracts.  The European Commission sent a survey with 165 questions to
Deutsche Boerse rivals and customers, asking if the deal would
reduce competition and what effect it would have on access to
market data.  “I don’t think EU approval will be too much of a
problem,” said Frederic Ponzo, managing partner at London-based
GreySpark Partners, which advises financial institutions. “The
EU can block it on the basis of the company having a dominant
position or they have the opportunity to create a European
champion in derivatives. The latter is to the benefit of
everyone in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  