-- 
Deutsche Bank Sued by Dexia Over $1 Billion in Mortgage-Backed Securities

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-14T16:53:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/deutsche-bank-sued-by-dexia-on-1-billion-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local
governments rescued by  France  and Belgium in 2008, sued Deutsche
Bank AG claiming fraud in connection with more than $1 billion
in residential mortgage-backed securities.  Germany ’s biggest bank played a “ubiquitous role” in the
mortgage origination and securitization process while betting
against the U.S. housing market as far back as 2005, according
to the complaint. By the end of 2007, Deutsche Bank had amassed
a $10 billion short position that paid off when the loans
backing the securities failed, Brussels-based Dexia said.  “Deutsche Bank originated, purchased, financed and
securitized exceptionally high-risk loans into these RMBS, all
while internally disparaging the poor quality of these loans and
the RMBS they backed as ‘pigs’ and ‘crap,’” Dexia said in the
complaint.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, said today by e-mail that the company would fight the
lawsuit, which she said was “without merit.”  Deutsche Bank knew the quality, origination practices and
underwriting guidelines because of its “close relationship” with
the lenders that originated the loans, Dexia said in the
complaint.  ‘Among the Worst’  “As Deutsche Bank knew - but investors like Dexia would
only later discover - these originators were among the worst of
the subprime mortgage lenders, willing to ‘just give anyone a
loan who wants one,’ secure in the knowledge that their Wall
Street partners like Deutsche Bank would then foist the loans on
unsuspecting investors, like Dexia,” Gerald H. Silk, an attorney
with Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP in  New York , said
in the complaint.  A Deutsche Bank trader entered into trades “enabling
Deutsche Bank to effectively ‘short’ the subprime mortgage
market by betting against subprime RMBS such as those it created
and sold to investors like Dexia,” according to the complaint.  Dexia said it invested more than $1 billion in Deutsche
Bank residential mortgage-backed securities in 32 offerings from
2005 to 2007. Belgium and France led a 6.4 billion-euro ($9.2
billion) bailout of Dexia in September 2008 as the financial
crisis forced governments to prop up institutions across  Europe .  Countrywide Suit  Dexia was among a dozen institutional investors that sued
Bank of America Inc.’s Countrywide unit in New York state
 Supreme Court  in January, claiming they were misled about the
quality of the loans in mortgage-backed securities.  Deutsche Bank and its MortgageIT unit were sued by the U.S.
in federal court in New York in May and accused of lying to
qualify thousands of risky mortgages for a government insurance
program.  Deutsche Bank earlier this week asked a judge to dismiss
the U.S. complaint, saying that the alleged conduct occurred
before it acquired MortgageIT.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states and federal agencies
are investigating the way banks handle  mortgage loans  and
conduct foreclosures. Deutsche Bank is among lenders being
probed by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office
over mortgage securitization, a person familiar with the matter
said on May 24.  The case is Dexia SA/NV v.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , 651918/2011,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 