-- 
Dimon Says Mortgage Clash Swells as ‘Everybody Is Going to Sue’

-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n
-- 
2011-07-14T19:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/dimon-everybody-is-going-to-sue-over-mortgages.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said clashes over faulty mortgages may drag
on as investors and regulators demand compensation for soured
loans issued at the peak of the housing market.  “There have been so many flaws in mortgages that it’s been
an unmitigated disaster,” Dimon said during a conference call
today. “We just really need to clean it up for the sake of
everybody. And everybody is going to sue everybody else, and
it’s going to go on for a long time.”  JPMorgan disclosed about $2.5 billion in second-quarter
costs tied to faulty mortgages and foreclosures. The bank added
$1.27 billion to litigation reserves, mostly for mortgage
matters, and incurred $1 billion of expenses tied to
foreclosures, according to a  slide show  accompanying today’s
earnings report. Repurchase losses were $223 million, according
to the company, which ranks second by assets among U.S. banks.  Banks are struggling to stanch losses tied to loans based
on missing or wrong data about borrowers and properties and are
facing probes of foreclosures that may have used falsified
documents. Lenders led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  have reimbursed
investors for losses on mortgages, and New York-based JPMorgan
said it has $3.3 billion in costs so far on repurchases from
government-backed firms such as  Fannie Mae .  JPMorgan’s additional litigation reserve may help cover
“fees and assessments related to foreclosure delays and
payments for other settlements,” including probes by the  U.S.
Department of Justice  and the state attorneys general, the bank
said. Litigation reserves also cover projected costs tied to so-
called private-label mortgage bonds that may have contained
faulty loans, the lender said.  Private-Label  “The private-label stuff will probably go up a little
bit,” Dimon said when asked about future expenses to resolve
disputes tied to the securities. “But I doubt it will go up
more than the reserves we’re going to have to take down in the
next 12 months.”  The litigation reserves aren’t earmarked for liabilities
tied to Washington Mutual, the lender that JPMorgan acquired
after it collapsed during the financial crisis in 2008. JPMorgan
said those are the  responsibility  of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., adding that the “FDIC has contested this
position.”  The outstanding balance of the Washington Mutual loans was
approximately $70 billion as of March 31, with about $24 billion
overdue by 60 days or more, according to JPMorgan’s first-
quarter regulatory  filing .  JPMorgan’s second-quarter net income climbed 13 percent to
$5.43 billion as investment banking profit surged and more
customers paid credit cards on time, the company said today. The
lender advanced $1.08, or 2.7 percent, to $40.70 at 2:41 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The bank declined 6.6
percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  