-- 
Dollar to Slide as Reserve Currency Status Is ‘Undermined’, Sumitomo Says

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-07-14T05:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/dollar-to-slide-as-reserve-currency-status-is-undermined-sumitomo-says.html
The  U.S. dollar  will extend its drop
amid increasing pressure on U.S. lawmakers to raise the
government’s debt limit, said Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co, a
unit of Japan’s second-biggest lender.  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S., rated Aaa since
1917, on review today for the first time since 1995 on concern
the debt threshold won’t be raised in time to prevent a missed
payment of interest or principal on bonds and notes. President
 Barack Obama  and congressional leaders are struggling to reach a
compromise on reducing deficits and raising the $14.3 trillion
federal debt ceiling before the government exceeds its borrowing
authority on Aug. 2.  The  Federal Reserve  is prepared to take additional action,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be in danger of stalling, central bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday, also curbing the appeal of the
greenback as a refuge.  “Dollar-negative factors have piled up, including the very
urgent issue of the debt ceiling,” said  Ayako Sera , a Tokyo-
based strategist at Sumitomo Trust, which manages the equivalent
of $310 billion. “It will add to the already accelerating trend
over the past few years of seeking to diversify foreign-currency
reserves. Buying yen and euro instead is the only choice with
the dollar’s reserve status being undermined. We’re reluctant to
buy dollar assets at the moment.”  The U.S. currency fell 0.4 percent to 78.67 yen as of 3
p.m. in  Tokyo  after reaching 78.47, the lowest level since March
17. It declined to $1.4211 per euro from $1.4167 in  New York 
yesterday.  Forecast Change  Sumitomo’s Sera said she may need to change her forecast
for the dollar to trade in the mid-80s by the start of 2012,
from an earlier projection for it to climb to 88 yen.  The dollar’s share of global currency reserves dropped in
the first quarter to 60.7 percent, the lowest level since March
31, 1999, International Monetary Fund data showed last month.  Obama is considering summoning congressional leaders to
Camp David this weekend to work on a plan to raise the debt
ceiling after yesterday’s negotiations on a deficit-cutting plan
of at least $2 trillion stalled, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  U.S. policy makers “will reach an agreement in the last
minute, and it’s not going to change the world,” said Sydney-
based  Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“They’ll do something. It would be hard to imagine them not
because that would cause some serious consequence.”  “The U.S. dollar is going to be bouncing around” as the
market’s focus swings between Euro’s debt crisis and issues in
the U.S., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  