-- 
E. Coli Genetic Code Manipulated by Harvard Biologists in Research Effort

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-14T20:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/e-coli-genetic-code-manipulated-by-harvard-biologists-in-research-effort.html
Biologists have replaced parts of
the E. coli bacterium DNA using a new process that hits many
targets at once, a feat that may enable scientists to
significantly alter or re-engineer genetic material.  A research team, led by Farren Isaacs and George Church of
 Harvard University Medical School , was able to make precise
changes to the cell’s protein-making process in 32 strains of E.
coli. They replaced one three-letter sequence of nucleotides
with another throughout the entire organism, without harming the
bacterium.  Although genetic engineers can change one gene in a genome,
this is the first time that as many as 314 sites were altered at
once, the authors wrote. The method may allow for making larger-
scale changes to DNA, which would be helpful if scientists
wanted to make many alterations, they wrote in an article
published today in the journal  Science.   “Our methods treat the chromosome as both an editable and
evolvable template, permitting the exploration of vast genetic
landscapes,” the authors wrote.  The technology, known as multiplex automated genetic
engineering, or MAGE, was created by Church, Isaacs, and others
in Church’s group. It can induce gene alterations in a
population of bacteria almost simultaneously, creating billions
of cellular mutations in a matter of days.  Church helped to start the government-funded Human Genome
Project, which decoded the entire human genetic blueprint in
2000. The public project competed with a private effort by J.
Craig Venter, who runs the  J. Craig Venter Institute , based in
Rockville,  Maryland . The teams shared credit for the milestone.  Venter in 2007 replaced the genetic structure of one
bacterium with the DNA of a second, transforming one species
into another. The emerging field of synthetic biology allows
scientists to create organisms that don’t exist in nature. These
novel designer microbes may allow for new biofuels and foods,
scientists say.  Unlike Venter’s discovery, the Harvard team modified DNA
directly in live cells, tricking them into thinking it’s their
own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 