-- 
‘Extreme’ Heat Will Torment the U.S. Midwest Before Coming to East Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-14T13:38:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/heat-wave-is-forecast-to-hit-u-s-midwest-before-spreading-to-east-coast.html
Temperatures may near 100 degrees as
far north as  Minnesota  as a heat wave builds in the central U.S.
this weekend, threatening to boost energy usage and damage crops
before spreading to the East Coast.  An excessive heat watch, meaning temperatures will feel
hotter than 105 Fahrenheit (41 Celsius), has been issued by the
 National Weather Service  for eastern Kansas and Nebraska.  “The heat is the definite No. 1 market driver as far as
fundamentals,” said  Jim Rouiller , an energy meteorologist at
 Planalytics Inc . in  Berwyn , Pennsylvania. “This will rival
historic heat waves.”  The heat caused soybeans to rise for a ninth session in
Chicago, the longest streak since August, and sent natural gas
futures higher. Temperatures in the 90s are expected to spread
across the U.S. and possibly into southern Canada next week.  “The most extreme heat is going to be in the Plains;
that’s the area where it is going to be in the 100s,” said Mike Pigott, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  By early next week, higher-than-normal temperatures may
stretch all the way from Salt Lake City to New York, Pigott
said. Omaha, Nebraska, is expected to reach at least 98 degrees
over the weekend, 12 degrees above the normal high temperature.  “It’s going to last through a good portion of next week,”
Pigott said.  Midwest Heat  To the south, Tulsa,  Oklahoma , and  Fort Smith ,  Arkansas ,
continue to swelter. High temperatures in Tulsa, where an
excessive heat warning is in effect, have been above 90 since
May 31 and higher than 100 for 11 of the past 17 days, Fort
Smith has broken 100 degrees 17 times since June 24, according
to the weather service.  The high in Minneapolis is expected to reach 98 this
weekend, 15 degrees above normal, according to the weather
service. In  Des Moines , Iowa, temperatures may reach 96 by next
week, 10 degrees above normal, the weather service said.  Natural gas futures gained for a fourth day yesterday in
 New York  on forecasts of above-normal temperatures that may
boost air conditioning demand.  Power plants  use about 30 percent
of U.S. gas supplies.  Temperatures of 95 degrees and higher can affect corn
pollination, said  David Miller , director of research for the
 Iowa Farm Bureau  in Des Moines.  Pollination Period  “This week and into next week we will see a lot of corn
entering into the pollination period,” Miller said. “The good
news is that we are going into some of these hotter temperatures
with pretty good moisture conditions.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show.  Corn rose yesterday on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, capping
the biggest two-day advance in eight weeks, and soybeans gained
the most in eight weeks on concern that hot, dry weather will
reduce yields.  Temperatures may remain high enough to stress pollinating
corn in the southern Plains and Texas through the end of July,
according to Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  In his 6- to 10-day and 11- to 15-day forecasts,
Commodity’s president,  Matt Rogers , says the most extreme heat
may stay fixed on the center of the country through July 28.  Heat Outlook  “The big picture theme right now is that we continue to
see variations in the details of the impressive mid-summer, mid-
continent hot-ridging pattern, but the overall hot-dominated
regime does not really go away,” Rogers said in a note to
clients.  Rogers said the heat in the center of the country will
spread eastward, possibly reaching the East Coast on July 23 to
July 24. After that, Rogers said the heat in the East may
retreat while it rebuilds intensity in the central U.S.  Pigott said there is a chance severe thunderstorms will
develop at the fringes of the heat through the upper Great Lakes
and southern  Canada . He said these storms may rival the one that
tore across the Midwest earlier this week, knocking down trees
and leaving more than 900,000 customers without power.  Chicago’s  Commonwealth Edison  in a statement today called
the July 11 event “one of the worst storms in terms of damage
and customer impact in the company’s history.”  About 105,000 customers were still without power as of 7
a.m. Chicago time, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  