-- 
EBay’s Zong Takeover Has Google Vying With AmEx to Make Deals

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ebay-s-zong-takeover-has-google-vying-with-amex-to-make-deals.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s purchase of mobile-
payment startup Zong Inc. for $240 million is stepping up
pressure on companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  American Express
Co. (AXP)  to make their own acquisitions in the market.  Google has held exploratory discussions with mobile-payment
startups, according to two people with knowledge of the
meetings. Credit card companies, including American Express and
 Visa Inc. (V) , also are meeting with takeover candidates, though
deals may not be imminent, people familiar with the talks said.  More consumers are looking to pay for things like movie
tickets, apps and other items with their phones -- rather than
cards or cash. That’s pitting financial-service providers, which
benefit from transactions, against technology companies like
Google. Both sides aim to use mergers and acquisitions to shore
up their positions, said Richard Crone, who runs  Crone
Consulting LLC. , a firm focused on mobile banking and payments.  “There’re much more M&A and roll-ups to come in this
space,” Crone said in an interview. “You will see the activity
happening before the end of the year.”  The total value of mobile payments will reach $670 billion
by 2015, up from $240 billion in 2011, according to Juniper
Research. That includes transactions for digital and physical
goods, money transfers, and payments using near field
communication -- a wireless technology that lets users tap their
phones against a reader to make a purchase.  Mainstream Acceptance  Many companies are shopping for startups that help users
charge purchases to their phone bills. Within a year, 40 percent
of all U.S. mobile subscribers will put items other than ring
tones on wireless bills, according to  Chetan Sharma , an industry
analyst in Issaquah,  Washington . That’s up from 30 percent now.  Potential acquisition targets include  Boku Inc. ; Payfone
Inc.; BilltoMobile, which is majority-owned by Danal Co.; and
 Amdocs Ltd. (DOX) ’s OpenMarket Inc., Sharma said.  Syniverse Technologies Inc., MindMatics AG’s Mopay unit,
Bango and Vindicia Inc. could be candidates as well, according
to Crone. Acquisition targets will sell for 10 to 20 times their
trailing 12-month sales, he said. It’s unclear how that measures
up against the Zong deal because EBay didn’t disclose the
startup’s revenue when it announced the purchase last week.  Still, some startups may struggle to attract a deep-
pocketed suitor or land that kind of premium. And large
technology and finance companies may choose to develop the
capabilities themselves.  ‘Pressure to Act’  Representatives from Google, American Express and Visa
declined to comment on any potential deals, as did Bango, Boku,
Payfone, Syniverse and Vindicia. OpenMarket didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Ingo Lippert, CEO of  Palo Alto , California-based  Mopay ,
said the Zong deal will likely give rise to more acquisitions,
though his company is “solely focused” on operations.  “We’ve been forecasting consolidation within the mobile-
payments space for some time,” Lippert said in an e-mail.
“With Zong’s acquisition, companies testing out solutions
within the mobile-payments market will now feel increased
pressure to act.”  Investments in payment startups began picking up several
months ago. In February, Visa  agreed to spend  about $190 million
in cash, plus performance incentives, to purchase PlaySpan Inc.
The company handles purchases of virtual goods in online games
and social networks. In April, American Express led a $19
million funding round in Payfone, a New York-based developer of
a mobile-payment service.  EBay’s Buying Spree  Last year, EBay acquired Red Laser and Milo, two
comparison-shopping applications that allow users to scan
product barcodes and read reviews. With Zong, the company will
get a bigger foothold for its PayPal payment service on phones,
especially in  developing countries .  Zong lets people pay for things by putting them on their
mobile-phone bills. That’s attractive in emerging markets, where
credit card adoption is low.  “The phone is ubiquitous, and credit cards are not,”
Rodger Desai, CEO of Payfone, said in an interview.  U.S. carriers lets third-party services such as
BilltoMobile operate on their networks.  Verizon Wireless , for
instance, allows charges of as much as $25 a month. BilltoMobile
also declined to comment on whether it was a takeover target.  Carrier bills contained $3 billion worth of charges for
virtual goods last year, and these charges are rising at 38
percent annually, Crone estimates. Those purchases can include
ring tones, dating-site subscriptions and weapons for mobile
video games.  Purchases of apps charged to wireless bills reached $5
billion last year and are growing at 68 percent a year, Crone
said. Consumers in countries such as  South Korea  are
increasingly charging physical goods to carrier bills as well.  “We are seeing very rapid growth,” said Jim Greenwell,
 CEO  of BilltoMobile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  