-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for July (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-07-14T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-july-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s July monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 7 July 2011 to
increase the key ECB  interest rates  by 25 basis points, after
raising rates by 25 basis points in April 2011 from historically
low levels. The further adjustment of the current accommodative
monetary policy stance is warranted in the light of upside risks
to price stability. The underlying pace of monetary expansion is
continuing to gradually recover, while monetary liquidity
remains ample with the potential to accommodate price pressures
in the euro area. All in all, it is essential that the recent
price developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures over the medium term. The Governing Council’s decision
will contribute to keeping inflation expectations in the euro
area firmly anchored in line with the aim of maintaining
inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term.  Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to
contribute to economic growth in the euro area. At the same time,
interest rates across the entire maturity spectrum remain low.
Thus, the monetary policy stance remains accommodative, lending
support to economic activity and  job creation . As expected,
recent economic data indicate some deceleration in the pace of
economic growth in the second quarter of 2011. While the
underlying momentum of economic growth in the euro area
continues to be positive, uncertainty remains elevated. The
Governing Council will continue to monitor very closely all
developments with respect to upside risks to price stability.  The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will be adjusted when appropriate, taking
into account the fact that all the non-standard measures taken
during the period of acute financial market tensions are, by
construction, temporary in nature.  With regard to the economic analysis, in the first quarter of
2011 euro area real GDP posted a strong quarter-on-quarter
increase of 0.8%, following the 0.3% increase in the last
quarter of 2010. Recent statistical releases and survey-based
indicators point towards a continued expansion of economic
activity in the euro area in the second quarter of this year,
albeit at a slower pace. This moderation ﻿reflects the fact that
the strong growth in the first quarter was in part due to
special factors. The positive underlying momentum of economic
activity in the euro area remains in place. Euro area exports
should continue to be supported by the ongoing expansion in the
world economy. At the same time, taking into account the present
level of business confidence in the euro area, private sector
domestic demand should contribute to economic growth. However,
activity is expected to continue to be dampened somewhat by the
process of balance sheet adjustment in various sectors.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook remain broadly balanced in an environment of
elevated uncertainty. On the one hand, favourable business
confidence could provide more support to domestic economic
activity in the euro area than currently expected and higher
foreign demand could also contribute more strongly to growth
than expected. On the other hand, downside risks relate to the
ongoing tensions in some segments of the financial markets that
may potentially spill over to the euro area real economy.
Downside risks also relate to further increases in energy prices,
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disorderly
correction of global imbalances.  As regards price developments, euro area annual HICP inflation
was 2.7% in June 2011 according to Eurostat’s flash estimate -
the same rate as in May. The relatively high inflation rates
seen over the past few months largely reflect higher energy and
commodity prices. Looking ahead, inflation rates are likely to
stay clearly above 2% over the coming months. Upward pressure on
inflation, mainly from energy and commodity prices, is also
still discernible in the earlier stages of the production
process. It remains of paramount importance that the rise in
HICP inflation does not translate into second-round effects in
price and wage-setting behaviour and lead to broad-based
inflationary pressures. Inflation expectations must remain
firmly anchored in line with the Governing Council’s aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term.  Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
on the upside. They relate, in particular, to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices. Furthermore, there is a risk
of increases in indirect taxes and administered prices ﻿that may
be greater than currently assumed, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation in the coming years. Finally, upside risks may
stem from stronger than expected domestic price pressures in the
context of increasing capacity utilisation in the euro area.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
increased to 2.4% in May 2011, from 2.0% in April. Looking
through the recent volatility in broad money growth owing to
special factors, M3 growth has continued to edge up over recent
months. The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
continued to strengthen slightly, rising to 2.7% in May after
2.6% in April. Overall, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion has continued its gradual recovery. At the same time,
monetary liquidity accumulated prior to the period of financial
market tensions continues to be ample, with the potential to
accommodate price pressures in the euro area.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1 moderated
further in May, whereas growth in other short-term deposits
increased. These developments reflect in part the gradual
increase in the remuneration of short-term time and savings
deposits over recent months. At the same time, the steep yield
curve implies a dampening impact on overall M3 growth, as it
reduces the attractiveness of monetary assets compared with more
highly remunerated longer-term instruments outside M3. However,
recent information suggests that this impact may be waning.  On the counterpart side, the annual growth of loans to non-
financial corporations and to households remained unchanged from
April at 0.9% and 3.4% respectively, confirming the pattern of
developments in previous months. The overall size of bank
balance sheets has remained broadly unchanged over recent months.
It is important that banks continue to expand the provision of
credit to the private sector in an environment of increasing
demand. To address this challenge, where necessary, it is
essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to the market to
strengthen further their capital bases or to take full advantage
of government support measures for recapitalisation. In
particular, banks that ﻿currently have limited access to market
financing urgently need to increase their capital and their
efficiency.  To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary analyses,
the Governing Council decided to increase the key ECB interest
rates by 25 basis points, after raising rates by 25 basis points
in April 2011 from historically low levels. The further
adjustment of the current accommodative monetary policy stance
is warranted in the light of upside risks to  price stability . A
cross-check of the outcome of the economic analysis with that of
the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion is continuing to gradually recover, while
monetary liquidity remains ample with the potential to
accommodate price pressures in the euro area. All in all, it is
essential that the recent price developments do not give rise to
broad-based inflationary pressures over the medium term. The
Governing Council’s decision will contribute to keeping
inflation expectations in the euro area firmly anchored in line
with the aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for
monetary policy to contribute to economic growth in the euro
area. At the same time, interest rates across the entire
maturity spectrum remain low. Thus, the monetary policy stance
remains accommodative, lending support to economic activity and
job creation. As expected, recent economic data indicate some
deceleration in the pace of economic growth in the second
quarter of 2011. While the underlying momentum of economic
growth in the euro area continues to be positive, uncertainty
remains elevated. The Governing Council will continue to monitor
very closely all developments with respect to upside risks to
price stability.  Turning to fiscal policies, the current environment is very
demanding and requires decisive action. Euro area countries must,
as a minimum, comply with their fiscal consolidation commitments
for 2011 and beyond, as foreseen under the respective excessive
deficit procedures. Adequate and more frontloaded adjustment
should ensure that structural fiscal consolidation targets are
met, in line with the ECOFIN Council recommendations, and any
better than expected economic and fiscal developments should be
exploited to achieve faster  deficit reduction . The ﻿announcement
of fully specified consolidation measures for 2012 and beyond is
essential to convince the general public and financial market
participants that the corrective policies will be sustained and
that public debt developments will be put on a sustainable path.  At the same time, it remains essential that substantial and
comprehensive structural reforms are urgently implemented in the
euro area to strengthen competitiveness, flexibility and longer-
term growth potential. This is particularly relevant for
countries with high fiscal and external deficits or with past
losses in competitiveness. The Governing Council welcomes the
introduction of the European Semester, including the recent
submission of countries’ National Reform Programmes that
incorporate commitments made under the Euro Plus Pact. The
Governing Council also supports the European Council conclusions
calling for more ambitious and well-defined reforms that should
be frontloaded in order to foster competitiveness. In addition,
the removal of labour market rigidities would strongly support
the adjustment process. Measures which enhance wage flexibility,
such as the elimination of automatic wage indexation, would help
to accomplish the necessary adjustment.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains three articles. The
first deals with the ECB’s non-standard monetary policy measures,
their impact on the transmission of monetary policy and their
phasing-out. The second article outlines the rationale for the
establishment of the European Stability Mechanism and discusses
its main features. The third article provides an overview of the
new EU framework for financial crisis management and resolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristian Siedenburg in Budapest at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  