-- 
Medicis Pharmaceutical Shares Tumble After Woman Found Dead in CEO’s Home

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   N o r a   Z i m m e t t
-- 
2011-07-14T20:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/medicis-tumbles-most-in-two-months-after-woman-is-found-dead-in-ceo-s-home.html
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX) , the
maker of wrinkle treatments and acne drugs, fell the most in
almost five months in New York trading after the girlfriend of
millionaire founder and Chief Executive Officer Jonah Shacknai
was found dead yesterday at the executive’s beachside home.  The woman, Rebecca Nalepa, 32, was found nude, with a rope
around her neck and her hands and feet bound at Shacknai’s home
at 1043 Ocean Boulevard, Capt. Tim Curran of the San Diego
Sheriff’s Department homicide unit said today at a briefing.
Shacknai’s brother, Adam, told police he saw Nalepa hanging over
a balcony and cut her down to a courtyard, Curran said.  “This is a very bizarre death, no question about it,”
Curran said.  The sheriff’s department hasn’t ruled the death a homicide
while the probe continues, Curran said. Adam Shacknai, a guest
at the house, is considered a witness, he said. Investigators
are in “constant contact” with Jonah Shacknai, who wasn’t home
when his brother discovered Nalepa’s body, Curran said.  “There’s no question that Jonah is very much the face of
the company and very much a part of the overall vision and
strategy,” David Amsellem, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co.
in  New York , said in a telephone interview today. The share
decline is “just a little panic selling.”  Annual Compensation  Shacknai, 54, founded Medicis in 1988 and is the chairman.
He held 904,214 shares of company stock as of May 19, amounting
to about $35 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Shacknai drew a salary of $1.135 million last year, according to
a company regulatory filing. His total compensation, including
stock awards and non-equity incentive plan compensation, was
$6.3 million.  Medicis dropped $1.49, or 3.7 percent, to $38.56 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the steepest
decline since Feb. 24. The shares are up 44 percent this year.  It’s unlikely Medicis will see disruption in its day-to-day
operations because of the company’s “very good bench
strength,” Amsellem said. He has an “overweight” rating on
the shares.  Medicis is “deeply saddened to learn of a tragic incident
at a California property owned by Jonah Shacknai,” Kara Stancell, a spokeswoman for the Scottsdale, Arizona-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement. The company had no
further comment, she said.  Medicis makes the acne therapy Solodyn and wrinkle fighter
Dysport. The company reported $700 million in 2010 revenue.  Area Landmark  Shacknai’s home is one of the most famous residences in
Coronado, an island city about five miles west of downtown  San
Diego . The 27-room mansion was built in 1908 as a beach home for
John D. Spreckels, who owned the nearby Hotel del Coronado and
is credited with much of San Diego and Coronado’s real estate
and transportation development in the late 1800s and first two
decades of the 1900s, according to the San Diego History
Center’s website.  Before Medicis, Shacknai worked as an aide in the U.S.
House of Representatives, drafting legislation on health care,
science policy, the environment and consumer protection, and
then served as senior partner in the  Washington  law firm Royer,
Shacknai, and Mehle, according to the company’s  website .  Shacknai graduated from Colgate University in Hamilton, New
York, with a bachelor’s degree and gained his law degree at
 Georgetown University  in Washington, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Nora Zimmett in  Los Angeles  at 
 nzimmett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 