-- 
Lee Haggles With Goldman, Monarch as Debt Default Looms: Corporate Finance

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r ,   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-07-15T13:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/lee-negotiates-with-goldman-monarch-on-loan-to-avoid-bankruptcy.html
Lee Enterprises Inc. is offering
lenders higher rates and equity interests to refinance debt as
the owner of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch seeks to avoid
bankruptcy, according to four people familiar with the matter.  Creditors Monarch Alternative Capital LP and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are leading talks with the Davenport, Iowa-based
company and its adviser,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said the people,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. Lenders will also be asked to approve a pre-packaged
bankruptcy, which the newspaper owner will pursue if an out-of-
court restructuring doesn’t gain enough support, they said.  The publisher of 53 daily newspapers in 23 states has to
refinance $1 billion of loans and bonds that mature in April
after abandoning plans to sell $1.06 billion of high-yield notes
in May. Its shares have plunged 67 percent in the past year as
newspaper advertising revenue are squeezed by competition from
the Internet and the U.S. economic recovery is restrained by a
9.2 percent unemployment rate.  “We are in substantive and productive discussions with key
lenders about an extension of our credit agreement,” Mary Junck, Lee’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
yesterday in a statement that didn’t name the lenders or a pre-
packaged bankruptcy plan. “Investor sentiment will improve when
questions about our refinancing are resolved.”  Dan Hayes, a spokesman for Lee, didn’t immediately return a
telephone message seeking comment. Representatives from
Blackstone and Goldman Sachs said they couldn’t comment and a
call to Monarch wasn’t returned.  ‘Alternative Financing Options’  Lee, owner of newspapers from the Wisconsin State Journal
to the Arizona Daily Star, “will have to seek alternative
financing options to meet these maturities to avoid default,”
 Standard & Poor’s  analysts wrote in a May 12 report after the
$1.06 billion bond offering was pulled. The firm cut its 
preliminary rating one level to B- from B and then withdrew
the grade.  Moody’s Investors Service said in April it was “critical”
for the company to address the maturities. The firm took away
its Caa1 grade after the deal was pulled.  Lee’s $879 million  term loan  arranged in June 2005 maturing
in April pays 3 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The proposed deal includes a new first-lien loan that will
have a higher interest rate and a consent fee, the people said.
Lee is also asking lenders to swap into a new $175 million
second-lien loan that has a higher yield and equity interests in
the company, they said.  Bond Offering  The average trading price of Lee fell below the $1-a-share
minimum standard of the New York Stock Exchange for 30 trading
days, the company said in the July 14 statement. Lee, which has
declined 56 percent this year through yesterday, fell 20 cents
to 88 cents at 9:40 a.m. on the exchange.  The company also is seeking to sell debt to refinance about
$144 million of notes owed by its St. Louis Post-Dispatch LLC
unit, which Lee acquired in 2005. The unit’s flagship newspaper
is Lee’s biggest and accounted for 15 percent of the company’s
total paid daily newspaper circulation of 1.38 million, it said
in a Dec. 10 filing.  Lee has struggled with declining revenue as readers migrate
to Internet news sources, which often are provided for free and
aggregated by companies such as Google Inc., operator of the
world’s largest Web search engine.  Advertising revenue, which represents 72 percent of total
revenue, fell 8.9 percent to $560.1 million in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 26. That followed a 21.6 percent drop in 2009,
according to regulatory filings.  Tribune, McClatchy  Lee isn’t the only newspaper publisher to struggle in the
Internet era. Tribune Co., the owner of the Los Angeles Times
and  Chicago Tribune  that was acquired by billionaire investor
 Sam Zell  in a leveraged buyout in 2007, filed for bankruptcy the
following year. Following a 45 percent drop in advertising
revenue over three years, Miami Herald publisher McClatchy Co.
raised $236 million in May by selling 14 acres of property that
included the newspaper’s headquarters and parking lot.  Lee said in April that it planned to sell $680 million of
senior secured notes due in 2017 and $375 million of second-
priority notes due in 2018. It also had planned to sell as many
as 8.9 million shares.  “Although we were pleased with investor interest, the
proposed offerings did not result in terms and conditions that
met our expectations or recognize the future value we expect for
Lee stockholders,” Junck said in a May 2 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at +1-212-617-2716 or
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  