-- 
Televisa Falls in Mexico City as Investors See ‘Slim Effect,’ Take Profits

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T22:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/televisa-falls-in-mexico-city-as-investors-see-slim-effect-take-profits.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, fell for the 10th time in
the past 11 trading days as investors responded to flat second-
quarter earnings.  Televisa fell 1.41 pesos, or 2.7 percent, to 50.97 pesos at
4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading, the biggest
percentage decline since April 7. The shares closed at their
lowest price since Oct. 4 and have fallen 13 percent since June
29, compared to a 1.1 percent decline for Mexico’s benchmark IPC
index.  The broadcaster reported second-quarter profit on July 11
of 1.8 billion pesos, matching a year earlier, on sales growth
of 4.7 percent. Broadcast sales fell 5.9 percent after a dispute
over pricing led billionaire  Carlos Slim  to pull his advertising
purchases from Mexico City-based Televisa.  “People focused a lot on the fact that net income was
flat,” said Enrique Gomez-Tagle, an analyst at HSBC Securities
Plc in Mexico City, in a telephone interview. “We already knew
the Slim effect, but maybe some people didn’t have it very well
understood.”  Televisa had said in February that Slim’s companies
represented 3.8 percent of its broadcast sales in 2010. Leaving
out Slim’s businesses, broadcast sales fell 1 percent from a
year ago, when Televisa also benefited from advertising spending
for soccer’s World Cup games.  Lucio Aldworth, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
recommended yesterday that investors sell Televisa shares,
reducing his rating from “neutral.”  Peer Performance  “It will have trouble performing in line with its regional
peers given premium valuation and a softening outlook for its
broadcasting and pay-TV divisions,” Aldworth said in a research
note. He cited the loss of advertising from Slim and the  World
Cup  and a decline in Televisa’s share of the TV audience
weekdays during prime-time hours.  The company reiterated its forecast this week for broadcast
sales growth this year of as much as 1 percent, and its results
generally beat analysts’ expectations in most categories, Gomez-
Tagle said. The selloff in Televisa shares is an
“overreaction,” said the analyst, who recommends holding on to
the stock.  “The general view is that this wasn’t a bad result,” he
said. The shares would benefit from an agreement with Slim for
advertising or a better-than-expected economic recovery in the
U.S., he said.  Televisa isn’t in talks with Slim’s companies for an
advertising agreement, Jose Baston, the company’s president of
television and content, said on a conference call this week.  “We have remained open to negotiate with them on market
terms whenever they are ready,” he said. A Televisa official
who can’t be named under company policy declined to comment.  Televisa investors may be collecting profits on an earlier
gain, Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB who
recommends holding the shares, said this week in an interview.
The shares gained 6.7 percent in June, compared to a 2 percent
increase in the IPC index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  