-- 
Embryonic Stem-Cell Approvals Rise

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-07-14T17:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/embryonic-stem-cell-approvals-rise.html
Research using human embryonic stem-
cell lines approved under President  Barack Obama  is
accelerating, boosting a scientific field that’s been dogged by
legal and political threats.  The U.S. allowed 37 embryonic stem-cell lines for taxpayer-
funded  research  in June, the most of any month this year,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . The total number
of U.S.-endorsed lines now stands at 128, a decade after a curb
by former President  George W. Bush   limited work  to about 20
lines derived before Aug. 9, 2001. President Barack Obama
repealed the restriction by  executive order  on March 11, 2009.  At issue is the use of taxpayer funds to support the work,
spending that’s grown more than 16-fold since 2002. The newly
approved cell lines enable scientists to study the mechanisms of
more diseases and bolster a field that may someday rival the
$300 billion prescription-drug market, said Mark Monane, a
Needham & Co. analyst.  There is “a real opportunity to see if embryonic stem
cells are going to work,” Monane said in a telephone interview
from  New York . Investors are still wary of the industry because
of “sociopolitical risk, which is compounded upon the general
risk of biotech,” he said.  Stem cells derived from embryos develop into different
tissues and may lead to cures for conditions such as juvenile
diabetes,  Parkinson’s disease  and some cancers.  Geron Corp. (GERN)  and
 Advanced Cell Technology Inc. (ACTC)  are conducting three trials on
therapies derived from embryonic stem cells to treat spinal-cord
injuries and causes of blindness, the first clinical
applications for cell-based treatments.  Doctors’ Lawsuit  The cells come from human embryos donated by patients of
fertility clinics. The work is controversial because abortion
opponents say destroying embryos is the equivalent of murder.  Obama’s repeal of the Bush restriction acknowledged the
sensitivity surrounding the research, requiring cell-line
creators to document that embryos were donated and the parents
gave informed consent.  Two doctors, James Sherley of Watertown, Massachusetts, and
Theresa Deisher of  Seattle , sued the National Institutes of
Health and its parent agency, the  Department of Health  and Human
Services, claiming they were unfairly disadvantaged in competing
for U.S. funds with researchers using embryonic stem cells. The
doctors said the U.S. is violating a 1996 law called the Dickey-
Wicker Amendment by funding embryonic research.  U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth granted the doctors an
injunction last year, forcing the government to temporarily halt
funding for embryonic projects. A panel of the U.S. Appeals
Court in  Washington  lifted the injunction in April, restoring
funding, while Lamberth considers the merits of the case. The
 Justice Department  has asked him to dismiss the claims.  ‘Cloud of Uncertainty’  The court action has left “a cloud of uncertainty over the
field,” said  Francis Collins , the National Institutes of Health
director, in a phone interview. “Certainly anybody who’s
watching that would say we’re not sure where this is going and
it’s not necessarily over.”  Bush vetoed  legislation  in 2006 that would have locked
federal support for the research into law. Democrats didn’t try
to pass similar legislation when they controlled both chambers
of Congress in the first two years of Obama’s presidency. An
Obama defeat for re-election in 2012 would mean his Republican
successor could cut off funding.  “I had one pharma executive tell me, ‘we couldn’t be more
excited about the technology but we’re afraid we’ll go to
jail,’” said Mike West, chief executive officer of Alameda,
California-based  BioTime Inc. (BTX) , declining to name the individual.  Embryonic Funding Bill  Two embryonic stem-cell lines that BioTime created were
among those approved for federally funded research in June.
BioTime said they are the first lines designed to meet U.S. Food
and Drug Administration guidelines for therapeutic use. The
company submitted four more cell lines for approval last month.  Representative Diana DeGette, a Colorado Democrat,
introduced legislation on June 24 that would turn Obama’s policy
into federal law.  “Just because the House is controlled by Republicans
doesn’t mean we couldn’t pass” the  bill , DeGette said in a
telephone interview.  Her first co-sponsor is Representative Charlie Dent, a
Pennsylvania Republican, and DeGette said she had spoken “very
briefly” about advancing the legislation with  Fred Upton , a
Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee. Upton supported the bill that Bush vetoed.  Avoiding Embryos  A spokeswoman for Upton didn’t respond to e-mail asking his
position on the DeGette-Dent bill.  Even under Obama’s policy, 59 embryonic stem-cell lines
have been denied federal funding, and spending for research
using stem cells from less controversial sources such as adult
stem cells and fully developed skin cells remains greater than
spending on embryonic cells.  The NIH, in Bethesda,  Maryland , spent $164 million on human
embryonic stem-cell research in 2010, and $414 million on
research using non-embryonic human stem cells, up from $10
million on embryonic research and $171 million for non-embryonic
research in 2002.  “People are taking full advantage of all the different
opportunities for stem-cell research,” said Story Landis, the
director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, who chairs a  National Institutes of Health  committee
that advises Collins on stem-cell policy.  Political concerns have led the NIH to adopt a rigorous
process to approve embryonic stem-cell lines, said Mina Alikani,
a research scientist at Tyho-Galileo Research Laboratories in
Livingston,  New Jersey , and a consultant to  Reprogenetics Inc. ,
a related company.  Politics in Process  Reprogenetics had two embryonic stem-cell lines it created
approved for federal funding in June. Another line was denied
because the consent form signed by the embryo donor didn’t meet
federal standards.  “Because the entire issue of human embryonic stem cells
has become politicized, you can imagine that the politics seep
into this approval process as well,” Alikani said by phone.  “There’s already a lawsuit,” Alikani said. “Down the
line, they may have to deal with some kind of a congressional
committee coming down to check to see what they did, what the
approval process entailed and how well they screened everybody,
and how well they stuck to the guidelines.”  Public and congressional support for the science may be
bolstered with progress creating therapies from the cells, said
Matthew Vincent, director of business development at Advanced
Cell Technology in Marlborough,  Massachusetts . The company was
to inject eye cells developed from embryonic stem cells into the
first two patients in its clinical trials this week, he said.  Existing Treatments  “As patients/voters begin to see that these therapies may
be useful to them, and may be useful to their families or loved
ones or friends, I think it becomes harder to envision a country
where embryonic stem-cell products don’t have a place,” he
said.  Landis said that “the argument used to be made that there
was no evidence human embryonic stem cells were being used to
treat people. That’s simply no longer true.”  Early human experiments with the cells may fail, said
Collins of the National Institutes of Health, adding that past
breakthroughs such as organ transplants were preceded by
failures, including the patients’ deaths. Failures in the first
embryonic stem-cell clinical trials “should not discourage”
further research, he said.  “We can never fully anticipate what happens when we make
that leap into a human patient,” he said. “People need to be
prepared for the fact that in this area, it’s not going to be
successful from day one.”  Eye Disease  Advanced Cell has been working for about a decade on its
treatments for macular degeneration, a cause of blindness,
Vincent said. He called the period that included the years of
federal restriction “a valley of death” that “most companies
wouldn’t have survived.” Advanced Cell issued about 1.5 billion
shares to raise money for research, he said.  The company plans to publish preliminary results from
clinical trials this year, he said. Signs of progress may
attract investment from larger pharmaceutical companies to help
Advanced Cell proceed with additional trials, he said.  Geron is on firm financial footing, thanks to a portfolio
of cancer drugs that are more attractive to investors than its
stem-cell work, said Jane Lebkowski, the company’s chief
scientific officer.  Geron Funding  Geron, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , also won about $25
million from the  California Institute of Regenerative Medicine ,
a $3 billion agency the state’s voters created in 2006 in part
as a response to federal restrictions on the research. BioTime
has received $4.7 million from the state.  Geron has spent $145 million and almost 10 years so far
developing its spinal injury therapy, Lebkowski said. The
expense and long development timeline for the projects, combined
with political uncertainty, dissuade investors, she said.  “The number of investors who are going into stem-cell
research at all are relatively small,” she said. “Other
companies, whether it’s embryonic stem cells or stem cells from
adults or fetal tissue, they’re all struggling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington, DC on 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington, DC on 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 