-- 
Leo Kirch, German Entrepreneur, Dies at 84

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-07-14T15:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/leo-kirch-german-film-rights-entrepreneur-dies-aged-84-1-.html
Leo Kirch , who turned his one-man
film distributor into  Germany ’s second-biggest media business
before losing control of it after a gamble on  pay television ,
has died. He was 84.  No cause of death was given in a statement by his family
today. Kirch had suffered from diabetes and near-blindness for
several years.  “We are very sad,” Dieter Hahn, who has worked with Kirch
for almost 20 years, said in the statement distributed on behalf
of Kirch’s family. Kirch died “today peacefully, surrounded by
family.”  At its height, his Kirch Holding GmbH was valued at $5
billion. Its 150 units held Germany’s biggest film-licensing
library, the nation’s only pay-television channel and rights to
two soccer  World Cup  tournaments. When Kirch resigned, his
companies were under court protection from creditors, the
biggest bankruptcy filing in Germany since World War II.  In a letter of farewell to his staff on April 8, 2002,
Kirch said “people, not numbers make companies.” He ended the
letter, mailed the day that the main KirchMedia GmbH unit sought
protection from creditors, with “God bless you.”  In the last decade of his life, Kirch filed dozens of
lawsuits against  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and the lender’s former Chief
Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer . The disputes followed a February
2002 Bloomberg TV interview in which Breuer said “everything
that you can read and hear about (Kirch) is that the financial
sector isn’t prepared to provide further” financing.  Suits Halted  Kirch claimed Breuer’s comments precipitated his group’s
bankruptcy. Deutsche Bank and Breuer have denied wrongdoing.  Under German rules of civil procedure, a suit is halted
until the heirs resume the case. Kirch didn’t file all of the
suits in his own name and some were filed together with his wife
Ruth.  An action seeking about 2 billion euros ($2.84 billion) in
damages against Deutsche Bank, currently pending at a Munich
appeals court, was filed by a company set up by Kirch for the
litigation. That suit can continue unaltered.  As divided Germany began to rebuild after World War II,
Wuerzburg, Bavaria-born Kirch was in his twenties and looking to
make money by exploiting his business administration education
and his interest in movies.  Taking time off from teaching economics at Munich
University in 1956, Kirch drove to  Italy  in his Volkswagen in
search of film makers. He found Federico Fellini, who had just
directed his first and still one of his best-known films, “La
Strada.” Kirch bought the German rights to distribute the
movie, borrowing the money from his wife, Ruth.  La Strada  It was a gamble that paid off. “La Strada” was popular
with German audiences and ultimately considered a classic, so
that royalties rolled in for years. Plowing his gains back into
the business, Kirch bought the rights to more movies, became one
of Germany’s biggest programming traders and began co-producing
films with foreign partners.  Kirch, the son of grape growers, also loved classical music
and became a close friend of Herbert von Karajan, long-time
director of the Berlin Philharmonic.  As television expanded in Germany in the 1960s, Kirch had
the programs it needed. Germany’s public channels ARD and ZDF
depended on him almost completely for drama series and shows
imported from U.S. networks. By the end of the century, he owned
the rights to 63,000 movies and television shows, as well as
sports broadcasting rights.  Television Monopoly  When the government gave up its monopoly on television in
1984, Kirch saw another opportunity. He was one of the founders
of the first channel to depend on commercials, Sat.1. The
channel became part of Germany’s biggest private TV broadcaster
after merging with ProSieben Media AG in 2000, now known as
 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. (PSM)   In 1996, Kirch began pouring money into a new venture: pay
TV. In four years he spent more than $3 billion building
Premiere World, his flagship pay-TV channel.  The endeavor didn’t pay off. German viewers who already had
a wide choice of channels, many free, didn’t feel the need to
pay for what Premiere World had to offer. Attempts to restrict
some sports competitions to pay TV, including parts of the
soccer World Cup, failed to attract enough viewers.  “As an outstanding media entrepreneur and visionary, Leo
Kirch shaped the German film and television landscape deeply,”
Bernd Neumann, German cultural minister, said in an e-mailed
statement. “His business actions, which weren’t without risks,
have always been characterized by a huge passion for film.”  Throughout his career, Kirch borrowed from banks to fund
investments. The banks that helped him grow finally turned
against him and forced him to abandon the business he built.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  