-- 
Mercuria’s Dubai Director, Gasoline Trader Said to Quit Company

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-07-14T11:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/mercuria-s-dubai-director-gasoline-trader-said-to-quit-company.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA’s Dubai-
based regional director and gasoline trader have resigned from
the company, three people with knowledge of the departures said.  Darrin Donegan quit as Mercuria’s regional director in the
 Middle East  at about the beginning of June, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak with the media. They did not say where
Donegan would be working.  Jeremy Conlon, the trader, left Geneva-based Mercuria on
July 1 to join Litasco, the marketing unit of  Russia ’s OAO
Lukoil, the people said. Conlon, 41, will trade gasoline at the
company’s Dubai office starting Sept. 1, they said. Officials at
Mercuria and Litasco declined to comment on the changes, asking
not to be identified in line with their companies’ policies.  The departures mean the head of Mercuria’s Middle East
business development, Gian-Luigi Sorcinelli, 42, is the only
full-time trader still at the company’s Dubai office. He will
become its managing director and try to rebuild a team, the
three people said. Marco Dunand, the company’s chief executive
officer and co-founder, said in a March 1 interview that
Mercuria would expand its staff in Dubai to about 15 people
within a year.  Conlon is at least the third Dubai-based gasoline trader to
switch jobs this year. Hani Aama left Trafigura Beheer BV in
December to join ConocoPhillips in March. Tareq Al-Khulaiwi left
BB Energy the same month.  Energy-trading companies buy and sell crude oil and refined
fuels, trying to profit from fluctuations in prices and
mismatches in supply and demand. Dubai, the second-largest
sheikhdom in the  United Arab Emirates , is a regional hub for
trade and financial services, and it operates a freezone where
many trading companies have offices.  Abu Dhabi , the U.A.E.’s
largest emirate, holds most of the country’s crude oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 