-- 
Merkel Fails to Evoke Kohl as Biggest German Boom Brings No Political Gain

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-07-14T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/merkel-fails-to-evoke-kohl-ss-boom-brings-no-gain.html
On election night in September 2009,
 Angela Merkel  told her Christian Democrats they  achieved 
“something fantastic” by ousting the Social Democrats from
Germany’s governing coalition for the first time since 1998.  The moment proved to be the high point of her second term
as chancellor, coming less than three weeks before the outbreak
of the Greek debt crisis that has hobbled her government. Merkel
has alienated voters and irritated allies, squandering gains
from the biggest economic boom in Germany in a generation, as
she failed to contain the slump in European debt markets that
has since spread to Portugal, Ireland and now  Italy .  With a pair of state elections in September, Merkel’s
domestic political needs may run into European Union efforts to
complete a second bailout for Greece as policy makers struggle
to end the 21-month increase in borrowing costs.  “In Brussels, she’s criticized for not being EU-friendly
enough and at home she’s seen as being too EU-friendly,”  Jan Techau , director of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace in Brussels and former German Defense Ministry analyst,
said in an interview. “The Greek crisis is eating up the
economic bonus. The image of her throwing money at the crisis is
stronger than her successfully steering Germany’s economy
through the crisis.”  In contrast to postwar leaders like Konrad Adenauer, Willy Brandt and  Helmut Kohl , whose legacies derive from efforts to
unify Europe and Germany, Merkel, 56, has tried to balance her
voters’ opposition to bailouts with pleas from European leaders
to respond to the spreading fiscal mess.  The result has been conflicts with European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet and electoral setbacks.  Election Defeats  Merkel’s party has either lost or seen its share of the
vote decline in six state ballots in the past 22 months. It also
ceded control of the  Bundesrat , the national parliament’s upper
house, as the opposition won control in the industrial states of
North Rhine-Westphalia and Baden-Wuerttemberg, which the
Christian Democrats, or CDU, had controlled since 1953, and in
Hamburg, Germany’s richest state.  Deepening her political woes was a decision to drop support
for nuclear power after the March earthquakes in  Japan ,
abandoning an issue that had set her apart from the  Green Party .  Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led coalition has trailed the
opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens in national  polls  for
more than a year even as the economy grew by the most since the
1990 reunification and the jobless rate fell to the lowest since
records for the combined Germany began in 1991. Germany’s next
national election is due in 2013.  Economy Surges  Germany’s economy will expand by a projected 3.4 percent
this year, the most of any Group of Seven nation, the Paris-
based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
in a May  report . The jobless rate declined in June for a 24th
straight month to 7 percent, wage growth is accelerating and
factory orders for investment goods are rising as companies
increase spending and hiring to meet surging demand.  If U.S. President  Barack Obama  had “this kind of an
economy, nobody would be talking about any serious problems for
re-election,” said Stephen Szabo, executive director of the
Washington-based Transatlantic Academy.  Merkel’s office declined to comment for this story.  The Greek saga has overwhelmed all the good news at home
for Merkel, who grew up in communist  East Germany  and gained a
degree in physics from the Karl Marx University in Leipzig and a
doctorate in quantum chemistry.  While Merkel prevailed with a demand last year that the
 International Monetary Fund  play a role in  Greece , her
willingness to bail out the Mediterranean nation elicited scorn
from her Free Democratic Party coalition partner.  Only ‘Reactive’  “A good many Free Democrats share the view in private that
something is going badly wrong and that we’re heading full speed
toward creating a permanent system of transferring aid to the
currency area’s periphery,” said  Frank Schaeffler , an FDP
lawmaker who last year called for Greece to sell islands to
reduce its debt, in a May 13 interview. “A year ago I was
isolated in the party, but that’s no longer the case.”  Schaeffler has attacked CDU Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  for blocking tax cuts and in his  blog  dubbed Trichet
“the Darth Vader of money” for his rejection of the so-called
Greek debt re-scheduling.  Merkel retreated from calls last year for “quasi-
automatic” sanctions for euro countries that breach deficit
rules in a deal with  France . After  Germany  pressed to force
private investors to extend Greek bond maturities, Merkel backed
off from the demand last month following an intervention by
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . She also flip-flopped after
opposing a restructuring of Greek debt.  Greek Rollovers  As markets worsened this year, Schaeuble in a June 6
letter to Trichet and fellow euro ministers called for banks
to swap Greek bonds to extend their maturity by seven years.
Amid pressure from Merkel's coalition lawmakers, German banks
and insurers agreed to roll over at least 2 billion euros of
Greek bonds maturing through 2014, Schaeuble said on June 30.  “Merkel’s leadership has been surprisingly bad
throughout,” said Fredrik Erixon, director of the Brussels-
based European Centre for International Political Economy.
“We’ve seen Germany oscillating from one policy to the next and
then back again. It’s been government by confusion.”  Homespun Ways  Merkel ranked as the nation’s sixth most-popular politician
in a July 4 Der Spiegel magazine survey, helped by her down-to-
earth style that includes wheeling her own shopping cart through
a local supermarket.  She and her second husband, Joachim Sauer, don’t use the
sprawling living quarters in the  chancellery  and instead live in
a 19th century  apartment  building in Berlin’s central Mitte
district. Merkel only uses Germany’s version of Camp David, a
restored 18th century  Prussian palace , for official functions
and prefers spending weekends at a family  cottage  in the village
of Hohenwalde, 80 kilometers (50 miles) northeast of the
capital.  “I’m not really a city person and feel especially well in
the country,” Merkel says on her  website , adding that she
enjoys walking around the lakes in the  Uckermark region  where
her country home is located and likes vacationing in the Alps.  Japan’s March 11, 2011, temblor, tsunami and the Fukushima
nuclear disaster rocked Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  and may
have unleashed the Chancellor’s environmentalist bent.  Greens Defeat CDU  Riding a wave of anti-nuclear sentiment, Germany’s Greens
party won March 27 elections in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
home of Porsche SE and Daimler AG. The vote was a double debacle
for Merkel as her CDU lost control of the area it ruled for more
than half a century when a Greens candidate was elected as state
premier for the first time since the party’s founding in 1980.  One day after the defeat, Merkel declared she had changed
her view on nuclear power and on May 30 her coalition approved
shutting all German nuclear stations by 2022, with final
legislation passed on June 30. This marked a turnaround of
Merkel’s policy from last year when her government extended the
operating life of nuclear plants, which supplied 23 percent of
power in Germany in 2010.  “The fact that she switched so quickly after Fukushima
really undermined a lot of Germans’ confidence in her,” Szabo
said. “They expect chancellors to have a bit more backbone.”  To be sure, Merkel’s coalition isn’t suffering because of
the Christian Democrats, which national polls show would win a
similar share of the vote as in 2009. It’s the collapse of her
FDP junior partner to as low as 4 percent in the polls from the
14.6 percent it got in the election that’s dragging her down.  2013 Possibilities  “Merkel’s one chance now is to get enough votes in the
next election so she can prevent an SPD coalition with the
Greens,” said Ulrich Deupmann, a former German government
adviser on foreign affairs who heads the Berlin-based political
research firm Ideas.ag. This may allow her to set up a coalition
with the SPD in 2013 or possibly with the Greens given her anti-
nuclear conversion, the Carnegie Endowment’s Techau said.  The atomic-power decision, which was criticized by the
French government, came as Merkel broke with France, Germany’s
closest ally, on the war in  Libya .  Sarkozy took the lead in calling for European and then NATO
air strikes on Libya earlier this year and French jets took part
in the first attacks on Libyan forces on March 19. By contrast,
Merkel ordered Germany to stay out of the fight. Her government
sided with Russia and  China  in abstaining on the United Nations
Security Council  resolution , backed by the U.S., France and the
U.K., authorizing moves to protect Libyan civilians from Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  This Isn’t  Switzerland   “It would be OK if this was Luxembourg or a smaller
country like Switzerland, but it’s not Switzerland,” said Szabo
of the Transatlantic Academy.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc is at 32 percent to 34
percent in the  polls , compared with 33.8 percent when it won in
2009. Yet unless the FDP recovers or Merkel finds a way to tap
new support, the government has little chance of being re-
elected in two years.  “This 32 percent is the Christian Democratic core that
will back her whatever happens,” Techau said. “It’s not good
enough with the FDP’s implosion and her getting far less than
the CDU used to win.”  Kohl, the former CDU chancellor, won four elections between
1983 and 1994 with his Christian Democratic bloc getting between
41 percent and 49 percent. Kohl was defeated in 1998, after
winning 35 percent, by Social Democrat  Gerhard Schroeder .  Schroeder, who was chancellor from 1998 to 2005, expresses
a sense of amazement at Merkel’s predicament.  “It’s the first time that a booming economy hasn’t paid
off for a government,” Schroeder said in a May 17 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  