-- 
Estonians Kidnapped in Lebanon Freed, Interior Minister Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-14T11:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/estonians-kidnapped-in-lebanon-freed-interior-minister-says-2-.html
Seven Estonians kidnapped in Lebanon
in March have been released, Lebanese Interior Minister Marwan Charbel said in a phone interview today, without providing
further details.  The Estonians are in the French Embassy in  Beirut , an
embassy official said by telephone. They were released in the
Bekaa region of Lebanon to a French delegation and are in good
health, the local LBC and  MTV  television channels reported.
Footage of the Estonians, who had all grown beards and were
waving and smiling, was broadcast on MTV.  Lebanon has detained nine people in the case, which
“appears to be part of an organized crime group,” Charbel told
reporters today after meeting with  France ’s ambassador to
Lebanon,  Denis Pietton , and the seven freed Estonians.  A  video  broadcast in April on several Lebanese and Arab
news channels showed the kidnapped men appealing for help to the
authorities in Lebanon,  Saudi Arabia , Jordan and France. The
Estonians were abducted on March 23 after crossing into Lebanon
from  Syria  on bicycles, according to Lebanon’s official National
News Agency.  Armed assailants in two vans and a dark-colored Mercedes
without license plates kidnapped the group, the NNA said in
March. Their bicycles were found in the industrial zone of the
eastern city of Zahleh, the Lebanese military said.  A previously unknown group, Haraket Al-Nahda Wal-Islah, or
Movement for Renewal and Reform, claimed responsibility for the
abduction and demanded an unspecified ransom to free the
Estonians in two e-mails sent to Lebanon Files, a local news
portal, Lebanon’s  Daily Star  newspaper reported on May 16.  Dozens of foreigners were kidnapped in Lebanon, with many
held for several years, during the country’s 1975-1990 civil
war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  