-- 
Tests Will Stress Financing Ties That Bind Banks to Countries: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-07-15T11:53:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/tests-will-stress-ties-that-bind-banks-to-nations-euro-credit.html
Europe ’s bank stress tests will
reveal how reliant nations are on their domestic lenders for
funds, while detailing how much government support the finance
industry needs to stay solvent.  “Banks are only as strong as the sovereign,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund manager  at M&G Investments, which
oversees about $323 billion. “A sovereign sells off as the risk
of restructuring rises, then the banks sell off and they need
more capital, ratings fall, funding costs rise -- and you’re in
a vicious circle.”  Euro-region banks are the biggest creditors to debt-ridden
nations such as  Greece  and  Italy , tying their fortunes to the
sovereigns. That’s why, when government bond yields climbed to
records across the euro region this week they dragged a gauge of
bank risk to the highest in six months.  Investors and traders will be looking out for the most
detailed breakdown of banks’ government debt holdings yet when
the  European Banking Authority  publishes the results of its
stress tests after markets close today. Authorities are seeking
to buttress investor confidence by showing banks have enough
capital to withstand the shocks of the region’s crisis.  “Greater transparency is always welcome,” said  David Owen , chief European financial economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London . “Unless, of course, in the midst
of a crisis it sheds more light on potential problems and allows
participants to focus on the weakest links.”  ‘Explosive’  European Central Bank executive committee member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said on July 11 the link between lenders and
sovereigns is “explosive.”  Yields on 10-year Italian bonds rose to as high as 6.02
percent this week and Spanish yields climbed to 6.31 percent as
the crisis spread. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-
default swap contracts used to insure bank and insurance company
debt jumped to as high as 186 basis points today, after climbing
to 203 on July 12, the highest since January, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The stress tests will show the size and maturities of 91
banks’ sovereign bond holdings, the regional split of loans and
lenders’ capital strength. To pass, lenders will need to
maintain a core Tier 1 capital ratio -- a kind of buffer against
losses -- of more than 5 percent in certain stressed scenarios.  Shortcomings  What the tests won’t take into account is the impact of a
sovereign default, which  Hank Calenti , London-based head of bank
credit research at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, said undermines the
process.  “The real weakness in the European banking system is going
untested,” he said.  Instead the stress tests consider the impact of a four-tier
ratings downgrade of the weakest governments, such as Moody’s
Investors Service inflicted on  Portugal  this month.  Moody’s slashed Portugal’s rating four levels to a junk
grade of Ba2 from Baa1 on July 5, citing the risk the country
will need a second bailout. The New York-based firm cut Ireland
a grade to Ba1 for the same reason a week later.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Greece by three levels this week
to the lowest rating for any country, following the two biggest
ratings companies and saying a default is a “real
possibility.” Moody’s said June 17 it was reviewing Italy’s Aa2
ratings for a possible downgrade and a week later did the same
to 16 of the nation’s banks, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the two biggest.  ‘Mutual Dependency’  “Europe’s banks are funding Europe’s governments, which
are keeping the banks afloat,” said  Bill Blain , strategist at
Newedge Group, a London-based brokerage established in 2008.
“The stress test results will reinforce just how vulnerable
that mutual dependency has become.”  Credit traders reckon there’s an 87 percent chance of
Greece defaulting in the next five years, a more than 60 percent
chance of Ireland or Portugal failing to pay their bills and a
23 percent probability of the same happening to Italy, according
to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  That throws the credibility of the stress tests further
into doubt, because to be believed they should force banks to
hold enough capital to survive an event “with a five to 10
percent probability of happening,” Ian Smillie, a London-based
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst, said in a note. Basing
the tests on current government bond prices “would lead to
widescale recapitalization” of banks, he said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Domestic banks are keeping euro-region nations afloat by
buying large amounts of their short-term bill sales, such as
those issued by Italy and Greece this week, according to  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   “The issuer might default,” London-based Chatwell said.
“But as a bank that’s intrinsically tied to your home
sovereign, you’re going to have a different perception of that
risk than a multinational.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  