-- 
Etex Buys Lafarge Gypsum Assets for $1.4 Billion

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-14T08:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/etex-to-buy-lafarge-gypsum-units-in-europe-latin-america-for-1-4-billion.html
Etex Group (ETEVP) , a Belgian manufacturer
of building products, is in exclusive talks to buy gypsum
assets from  Lafarge SA (LG)  in a transaction valued at 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion).  Lafarge will get cash proceeds of about 850 million euros
from the sale of the European and South American assets, the
Paris-based cement maker said in a statement today. It will
retain a 20 percent stake in the combined business.  Etex, which fended off competing interest from buyout
firms, is building on an existing alliance with Lafarge in  Latin
America  as builders there adopt gypsum-based wallboard as a
faster alternative for interior walls and ceilings. The
Brussels-based company has turned to emerging markets to bolster
profit, against a backdrop of sluggish demand for tiles,
corrugated panels and other building products in European
construction markets.  “At first glance, positive news,” said Marc Nettelbeck,
an analyst at  DZ Bank , with a “sell” rating on Lafarge. “The
company found a smart solution” to excluding the
underperforming U.S. business, he said.  The gypsum operations to be integrated into Etex generated
sales of 895 million euros and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 115 million euros last year.
The price paid including debt is 8.7 times last year’s Ebitda,
in line with the average multiple paid in building-material
deals over the past two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lafarge shares gained as much as 2.2 percent to 40.50 euros
in Paris, and they traded at 40.16 euros as of 9:11 a.m.  Lafarge Boost  In  Europe , the largest competitors in the wallboard market
are France’s Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA and  Germany ’s Knauf Gips
KG. In the U.S., Lafarge faces rivals such as Saint-Gobain and
Chicago-based  USG Corp. (USG)  and Delcor Inc.’s  National Gypsum. (NGCO)   The sale takes Lafarge a step closer to regaining an
investment grade credit rating. Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont, who ran the unit from 1998 to 2003, has pledged to step
up asset sales and cut spending to trim debt by at least 2
billion euros this year, after Lafarge was relegated to junk
status by  Standard & Poor’s  in March.  The disposal will have a positive impact on Lafarge’s
rating, spokeswoman Claire Mathieu said by phone.  Etex is paying a “fair price,” said Levon Babalyan, an
analyst at Cheuvreux, with an “underperform rating” on the
French company. Lafarge’s debt to Ebitda ratio stands to fall to
3.4 times as a result of the deal, he said.  The deal will provide a “welcome but rather modest
reduction” to Lafarge’s leverage, Babalyan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net  