-- 
EU Plans Fishing Quotas Trade as Stockpiles Unsustainable

-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-14T09:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/eu-plans-fishing-quotas-trade-as-stockpiles-unsustainable-1-.html
The European Commission may allow
fishing fleets to trade catch quotas in an overhaul of policy
spurred by warnings that 75 percent of fish stockpiles are being
depleted too rapidly.  Under the proposals the European Union will stop ships
throwing fish not covered by quotas back into the sea, Maria
Damanaki, the commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries,
said in a  statement  yesterday. The ability to trade the catch
will be organised nationally. Aquaculture will be promoted to
reduce the number of fish that need to be caught.  “Our current system is not working in favor of
sustainability,” Damanaki said. “The system does not work for
the EU market either:  Europe  has to rely on imports for two-
thirds of its fish. Too many fleet segments live on low profits,
depend on subsidies for survival.”  Three-quarters of the EU’s stocks are over-fished and one-
third of them are “in a worrying state,” Damanaki said. In
some areas, as much as 60 percent of the catch is thrown back
into the sea because it is not covered by quotas, she said.  The commission is seeking a “maximum sustainable yield”
 policy  limiting catches to maintain stock levels. Such a policy
would eventually increase catches by 17 percent as stock sizes
advance by 70 percent, the commission said.  Tradable Quotas  The tradable quotas will be introduced from 2014 and only
apply to ships longer than 12 meters (39 feet), the commission
said. The  Council of Ministers  and the European Parliament will
vote on the proposals, which would come into force from January
2013.  Throwing fish back into the sea is a waste of food and
resources, U.K. Fisheries Minister Richard Benyon said in a
statement today. The EU’s Common Fisheries Policy doesn’t work
and hasn’t provided a sustainable living for the industry, he
said.  “The current CFP has failed,” Benyon said. “For a start,
we need to end the unacceptable practice of throwing dead fish
back to the sea. It’s a terrible waste of perfectly good food
and one of the biggest failings of the CFP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  