-- 
European Bank Stress Tests Compromised by Greek Non-Default, German Mutiny

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-07-15T09:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/european-bank-stress-tests-compromised-by-greek-non-default-german-mutiny.html
European regulators’ attempts to
bolster confidence in the region’s banking industry today are
being undermined by their unwillingness to test for a Greek
default and a mutiny by  Germany ’s Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen.  The European Banking Authority will release the results of
the stress tests for 91 banks as part of an effort to reassure
investors the region’s banks have sufficient capital. Helaba, as
the landesbank is known, refused to allow the  EBA  to publish its
results in full, saying the EBA’s data “would lead to a halving
of the core capital without legal grounds.” German regulator
Bafin has also attacked the London-based EBA. Bafin Chairman
 Jochen Sanio  said last month the watchdog lacks “legitimacy.”  The assessments are the first by the EBA since it was set
up earlier this year. Last year’s tests by its predecessor were
criticized for not being tough enough because banks were shown
to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion) more capital, a 10th
of the lowest analyst estimate. The EBA can’t force banks to
take part, and can’t test for a sovereign default, which policy
makers are struggling to avoid.  Greece  has about a one in 10
chance of avoiding default, credit default swaps show.  “The EBA has no teeth,” Bob Penn, financial-services
partner at Allen & Overy LLP, said in a telephone interview in
London. It can’t “make requirements from any individual bank
because the framework was set up to allow national regulators to
keep supervisory powers,” he said. “This isn’t Helaba poking a
stick in the eye of the EBA, it’s Bafin.”  Results Released  To pass the stress test, the banks being scrutinized will
need to maintain a core Tier 1 capital ratio of more than 5
percent in a stress test. The criteria include a review of how
lenders would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the
euro area in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets,
as well as trading losses on sovereign debt not held to
maturity. The results will be published from 5 p.m. U.K. time
today.  “The new authority has been struggling to have more severe
tests than last year,”  Charles Wyplosz , director of the
International Center for Money and Banking Studies in Geneva,
said in a television interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” yesterday. “Last year was recognized as a joke.
The new authority wants to be tougher, but I don’t think they
are tough enough to convince the market,” he said. “The real
question is: do we assume there is a serious default on serious
public debt?”  Greek Contagion  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of
46 companies was little changed at 10:36 a.m. London time, after
falling in eight of the previous nine trading sessions amid
concern the region’s sovereign debt woes will spread beyond
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , the three nations that have
received bailouts from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund . The index has declined 11 percent this year.  The yield on two-year Greek notes rose above 32 percent
this week and the extra rate investors demand to hold 10-year
bonds relative to German bunds of similar maturity was 14
percentage points. Credit-default swaps indicate an 86 percent
chance Greece will fail to meet its commitments within five
years, according to CMA prices.  Concern about Greece triggered a surge in 10-year borrowing
costs for Italy and  Spain  this week to the highest since the
introduction of the euro in 1999. Italian notes rose as high as
6.02 percent and Spanish bonds climbed to 6.31 percent. The cost
of insuring Irish and Portuguese government bonds also hit
records this week, implying a 60 percent chance of default.  ‘Depth Charge’  “The sovereign debt default problem is the depth charge to
the credibility of this exercise,” Penn said. “There’s nothing
the EBA can do about that because it’s politically
unthinkable.”  Standard & Poor’s  own  stress test , published in March,
found European banks would need as much as 250 billion euros in
fresh capital if faced with a “sharp” increase in yields and a
“severe” economic downturn. In contrast, a survey of 113
investors by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month showed they
expect banks to raise 29 billion euros after the tests.  The priority is “that these tests are consistently and
conservatively applied” to make them “thorough, checked and
effective,” the EBA said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Connect the Dots’  The EU had been counting on a 12-person review board to
restore credibility to the bank capital exams criticized last
year for being too lax. The reviewers have been checking more
than a million data sheets provided by banks as part of the
exams for the past six weeks, according to the  EBA , and
disputing figures with banks and national supervisors where
their own calculations are different.  They have also boosted disclosure: Lenders will this year
be made to disclose more information than before, giving a total
of 3,000 data points compared with 100 in 2010. The publication
will include information on capital levels, estimates for
profitability in 2011 and 2012 as well as the size and maturity
of their holdings of sovereign debt, the EBA said this month.  “The stress tests are flexing the banking system for a
shock, but not a particularly vicious one,” Jefferies
International Ltd. analysts led by Marchel Alexandrovich wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. “Still, the results of the
stress tests should help the markets further connect the dots
between the various European banks.”  ‘Skeletons’  Banks had challenged the decision to provide profit
estimates because they may be lower than figures published by
some lenders, said four people with knowledge of the process.
Firms were concerned the disclosure could trigger a decline in
their stock prices, according to one of the people.  The risks to financial stability from analysts using
European Union stress-test data to conduct their own exams on
banks “should not be underestimated,” according to a
confidential document prepared by EU officials. There is an
expectation the results will be “challenged by market tests”
aiming to address “the perceived weaknesses in the design,”
according to the draft document obtained by Bloomberg News.  “By Monday morning, we should know where the skeletons lie
precisely,” Alexandrovich said. “With 10 pages of disclosure
due for each bank, there may be plenty of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  