-- 
Europe Said to Face IMF Doubts on Greek Aid Without Debt Cut

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-07-14T14:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/europe-is-said-to-face-imf-doubts-on-greek-financial-aid-without-debt-cut.html
European finance ministers are
concerned that the  International Monetary Fund  will curb its
share of a Greek rescue of as much as 115 billion euros ($163
billion) unless the plan includes deep cuts in Greece’s debt
burden, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  A program that fails to generate a sustainable reduction in
Europe’s biggest debt load may require governments to finance a
bigger share of the three-year lifeline, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are in progress. The IMF
has provided one third of the three previous euro bailouts,
including Greece’s in 2010.  Doubts over the IMF’s role represent an added obstacle in
the effort by policy makers to stem a crisis that spread to
 Italy  this week, increasing the urgency for a solution as yields
soared to euro-era records in the most debt-laden nations.  “European policy makers still misunderstand market
dynamics,”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  economists led by
London-based Jacques Cailloux said in a research note. “We
expect the crisis to continue deteriorating and threaten the
entire euro area.”  Political leaders are at odds with each other and the
 European Central Bank  over  Germany ’s demand that investors bear
some of the burden even at the risk of Greece being declared in
default. Bondholder involvement is the main hurdle to a second
lifeline, the people said. Germany pressed to postpone a euro-
area summit until that point is settled and the leaders can
endorse a full package, they said.  Lagarde Comments  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  hinted at a harder
line on a new Greek package in her first week in charge, telling
reporters July 12 that “nothing should be taken for granted.”  The Washington-based lender stepped up the pressure today,
calling for a “greater sense of urgency” in  Europe , citing
“increased market worries about potential contagion.”  Ireland was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service July
12, a week after lowering  Portugal  to below investment grade.
Italy’s borrowing costs have soared to the highest since 1997.  IMF spokeswoman Conny Lotze declined to comment for this
article, referring to remarks made on a conference call
yesterday related to Greece by Poul Thomsen, the mission chief
there.  While there is no request for a program yet, Thomson said,
“of course we are thinking about what would be the need for
financing going forward with or without a new program and what
would our contribution be.” He said that would depend upon what
financing is provided by Europe and by the private sector.  Three-Year Need  European officials see Greece’s need over the next three
years at 115 billion euros, including revenue from asset sales
and creditors, the people said.  Greek debt has mushroomed since the first 110 billion-euro
aid program was awarded last year, sending bond yields to record
highs, leading the three major ratings companies to downgrade it
to junk status and provoking speculation of an imminent default.  Greek debt, at 127.1 percent of gross domestic product in
2009, will rise to 166.1 percent by the end of 2012, the
European Commission forecasts.  Lagarde, like her predecessor  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  a
former French finance minister, inherited an IMF that has grown
skeptical of Greece’s prospects of turning the economic corner.  Greece has “little scope for deviation” from budget cuts,
asset sales and structural reforms, the IMF said in a staff
report yesterday. Backsliding “would see debt remain at very
high and likely unsustainable levels through 2020.”  Asset Sales  The size of the European and possible IMF stake in the next
package also hinges on how much Greece raises by selling state
assets. Government plans call for 50 billion euros in revenue
from privatizations by the end of 2015.  Deputy Finance Minister Pantelis Economou raised doubts
about that target, telling Greek lawmakers on July 11 that “we
will sell a lot less than planned.”  Debt-reduction discussions shifted to  Rome  today with bank
representatives and European officials testing the feasibility
of a buyback program that would enable  Greece  to retire bonds at
discounts of as much as 50 percent.  The  Institute of International Finance , representing more
than 400 banks and insurers at the Rome talks, put buybacks on
the table after a French bond-rollover proposal failed to
generate a targeted 30 billion euros in relief.  “Debt buyback operations could achieve a meaningful
amount,” the IIF said in a July 10 position paper.  The French proposal is still up for discussion, as is an
earlier German call for a debt exchange opposed by the ECB
because it would prompt a “selective default” rating for
Greece, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  