-- 
European Inflation Held Steady in June

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-14T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/european-inflation-held-steady-in-june.html
Euro-region inflation remained
steady in June as energy costs retreated and a worsening debt
crisis undermined economic growth.  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro region rose 2.7
percent from a year earlier, the same as in May, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s in
line with an initial estimate published on June 30 and above the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent limit for a seventh month.  European governments are stepping up spending cuts to fight
the debt crisis, which is threatening to undermine economic
growth. While energy costs retreated over the past months, the
European Central Bank on  July 7  raised borrowing costs for a
second time this year. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  forecast
inflation rates to “likely to stay clearly” above 2 percent.  “Inflation will continue to accelerate toward 3 percent
over the coming months followed by a stabilization,” said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at Deutsche Postbank in Bonn,  Germany .
“It takes a while for a slowing economic dynamic to show an
impact on pricing pressures and that’s why the ECB will be
forced to raise  interest rates  further in October.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank last month forecast euro-
region inflation to average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2011. Trichet said last week that risks to the
inflation outlook remain “on the upside.”  ‘Inflationary Pressures’  In Germany, annual inflation held at 2.4 percent in June.
French consumer prices rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier,
while increasing 3 percent in Italy and  Spain . Greek inflation
was at 3.1 percent and  Portugal  reported a gain of 3.3 percent.
The statistics office didn’t publish an inflation rate for
Ireland.  ECB council members have signaled concern that rising
energy costs will feed into wage demands, entrenching inflation.
While crude oil prices have retreated 9.2 percent over the past
three months, they’re still up 7.3 percent this year.  “The Governing Council will continue to monitor very
closely all developments with respect to upside risks to  price
stability ,” the ECB said in its  monthly report  published today.
It’s important that faster inflation “does not translate into
second-round effects in price and wage-setting behavior and lead
to broad-based inflationary pressures.”  Waning Sentiment  Companies may struggle to pass on higher costs as the euro-
region recovery falters. European economic confidence dropped in
June and manufacturing growth weakened. In Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, investor sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low.
French business confidence also dropped in June.  The European Commission said in its quarterly report
published yesterday in Brussels that the euro-region’s recovery
“remains on track,” with growth “expected to slow down” and
to “remain uneven” across member states.  While rising  oil prices  “generally damage growth,
increases driven by higher demand tend to be less negative for
growth than those driven by lower supply,” the report said.
“Recently, both supply disruptions as well as higher world
demand for oil appear to be at work.”  Euro-region core inflation, which excludes volatile costs
such as energy and serves as a gauge for underlying price
pressures in an economy, quickened to 1.6 percent in June from
1.5 percent in the previous month, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  