-- 
Greece’s Eurobank Sees Turkish Unit Stake Sale by Year End

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-18T09:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/eurobank-of-greece-may-sell-majority-stake-in-turkish-unit-1-.html
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) ,  Greece ’s
second-largest bank, expects to close the sale of as much as 70
percent of its Turkish unit by the end of the year.  “We estimate this will be closed by the end of the year,”
Nikolaos Karamouzis, deputy chief executive officer at the
Athens-based lender, said in a phone interview today. He added
that was interest in the sale and that the transaction would add
about 80 basis points to the bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio.  Eurobank’s planned 150 million-euro ($211 million)
convertible bond will add another 30 basis points to the ratio
and unallocated general provisions of 220 million euros an
additional 50 basis points, he said.  Eurobank was one of two Greek lenders who fell short of
European stress tests released on Friday, with a Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 4.9 percent under an
adverse scenario, missing the 5 percent minimum designated as
necessary by the  European Banking Authority . That’s 58 million
euros ($82 million) short of the required capital target.  The ratio came to 7.6 percent when accounting for
Eurobank’s sale of a stake in Polbank EFG, its Polish business,
to  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in February and its merger
with Dias Portfolio Investment Fund.  The Poland and Dias deals alone, both completed, bring the
bank to 6 percent, “marginally over that grey area between 5
percent and six percent,” Karamouzis said.  Eurobank said last week it may sell a stake in Turkish unit
Eurobank Tekfen, allowing the bank to re-direct resources to its
international operations while strengthening its capital and
liquidity. Karamouzis said the bank didn’t plan the sale of any
other international units for the moment.  The disposal is the second for Eurobank after its sale of a
stake in Polbank EFG to Raiffeisen in February. Raiffeisen paid
490 million euros for a 70 percent stake in money-losing
Polbank, helping lift Eurobank’s balance sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  