-- 
European Stocks Drop as Italian Yields Climb, Moody’s Reviews U.S. Rating

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-07-14T16:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/european-stock-futures-in-retreat-as-moody-s-puts-u-s-on-review-on-debt.html
European stocks fell for the fourth
day in five after Italy auctioned bonds and Moody’s Investors
Service said the American government may lose the Aaa credit
rating it’s held since 1917.  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , the U.K.-based oilfield services and
engineering provider, decreased 3.8 percent as Barclays Plc
advised selling the shares. Software AG plunged 16 percent, its
largest slide in more than two years, after posting a decline in
sales. SAP AG, the world’s biggest business-software maker, lost
2.8 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index sank 0.8 percent to 267.68 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has fallen 2.2 percent
this week amid concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
will spread to the larger economies of Italy and Spain.  “Moody’s action overnight was a response to the small but
rising risk of a short-lived default,” wrote  Jim Reid , a global
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, in a report today.
“Moody’s is now the rating agency putting most pressure on
Congress to act.”  Moody’s put the U.S. on review for the first time since
1996 as talks to raise the country’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
stalled, adding to concern that political gridlock will lead to
default. Even a temporary default will probably have “large
systemic effects” on the economy and Treasury finances by
disrupting money funds, the repurchase-agreement market and
foreign investors’ willingness to buy the government’s debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Italy  Bond Auction  Italy sold five-year bonds at the highest yield in three
years. The Treasury priced 1.25 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of
2016 bonds today at an average yield of 4.93 percent, compared
with a yield of 3.9 percent at a previous auction on June 14.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won a confidence vote in
the Italian Senate on an austerity package aimed at balancing
the budget in 2014, paving the way for the Chamber of Deputies
to pass the plan tomorrow.  Greece’s credit rating was cut three levels to Fitch
Ratings’ lowest grade for any country in the world as the
company followed rivals and said that a default is a “real
possibility.”  European stocks had increased yesterday as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s prepared to provide more
stimulus if needed and as  China ’s economic growth beat
estimates. The Stoxx 600 has rallied 87 percent including
dividend income since March 2009 as governments and central
banks from Washington to  London  enacted emergency stimulus
measures to revive the economy.  U.S. Earnings Season  European stocks recouped some losses after JPMorgan Chase &
Co. posted second-quarter earnings that topped estimates.  Germany’s Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen snubbed the European
Union’s bank stress tests, refusing to give the  European Banking
Authority  permission to publish all of its data. The stress test
results will be published tomorrow after the close of European
equity markets.  National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 western
European market today. The U.K. FTSE 100 Index slid 1 percent,
Germany’s DAX Index declined 0.7 percent and France’s CAC 40
Index retreated 1.1 percent.  Petrofac dropped 3.8 percent to 1,445 pence after the
company was downgraded to “underweight” from “equal weight”
at Barclays.  SAP,  Software AG (SOW)   Software AG tumbled 16 percent to 35.19 euros for the
biggest decline in the Stoxx 600 as Germany’s second-largest
maker of business software reported second-quarter revenue that
missed analysts’ estimates due to currency moves and its failure
to sell licenses. Software AG also said that demand to implement
products from SAP fell from the same period a year earlier. SAP
slipped 2.8 percent to 40.86 euros.  Accor SA (AC)  and  Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  fell 2.2
percent to 29.64 euros and 3.2 percent to 1,241 pence,
respectively, after rival Marriott forecast third-quarter
earnings of 25 to 29 cents per share. That fell short of
analysts’ estimates for earnings per share of 30 cents.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGO)  slumped 4.1 percent to 421.3
pence after saying that advertising sales declined 7 percent in
the 13 weeks through July 3.  Mothercare Plc (MTC)  decreased 1.4 percent to 405 pence as first-
quarter U.K. comparative sales declined 4.3 percent.  Storebrand ASA (STB)  surged 5.5 percent to 46.48 kroner for the
biggest gain on the Stoxx 600. Norway’s largest publicly traded
insurer posted second-quarter profit today that beat analysts’
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  