-- 
Lewis Relishes Experience of Playing With Namesake Watson at British Open

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/lewis-relishes-experience-of-playing-with-namesake-watson-at-british-open.html
Tom Lewis didn’t need to worry about
embarrassing himself in front of playing partner  Tom Watson , the
man he was named after, during the  British Open ’s first round.  Lewis shot 5-under-par 65 yesterday, the lowest score ever
recorded by an amateur at golf’s oldest major championship, to
share the opening-round lead with Denmark’s  Thomas Bjorn .  “To play with Tom was just a great experience and to shoot
a great score in front of Tom was a great experience as well,”
Lewis, from Welwyn, north of London, said in a news conference.
“I couldn’t have asked for more.”  The 20-year-old Lewis birdied four of the last five holes
at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,  England , to better by one the
amateur record at the Open set by Frank Stranahan in 1950 and
matched by  Tiger Woods  in 1996 and  Justin Rose  in 1998.  Lewis, who won the British Boys Amateur title at Royal St.
George’s two years ago, was named after five-time Open champion
Watson, the favorite golfer of his father Brian, a former player
on the European Tour.  “My brother is Jack, so you can imagine who that was
after,” Lewis said.  Eight-time major champion Watson, 61, was impressed by
Lewis, who he said “could be my grandson.”  “He’s quite a refined player at age 20,” Watson, who shot
2-over-par 72, told reporters. “I just had to smile inside to
watch him play. I certainly didn’t play particularly well but I
certainly was impressed by the way he played.”  Introduction  Lewis said he introduced himself to Watson three days ago
after he saw the draw sheet.  “I thought it was good to introduce myself before the
first tee on Thursday because I think I would have been more
nervous than I already was,” he said. “He put his arm around
me and asked me how old I was.”  Though Lewis had about 30 family and friends following his
first round at the course, one person was missing.  “My dad was probably too nervous to come,” he said.
“He’s probably watching me on TV.”  His father probably will also avoid coming for the second
round, Lewis said.  “I think he’s even more nervous now,” he said.  Lewis left school at the age of 16 to concentrate on golf.
He plans to play in the amateur Walker Cup competition in
September and then possibly turn pro.  Though in a tie for the lead, Lewis realizes he has to keep
his focus. It’s not unprecedented for a first-round leader at
the Open to miss the cut after two rounds. Rodney Pampling led
at Carnoustie in 1999 before shooting 15-over-par 86 in the
second round to be eliminated.  “There’s always going to be players up there, the best
players in the world,” Lewis said. “I’m just going to have to
do as well as I possibly can and hit it like I did today and
I’ll be okay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  