-- 
Ex-UBS Customer Pleads Guilty to Hiding Swiss Bank Account

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-14T18:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ex-ubs-client-to-plead-guilty-in-new-york-to-hiding-swiss-bank-account.html
A New York podiatrist pleaded guilty
to failing to report his $3.11 million Swiss account at  UBS AG (UBSN) 
to U.S. authorities.  Anton Ginzburg, 51, admitted today in federal court in
 Brooklyn , New York, to failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank
and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR, for 2007.  “I knew that I should file this form but I did not do
so,” he told U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert M. Levy.  Ginzburg’s case is part of a U.S. crackdown on  tax evasion .
Zurich-based UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, agreed in 2009 to
pay $780 million to defer prosecution for aiding tax evasion by
U.S. clients. The bank admitted that its Swiss private bankers
helped wealthy Americans evade U.S. taxes from 2000 to 2007.  Jeffrey Harris, Ginzburg’s lawyer at  Rubin, Winston,
Diercks, Harris & Cooke LLP  in  Washington , declined to comment
after the hearing.  “This is just a case where a guy had an account with
after-tax dollars, lost money and did not file a form,” he said
in a phone interview earlier today.  Ginzburg agreed to pay a civil penalty of half the
account’s balance. He faces a maximum of five years in prison.
Levy set sentencing for Nov. 17.  “Those who willfully conceal assets overseas undermine the
playing field for all taxpayers,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
said in a statement.  U.S. citizens or residents with a foreign financial account
worth more than $10,000 in a particular year must disclose the
account to the Treasury Department in an FBAR report by June 30
of the following year, according to Lynch’s statement.  The case is U.S. v. Ginzburg, 11-cr-432, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 