-- 
Facebook Might Be to Blame for Your Divorce: Sheril Kirshenbaum

-- B y   S h e r i l   K i r s h e n b a u m
-- 
2011-07-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/facebook-might-be-to-blame-for-your-divorce-sheril-kirshenbaum.html
In the 1960s, young Americans 
questioned social traditions one after another, ringing in the 
feminist movement and celebrating sexual freedom. Today they 
have become the divorced generation.  While the overall divorce rate in the U.S. has declined 
over the past 20 years, it has doubled for Americans aged 50 
and over. Today, more than one in three in this category has 
ended a marriage.   No doubt, there have been a variety of causes, including 
empty nests, midlife crises, better health in late middle age 
(allowing the energy to pursue extramarital affairs) and even 
Generation Me’s vaunted desire to remain forever young. But
one force that is helping to fracture those marriages has 
received less attention: the people who are now approaching 
 retirement age  were unprepared for an altered technological 
landscape that allows them to reconnect with long-lost love.  More than 80 percent of  divorce attorneys recently 
surveyed  by the  American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers  said 
that in the past few years they have witnessed “an increase 
in the number of cases using social networking evidence.” 
Although it is difficult to definitively establish cause and
effect here, it seems likely that the divorce rate among baby 
boomers has been elevated by the Internet.  Nancy Kalish , a professor of psychology at California State 
University, Sacramento, suspects that online connections may 
lead to growing numbers of what she terms “accidental affairs,” 
meaning they involve people who don’t set out to have a
physical or emotional relationship outside their marriage. 
Kalish studies couples who reunite after years apart.  Before there was an Internet, when someone wanted to track 
down a past love, he or she had to go through the effort of 
locating a friend or relative to make contact. “Unless they were 
single, divorced or widowed, they just didn’t typically do
that,” Kalish told me.  Getting Reacquainted  But now the ghosts of romance past are alive and well 
online, popping up on chat services and sending greetings on 
Facebook. In the 21st century, old friends are virtually at our 
fingertips, and a seemingly harmless email sent to someone with 
the innocent intention of “catching up” can quickly go further. 
Many of those who engage in accidental affairs tell Kalish that 
they had happy marriages before they strayed. “They still bear
responsibility for the affairs, of course; no one made them 
write, call or meet in a hotel room,” Kalish said. “But these 
are probably people who would not have cheated years ago, even 
with a lost love.”  What makes the possibility of reconnection so alluring?  Our brains often romanticize the past, in ways not entirely 
within our conscious control. Recollecting people, places and 
experiences can affect our neurochemistry.  Years or decades after ending a relationship, the name or 
photograph of a former partner has the potential to stir up some 
of the same feelings that sparked the love affair in the first 
place. It may cause, for example, an increase in uptake of the
brain chemical dopamine, which can in turn promote feelings of 
desire, or even craving, for that person. The memory may also 
lead to a surge of serotonin, another neurotransmitter, and 
this can trigger obsessive thoughts.  Finally, there is oxytocin, a hormone that operates in 
the brain. Recent  research at Mount Sinai School of Medicine , 
in  New York City , suggests that oxytocin fosters our sense of
attachment to others and in many people also enhances positive 
memories of close relationships.  Love Lasts  In other words, powerful feelings don’t necessarily 
disappear after a breakup, even after many years. Stimulating 
the memory can release the associated chemicals -- which can 
then resume their effects on our emotions and behavior.  If those feelings drive the two people to arrange a 
meeting, still greater temptations may arise. A former lover’s 
voice, or even scent, can unleash many vivid memories stored in
the hippocampus and frontal cortex of the brain. Because of the 
way humans are wired, a reunion, even if meant to be platonic 
and lighthearted, may suddenly feel very intimate.  That isn’t to say that people can’t control their own 
actions when strong emotions are involved. It’s just that 
Internet reunions can be more challenging than people 
anticipate. A click of the mouse can end up rekindling an old 
flame that is difficult to put out.  (Sheril Kirshenbaum is a research scientist at the University 
of Texas’s Center for International Energy and Environmental 
Policy and the author of “The Science of Kissing.” The opinions 
expressed are her own.)  For more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Sheril Kirshenbaum at  srkirshenbaum@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald 
 mduenwald@bloomberg.net  