-- 
Fast Retailing Profit Falls on Higher Material Costs, Quake

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-07-14T08:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/fast-retailing-profit-falls-on-higher-material-costs-quake-1-.html
Fast Retailing Co.,  Asia ’s biggest
clothing chain, had a decline in fiscal third-quarter profit as
prices for cotton rose and the March 11 earthquake disrupted
business at some stores.  Operating income fell 4.6 percent to 22.5 billion yen ($285
million) in the three months ended May 31. Sales rose 3.5
percent to 195 billion yen. The figures were derived from a
statement by the Yamaguchi, Japan-based company today.  Fast Retailing, owner of the Uniqlo and Theory brands,
curtailed operations at some stores after the magnitude-9
temblor and ensuing tsunami caused the nation’s worst disaster
since World War II. The company said it is benefiting from the
government-led “Super Cool Biz” campaign promoting casual
office wear as employers reduce air conditioning to save power.  “Our sales are doing well from the end of June thanks to
the hot summer,” boosting demand for sweat-wicking underwear
and “Super Cool Biz” clothing, Group Executive Vice President
Nobuo Domae told reporters today in  Tokyo .  Fast Retailing rose 0.4 percent to 13,530 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo before the company’s earnings announcement. The
stock has gained 4.6 percent this year, compared with a 4.7
percent decline for the broader Topix index.  Third-quarter net income fell 0.8 percent to 11.7 billion
yen, partly because costs for the cotton used to make its jeans
and chino pants climbed.  Cotton Prices Spike  Average cotton prices more than doubled in the three months
ended May 31 from the previous year. Benchmark futures averaged
$177.76 in the fiscal third quarter, compared with $81.79 in the
year-earlier period, based on the most active contract for the
fiber traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Fast Retailing will combat higher materials prices by
offering fewer discounts, Domae said. The company has also said
it intends to expand overseas, where sales jumped 29 percent in
the third quarter, adding stores in countries including  China ,
the U.S. and  Thailand .  Profit will probably drop 2.7 percent to 60 billion yen in
the year ending Aug. 1, the company said today, leaving its
previous forecast unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  