-- 
FBI Investigating Allegations News Corp. Hacked Into 9/11 Victims’ Phones

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-15T20:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/fbi-said-to-investigate-news-corp-in-possible-sept-11-victim-hacking.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch defended his handling of the phone-hacking crisis
as the FBI began a probe into whether employees tried to hack
the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “We’re aware of certain allegations pertaining to a
possible hacking by News Corp. personnel and we’re looking into
those charges,”  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s New York office, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Murdoch, in an interview with the News Corp.-owned Wall
Street Journal, said an independent committee led by a
“distinguished non-employee” will investigate the phone-
hacking allegations. The company has handled the crisis
“extremely well,” while there were “minor mistakes,” he
said.  The scandal led News Corp. to abandon its $12.6 billion
(7.8 billion-pound) bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Last week it closed the 168-year-old
News of the World tabloid, whose employees are accused of
hacking voice-mails, including those of murder victims, and
bribing police for stories.  Former News of the World editor Rebekah Brooks resigned
today from her post as chief executive officer of News
International, which publishes News Corp. newspapers in the U.K.
Murdoch has said he plans to start a Sunday tabloid.  Murdoch, 80, and his son  James Murdoch , the company’s
deputy chief operating officer, are scheduled to testify about
the phone-hacking scandal before the U.K. Parliament on July 19.
Brooks also is scheduled to testify.  Shares Rise  News Corp. rose 21 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $15.64 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading in  New York  at 4 p.m.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The Murdochs must “cooperate fully” with inquiries into
the phone hacking scandal, Kingdom Holding Co.’s Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Al Saud said in a BBC interview late yesterday.  “We hope as this unfolds that the truth will come out,”
said Alwaleed, who has a 7 percent voting stake in News Corp.
and had called for Brooks’s removal. “The facts will come out
imminently.” It is “very important to me,” he said.  News Corp. has hired criminal defense lawyer Brendan V. Sullivan Jr. of the Washington law firm Williams & Connolly LLP,
the New York Times reported. Sullivan’s clients have included
former Alaska Senator Ted Stevens, ex-New York Stock Exchange
Chairman Richard Grasso and Reagan White House aide Oliver North. Sullivan didn’t’ immediately return a phone and e-mail
messages from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Sept. 11 Attacks  U.S. Representative  Peter King , the Republican chairman of
the House Committee on  Homeland Security , asked FBI Director
Robert Mueller in a July 13 letter to investigate whether News
of the World employees tried to access voice mails belonging to
victims of the 2001 terrorist attacks through bribery and
illegal wiretapping.  Julie Henderson , a News Corp. spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
today.  King’s request to Mueller was one of several by elected
officials and media watchdog groups to investigate News Corp.
King, who represents part of New York’s  Long Island , said in the
letter that his district lost 150 people in the attacks.  Possible Violations  At least six U.S. lawmakers yesterday asked government
agencies, including the Justice Department and the Securities
and Exchange Commission, to investigate possible violations of
the law.  Joining the congressman in seeking a U.S. government probe
were New Jersey senators  Frank Lautenberg  and  Robert Menendez ,
both Democrats.  “If there is a chance that the victims of 9/11 and their
families were victimized again by tabloids seeking to profit off
their grief, we must bring those responsible to justice,”
Menendez said in a statement on his website.  Menendez, in a separate Internet posting, said he has
written to British Prime Minister  David Cameron , seeking U.K.
cooperation in sharing information on that nation’s
investigation.  “It is imperative that the U.S. Government have the
opportunity to access this information, along with all other
relevant evidence to safeguard the rights, privacy, and safety
of American citizens,” the senator said.  ‘Suffered Enough’  Lautenberg, in his own Web posting, said “the families of
victims have suffered enough.”  In a July 13 letter, he asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and SEC Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro to investigate
whether News Corp. or its subsidiaries breached the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  The act makes it a crime for a U.S.-based company, such as
News Corp., to pay foreign officials to get or keep business.  Holder today confirmed the existence of a U.S. probe in
public comments he made while in Sydney.  “There have been members of Congress in the  United States 
who have asked us to investigate the same allegations, and we
are progressing in that regard using the appropriate federal law
enforcement agencies in the U.S.,” Holder told a group of
Australian justice officials, according to  Laura Sweeney , a
spokeswoman for the U.S.  Justice Department .  Won’t Defer to U.K.  The U.S. probes could result in the filing of federal
charges against News Corp. agents, two American former
prosecutors said.  “I think it’s serious,” Ronald S. Safer, a white-collar
criminal defense lawyer who was a federal prosecutor in  Chicago 
for 10 years, said of the FBI probe.  “I do not think that they will defer to U.K.
authorities,” said Safer, a managing partner of Schiff Hardin
LLP. “If they find that there was hacking into those accounts
that amounts to an unlawful intercept, then they will
prosecute.”  Depending on how such a crime was carried out, it could be
prosecuted as an illegal wiretap or as  wire fraud , Safer said.
Any defenses to those crimes would be technical in nature,
amounting to challenging whether the alleged acts fit the legal
definitions of the charged offense.  “The conduct itself would be indefensible,” he said.
Hacking into the voice mail of a dead person wouldn’t lessen the
offense, Safer said in a phone interview.  Crime Against U.S.  “The crime is against the United States and not an
individual,” he said.  While prosecutors could be time-barred from filing charges
for those crimes if they were committed more than five years
ago, those limits could be circumvented by charging multiple
defendants with a continuing conspiracy, Safer said.  If prosecutors can show an organizational pattern or
practice of violating wire fraud laws within the past five
years, they could also potentially file racketeering charges,
Safer said.  Jeffrey H. Cramer, a former federal prosecutor in Chicago
and a former state prosecutor in New York, said in a phone
interview that the FBI isn’t “going off on a lark.”  “9/11 victims are held dear,” said Cramer, now managing
partner of the Chicago office of international risk consultant
and investigations firm Kroll Inc. “If there’s even some
allegation that they’ve been victimized again, absolutely
they’re going to look into it.”  Cramer said he would be “hard pressed” to think of a
defense against such an allegation.  “If the investigation leads to anything,” he said, “the
query would be, ‘Who did it and who authorized it? How high up
on the corporate ladder?’”  Behavior Protocol  In his interview with the Journal,  Rupert Murdoch  said the
company isn’t separating its newspaper assets, which also
include U.K. tabloid The Sun, the Times of  London  and the New
York Post. The company will establish a “protocol for
behavior” for reporters across the company, he said.  Murdoch said his son dealt with the crisis “as fast as he
could” and his position at News Corp. is unchanged.  Rupert Murdoch met today with the parents of a murdered
schoolgirl whose voice-mail messages were hacked and deleted by
News of the World reporters in 2002 while police were still
searching for her.  “I said I was appalled to find out what happened,”
Murdoch said after meeting the parents of Milly Dowler. “I
apologized and I have nothing else to say.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  