-- 
Foodmakers May Change Recipes for Fare Advertised to Children

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T14:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/foodmakers-may-change-recipes-for-fare-advertised-to-children.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Kellogg Co. (K)  are among
17 companies that agreed to stop advertising some foods and
beverages to children after 2013 unless they reduce the sodium,
sugar and fat, less stringent restrictions than a U.S. plan.  Under the voluntary nutrition criteria, unveiled today by
the Council of Better Business Bureaus in Arlington,  Virginia ,
main dishes marketed to kids younger than 12 can’t exceed 350
calories a serving, and cereals are limited to 10 grams of added
sugar. Kellogg’s current voluntary  standard  for added sugar in
cereals marketed to kids is 12 grams.  Proposed U.S. guidelines call for tougher benchmarks than
the industry is proposing and cover ads targeting anyone younger
than 18. The Obama administration is trying to reduce a
childhood obesity rate that has almost tripled since 1980 to 17
percent, or 12.5 million Americans, according to the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention . U.S. consumers spend an
estimated $147 billion a year on obesity-related medical costs,
with Medicare and Medicaid covering 42 percent.  The new industry plan is “really a ground-breaking
agreement with the leading food and beverage companies,” said
Elaine Kolish, vice president and director of the council’s
 Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative . “For first
time, companies are going to be using uniform nutrition criteria
instead of company-specific criteria.”  No Packaging Restrictions  Participating companies include Nestle and  Kraft Foods
Inc. (KFT) , the two biggest foodmakers, as well as  Battle Creek ,
Michigan-based Kellogg, the largest U.S. breakfast-cereal maker.  Unlike voluntary guidelines proposed by a federal working
group in April, the industry plan doesn’t apply advertising
restrictions to food packaging. The two-year-old working group,
created by Congress, includes officials from the CDC, Federal
Trade Commission,  Food and Drug Administration  and Department of
Agriculture.  The proposed  U.S. guidelines  would apply to 20 types of
advertising and promotion, including food packages, in-store
displays, and television, print and Internet ads. The plan would
urge companies not to target those materials to children and
teens for products with more than 13 grams of added sugars, 210
grams of sodium or 1 gram of saturated fat.  The estimated costs of obesity to government health
programs came in a  report  July 7 from the  Trust for America’s
Health  and  Robert Wood Johnson Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  