-- 
Frank Attacks S&P for Bailout Report, ‘Disastrous’ Performance

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-14T20:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/frank-attacks-s-p-for-bailout-report-disastrous-performance.html
Representative  Barney Frank , the co-
author of the Dodd-Frank Act, has a problem with  Standard &
Poor’s  analysis that there still are U.S. banks that are “too-
big-to-fail.”  “Having read your July 12th report, ‘The U.S. Government
Says Support for Banks Will Be Different Next Time - But Will
It?’ I would suggest that you reconsider your apparent decision
to diversify into legislative analysis and political
prognostication,” Frank wrote today to Deven Sharma, the
president of the ratings firm.  Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, helped shepherd through
the re-write of financial rules last year in the wake of the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. The law gives
federal regulators the authority to seize and wind-down the
largest and most complex financial institutions -- a power that
was lacking when Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. failed in
September 2008.  The S&P report, authored by Rodrigo Quintanilla, says that
“under certain circumstances and with selected systemically
important financial institutions, future extraordinary
government support is still possible.”  Frank, who in the letter attacked the ratings firm for its
“disastrous, and unfortunately consequential, attempt to
appropriately rate credit default swaps and other derivatives,”
said the financial regulation law enacted in July 2010
explicitly eliminates the “possibility of future bailouts.”  “Any fair reading of the mood of the American public and
the appetite of Congress suggests that there is absolutely no
support for more bank bailouts,” Frank wrote. “The fact that
you have come to a contrary conclusion reinforces my
recommendation that you focus on your core business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  