-- 
FSB May Impose Losses on Failing-Bank Bondholders to Avert More Bailouts

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/fsb-to-seek-agreement-on-bondholder-losses-at-failing-banks.html
Global regulators will consider
forcing senior bondholders of failing banks to take losses to
shield taxpayers from future bailouts, amid concerns the
measures may raise lenders’ funding costs.  The Financial Stability Board will meet in Paris on July 18
to weigh draft international measures to guard against a new
wave of state rescues. The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s plans to toughen capital rules for the world’s
most systemically important lenders are likely to be endorsed
without major changes, said two people familiar with the talks,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations aren’t
public.  “The problem with writedowns is that it creates
contagion,” Jesper Berg, senior vice president at  Denmark ’s
biggest mortgage bank, Nykredit A/S, said in an e-mail. “That
is what we have seen in Denmark. It is somewhat similar to the
impact of a rescheduling of Greek debt,” he said. “You would
prefer to implement such policies in more peaceful times.”  Banks are warning that plans by regulators for new rules to
end the need for bailouts may harm the economic recovery.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services chief,
published draft proposals in January to impose losses on failing
lenders’ senior bondholders -- a step that firms including
 Citigroup Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  have said may make
it more expensive for banks to raise funds.  Forcing bondholders to contribute to the costs of
resurrecting or closing lenders on the cusp of failure “can be
good for financial stability, taxpayers and even bondholders
themselves as it can protect institutions against bank runs and
value-destroying bankruptcies,” said Sony Kapoor, managing
director of policy group Re-Define  Europe  in  London .  World Leaders  World leaders at the Group of 20 nations asked the FSB to
agree on measures for winding down failing banks without wider
repercussions for the financial system. Such resolution
processes can lead to either a bank being broken up and its
assets sold on or a lender being resurrected with a smaller
balance sheet with higher  capital ratios .  The EU and U.S. have moved ahead with plans to force banks
to draw up so-called living wills showing how they could be
wound down in a crisis.  The FSB is examining “instruments that the resolution
authorities of each country should have” and how to tighten co-
operation between different national supervisors, Bank of
England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said in a speech in London
on June 29. The board will publish a consultative paper this
month, Tucker said.  Failing Banks  Bank regulators need greater powers to close failing banks
in an orderly fashion during a crisis, the Basel committee said
in a  report  published on July 6.  The FSB is examining how supervisors could impose a “bail
in” of bondholders at failing banks, the board said in April.  The board’s work covers “financial stability implications
of both contractual and statutory bail-in instruments,” the FSB
said at the time. Such an approach would force bondholders to
either take a loss on their investment or have it converted into
stock, so improving lenders’ ability to absorb losses and to
cover the costs of resolution.  “The exercise is difficult, agreements on principles are
probably the best to hope for,” said Berg. One “very difficult
issue is harmonizing these procedures across countries,” he
said. “The  Nordic countries , which have similar bankruptcy
legislation etc., have tried to do this over the last decade or
more but have not succeeded.”  Danish Lenders  The Danish government has taken a lead in forcing senior
creditors at crisis banks to take losses. The June 24 collapse
of Fjordbank Mors A/S, which had about $1.4 billion in deposits,
triggered Europe’s toughest bank resolution rules for a second
time and left senior creditors facing a 26 percent writedown on
their holdings.  This was the second time that the Nordic country’s bail-in
rules had been applied, after the collapse of Amagerbanken A/S’s
in February. The lender was broken up by the Danish authorities,
with parts of the bank then sold on to BankNordik P/F, based in
the Faroese capital of Torshavn.  Under the FSB rules, bondholders would likely face losses
that reflect the normal “order of priority” for compensating
investors in failed firms, Tucker said last month.  The FSB brings together finance ministry officials,
regulators, and central bankers from G-20 nations.  The board asked the Basel committee to work on detailed
capital rules for banks judged systemically important to the
global economy. The Basel group said last month those lenders
should hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in additional
capital as part of efforts to prevent another financial crisis.  As many as 30 banks may face some level of surcharges,
according to a person familiar with the discussions. The plans
will be released for public comment by the end of this month,
the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 