-- 
Galleon, Barclays, Primary Global, SAP-Oracle in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-14T10:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/galleon-barclays-primary-global-sap-oracle-in-court-news.html
Danielle Chiesi, convicted of
insider trading as part of the Galleon Group LLC case, agreed to
pay $540,000 to settle related allegations by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  A final judgment in the case, signed by U.S. District Judge
 Jed S. Rakoff  in  New York , was posted on the court’s electronic
docket yesterday with Chiesi’s signed consent dated June 29.  In addition to her liability for $500,000 in principal and
$40,535 in interest, Chiesi agreed not to violate SEC rules
prohibiting her from directly or indirectly engaging in
fraudulent or deceptive practices including insider trading.  Chiesi, 45, who was an analyst at New Castle Funds LLC, and
 Mark Kurland , New Castle’s co-founder, both pleaded guilty in
connection with a government investigation of hedge-fund insider
trading centered on Galleon and its co-founder, Raj Rajaratnam.  The SEC first sued Rajaratnam, Chiesi, Kurland and three
other people in October 2009. Her agreement resolves allegations
contained in a revised complaint filed last year.  Chiesi’s lawyer, Alan Kaufman, yesterday declined to
comment on the agreement.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message seeking
comment.  On Jan. 19, Chiesi pleaded guilty to three counts of
conspiracy, telling U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell she was
“deeply ashamed” of what she had done.  Prosecutors have said she should get from 37 to 46 months
in prison when she is sentenced on July 20.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-1184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Galleon
Management LP, 09cv8811, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Home Loan Banks Seek to Intervene in BofA Mortgage Accord  Six federal home loan banks sought to join a case in which
a New York judge will decide whether to approve an $8.5 billion
settlement by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  with  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  over mortgage-securitization trusts.  “The FHLBs have not made decisions whether to oppose the
settlement,” the Federal Home Loan Banks of Boston, Chicago,
Indianapolis, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Seattle said in a
filing yesterday in New York state court in Manhattan. They are
seeking to intervene because “the procedures that BNYM has
established for approval of the proposed settlement will not
provide them enough information on which to make careful and
informed decisions.”  Earlier yesterday, TM1 Investors asked to join in the case
and a group of investors operating under the name Walnut Place
pursued an earlier bid to intervene. Public pension funds
including the Policemen’s Annuity & Benefit Fund of Chicago, the
Westmoreland County Employee Retirement System, City of Grand
Rapids General Retirement System and City of Grand Rapids Police
& Fire Retirement System have also sought to intervene.  BNY Mellon, as trustee of the 530 trusts, filed a petition
June 29 seeking approval of the settlement. The agreement
requires Bank of America, its Countrywide Financial unit or both
to pay $8.5 billion.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon,
declined to comment. Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of
America, declined to comment.  The request by the home loan banks comes a day after it was
revealed that New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  is
seeking client information from more than 20 companies as part
of a state probe of the proposed accord. Schneiderman’s office
sent letters dated July 7 to companies including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and TCW Group Inc. regarding their
participation in the deal.  New York State  Supreme Court  Justice Barbara R. Kapnick set
a hearing on the settlement for Nov. 17.  The home loan banks said in their filing yesterday that
Countrywide and Bank of America face liabilities to repurchase
defective loans that are far greater than the amount of the
proposed settlement.  “The banks need disclosure to understand why BNYM decided
to accept the proposed settlement amount and to decide whether
to object to that amount,” they said in court papers.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Union Carbide $322 Million Asbestos Verdict Put on Hold  A $322 million jury verdict against  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s
Union Carbide unit and Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. was put on
hold while the Mississippi Supreme Court considers whether the
trial judge should be disqualified.  Union Carbide claims Circuit Court Judge Eddie Bowen, who
presided in the Raleigh, Mississippi, trial over a former oil
worker’s claim he was sickened by asbestos, should have bowed
out of the case because the judge’s father suffered from
asbestosis, a disease caused by the mineral.  Union Carbide said the companies were denied a fair trial.
Bowen might be biased, the company said in its petition to the
state high court, citing his father’s illness, “improper
comments on the evidence,” and rulings during the trial.  The May 4 award is the largest ever made to a single
asbestos case plaintiff, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A state punitive-damages cap would erase at least
$260 million.  The Mississippi court stopped proceedings in the case in an
order signed by Chief Justice William L. Waller Jr. The ruling
means the award won’t be enforced until the allegations are
resolved.  “If there’s a disqualification, you would have to retry it
with a different judge,” said  Carl Tobias , a University of
Richmond law professor in Virginia. “That’s the way most courts
would handle it.” The state Supreme Court might reject the
motion to disqualify the judge, he said..  The plaintiff, Thomas Brown, developed asbestosis after
being exposed to the toxic fibers while mixing drilling mud on
oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. He said Union Carbide and
Chevron Phillips Chemical knew asbestos is toxic and didn’t warn
him. Brown is on oxygen 24 hours a day, said his attorney, D.
Allen Hossley.  The jury verdict included $300 million in punitive damages,
awarded equally against Union Carbide and Chevron Phillips
Chemical. Mississippi law would limit the punitive award to $40
million, or $20 million per defendant.  The case is Brown v. Phillips Co., 2006-196, Circuit Court,
Smith County, Mississippi (Raleigh).  For more, click here.  Armor Holdings to Pay $16 Million to Settle Bribery Claims  Armor Holdings Inc., the military-truck maker now a
subsidiary of  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , agreed to pay $16 million to
resolve U.S. claims it bribed a United Nations official to win
contracts connected to peacekeeping missions.  The company will pay $10.3 million to resolve criminal
allegations and $5.7 million to settle related civil claims, the
Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission said
in separate statements yesterday. The violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, which began as early as 2001, took place
before BAE bought the company in 2007, prosecutors said.  In 2001 and 2003, Armor employees set up sham consulting
contracts to funnel bribes to a UN procurement official in
exchange for information about competitors’ bids to provide body
armor for peacekeeping troops, according to the complaint. Armor
won about $6 million in contracts through the corrupt payments
for a profit of about $1 million, the Justice Department said.  “Armor and BAE Systems have cooperated extensively with
the government since this conduct was first reported in April
2007,” BAE spokesman Brian Roehrkasse said in a statement. As a
result of Armor’s “disclosure, cooperation, and extensive
remediation, the DOJ and SEC have entered into settlements that
close the matter without any FCPA prosecution or litigation.”  The criminal probe by the Justice Department was settled
with a non-prosecution agreement that cited the company’s
cooperation and internal investigation in the case. In settling
the SEC claims, Armor didn’t admit or deny the allegations.  The Justice Department said Richard Bistrong, who worked in
Armor’s international sales unit, and another unidentified
executive arranged for the UN agent to receive more than
$200,000 in commissions for the 2001 and 2003 contracts.
Bistrong pleaded guilty last year to bribing UN and Dutch
officials to win body armor and pepper-spray contracts.  Brady Toensing, Bistrong’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Armor
Holdings Inc., 1:11-cv-01271, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  ThyssenKrupp Wins $225 Million Cartel-Fine Cut, Otis Loses  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  won a court appeal to slice 159.9 million
euros ($225 million) off a 479.7 million-euro antitrust fine for
carving up the markets for elevators and escalators.  The  European Union’s General Court  cut the fine for
ThyssenKrupp and several of its units, saying the EU antitrust
regulator wrongly cited repeated infringements by the companies
as a reason for increasing the penalties. The Luxembourg-based
court upheld fines against  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis
unit, Finland’s  Kone Oyj (KNEBV)  and  Schindler Holding AG. (SCHN)   The European Commission  penalized  five companies 992.3
million euros in February 2007 for their roles in the elevator
cartel. Appeals by ThyssenKrupp and its units, whose overall
fine was the biggest in the cartel, made up about half of the
cases before the court. Otis was fined 224.9 million euros, Kone
142.1 million euros and Schindler 143.7 million euros.  The elevator companies were accused of setting prices in
Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands between at
least 1995 and 2004. They rigged contract bids, allocated
projects to each other and shared confidential information, the
commission said.  Schindler said it would appeal the ruling. Kone said in a
statement it would study the judgment before deciding on further
steps, adding that its penalty was recognized as a cost in the
first quarter of 2007.  ThyssenKrupp said in an e-mail that it welcomed the court’s
decision. The Essen, Germany-based company declined to comment
further until it has studied the ruling.  Spokespeople for Otis declined to immediately comment.
Mitsubishi Elevator  Europe  BV was fined 1.8 million euros in the
cartel. It didn’t appeal.  The cases are T-138/07, Schindler v. European Commission;
T-141/07, General Technic-Otis v. Commission; T-142/07, General
Technic v. Commission; T-145/07, Otis and Others v. Commission;
T-146/07, United Technologies v. Commission; T-147/07, T-144/07,
T-148/07, T-149/07, T-150/07, T-154/07, ThyssenKrupp and Others
v. Commission, T-151/07, Kone and Others v. Commission.  Eni Wins EU Cartel Fine Cut; Unipetrol Has Penalty Canceled  Eni SpA (ENI)  won a European Union court ruling cutting an
antitrust fine to 181.5 million euros ($255.8 million) from
272.2 million euros.  Unipetrol AS (UNIP)  had its fine overturned.  The  EU General Court  in Luxembourg yesterday said the
European Commission wrongly increased Eni’s fine based on
findings of repeated violations. The court upheld fines against
Dow Chemical Co., the largest U.S. chemical maker, and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in the case involving a cartel fixing the prices
of ingredients in rubber used in tires and shoes.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s antitrust regulator in
November 2006 fined five companies 519 million euros for rigging
prices of synthetic rubber in a cartel that lasted from at least
1996 to 2002.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  escaped a fine after it tipped off the EU
about the cartel.  Unipetrol, which is controlled by Polish oil company PKN
Orlen SA, and Poland’s Trade-Stomil Sp z o.o. had their fines of
17.5 million euros and 3.8 million euros, respectively,
annulled. The court said the commission based the two companies’
fines on insufficient evidence.  Eni declined to comment.  Shell said in a statement that it is studying the judgment.  “As a matter of policy, we do not provide any further
comments since we or the commission may decide to appeal,” Dow
said in an e-mailed statement.  The cases are T-38/07, Shell Petroleum v. Commission;
T-39/07, ENI v. Commission; T-42/07, Dow Chemical v. Commission;
T-44/07, Kaucuk v. Commission; T-45/07, Unipetrol v. Commission;
T-53/07, Trade-Stomil v. Commission; T-59/07, Polimeri Europa v.
Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Ameron Sued by Shareholder Over National Oilwell Offer  Ameron International Corp. (AMN)  was sued by an investor claiming
a $772 million buyout offer from oilfield-equipment provider
 National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  undervalues the stock.  Directors of Pasadena, California-based Ameron, which makes
pipe systems, have a duty to get the best price, plaintiff Alan
Kahn said in a Delaware Chancery Court complaint made public
yesterday in Wilmington. National Oilwell bid $85 a share.
Analysts have suggested they may be worth more than $100 each,
Kahn said.  Ameron directors “have failed to take adequate measures”
to protect shareholders’ investments and “embarked on a process
that avoided competitive bidding,” Kahn said.  National Oilwell, based in Houston, said July 5 it would
buy Ameron to gain access to its fiberglass-pipe business.  Gary Wagner, chief financial officer for Ameron, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Kahn v. Ameron, CA6660, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Barclays Seeks to Delay $2 Billion Lehman Brokerage Payment  Barclays Plc (BARC) , ordered to return $2 billion in margin assets
to bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage, asked a
judge to allow it to appeal the judgment without making any
payments in the meantime.  The trustee liquidating the remnants of the brokerage,
James Giddens, would hold off paying London-based Barclays the
$1 billion he owes the U.K. bank, according to a court filing
July 12 made jointly by Barclays and the brokerage.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in New York ruled last
month that Barclays must give back the margin assets it claimed
it was using to back trading positions taken on when it bought
Lehman’s North American businesses in the 2008 credit crisis. He
set interest at 5 percent of the assets from September 2008
until he signs his final order on the case, which he hasn’t
done.  The dispute, arising from Barclays’s September 2008
purchase of bankrupt Lehman’s businesses and subsequent profit
on them, led to a bankruptcy court trial in 2010 with more than
30 days of testimony. The trial pitted the third-biggest U.K.
bank against two defunct parts of what was once the fourth-
largest U.S. investment bank.  The Lehman parent lost a bid to recoup an alleged $11
billion “windfall profit” made by Barclays, and the brokerage
had its demands cut from $7 billion.  Instead of having Barclays post a bond while it appeals,
Giddens agreed to let it to put collateral in a bank account
“from time to time.” A $1 billion bond from a “reputable”
bonding agency, presuming one could be obtained, might cost $10
million, Barclays said in the filing.  The case is SIPC v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-ap-1420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Tapped 104 Users of Primary Global Conference Lines  U.S. investigators received permission in 2009 to wiretap
104 callers to two conference lines used by  Primary Global
Research LLC , a so-called expert networking firm, according to a
court filing.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy in Manhattan signed an
order in October 2009 permitting investigators to listen in on
the lines, which included Primary Global customers, four
employees and five consultants, according the court filing
submitted July 12 by James Fleishman, a former sales manager at
the firm.  Fleishman, who is scheduled to be tried on two counts of
conspiracy next month, submitted the order and related papers in
support of his motion to block the government from introducing
evidence from the wiretaps.  Primary Global is at the center of a nationwide probe of
insider trading at hedge funds, technology companies, banks and
consulting firms. Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global
consultant, was convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy
June 20 in Manhattan federal court.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-CR-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Alstom Executives Lose Bid to Challenge U.K. Search Warrants  Executives at  Alstom SA (ALO) ’s U.K. unit lost their bid to
challenge fraud prosecutors over their arrest and searches of
their homes as part of a probe into claims the company paid 81
million pounds ($129 million) in bribes.  Stephen Burgin, president of the French company’s U.K.
unit, and Robert Purcell, its finance director, can’t argue that
the  Serious Fraud Office  didn’t have enough reason to suspect
them of a crime, a  London  court ruled. The judgment means
prosecutors can use evidence seized at the executives’ homes
last year.  “The challenge to the validity of the arrest warrants is
not reasonably arguable,” the court said.  Prosecutors suspect that from 2004 to 2010 Alstom, through
its Alstom Network U.K. Ltd. unit, gave money to companies that
acted as “bogus consultants” to bribe overseas officials for
contracts, according to court papers. A lawyer for the SFO,
James Eadie, said at a hearing in April that Alstom Network
acted as “a conduit” to pass money through, and paid “nine
times as much commission in the Middle East and Africa compared
to Europe, and eight times for Asia.”  Alstom said in a statement that the allegations being
investigated are seven years old and haven’t resulted in any
decision against the company by any court. It said neither the
judge who issued the search warrants, nor the court ruling
yesterday, reviewed the SFO’s underlying claims.  “The company continues to stand by its managers,” Alstom
said in the statement. “It has never wavered in its support and
has no reason to believe that they will not be fully vindicated
during the course of the on-going investigation.”  Burgin and Purcell’s lawyer, Shaul Brazil, declined to
comment.  The cases are Burgin v. Commissioner of Police of the
Metropolis, 10/6227; and Burgin v. Director of the Serious Fraud
Office, 10/5723, High Court of Justice, Administrative Court
(London).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  EBay Must Face Craigslist Lawsuit in California, Judge Says  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  must face Craigslist Inc.’s fraud claims after a
judge in San Francisco decided that a Delaware lawsuit EBay won
against the online classified company didn’t rule out the case.  Superior Court Judge Richard Kramer said yesterday that the
judge who presided over the Delaware case and ruled last year in
favor of EBay by throwing out closely held Craigslist’s anti-
takeover plan meant for the California lawsuit to proceed. EBay,
a minority investor in Craigslist, had argued that the Delaware
case dealt with the “totality” of its relationship with
Craigslist.  “He makes no legal conclusion as to whether EBay is liable
for the various claims in the California case,” Kramer said at
a hearing yesterday. “He said clearly he is leaving it to me to
resolve the California claims.”  Craigslist, based in San Francisco, claims in the
California case, originally filed in 2008, that the world’s
largest Web auctioneer stole confidential information to start a
competing online ad site when the two companies were in
negotiations about EBay purchasing a stake in Craigslist. The
lawsuit alleges breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
negligent misrepresentation and violation of California
securities laws.  “eBay is considering its options for appeal,” Michelle
Fang, associate general counsel for the company, said in an e-
mailed statement. “This litigation is still in its early
stages. In its decision today, the court did not address the
actual merits of the case, and we remain confident that we will
ultimately prevail.”  Susan MacTavish Best, a spokeswoman for Craigslist, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior Court of
California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  SAP Asks Court to Cut Oracle’s $1.3 Billion Damage Award  SAP AG (SAP) , the business-software maker ordered by a jury to
pay $1.3 billion to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , told a judge the verdict was
based on speculation about Oracle’s losses and should be cut to
no more than $408 million.  A lawyer for SAP, Greg Lanier, said at a hearing yesterday
in federal court in Oakland, California, that during a trial
last year Oracle overstated its losses from copyright
infringement by an SAP unit. SAP asked U.S. District Judge
Phyllis Hamilton to reduce the damage award or order a new trial
because sustaining the verdict would be a miscarriage of
justice.  “I have not decided what I am going to do,” the judge
said. She later cautioned lawyers on both sides not to read too
much into an earlier ruling denying an SAP motion for summary
judgment, or a decision in its favor without trial. “I didn’t
say Oracle was entitled to such damages. It is still up to
Oracle to present non-speculative evidence of damages.”  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, won a lawsuit in
November accusing SAP’s U.S.-based TomorrowNow software-
maintenance unit of making hundreds of thousands of illegal
downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s software to
avoid paying licensing fees and to steal customers. The jury
award was the largest ever for copyright infringement.  Oracle maintained at trial that its damages should
represent the value of a hypothetical license that the unit
would have had to pay for the software it infringed.  Such a license would never have existed between two fierce
competitors, so the damage award should have been based on
profits Oracle lost and SAP gained as a result of the
infringement, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said in court filings.
That number is from $28 million to $407.8 million, SAP said in
the filings.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 