-- 
South African Filling Stations Running Dry as Oil-Workers Strike May Widen

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-15T13:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/gas-stations-in-south-africa-run-dry-as-salary-strike-crimps-supplies.html
South African gas stations are
running dry as a strike over pay by petroleum industry workers
enters its fifth day.  Cars formed long lines at gas pumps that had fuel as
shortages hit more than 200 filling stations in Gauteng
province, the nation’s economic hub, and at least 70 in KwaZulu-
Natal, the Johannesburg-based Fuel Retailers’ Association said
today.  The situation is changing “almost on an hourly basis,”
Jean Dennis, spokeswoman for the South African Petroleum
Industry Association, said in a joint statement with the
government’s energy department. Jet fuel hasn’t been affected by
the strike and commercial airlines are unaffected, she said.  The Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied
Workers’ Union and the General Industries Workers’ Union of
South Africa started striking after employers responded to
demands for raises of as much as 13 percent with an offer of
between 4 percent and 7 percent.  Workers are pushing for wage increases that are more than
double the 4.6 percent inflation rate, arguing that surging food
and fuel costs are driving down  living standards . Wage talks in
the coal, gold and platinum industries have also stalled, and
unions have warned that labor action is imminent.  Municipal workers may strike as soon as next week, the
state-owned South African Broadcasting Corp. reported yesterday.  Oil Companies  “As of yesterday the situation is really bad,” Reggie
Sibiya, the association’s chief executive officer, said by
phone. “This morning we’re getting e-mail reports quick and
fast” of more shortages, he said.  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s Engen Ltd., South Africa’s
largest fuel retailer, said 170 of its stations were dry as of
late yesterday, while  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s unit said today
that at least 100 of its 230 stations in Gauteng were out of
some grades of fuel.  Shell,  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , PetroSA,  Total SA (FP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Engen
and  BP Plc (BP/)  operate refineries in the country with the capacity
to process 692,000 barrels of fuel a day.  “We have not been able to fully recover from a delivery
backlog in Gauteng, since many retail sites are experiencing
considerably higher sales,” Shell said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “We are trying our level best to maintain fuel
deliveries and meet the increased demand.”  Sympathy Strike  The  South African Transport and Allied Workers Union  said
yesterday that 65,000 members of its road freight division may
strike in support of the petroleum industry workers.  Road freight workers will “mobilize solidarity support if
called upon, including marches and pickets, with the striking
members” should their wage demands go unmet, the union said in
an e-mailed statement.  Open-cast mines in  South Africa  may run short of diesel
within a few days if the strike continues, the  Chamber of Mines ,
an industry body, said today. Open-cast mines in South Africa
include most coal mines, iron ore operations and some platinum
mines. Underground gold and platinum mines are more dependent on
electricity.  Open-cast miners “usually keep a week’s worth of fuel in
stock, so most should be able to last that long,” Dick Kruger,
an assistant adviser at the Johannesburg-based chamber, said in
yesterday an interview from Johannesburg. “If the strike drags
on, then problems can really develop.”  The Steel and Engineering Federation of South Africa, an
employer body representing companies, said yesterday it reached
an agreement with workers to end an 11-day strike and work will
resume July 18.  The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa is
consulting members and the strike is not over, spokesman Castro Ngobese said in an interview broadcast by eNews Channel today.  Workers at  Pioneer Foods Ltd. (PFG) ’s Sasko Grain unit began
striking for more pay July 13, the Food and Agriculture Workers’
Union said in an e-mailed statement today. The employees have
asked for a 9 percent salary increase, while the company is
offering 7.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 