-- 
Geithner Says No More Time for Debt Talk

-- B y   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-15T01:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/geithner-says-no-way-to-give-congress-more-time-on-limit-1-.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned lawmakers there’s no possible extension to the
time limit to raise the federal debt ceiling as  Standard &
Poor’s  put the U.S. sovereign rating on watch for a downgrade.  There’s “no way to give Congress more time” on lifting
the debt limit, Geithner said after meeting with Democratic
lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  in  Washington . He has repeatedly said
U.S. borrowing authority will end on Aug. 2 without
congressional action.  Geithner’s remarks suggested the Treasury Department is
approaching the end of its efforts to shift federal cash flows
to avert a breach of the mandated borrowing limit. S&P today
joined Moody’s Investors Service in warning that the nation may
lose its top AAA rating, saying that there’s a “small, though
increasing” risk of a default on U.S. debt obligations.  The debt limit’s proximity has left investors unfazed, with
the Treasury attracting higher-than-average demand for a third
consecutive sale at an auction of 30-year bonds today. Benchmark
10-year note yields were at 2.97 percent at 10:23 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
heading for a second consecutive weekly decline.  “We’ve looked at all available options and we have no way
to give Congress more time to solve this problem and we’re
running out of time,” Geithner said after meeting with members
of the Senate Democratic Caucus on efforts to raise the $14.3
trillion debt ceiling. “The eyes of the country are on us and
the eyes of the world are on us and we need to make sure we
stand together and send a definitive signal that we are going to
take the steps necessary to avoid default.”  Credible Solution  The U.S.’s long-term rating may be lowered by one or more
notches into the AA category in the next three months if S&P
concludes Congress and President Barack Obama’s administration
haven’t achieved a credible solution to the rising U.S.
government debt burden and aren’t likely to achieve one in the
foreseeable future, according to a statement today.  “Owing to the dynamics of the political debate on the debt
ceiling, there is at least a one-in-two likelihood that we could
lower the long-term rating on the U.S. within the next 90
days,” S&P said.  S&P reduced the outlook on the U.S. rating to negative from
stable on April 18. Since then, it said, the debate over long-
term budget cuts has “only become more entangled,” with the
result that “there is an increasing risk of a substantial
policy stalemate enduring beyond any near-term agreement to
raise the debt ceiling.”  Backup Options  Senate leaders from both parties are discussing backup
options to avert a U.S. default by adding spending controls to a
plan that would grant Obama unilateral power to raise the debt
limit.  Obama told lawmakers they have until tomorrow to decide
whether they can reach a deal to make significant cuts in the
deficit or settle for another way to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling before U.S. borrowing authority expires Aug. 2, two
Democratic officials said.  The president has said he would veto any plan that doesn’t
raise the debt ceiling through the 2012 elections. Republicans
demand $2 trillion or more in spending cuts without any tax
increases.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee that lawmakers would
cause a “self-inflicted wound” if they prompt a credit-rating
downgrade by failing to raise the debt ceiling.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  