-- 
Italian, Spanish Goverment Bonds Fall After Italy Auction, Austerity Vote

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-14T15:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/german-government-bonds-rally-as-greece-downgrade-boosts-demand-for-safety.html
Italian government bonds declined
after borrowing costs rose to a three-year high at a sale of
five-year securities today.  Greek bonds fell as  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s credit
rating three levels to CCC and said default is a “real
possibility.” Ireland’s yields reached records, while Spanish
bonds fell. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi won a
Senate confidence vote on an austerity package aimed at taming
the nation’s 1.8 trillion euro ($2.6 trillion) debt burden.  “The supply is out of the way, but the picture remains
unchanged,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in London. “We have still the unresolved Greek
situation and contagion worries, and the risk that  Italy  may run
into a self-sustaining spiral of funding costs. The market is
pretty worried.”  Italian 10-year yields climbed nine basis points to 5.63
percent at 4:24 p.m. in  London . The 4.75 percent security
maturing in September 2021 fell 0.66, or 6.6 euros per 1,000-
euro face amount, to 93.82. The nation’s two-year note yields
climbed five basis points to 4.11 percent.  Italy sold just under 5 billion euros of four different
bonds with maturities ranging from five to 15 years today.  The Treasury priced 1.25 billion euros of five-year bonds,
the maximum set for the sale, to yield 4.93 percent, the highest
since June 2008. That’s up from 3.9 percent at the previous
auction on June 14.  Greek Downgrade  It was the first sale of longer-term debt since Italy’s 10-
year yield reached a 14-year high of 6.02 percent on July 12.
Italy also sold 1.72 billion euros of bonds maturing in 2026.  A market sell-off that sent stocks sliding and Italian 10-
year yields surging to 6 percent this week has led Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to push for speedy passage of 40
billion euros in deficit cuts to balance the budget in 2014.
Today’s positive vote paves the way for the final passing of the
plan tomorrow.  “The market expected a better outcome from the auction,”
said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA
in Munich. The “discussions on Greece are increasing
uncertainty, so no investor is really willing to take on a lot
of risk.”  Officials from the  European Central Bank , the European
Commission and private lenders are set to meet in  Rome  today to
discuss the involvement of private investors in a second rescue
plan for Greece, an Italian Treasury official said.  Greek Rescue  German 10-year yields were little changed at 2.74 percent,
while Greek yields of the same maturity were 12 basis points
higher at 17.10 percent.  Fitch said late yesterday it downgraded  Greece  because of
the uncertainty surrounding a second aid package and the role of
private creditors in future funding.  More than a year after Greece received a 110 billion-euro
aid package that aimed to stem the spread of the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis, EU officials are trying to put together a
second rescue package as the country remains locked out of bond
markets and contagion pushes up yields on bonds from other high-
debt and deficit euro-region nations. Ireland and  Portugal  have
also received external funding for their debt burdens.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yields up four
basis points to 5.86 percent. The yield spread between 10-year
Spanish bonds and similar-maturity German bunds widened four
basis points to 311 basis points.  Irish Market Access  Ireland’s 10-year yield rose as high as 14.13 percent
before slipping to 13.95 percent after the nation’s Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  said the country has met its fiscal
targets as part of a review of its bailout program.  International Monetary Fund Deputy Director Ajai Chopra
said Ireland has a “good chance” of returning to markets if
broader issues in  Europe  are addressed.  “The fiscal program is very much on track and the
government has developed a great deal of fiscal credibility,”
Chopra said in Dublin today after the IMF, European Commission
and ECB reviewed Ireland’s budget plans. “If it wasn’t for
contagion we’d be seeing a different result. The country needs
to be judged by its own merits” and has “good prospects of
market access.”  German  government bonds  have handed investors 1.8 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, while
Treasuries have returned 3.8 percent. Greek bonds have lost more
than 20 percent, while Italy’s bonds have lost 2.1 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 