-- 
Giraffes, Rhinos Likely Aren’t Kosher, Archaeozoologists Say

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-14T09:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/giraffes-rhinos-likely-aren-t-kosher-archaeozoologists-say.html
The giraffe, rhinoceros and bison,
believed by some to be among the kosher species listed in the
Bible, are likely not those animals, a study by Israeli
archaeozoologists has concluded.  The study, which examined zoological findings at 133 sites
dating back to the biblical period, is based on the hypothesis
that animals described in the Bible existed at the time and
place of its writing, the  University of Haifa  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  According to Deuteronomy 14, there are 10 species permitted
for consumption: “These are the beasts which ye may eat: the
ox, the sheep, and the goat; the ayal, the zvi, the yakhmur, and
the aqqo, the dishon, the teo and the zemer.” Until now, the
basis for identification of the species has been for the most
part based on linguistic and cultural studies.  “The first three species have been easily identified, but
the rest have been disputed over the years,” the statement
said.  The researchers, Professor Guy Bar-Oz and Ram Buchnik of
the University of Haifa and Professor Zohar Amar of  Bar-Ilan
University , examined the remains of various mammals and their
prevalence at biblical sites that have been exposed in
archaeological surveys.  The findings enabled the researchers to compare the
customary identifications for the species and establish
identifications based on archaeological findings, the statement
said. No giraffe, rhinoceros, or bison remains were found at the
sites examined, it said.  Gazelle, Ibex  Based on the animal remains that were examined, the zvi
mentioned in Deuteronomy was likely a gazelle, the ayal a type
of deer, and the yahkmur a kind of antelope that is now extinct
in  Israel  but is still found in eastern  Africa , it said. The
aqqo was identified as an ibex, the statement said.  The biblical dishon, which has been identified by some as
the rhinoceros, is most likely an Arabian oryx, the researchers
found. The teo, identified by some as the bison, is more likely
a buffalo, according to the study. And the zemer, which has been
identified by some as the giraffe, is more likely a member of
the ibex family, the study concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 