-- 
Goldman Topples Deutsche Bank in Europe Junk Bond Underwriting

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-14T09:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/goldman-topples-deutsche-bank-in-europe-junk-bond-underwriting.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  unseated
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as  Europe ’s top underwriter of high-yield bonds
in the first half.  The six-month income surge gives Goldman Sachs an edge as
high-yield issuance starts to slow amid Europe’s spreading
sovereign debt crisis. The U.S. bank underwrote 10.6 percent of
the record $54 billion of deals in the first half, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank fell to second place.  “Underwriters made a lot of fees in the first half,” said
 Janet Tavakoli , founder of Chicago-based Tavakoli Structured
Finance Inc., a financial consulting firm. “The high-yield bond
rally isn’t sustainable, certainly not in Europe. Now that we
have a lot of uncertainty and a little bit of panic in Europe,
investors are going to avoid these high-yield deals. You could
have impaired earnings for a long time.”  High-yield issuance froze this week amid rising concern
European policy makers will fail to stave off a Greek default
and limit contagion to the rest of the region. Investors demand
50 basis points more than at the start of July to buy European
speculative-grade bonds, a premium to government debt of 620
basis points, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows.  “We’ve seen some significant weakness in performance of
late in line with growth fears and the general risk-off trend as
a result of the Greek crisis,” said  Suki Mann , London-based
senior credit strategist at Societe Generale SA. Mann expects a
decline in second-half issuance to 19 billion euros ($27
billion) from 26 billion euros in the first half. Moody’s
Investors Service tallied $58 billion of sales in the first half
and expects full-year volume to surpass 2010’s record $65
billion, according to a report today.  Fees  European underwriters, which don’t report fees on
individual deals, typically charge issuers at least 2.5 percent
of a high-yield borrowing, according to Tavakoli. High-yield, or
junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Goldman Sachs reported $1.2 billion in revenue from debt
underwriting in 2010, flat to 2009. The bank was seventh among
European junk bond underwriters last year, Bloomberg data show.
It was last No. 1 in the second half of 2003.  “The high-yield product serves as a very good tool to help
us in client-acquisition efforts,” said Denis Coleman, head of
credit finance for EMEA at the New-York-based bank. “We have an
expectation of a longer-term shift in favor of institutionally
raised debt capital in lieu of more traditional bank finance.”  Loan Surge  Goldman managed 33 deals in the first half of the year,
including Boparan Group’s $1.1 billion sale of euro- and pound-
denominated bonds in April, Bloomberg data show. The bank also
managed a 250 million-pound ($400 million) issue for U.K. budget
clothing retailer Matalan Group Ltd.  Deutsche Bank led a 67 percent increase in leveraged loans
in Europe, displacing Goldman Sachs as the top arranger.
Issuance of debt mostly used for private-equity led takeovers
jumped to $78 billion in the first half, Bloomberg data show.  “We are living in times of volatility but we will continue
to see decent loan and bond volumes through the second half of
this year,” said Nick Jansa, European head of leveraged debt
and capital markets at the Frankfurt-based firm.  Deutsche Bank helped  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-
largest car-parts maker, cut its borrowing costs by arranging
565 million euros of loans to help refinance about 6 billion
euros of debt stemming from a 2007 acquisition of Siemens AG’s
VDO unit.  “We felt that the timing was right because we didn’t know
how secure the market conditions would be in the course of 2011
and afterwards,” said Stefan Scholz, group treasurer of
Continental, based in Hannover,  Germany . “Due to the euro-zone
sovereign crisis, it is not possible to predict.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 