-- 
Gold May Gain Next Week on Fed Stimulus Signal, Debt Concern, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/gold-may-gain-on-fed-stimulus-signal-debt-concern-survey-shows.html
Gold may extend gains from a record
as concern about more U.S. economic stimulus and debt woes in
the country and  Europe  boost demand for a protection of wealth,
a survey found.  Twenty-four of 27 traders, investors and analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg, or 89 percent, said bullion will rise next week.
One predicted lower prices and two were neutral. Gold for August
delivery was up 2.9 percent for this week at $1,586 an ounce by
11:08 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York after earlier in
the day touching a record $1,594.90.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week said the
central bank is prepared to take additional action, including
buying more  government bonds , to boost the economy, while
President Barack Obama and congressional leaders have as yet
failed to reach a compromise on reducing deficits and raising
the debt ceiling. Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. under
review for a credit downgrade and  Fitch Ratings  slashed Greece’s
rating and said that a default is a “real possibility.”  “Investors are once again looking toward gold and the
other safe-haven asset types to offset fears of a default,”
 James Moore , an analyst at TheBullionDesk.com in London, said in
an e-mail. “The effect of quantitative easing has been bullish
for commodities as a whole but particularly for gold, with the
prospect of additional stimulus likely to further widen the
timescale for the Fed raising rates.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of July 8.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 213 of 371 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 24 Bearish: 1 Neutral: 2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 