-- 
Gold Surges to Record as Debt ‘Turmoil’ Drives Demand for Haven

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-14T08:04:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/gold-rallies-to-record-on-haven-demand-as-debt-concerns-intensify-in-u-s-.html
Gold rallied to a record after
Moody’s Investors Service placed the U.S. credit rating on
review for a downgrade, U.S. debt-ceiling talks stalled and
 Europe ’s sovereign crisis persisted, boosting haven demand.  Immediate-delivery bullion climbed as much as 0.5 percent
to an all-time high of $1,589.80 an ounce, and was at $1,582.75
at 4:03 p.m. in  Singapore . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s comments that additional stimulus may be needed also
drove the metal’s ninth day of gains, the best run since April.  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review for the
first time since 1995, on concern the debt threshold will not be
raised in time to prevent a missed payment of interest or
principal, Moody’s said. President  Barack Obama  walked out of a
meeting with legislative leaders on raising the U.S. debt
ceiling, according to House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  “Gold will benefit from the turmoil,” said Guo Hongjun,
head of research at Haitong Futures Co., China’s largest futures
broker by capital. “Another round of quantitative easing will
hit the dollar hard, drive up prices of commodities including
gold, increase inflationary pressures and slow the recovery.”  The contract for August delivery in  New York  also gained to
a record, rallying as much as 0.3 percent to $1,590.80 an ounce.
Cash silver jumped as much as 1.8 percent to $38.855 an ounce,
the highest intraday price since May 11.  Fed Chairman Bernanke said the central bank is prepared to
provide additional stimulus to bolster the  U.S. economy , and
warned a failure by Congress to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
limit would send “shock waves” through the financial system.  $2,000 Target  (For a related story on the U.S. debt rating, click here.
For a story on Greek debt levels, click here. To read a story on
the performance today of currency, commodity and equity markets,
click here.)  Gold may surge to $2,000 if the Fed starts a third round of
U.S. debt purchases, according to  Michael Pento , senior
economist at Euro Pacific Capital Inc. “People will be forced
into buying gold,” Pento said.  Gold’s rally triggered gains in related equities. Zijin
Mining Group Co., China’s biggest gold producer by market value,
jumped as much as 7 percent.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s
largest gold-mining company, climbed as much as 2.7 percent.  Gold has advanced 11 percent in 2011 after climbing for the
past 10 years, the longest run of gains in at least nine decades.
Central-bank buying and increased demand from individual
investors has underpinned the rally.  Dennis Gartman , the editor
of the Gartman Letter, said in May that gold is the preferred
“coin of the realm” during Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Sovereign Concerns  The same “factors that have driven gold up in recent days
remain firmly intact,” James Steel, an analyst at HSBC
Securities USA Inc., wrote in a note. “These include sovereign
concerns in the E.U., contentious debt-ceiling talks in the U.S.,
and general economic uncertainty.”  Ireland this week became the third nation in the European
Union to have its  credit rating  cut below investment grade,
helping to send gold priced in euros and pounds to the highest
levels ever. Italy is due to sell government debt today amid
concern that the crisis may be spreading to that nation.  Greece ’s credit rating was cut three levels to Fitch
Ratings’ lowest grade for any country in the world as the
company yesterday followed rivals and said that a default is a
“real possibility.”  The Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the dollar’s
value, dropped for a third day, shedding as much as 0.7 percent
today. Gold usually moves counter to the dollar.  Gold futures on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.
reached an all-time high of 22,989 rupees per 10 grams ($1,605
an ounce), while cash gold of 99.95 percent purity on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange also jumped to a record 329.99 yuan a
gram ($1,589.18 an ounce). India and  China  are the world’s
largest gold users.  Spot platinum climbed as much as 1.2 percent to $1,775.30
an ounce today, while palladium advanced as much as 1.4 percent
to $789 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  