-- 
Gold Pares Gain After Reaching Record as Fed Damps Speculation on Stimulus

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-14T16:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/gold-futures-decline-from-record-after-bernanke-damps-stimulus-speculation.html
Gold futures pared gains after
reaching a record $1,594.90 an ounce as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is not prepared “at this
point” to offer more stimulus for the  U.S. economy .  Yesterday, gold surged after Bernanke told Congress that he
is prepared to provide additional stimulus if the economy
languishes. Today, the Fed chief said that an increase in
inflation was a reason that the central bank won’t immediately
buy back bonds to bolster growth.  “Gold took a bit of a slide on Bernanke’s attempt to
clarify his statements” from yesterday on prospects for a third
round of so-called quantitative easing,  Matthew Zeman , a
strategist at Kingsview Financial in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s not an option that’s by any means
off the table. If we don’t see improvement in the economy by the
third quarter, then we’re still going to see QE3.”  Gold futures for August delivery rose $4.10, or 0.3
percent, to $1,589.60 at 12:46 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the price climbed as much as 0.6 percent and dropped
0.4 percent.  The Fed is prepared to take additional action if the
economy appears to be in danger of stalling, Bernanke said
yesterday. A failure by Congress to raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit would lead to a “major crisis” and throw
“shock waves” through the financial system, he said.  The U.S. was put on a credit-rating review for the first
time since 1996 on concern the debt threshold will not be raised
in time to prevent a missed payment of interest or principal,
Moody’s said.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders have
failed to reach a compromise on reducing deficits and raising
the debt ceiling. The government will exceed its borrowing
authority on Aug. 2.  ‘Massive’ Haven Buying  “If you don’t have a miraculous solution to all the
world’s problems out there, then gold has to go higher,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “There’s massive safe-
haven buying into gold.”  The metal may surge to $2,000 if the Fed starts a third
round of U.S. debt purchases,  Michael Pento , a senior economist
at Euro Pacific Capital Inc., said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “People will be forced into buying gold.”  Silver futures for September delivery rose 57.4 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $38.725 an ounce. On April 25, the metal reached
$49.845, the highest since January 1980.  The price will climb to $62 this year, McGhee of Integrated
Brokerage said. “Silver is still the cheap alternative compared
with gold,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 