-- 
Google Tops Estimates as CEO Page Expands Beyond Search Ads

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-14T21:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/google-tops-estimates-as-page-expands-mobile-display-ads-shares-advance.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest Internet-search engine, reported sales and profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, a sign the company is benefiting
from efforts to expand in mobile and display advertising.  Second-quarter sales, excluding revenue passed on to
partner sites, rose to $6.92 billion,  Mountain View , California-
based Google said on its website. That topped $6.57 billion, the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
gained 36 percent to $2.51 billion, or $7.68 a share, from $1.84
billion, or $5.71, a year earlier. Shares leapt in late trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , who succeeded  Eric Schmidt  in April, is using ads on mobile devices and the YouTube
video site to lessen Google’s dependence on traditional Internet
search. The company will  command  41 percent of the U.S. online
advertising market this year, up from 39 percent in 2010,
according to  EMarketer Inc ., a New York-based researcher.  “All these new initiatives are really leading to
accelerated growth at Google, and their core business is doing
well too,” said  Jordan Rohan , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in  New York  who has a “buy” rating on the shares. “This
quarter makes people think that Google will be an exciting
growth company.”  Google rose as much as 11 percent in extended trading. It
had fallen $9.32 to $528.94 as of 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market and has declined 11 percent this year.  Second-quarter profit, excluding some items, was $8.74 a
share, exceeding the $7.85 average of analysts’ estimates.  New Businesses  Page is investing in new businesses to help Google compete
with newer Internet rivals such as Facebook Inc., the world’s
most popular social-networking service. Online users spent an
average of 6.7 hours on Facebook in June, compared with 4.1
hours on Google, according to  ComScore Inc .  “For a long time, I think it was fair to knock the company
as a one-trick pony, but I don’t think that’s the case anymore,”
said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida , who rates the stock a “buy” and doesn’t own it.
“Display is a success at this point. And I think mobile is a
success -- and has even great potential going forward.”  To lure Web surfers eager to socialize online, the company
last month rolled out Google+, which compares to Facebook, yet
aims to let users more easily set up groups of contacts.  Google+ has attracted more than 10 million users so far,
Page said on a conference call. Within days of its debut, Google
temporarily shut the invite mechanism amid “insane demand,”
 Vic Gundotra , head of social efforts, said at the time.  550,000 a Day  Google intends for Google+ to follow in the footsteps of
other investments, including in mobile. Google’s Android mobile
operating system is expected to maintain its lead globally this
year with 38.9 percent of the worldwide smartphone market,
compared with 18.2 percent for Apple Inc.’s iPhone, according to
research firm IDC. Page said on today’s call that 550,000
Android devices are activated on a daily basis.  Google this year should grab 9.3 percent of the  display
advertising market  in the U.S., making it the No. 3 provider
behind Yahoo! Inc. and Facebook, according to EMarketer. Google
had 4.5 percent of the market in 2009.  Even as Google nabs share, its costs are rising as it adds
employees. Staff increased 2,452, or 9.3 percent, to 28,768, the
company said in a statement.  “We are focused on long-term absolute profit and growth as
we have always been,” Page said on today’s call. “We will
continue the tight financial management we’ve had in the last
two years, even as we’re making significant investments in our
future.”  The company is also facing rising concerns that it’s using
leadership in advertising to trammel competition. Last month,
Google said in a regulatory filing that the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission began a review of its business practices, including
search and advertising.  The European Union and the state of  Texas  also have begun
investigations of the company’s leadership in search and
advertising practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  