-- 
Google’s Challenge to Facebook Seen Eroding Profit as Page Boosts Spending

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-14T14:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/google-s-challenge-to-facebook-seen-eroding-quarterly-profit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s challenge to Facebook
Inc. in social networking, an effort analysts said will cost
more than $200 million, probably slowed second-quarter profit
growth for the world’s largest Web search engine.  Profit excluding some costs rose to $7.85 a share in the
period, Google will report later today, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit would have been higher if not for
spending on Google+, a service unveiled by new Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Page  last month to compete with Facebook, said
 Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP.  “Larry’s here, and he’s here to spend,” said Gillis, who
estimates that Google spent about $100 million on the project,
half the total, in the second quarter alone. “There are some
large opportunities that they’re chasing after.”  Google+, an online tool that lets users create and
communicate with groups of friends, is part of Page’s attempt to
lure Web users from rivals including  Facebook . Higher spending
on social networking, mobile software and e-commerce -- areas
aimed at lessening Google’s reliance on traditional Internet
search -- eats into profitability.  Adjusted operating margin, a measure of profitability that
excludes certain costs, declined to less than 48 percent in the
second quarter from 49.4 percent in the preceding period, said
 Ben Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie Capital in  New York .  “What investors are thinking about in general right now is
return on these investments,” said Schachter, who rates the
stock “outperform” and doesn’t own it. “They certainly
haven’t shied away from spending money. My view is that this is
money that is well spent.”  Sales Boosted By Search  Second-quarter revenue, minus sales passed on to partner
sites, likely rose to $6.57 billion in the June period, the
average estimate of analysts. Google’s first quarter revenue of
$6.54 billion, announced in April, topped analysts’ predictions.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , lost 52 cents
to $537.74 at 10:02 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The stock fell 9.4 percent this year before today.  While Google’s sales are buoyed by demand for online ads,
margins are likely to keep narrowing into next year amid costs
for such services as Google Offers, a feature that mirrors
Groupon Inc. by providing daily deals to users at local
businesses, according to Morgan Stanley.  ‘Stiff Competition’  “We are encouraged by early progress of Google Plus and
Google Offers, but Google faces stiff competition from
incumbents who have first-mover advantage,” Morgan Stanley
analysts, who downgraded the company to “equalweight” from
“overweight,” wrote last week in a research note. “The
payoffs of such endeavors may be longer term.”  Adding to costs, Google increased hiring by 1,900, or 7.9
percent, in the first quarter, part of its plan to boost overall
hiring by 6,000 this year. Research and development costs rose
50 percent in the March period while sales and marketing
increased by 69 percent.  Google is investing in social features to lure Web surfers
and advertising sales from Facebook, the world’s most popular
social-networking site. Online users spent an average of 6.7
hours on Facebook in June, compared with 4.1 hours on Google,
according to  ComScore Inc .  The release of Google+ comes after other missteps in
social-related services, including Google’s Buzz and Wave.
Google reached a settlement in March with the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission over concerns it violated its own privacy policies
with Buzz. Google stopped developing Wave, an online
collaboration site, last year because of slow adoption.  ‘Slicker Products’  The new service has a look and feel similar to Facebook’s,
but with a focus on managing contacts around different
relationships. Just days after its debut, Google temporarily
shut down the invite mechanism for Google+ following “insane
demand,”  Vic Gundotra , head of social efforts, said on the
company’s website.  “This is definitely one of the slicker products that has
come out of Google in a long time,” said Sameet Sinha, an
analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco who rates Google a
“buy.”  Google+ is still early in its development, with less than a
month for users to try out the service, Gillis said.  “It’s way too soon to make a call on Google+,” he said.
“It’s a credible alternative to Facebook, but social networking
is all about scale.”  The company also is boosting investment in mobile services.
Google’s Android operating system is expected to maintain its
lead globally this year with 38.9 percent of the  worldwide
smartphone market , compared with 18.2 percent for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone, according to research firm IDC.  No ‘Repercussions’  Google, meantime, holds its lead in online searches. The
company had 65.5 percent of queries in the U.S. in June,
compared with No. 2 Yahoo! Inc., which had 15.9 percent,
according to  ComScore Inc  Inc.  Overall, Google is expected to grab 41 percent of online ad
revenue in the U.S. in 2011, compared with 11 percent for Yahoo,
according to  EMarketer Inc.  in New York. Facebook should get 7
percent and Microsoft Corp. should have 6 percent.  “Having this initial success with Google+ allows them to
spend without as many repercussions from investors,” Schachter
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  