-- 
Google Searches May Influence What People Forget, Test Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-14T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/google-searches-may-influence-what-people-forget-test-finds.html
Internet searches are making
information easy to forget, as more people rely on their
computers as a type of “external memory,” a study of Harvard
University students found.  About 60 Harvard students were asked to type 40 pieces of
trivia, such as “An  ostrich’s eye  is bigger than its brain,”
into computers, and were told either the information would be
saved or erased. People who believed the data would be saved
were less likely to remember, according to the study published
online by the journal  Science .  The widely available Internet has made it an instant go-to
library where facts and figures are easily found, the
researchers said. The study suggests that search engines such as
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , and databases such as  Amazon.com Inc (AMZN) ’s IMDb.com
serve as an external “memory, where information is stored
collectively outside ourselves,” they said.  “We are becoming symbiotic with our computer tools,
growing into interconnected systems,”  the authors  wrote in the
paper. “We have become dependent on them to the same degree we
are on all the knowledge we gain from our friends and coworkers
-- and lose if they are out of touch.”  The research also found that people are primed to look to
the Internet first for knowledge. Another experiment, run on 34
undergraduates at  Columbia University  in New York, showed that
people remembered where they stored their information better
than they were able to recall the information itself.  Google  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, was founded in
1998 by  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page , after the two Stanford
University students created a search engine they called
“BackRub.” That search engine, later dubbed Google -- became
the company’s backbone, as it expanded access to billions of web
documents. Google, a play on the word ”googol,” a mathematical
term for the number represented by the numeral 1 followed by 100
zeros, went public in 2004.  It isn’t clear what the effects of being so “wired” will
have on people over time, the authors, led by Betsy Sparrow of
Columbia, wrote.  “It may be no more than nostalgia at this point, however,
to wish we were less dependent on our gadgets,” the authors
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 