-- 
Greenhill’s George Said to Leave Investment Bank as Departures Accelerate

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-07-15T17:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/greenhill-s-george-is-said-to-leave-firm-as-bank-s-departures-accelerate.html
Timothy M. George, a member of the
management committee at Greenhill & Co. who has advised on some
of the firm’s biggest deals, is leaving as departures from the
bank accelerate, said two people familiar with the matter. The
stock fell the most since January.  George, who’s based at Greenhill’s New York headquarters
and joined the firm one year after its founding, is taking a job
with Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the largest
independent merger adviser, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the move hasn’t been made public.  The bank, founded by Robert Greenhill, 75, has lost at
least three managing directors since early June after averaging
fewer than one such departure annually since its founding in
1996. Simon Borrows, chairman of Greenhill & Co. International
LLP and founder of the firm’s European operations, is leaving to
join 3i Group Plc, the London-based private-equity firm said
July 6.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the world’s third-largest merger
adviser, hired Greenhill’s Alejandro Przygoda in June as global
co-head of financial institutions investment banking.  George was part of the Greenhill team advising Hunenberg,
Switzerland-based Alcon Inc. on its sale to Novartis AG, a deal
first proposed in 2008 and completed this year at a cost of
about $50 billion. He also counseled Wendy’s International Inc.
on its sale to  Nelson Peltz ’s Triarc Cos. in 2008 and Ihop Corp.
on its acquisition of Applebee’s International Inc. in 2007,
according to Corporate Control Alert, an industry newsletter.  Greenhill dropped $4.74, or 9 percent, to $48.22 at 1:23
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading for the
second-biggest decline in the 982-company Russell 1000 Index.
The stock has fallen 41 percent this year.  First-Quarter Loss  The bank posted a $1.58 million first-quarter loss, the
firm’s first in 2 1/2 years. Personnel expenses in the period
surged to 75 percent of revenue after Chief Executive Officer
Scott Bok, 52, boosted the ranks of managing directors 63
percent since 2007.  Monica Orbe, a spokeswomen for Lazard, declined to comment.
George didn’t respond to a message on his Greenhill voicemail.  Only a “handful” of managing directors have left in the
past few years, according to a Greenhill statement last month,
in which it also disclosed its average annual departures.  “Over the course of our history, we have had a few
retirements, sometimes we ask people to leave, sometimes
separation is a mutual decision, and least common are cases
where we simply lose a valuable asset to a competitor,” Bok
said in an e-mailed statement following George’s exit. “It is
extremely rare when the departure of an MD from our firm has any
meaningful impact on our business.”  It isn’t appropriate to categorize or comment on every
person who leaves, he said.  Other Departures  Greenhill has six  associates  in the  New York  office,
compared with 26 managing directors, a more senior position,
listed on its website, excluding George. About half of the
firm’s New York-based associates have left in the past year,
according to a person familiar with the moves.  Small and mid-sized investment banks such as Lazard and
Moelis & Co. typically have three to five associates, analysts
and other junior-level employees for each managing director,
according to people familiar with staffing levels at such firms.  Greenhill has 20 vice presidents worldwide, three fewer
than at the end of last year and nine fewer than at the end of
2009, according to its annual reports.  Following Przygoda to Credit Suisse are George Matsuzaka, a
principal at Greenhill, and Carlos Marque, a vice president,
said a person with knowledge of the matter. Both of them joined
Greenhill from  UBS AG (UBSN)  along with Przygoda in 2009.  Employee Headcount  “Our employee headcount is down by a single-digit
percentage in the year to date, which is consistent with our
stated objective of regaining the market-leading profit margins
we achieved for six of our seven years as a public company,”
Bok said in the statement.  Robert Greenhill founded the firm after a  Wall Street 
career spanning more than three decades. He joined Morgan
Stanley in 1962 and rose to become its president. In 1993, he
left to be CEO of Smith Barney Inc.  Greenhill’s offices on New York’s Park Avenue occupy five
floors. The firm has about 70 managing directors stationed
around the globe. Locations include London, Sydney, Tokyo and
 Frankfurt , according to its website.  Talent was “very expensive” in 2006 and 2007 before the
credit crisis, Bok said at an investor conference in February.
Greenhill’s hiring surged in 2008 through 2010 as talent on Wall
Street became cheaper and people were more willing to switch
firms, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  