-- 
Greece, Portugal, Ireland to Default: Feldstein

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-14T16:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/greece-portugal-ireland-to-default-feldstein.html
Greece will default on its debt and
 Portugal  and Ireland are likely to suffer the same fate, said
 Martin Feldstein , former president of the National Bureau of
Economic Research.  “Eventually, we will see a default in Greece, we probably
will see a default in Portugal and Ireland. I hope we’re not
going to see one in Spain or Italy,” Feldstein, who served as
chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan  said today on
Bloomberg Television’s “In Business” with Margaret Brennan.  “What we’re witnessing is a conflict between the  European
Central Bank , that has basically said ‘we won’t deal with bonds
that are in default,’ and the rating agencies that are saying
virtually anything that’s done will cause them to trigger a
default status,” Feldstein said.  European leaders are working on a plan to rescue  Greece 
from a possible default that could reach $85 billion euros
($120 billion) and may involve support from private lenders. The
effects of Greece’s debt crisis have already spread to other
countries. Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland to junk on July
12, a week after lowering Portugal to below investment grade.  “If you were to ask, my best guess is that the ECB will
give in,” Feldstein said. “In the end, that they will say that
sovereign bonds of Greece -- no matter whether there’s a
technical default or not -- are going to be acceptable as
collateral,” Feldstein, 71, a Harvard University economics
professor said. “Once that happens, then the pieces can fall
together to make that deal work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 Mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  