-- 
Greyhound Will Support Bus Equipment Mandates, CEO Says

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-07-14T20:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/greyhound-will-support-bus-equipment-mandates-ceo-says-1-.html
Greyhound Inc. , the largest U.S.
intercity bus carrier, will support U.S. Senate legislation to
overhaul motor-coach safety, including its mandates for seat
belts and stronger roofs to reduce rollover fatalities.  Greyhound already has 300 buses, including those in its
Bolt Bus line, equipped with safety belts and stronger seats,
David Leach,  chief executive officer  of the Dallas-based unit of
Aberdeen, Scotland-based  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) , said at a news
conference in Washington today.  “We believe such improvements should be adopted
industrywide,” Leach said. “Regulators need to keep unsafe
motor-coach operators off the road.”  Fatal crashes in  New York ,  New Jersey  and  Virginia  this
year have renewed focus on bus companies, especially low-cost
curbside operators popular in cities like New York and
Washington. One question for Congress will be how much equipment
to mandate, and how much to leave to the Transportation
Department for further study.  Representative John Mica, the Florida Republican who leads
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said he
has “pretty good agreement” with Democrats on his panel over
which bus-safety measures to include in a multiyear
transportation policy bill.  The House is looking at incentives for states to step up
safety inspections, Mica said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
offices in  Washington  today. He said he would be open-minded
about equipment mandates, while House lawmakers have emphasized
stepped-up enforcement.  “Most of the crashes we’ve had have had defective
equipment or a defective driver,” Mica said. “There will be
strong bus-safety provisions in our bill.”  Fatal Crashes  Bus crashes have caused at least 22 deaths so far this
year, sparking renewed interest in legislation that would give
the Transportation Department greater powers to shut unsafe
operators. The Senate bill would add mandates for windows that
don’t shatter, keeping passengers inside the bus during
rollovers and electronic stability control.  Greyhound’s Leach said in an interview coaches recently
delivered for both its main lines and its Bolt Bus service have
seats designed to withstand crashes, fire suppression systems
and tire-pressure monitoring sensors. The stronger roofs and
windows mandated by the Senate bill are being studied, he said.  ‘Strongest Legislation’  Cost wasn’t as important an issue as studying the science
behind the safety measures and the industry testing of the
technology, Leach said.  “We should support the strongest safety legislation that
we can, not the weakest legislation we can,” Leach said. “If
we can do it, let’s do it.”  Greyhound’s support will help deliver a bill that hasn’t
made it out of the Senate despite years of pushing, said Jackie Gillan, vice president of Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety,
a Washington-based group backed by consumer organizations and
insurance companies.  “This is going to be a game changer for the fate of this
bill,” Gillan said at the Washington news conference.  Greyhound’s Leach joined a group of senators including
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a
Texas Republican. The lawmakers began working on a safety bill
that includes equipment mandates after fatal crashes in their
states in 2007 and 2008.  “We’re sending a message to America’s bus companies: we’re
determined to make buses safer,” said Senator  Frank Lautenberg ,
a New Jersey Democrat. “Millions of Americans ride on buses
that don’t have basic safety features.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  