-- 
Groupon Adds JPMorgan as One of 11 Additional Banks for IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-07-15T21:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/groupon-adds-jpmorgan-as-underwriter-for-initial-public-offering.html
Groupon Inc., the top online-coupon
provider, added  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to the banks leading its
U.S. initial public offering, according to a regulatory filing.  The company also hired 10 banks to co-manage the IPO,
according a filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Groupon, based in  Chicago , registered in
June to raise $750 million in an IPO and named  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as the lead
managers for the sale.  Groupon is following Internet companies such as LinkedIn
Corp., Pandora Media Inc. and Yandex NV in raising money from
public markets. LinkedIn, the biggest professional-networking
site, was the first major U.S. social-media company to sell
shares in an IPO. Its stock more than doubled in the first day
of trading.  Online daily deals, a business pioneered by Groupon in
2009, are now delivered by 345 sites and account for about $133
million in revenue in top North American markets, according to
Yipit Inc., which studied online daily deals in 30 major North
American cities.  Groupon said a “substantial number” of competitors have
joined the field since it started. Facebook Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and LivingSocial are among its major domestic rivals, according
to the filing. LivingSocial, the second-largest website devoted
to daily coupons, is selecting investment banks for a $1 billion
IPO, a person with knowledge of the situation said last month.  ‘Wildly Profitable’  Groupon also asked investors to disregard comments made
last month by Executive Chairman and co-founder Eric Lefkofsky
in a Bloomberg News story. On June 3, Lefkofsky said “Groupon
is going to be wildly profitable.” The company said in the
filing yesterday that the statement doesn’t accurately or
completely reflect his views.  The shares will list under the symbol GRPN, according to
the filing. The exchange wasn’t specified. Co-managers include
Allen & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The amount of underwriters dwarfs the number in other
recent dot-com IPO filings, including HomeAway Inc., LinkedIn,
Pandora, Zillow Inc. and Zynga Inc. IPOs are relying on an
increasing number of banks to spread the risk and tap a wider
range of expertise.  Separately, Groupon’s practice of selling group-discount
coupons with expiration dates is being reviewed by the
Connecticut attorney general for possible violations, according
to a statement from the state’s office yesterday.  Groupon said in the filing that it’s received inquiries
from “the attorneys general of various states regarding the
operation of our business under state laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 