-- 
Groupon’s Coupon Expiration Examined by Connecticut Attorney General

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-07-14T19:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/groupon-s-coupon-expiration-examined-by-connecticut-attorney-general.html
Groupon Inc.’s practice of selling
group-discount coupons with expiration dates is being reviewed
by Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen for possible state
law violations.  “It appears that what Groupon Inc. sells or offers may
fall within the definition of a gift certificate under
Connecticut law,” Jepsen said in a press statement issued
today. “Connecticut law prohibits gift certificates from being
sold or issued subject to an expiration date.”  Jepsen, in a July 12 letter, asked Groupon Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mason  how his company’s certificates are bought
and redeemed, how many have been sold in the state, which
retailers have accepted them and the typical terms of those
agreements.  The attorney general also asked about expiration dates. The
Chicago-based company has until Aug. 5 to reply.  Groupon delivers daily discounts on hotels, restaurants and
other goods and services to 83.1 million subscribers. The daily
deal market pioneered by Groupon may generate $3.9 billion in
U.S. sales in 2015, up from $873 million in 2010, according to
the research firm BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly, Virginia.  IPO Planned  Founded by Mason in 2008, the company last month announced
plans to raise $750 million in an initial public offering.
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group
AG are leading the IPO, according to a June 2 filing.  Groupon has asked six more banks to help underwrite the
sale, including Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co., said two
people last month who have knowledge of the situation and
declined to be identified because that information isn’t public.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t
immediately reply to two voice-mail and two e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Consumers have filed at least 12 federal court lawsuits
challenging Groupon’s business practices. Cases, including those
originally brought in  California ,  Massachusetts ,  Washington ,
 Alabama  and  Illinois , have been consolidated for pre-trial
proceedings before U.S. District Judge Dana Sabraw in  San Diego .  Connecticut law defines a gift certificate as a promise
made by the issuer that, in exchange for a thing of value, goods
or services will be provided up to the value of the certificate,
according to Jepsen’s letter to Mason.  Connecticut law bars the sale of gift certificates that are
subject to expiration dates, according to the letter.  The multidistrict case is In re Groupon Inc. Marketing and
Sales Practices Litigation, MDL 2238, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  