-- 
Microsoft Urged to Pay Utility-Sized Dividend: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/microsoft-holder-urges-payment-of-utility-sized-dividend-chart-of-the-day.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s shareholders
deserve the kind of dividends paid by utilities, telephone
companies and cigarette makers, according to a hedge-fund
manager cited by  Whitney Tilson , a managing director of T2
Partners LLC.  The manager recommended that the world’s largest software
maker more than double its annual payout, to $1.48 a share, in a
letter to Microsoft’s board last month. Tilson, whose funds also
own shares, published the correspondence on the Seeking Alpha
financial website two days ago without naming the writer.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the projected dividend yield for
Microsoft since 2006, three years after the Redmond, Washington-
based company began making payouts. The chart also provides the
comparable yield on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Microsoft’s 2.4 percent estimated yield as of yesterday
would have been 5.6 percent with the higher payout. The latter
figure is in line with projections for  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , the
S&P 500’s highest-yielding utility;  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest U.S.
provider of phone service, and  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the country’s
largest cigarette producer.  The unnamed manager, who wrote that his funds have owned
Microsoft since 2006 and had more than 11 million shares at the
time of the letter, called on the board to pay out all the cash
generated in the U.S. and available to investors as dividends.  There were three more recommendations made in the letter:
selling $40 billion of debt, buying back shares with funds from
the bond sale, and borrowing against cash generated outside the
U.S. for additional stock repurchases. The investor estimated
that Microsoft would reach the high $30s if all of them were
adopted. The stock closed yesterday at $26.63.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  