-- 
If the Murdoch Empire Needs a Home, India Awaits: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-07-14T23:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/if-the-murdoch-empire-needs-a-home-india-awaits-pankaj-mishra.html
Rupert Murdoch, it seems, may be
able to defuse at least some of his troubles at  News Corp. (NWSA)  by
selling his three remaining British newspapers.  But new questions immediately arise: Who will be their
foolhardy buyer, given that two of the papers lose money? And
what will Murdoch do with the nest egg of $12 billion he had
planned to offer for an increased stake in British Sky
Broadcasting?  Certainly, Murdoch could do much worse than look east,
especially to India, where he revolutionized the stale news and
entertainment media in the early 1990s with his satellite
television channels and where he has been steadily  expanding  his
empire.  In India, where more than 500 satellite television channels
have opened in the last two decades, daily newspapers are also
multiplying at an astonishing rate -- increasing by 40 percent
to 2,700 between 2005 and 2009. Newspaper executives in the West
can only gaze enviously at  India ’s 32 percent year-over-year
rise in advertising spending.  There is much more growth to come. “India’s newspaper
publishing market, which has 356 million readers, may expand 6.8
percent annually to $4.1 billion by 2014,” Bloomberg News
 reported  in February. Last year, India’s largest media company,
Bennett Coleman & Co., which owns the Times of India, the
world’s highest-circulation English broadsheet daily, declared
its global ambitions by buying Virgin Radio from the British
tycoon  Richard Branson ; it is now planning an IPO within two
years.  But India’s news media boom, like the U.K. phone-hacking
scandal, is also a cautionary example, showing that when it
comes to the press’s responsibility and freedom, more can amount
to less, and that the supposed watchdog of democracy can quickly
turn into its most insidious enemy within.  More than a decade ago, in what now seems an innocent era,
I wrote in the Financial Times of the creeping
“Murdochization” of the Indian news media. I meant primarily
the growing dominance of advertiser-friendly infotainment in
major newspapers such as the Times of India and the Hindustan
Times.  Every day, and often on the front page, these once-stodgy
newspapers were carrying reports of parties at five-star hotels
and fawning profiles of film stars, musicians, cricketers and
fashion designers, consisting of such useful information as
their eating and dieting habits, romantic preferences, favorite
holiday destinations, champagnes, colors and dogs.  Meanwhile, advertiser-unfriendly news such as the suicides
of tens of thousands of farmers, or human rights violations in
Kashmir, often went unreported or were relegated to the inside
pages. “A good newspaper,” Arthur Miller wrote, “is a nation
talking to itself.” And most English-language newspapers in
India presented, within a few years of Murdoch’s arrival, an
alarming picture of the nation’s public life.  Things have gotten much  worse  since then. Many more
newspapers and television channels have sprouted in the past
decade of rapid economic growth.  But their emphasis continues
to be, as the  Economist  put it last week, on “sensationalist,
‘Bollywoodised’ coverage of celebrities.” Also, “most news
outlets are openly partisan,” featuring what seem to be many an
over-eager understudy for  Glenn Beck  and  Keith Olbermann .  More disturbingly, the editorial departments in many of
India’s major newspapers and television channels are now open to
the highest bidder: political parties, corporations,
celebrities, indeed anyone who can afford to can secure
favorable coverage for themselves with a simple cash
transaction. What Indians call “paid news” is not confined to
a few small-town rags.  As the Financial Times reported last year, “private
treaties,” the business of selling news coverage in exchange
for corporate stock, was “pioneered by the Times of India a few
years ago, and is now widespread in India’s national and
regional press.”  In addition, a damning report last year by the  Press
Council of India , the industry’s watchdog group, concluded that
in many cases the news media has forced politicians to pay
upfront for “positive” coverage, especially during elections.
(This has its amusing aspects: In the run-up to local elections
last year in the Indian state of Maharashtra, three major
newspapers published, under different bylines, an identical
front-page  article  ecstatically praising the incumbent chief
minister.  Yet the powerful lobby of corporate publishers who are
members of the Press Council ensured that only a drastically
edited version of its report on paid news was made available to
the general public. (The leaked full  version  is now available on
the Internet.) But Indians had to wait only a few months for a
clearer insight into the workings of their wealthy “new” media.  Monitoring telephone calls for its own purposes, India’s
income tax department inadvertently exposed a web of corrupt
interconnections among Indian press, politicians and businesses.
India’s mainstream newspapers and TV news channels initially
tried to ignore the mountain of evidence against India’s best-
known journalists, but the recordings were finally made
available by Open Magazine and Outlook, two of India’s very few
independent periodicals.  In one, India’s answer to  Charlie Rose , Vir Sanghvi, can be
heard speaking to a lobbyist for two of India’s biggest
corporations,  Tata Group  and Reliance Industries. “What kind of
story do you want?” Sanghvi asks, and then goes on to offer a
“fully scripted” and “rehearsed” television interview with
Reliance’s chairman,  Mukesh Ambani , India’s richest man.  In another recording, Barkha Dutt, a sort of cross between
 Oprah Winfrey  and  Katie Couric , can be heard offering to help
the lobbyist place a politician in a high ministerial post. (The
politician, subsequently appointed telecommunications minister,
has been arrested and stands accused of cheating the nation out
of billions of dollars by selling the mobile phone spectrum
cheaply to his preferred corporate groups).  As in Britain, incestuous ties between businessmen,
politicians and journalists in India have long been an open
secret. Almost everyone in these circles knows who is beholden
to whom, and for what.      Yet little of this information gets
out to the Indian public. Any news organization that thinks
about violating the Indian press’s “dog will not eat dog”
principle will be deterred by the severe punishment meted out by
the government to the newsmagazine  Tehelka . In 2001 it caught on
video senior army officers, bureaucrats in the defense ministry
and the political head of the ruling  Bharatiya Janata Party 
taking bribes to approve defense contracts. The government
retaliated with an investigation into the magazine and
harassment of its financial backers.  Small magazines such as Tehelka and the  Caravan  continue to
break important stories about individual acts of corruption. But
accounts of systemic malpractice throughout the media and the
country’s political, commercial and legal institutions are rare.
And self-examination is rarer still. According to the leaked
version of the Council of India report from last year, the rot
in the Indian media “goes beyond the corruption of individual
journalists and media companies and has become pervasive,
structured and highly organized.”  Sound familiar?  Rupert Murdoch , abandoned by politicians in
Britain, and facing uncomfortable questions in  Australia  and the
U.S., may find no more hospitable place for his investments and
his modus operandi than India.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West: How
to be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist based in Mashobra, India. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 