-- 
IMF Says Ireland May Return to Market If Leaders Stem Contagion

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-07-14T14:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/imf-says-ireland-has-good-chance-of-market-access-if-europe-acts.html
International Monetary Fund Deputy
Director Ajai Chopra said Ireland has a good chance of returning
to markets if European leaders are able to stem contagion from
the region’s debt crisis.  “It’s very important for all of us to try and abstact from
these contagion risks and look at the positive elements in the
case of Ireland,” Chopra said in Dublin today after the IMF,
European Commission and  European Central Bank  reviewed Ireland’s
budget. “It needs to be judged by its own merits. I think if
one can address some of the broader issues,” there are “goods
prospects of getting back to  market access .”  Ireland has been locked out of markets since September and
the yield on its 10-year debt surged to 14 percent earlier this
week. The country, which got a bailout in November, joined
Portugal and  Greece  on July 12 as the third euro-area nation to
have its  credit rating  reduced to junk as EU leaders struggle to
contain the debt crisis.  “The problems that Ireland faces are not just an Irish
problem,” Chopra said. “They’re a shared European problem.
What we need and what’s lacking so far is a European solution to
a European problem. What’s critical now is for  Europe  to dispel
the uncertainty that’s being created by the lack of what’s
perceived by markets as an insufficient response.”  ‘Well Financed’  In the review of Ireland’s fiscal progress as part of the
bailout, the so-called troika said the program is “on track”
and “well financed.” European Commission Director Istvan
Szekely said the country met all targets and that the next
review will be in October.  “The government has developed a great deal of fiscal
credibility,” Chopra said.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan , who had indicated he’d
like to return to bond markets next year, said this week that
further tough budgets are required to reduce Ireland’s deficit.
An adjustment larger than the 3.6 billion euros ($5.1 billion)
planned for 2012 is “something that will have to be
considered.” he said.  Speaking at the press conference today, European Central
Bank official Klaus Masuch said Irish lenders have especially
benefited from ECB liquidity measures. Asked about Ireland’s
proposal to impose losses on some senior bank bondholders, he
said the ECB position opposing this “hasn’t changed.”  Undermining  “We regard it as undermining confidence in the Irish
banking sector,” he said. “I know that there is sometimes
criticism of ECB policy decision here in Ireland. One has to
understand that being in the euro area means that monetary
policy can’t be divided, can’t be set differently for one
country than the other.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland to non-investment
grade on July 12, citing the probability that the country will
need additional official financing and for investors to share in
losses before it can return to the private market to borrow. The
outlook remains “negative,” the company said.  Irish bonds rose for the first time in more than a week
today, with the yield on the 10-year debt declining 8 basis
points to 13.92 percent. Still, the yield premium over German
bunds reached a euro-era record of 11.40 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  