-- 
IMF Calls for ‘Greater Sense of Urgency’ on Greek Funding

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-14T15:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/imf-calls-for-greater-sense-of-urgency-on-greek-funding-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
today called for a “greater sense of urgency” in resolving the
Greek debt turmoil and avoiding a contagion to the core of
 Europe .  “The fiscal situation in  Greece  threatens market disorder
that would affect funding rates for other vulnerable sovereigns
and could have severe implications for financial institutions,”
the IMF staff said in  a note  prepared for a meeting of Group of
20 deputy officials in Paris last week. “Delays to implement
measures to ensure that Greece is securely funded would likely
cause market disruption.”  With Greece unable to return to the markets next year as
initially planned under a joint 110-billion euros ($156 billion)
bailout with the European Union, the IMF has urged officials in
the region to quickly agree on new sources of funding as the
crisis spreads to  Spain  and  Italy .  In today’s note, the IMF warned that concerns about the
European turmoil have increased risks to global economic growth.
Other threats to stability include a lack of credible plans to
reduce deficits in  Japan  and in the U.S., where “a deadline for
raising the debt ceiling looms large,” it wrote. Overheating
pressures in developing nations are also intensifying, it said.  The G-20 note was written before a meeting of European
finance ministers this week, who floated ideas from bond
buybacks to a temporary default in an effort to change strategy
on stemming the crisis as borrowing costs from Spain to Italy
surged.  Europe’s Concern  Ministers are concerned that the IMF will curb its share of
a new Greek rescue of as much as 115 billion euros ($163
billion) unless the plan includes deep cuts in Greece’s debt
burden, two people with knowledge of the talks said.  Christine Lagarde , the IMF’s new managing director, said
this week that the fund is not yet discussing the details of its
participation in a new loan program for Greece and told
reporters that “nothing should be taken for granted.”  While the money banks in some “key economies” have at
risk in Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  is large, the
capitalization of banks in Europe remains relatively low
compared with the U.S., the IMF said today.  “In the event of a disorderly sovereign default in the
euro area, risk appetite would likely decrease sharply, causing
unwinding of positions and elevated funding rates for banks and
vulnerable sovereigns in similar positions within the euro area,
with possible spillovers for banks and sovereigns in the rest of
the world,” the IMF wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  