-- 
Pakistan Says Foreign Minister Talks With India Will Take Place This Month

-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-07-17T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/india-pakistan-talks-sought-by-u-s-may-survive-mumbai-attack.html
Pakistan  said talks with  India  on
their peace process will take place at foreign minister level at
the end of this month and won’t be delayed after bombings last
week in the Indian city of  Mumbai .  Plans for the meeting indicate the July 13 attack hasn’t
derailed engagement between the nuclear-armed neighbors, which
agreed in February to resume a five-year peace process that
stalled after a 2008 raid by Pakistani guerrillas in Mumbai, the
financial capital.  India, which blamed Pakistan for attacks that killed almost
400 people since 2003, refrained from suggesting a Pakistani
link to last week’s bombings that killed at least 19 people.
India and Pakistan have fought three wars since they separated
at independence from Britain in 1947.  “The Pakistan-India ministerial level talks will be held
at  New Delhi ,” the state-run  Associated Press of Pakistan  cited
Tehmina Janjua, a Foreign Office spokeswoman, as saying in the
capital, Islamabad, July 16. “Dates are being worked out.”  The people of Pakistan “who have suffered terrorism,
understand and share the anguish in India caused by the tragic
loss of life and property,” Janjua said. Pakistan and India
recognize that issues of terrorism should be discussed under a
bilateral mechanism, she said.  Countering Terrorism  Pakistan has categorically condemned the Mumbai attacks and
emphasizes the need for increasing cooperation in countering
terrorism, Janjua added.  “We are not starting the investigation on the basis of any
predetermined assumptions,” Indian Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told a press conference on July 14 when asked
whether foreigners might have conducted the bombings in Mumbai.
Noting that the Indian and Pakistani foreign ministers are
scheduled to meet, he made an “appeal not to indulge in
speculation.”  India’s main opposition party renewed its criticism of
Pakistan as a sponsor of terrorism against India and of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s decision to reopen peace talks.  Dialogue is futile as long as Pakistan fails to eliminate
Islamic militant groups that attack India from its soil, said
Lal Krishna Advani, the leader in parliament of the  Bharatiya
Janata Party .  Relations between India and Pakistan have “considerably
improved” since the February announcement that talks were
resuming and a March 30 meeting of their prime ministers at a
cricket match between their national teams, said S.D. Muni, a
retired Indian diplomat and research professor at the  Institute
of South Asian Studies  in  Singapore .  Doing Business  “There is an understanding in New Delhi also that we can
do business with each other with whatever reservations there are
on the question of terrorism,” Muni said in a phone interview
last week. “This kind of an attack I hope is not to vitiate
that move toward greater understanding,” he said.  Pakistan has backed Islamic militant groups fighting in the
Indian-administered portion of the disputed territory of Kashmir.  Before its interruption, the  peace process  made progress on
a proposal to settle the Kashmir dispute, Pakistan’s former
foreign minister, Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri, told India’s Mint
newspaper in January.  Talks between India and Pakistan are important for
stability in  South Asia  and for U.S. hopes of resolving the
decade-old war in  Afghanistan , the U.S.  State Department has
said . That importance increased as President  Barack Obama 
ordered a start this month to withdrawals of American troops
that will lead to an end of the U.S. combat role in Afghanistan
by 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  