-- 
India’s Inflation Accelerates to 9.44%, Adding to Pressure to Raise Rates

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-07-14T13:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/india-inflation-accelerates-adding-to-pressure-for-higher-interest-rates.html
India ’s inflation accelerated,
sustaining pressure on the central bank to tighten monetary
policy this month, even as price gains that were less than
economists estimated boosted optimism the longest stretch of
interest-rate increases in a decade is nearing an end.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 9.44 percent in
June from a year earlier after a 9.06 percent jump in May,
according to the commerce ministry. The median of 28 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.68 percent increase.
Food-price inflation quickened to a three-week high of 8.31
percent in the week ended July 2, the ministry said in a
separate statement today.  The  Reserve Bank of India  may raise rates this month even
after Mumbai was hit yesterday by the biggest terrorist attack
since November 2008, economists said. India has persisted with
monetary tightening, while neighbors from  Malaysia  to  Indonesia 
refrained from raising rates in July on concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth will hurt Asian economies.  “The central bank’s stance will be governed by
inflation,” Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes
Bank Ltd., said before the report. “These attacks are unlikely
to have any material impact on the economy.”  Rate Stance  She predicted the central bank will increase its repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.75 percent in the
next policy announcement on July 26. The  Reserve Bank  has raised
borrowing costs 10 times since the start of 2010.  The yield on the 7.8 percent government bonds due April
2021 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.24
percent at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai from 8.26 percent before
the report was published. It climbed to as much as 8.28 percent
earlier in the day. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index
rose 0.1 percent after surging as much as 1.1 percent. The rupee
was little changed at 44.49 against the dollar.  Three bomb blasts in Mumbai yesterday killed at least 17
people and injured 133 others, according to a statement from the
home ministry. Yesterday’s attack is the first in the nation’s
financial capital since Pakistani gunmen killed about 160 people
in 2008.  Inflation accelerated in June because of an increase in
diesel costs and higher prices of minerals and manufactured
products, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in a statement
today. He said the government is working with the central bank
to take “appropriate” steps to cool prices to a “comfortable
level.”  Diesel Costs  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government on June 24
allowed state-run refiners including Indian Oil Corp. to
increase diesel prices by 3 rupees (7 cents) a liter, kerosene
by 2 rupees a liter and cooking gas by 50 rupees for every 14.2
kilogram bottle. The decision was aimed at reducing subsidies
and helping limit losses at companies selling fuels below cost.  “The fuel price hike is yet to seep into the economy,”
said  Indranil Pan , chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.
in Mumbai. “Inflation will remain in double digits until
November as its impact plays out.”  He expects the Reserve Bank to increase borrowing costs by
a quarter point this month.  By contrast, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
yesterday signaled the central bank has more tools for monetary
easing should the  U.S. economy  weaken.  U.S. Growth  Economic growth in the U.S. slowed to a 1.9 percent annual
pace in the first quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three
months.  In Europe, Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  as the third
euro-area nation to have its  credit rating  reduced to below
investment grade as Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating to
Ba1 this week, while European Union finance ministers struggle
to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Curbing inflation is the top agenda for India’s policy
makers as price gains erode spending power in a nation where the
 World Bank  estimates more than three-quarters of the people live
on less than $2 a day.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last month that
“domestic inflation risks remain high,” and that “some short-
run deceleration in growth may be unavoidable in bringing
inflation under control.”  India’s economy  may grow “around 8
percent” in the year through March from 8.5 percent in the
previous 12 months, he estimated.  India’s industrial production rose 5.6 percent in May from
a year earlier, the least since August 2010, the  Central
Statistical Office  said this week.  “From the perspective of the central bank, their role is
still to try to contain inflation from getting out of hand
regardless of the episode,”  David Cohen , a Singapore-based
economist for Action Economics, who previously worked at the U.S.
Federal Reserve, said referring to yesterday’s attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  