-- 
U.S. Jobless Claims Declined More Than Forecast Last Week

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-14T14:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/initial-jobless-claims-in-u-s-fell-22-000-last-week-to-405-000.html
The number of Americans filing
first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  dropped last week to
the lowest level since April, a sign weakness in the labor
market may be starting to abate.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 22,000 in the
week ended July 9 to 405,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 415,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The data included
fewer layoffs in the  auto industry  than typical this time of the
year, according to an agency spokesman.  A sustained reduction in firings is a first step toward a
pickup in hiring after employers in June added the fewest
workers in nine months and the jobless rate rose. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that
“disappointing” job growth in the last two months was due to
temporary effects, such as high fuel costs and delayed parts
shipments from  Japan  after the March earthquake and tsunami.  “The claims numbers suggests a positive development,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in Stamford,  Connecticut . “Part of what’s going on is that in
the auto sector a number of factories took their normal seasonal
downturn early since a lot of them weren’t able to get parts
back in May. They took their hiatus early.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,325.90 at 10:22 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note climbed to 2.92 percent from 2.88 percent
late yesterday.  Retail Sales  Retail sales stagnated in June as rising unemployment held
consumers back, another report showed. The 0.1 percent increase
reported by the Commerce Department compared with the median
forecast of a 0.1 percent drop in the Bloomberg News survey of
80 economists. Excluding auto sales, purchases were little
changed, the weakest performance since July 2010.  Consumer confidence  rose last week as households became
more upbeat about the state of their finances. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index increased to minus 43.9 for the period
ended July 10 from minus 45.5 the prior week. Even with the
gain, which is within the survey’s 3-point margin of error, the
gauge is lower than it was at the start of the year.  Unemployment claims dropped to the lowest level since the
week ended April 16. Estimates for first-time claims ranged from
375,000 to 440,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 49 economists. The
Labor Department initially reported the prior week’s
applications at 418,000.  Seasonal Effects  “Seasonal factors expected a fairly large rise in claims.
There were some state-reported auto layoffs this week, but
probably not as many as usual,” a Labor Department official
said as the figures were released. “If you go back
traditionally in the first two weeks of July you have a large
amount of layoffs primarily from manufacturing.”  Economists at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut,
said they projected claims to drop this week because auto-plant
shutdowns occurred earlier this year than usual.  “The drop is more technical in nature,” Kevin Cummins, an
economist at UBS Securities, said before the report. Regarding
some auto assembly plants, “if those temporary layoffs don’t
occur in early July when the seasonal factors expect that they
would, this may bias the number down a bit.”  The report also included a 11,500 unadjusted increase in
claims related to the government shutdown in  Minnesota .  Minnesota Shutdown  Minnesota’s government shut down at 12:01 a.m. July 1,
after Democratic Governor Mark Dayton and Republican legislative
leaders failed to resolve a budget stalemate at the start of the
new fiscal year. The impasse led to the layoffs of about 23,000
state workers, according to John Pollard, a spokesman for
Minnesota’s Management and Budget office.  The four-week moving average, a less-volatile measure, fell
to 423,250 from 427,000.  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
rose by 15,000 in the week ended July 2 to 3.73 million. The
continuing claims figure does not include the number of workers
receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
16,000 to 3.83 million in the week ended June 25.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 3 percent in the
week ended July 2, today’s report showed. Thirty-six states and
territories reported an increase in claims, while 16 had a
decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Job Growth  Job gains have slowed in the past two months, raising
concern about the durability of a labor market recovery.
Payrolls expanded by 18,000 workers last month, the smallest
gain since September, after increasing by 25,000 in May, Labor
Department data showed July 8. The jobless rate climbed to 9.2
percent, the highest this year, from 9.1 percent.  “The most recent data attest to the continuing weakness of
the labor market: The unemployment rate increased to 9.2 percent
in June, and gains in non-farm payroll employment were below
expectations for a second month,” Bernanke told lawmakers
yesterday.  Before the June employment data were released, the  Federal
Open Market Committee  noted in the minutes of its June 21-22
meeting that “the most recent data on employment had been
disappointing, and new claims for  unemployment insurance 
remained elevated.”  Fed Meeting  “Several participants reported feedback from business
contacts who were delaying hiring until the economic and
regulatory outlook became more certain and who indicated that
they expected to meet any near-term increase in the demand for
their products without boosting employment,” according to the
minutes, which were released July 12.  The central bank officials lowered their projections for
employment after the meeting, forecasting joblessness will
average 8.6 percent to 8.9 percent in the final three months of
2011, compared with the 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent range they
projected in April.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment
company, may cut as many as 10,000 jobs, or about 14 percent of
its workforce, to revive profit growth, according to two people
familiar with the plans.  “We will provide additional detail on the cost reductions,
including layoffs, on our next earnings call,” Karen Tillman, a
spokeswoman for  San Jose , California-based Cisco, said in
reference to an earnings call scheduled for early August.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  is slashing
jobs and exiting less-profitable businesses as competitors such
as Juniper Networks Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. take market
share in Cisco’s main businesses with lower-priced, simpler
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  