-- 
Minnesota Governor Strikes Deal With Republican Lawmakers to End Shutdown

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J o e   K i m b a l l
-- 
2011-07-15T15:06:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/minnesota-governor-lawmakers-strike-deal.html
Minnesota Governor  Mark Dayton 
agreed to a  bond issue  instead of higher taxes, and Republican
legislative leaders endorsed higher spending in a deal to end a
budget impasse that has closed state government for 15 days.  The shutdown was the longest of six in U.S. states since
2002, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures . The deal to end it came after Dayton sent a letter
yesterday to legislative leaders agreeing with conditions to an
offer they made June 30.  The sides will settle the details during the weekend before
a special session to pass budget bills, ending the shutdown in a
“very few days,” Dayton said.  “We’ve reached a framework that will get  Minnesota  back to
work, yet still protect our vital services,” Dayton, a 64-year-
old Democrat, said at a news conference with Republican Senator
Amy T. Koch, the majority leader, and Kurt Zellers, speaker of
the  House of Representatives .  Koch and Zellers said they expect their members to support
the bargain.  “A deal we all can be disappointed in, but a deal that’s
done,” Zellers told reporters.  Witching Hour  Most government functions stopped at 12:01 a.m. July 1
after Dayton and lawmakers failed to resolve the budget dispute
in the Midwestern state of 5.3 million. The closure idled 23,000
workers, closed parks and agencies, and halted construction
projects.  Dayton had said he didn’t want spending cuts alone to close
the state’s deficit, and Republicans opposed his plan for a tax
increase on the wealthiest 2 percent of Minnesotans.  The budget deal means Republicans will accept higher
spending than they wanted. Republicans had passed budgets
totaling $34 billion, while Dayton wanted $35.8 billion.  In exchange for Dayton’s abandoning his tax increase,
Republicans dropped demands for restrictions on abortions, as
well as a 15 percent reduction of state employees. Republicans
also agreed to a bonding bill of at least $500 million for
capital projects, according to his letter.  Shuffling Money  The governor and legislative leaders agreed to bridge a
$1.4 billion budget gap by raising $700 million through bonds
tied to a 1998 settlement with  tobacco companies . The deal also
calls for delaying $700 million for school districts until the
next budget so that money isn’t counted in the current one.  Minnesota has shifted education money to balance budgets
since the 1980s, Scott Croonquist, executive director of the 38-
member Association of Metropolitan School Districts in  St. Paul ,
said in a telephone interview.  “If you’re going to put a gun to our head and say, ‘Do you
want a cut or a shift?’ then generally the school officials are
going to say, ‘Well, we’d rather have the shift then, because at
least we’re going to get the money in the future,’ ” Croonquist
said.  Minnesota would be the 16th state to issue tobacco bonds,
said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at Herbert J.
Sims & Co. in Iselin,  New Jersey .  ‘Tough Times’  Tobacco companies agreed in 1998 to reimburse states $246
billion for treating smoking-related illnesses. States have more
than $106.8 billion of outstanding bonds backed by the payments,
made annually in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A financing like this, a one-time borrowing just to plug
a hole, is never viewed as a very positive development,” Larkin
said in a telephone interview. “But these are tough times.”  Last week, Fitch downgraded about $5.7 billion in Minnesota
general-obligation bonds one step to AA+ from AAA, the highest
level, in response to the budget problems. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the state Aa1, second-highest, and  Standard &
Poor’s  gives it a top AAA grade.  Investors are seeking riskier bonds as they hunt for yield,
said Lyle Fitterer, who helps oversee $26 billion of municipal
bonds for Wells Capital Management in Menominee Falls,
 Wisconsin . Minnesota may be able to borrow at about 5.5 percent
for bonds maturing between 15 and 20 years. The state would get
a lower rate if it guaranteed the bonds, he said.  The governor said yesterday’s that the agreement is “not
advantageous” to solving the state’s long-term budget problem.  “The real solution is for the state of Minnesota’s economy
to improve,” Dayton told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  