-- 
Minnesota Governor Offers Republicans Deal to End Shutdown

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J o e   K i m b a l l
-- 
2011-07-14T16:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/minnesota-governor-offers-republicans-deal-to-end-shutdown-1-.html
Minnesota ’s Democratic governor,
Mark Dayton, told Republican legislative leaders he accepts
their conditions for ending the shutdown of state government --
with provisos.  Dayton will agree to bridge a $1.4 billion budget gap by
raising $700 million through bonds tied to the 1998 tobacco
settlement and shifting $700 million in education funding into
the next budget, he said in a letter today.  In exchange, Dayton said he wants Republicans to drop their
demands for policy changes including restricting abortions and
requiring voters to show photo identification, as well as a 15
percent reduction of state employees. The governor also wants
Republicans to agree to a bonding bill of not less than $500
million for capital projects  “to put people back to work
throughout Minnesota,” according to the letter.  “I am willing to agree to something I do not agree with --
your proposal -- in order to spare our citizens and our state
from further damage,” Dayton wrote in the letter to Senator Amy T. Koch, the majority leader, and Kurt Zellers, speaker of the
 House of Representatives .  Thinking It Over  Republican legislative leaders are reviewing the offer,
Michael Brodkorb, a spokesman for the Senate Republican caucus,
told reporters.  The governor said he is prepared to call a special session
of the Legislature after his staff has signed off on the nine
remaining budget bills “necessary for a comprehensive
agreement” and expects that can happen within three days,
according to the letter.  Most government functions shut down at 12:01 a.m. July 1
after Dayton and lawmakers failed to resolve a budget dispute in
the Midwestern state of 5.3 million. The closure idled 23,000
workers, closed parks and agencies, and halted construction
projects.  Dayton had said he didn’t want spending cuts alone to close
the deficit, and Republicans opposed his plan for a tax
increase. The governor also has said he didn’t want additional
debt to balance the budget, and said in his letter that
borrowing is “far less preferable than a new progressive source
of additional revenue.”  “However, despite my serious reservations about your plan,
I have concluded that continuing the state government shutdown
would be even more destructive for too many Minnesotans,”
Dayton wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  