-- 
Iraq Needs U.S. Troops to Stay Longer for Training, Maliki Says

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-07-14T18:49:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/iraq-needs-u-s-troops-to-stay-longer-for-training-maliki-says.html
Iraq  may seek to keep U.S. troops in
the country past this year to help with training, a role not
requiring the approval of a parliament ready to reject
continuation of American combat missions, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said today.  “Iraq needs the Americans for training on the sea, air and
ground and sea weapons,” he said in an interview with state-
sponsored Iraqiya television. “This does not need the approval
of parliament,” he said.  All 46,000 U.S. combat troops in the country are scheduled
to leave by the end of the year unless Iraq and the U.S. reach a
new agreement and the Iraqi parliament ratifies it by a two-
thirds vote.  “This would be difficult, and our estimates show that it
would be difficult to secure two-thirds of parliament,” Maliki
said. “We are not moving toward a renewal” of parliamentary
authorization for U.S. combat forces “and if some blocs are in
favor of that, they don’t make up two-thirds of parliament,” he
said.  On his first visit to Iraq as U.S. defense secretary this
week,  Leon Panetta  urged the embattled country’s leaders to
decide quickly on whether they want U.S. troops to stay. He said
the U.S. would “seriously consider” such a proposal.  During talks with Panetta, Maliki cited his force’s limited
capabilities for intelligence collection, logistics, border
security and protection of airspace.  Iraq has been engulfed in violence since the U.S.-led
invasion of the country that ousted the regime of President
 Saddam Hussein  in 2003. While most of the killed and injured
have been civilians, government officials and foreign troops
have been hit in a recent surge of attacks. The death toll for
American troops in Iraq spiked to 15 in June, the biggest one-
month loss of U.S. lives in at least two years.  Iraq and the U.S. have begun joint operations to halt a
spate of attacks on American troops by a new, more powerful type
of mortar and armor-piercing roadside bombs. The U.S. military
attributes the assaults to an Iranian-backed militia with
weapons from  Iran .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  