-- 
IRS Delays Overseas Bank Reporting Rule Criticized by Aegon

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-14T20:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/irs-delays-overseas-bank-reporting-rule-criticized-by-aegon-1-.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
giving overseas banks an additional year before they will have
to make any withholdings from U.S. customers who fail to
disclose enough identifying information to U.S. tax collectors.  The second round of  IRS guidance  issued today on the
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, doesn’t require
banks to make 30 percent withholdings on non-compliant U.S.
customers until Jan. 1, 2014. Other withholdings on gross
proceeds and income that might be indirectly sourced to the U.S.
won’t start until Jan. 1, 2015.  The requirements, which Congress approved last year, were
originally slated to take effect at the beginning of 2013.
Today’s announcement is intended to address the concerns of
overseas financial institutions, including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
of Canada,  Allianz SE (ALV)  of  Germany  and  Aegon NV (AGN)  of the
Netherlands, which have said the proposal is too complex.  “Today’s notice is a reflection of our serious commitment
to implementation of the statute, but also a serious commitment
to listen to the implementation challenges of affected foreign
financial institutions,” IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said in
a press release.  New Timeline  Under the new timeline, offshore banks have until June 30,
2013, to enter into an agreement with the IRS that would shield
them from some withholding requirements. Institutions won’t have
to report on their efforts to track down their U.S. clients
until 2014.  Lawmakers adopted FATCA in an effort to crack down on U.S.
citizens evading their taxes by holding money in overseas bank
accounts. Financial institutions have told the IRS it’s too
difficult to siphon their U.S. customers from their other
clients. Konrad Hummler, the managing partner of Wegelin & Co.,
 Switzerland ’s oldest bank, said in January the law would turn
U.S. citizens into “pariahs” once the regulations take effect.  American Citizens Abroad, a coalition of U.S. citizens
living overseas, issued a  report  today calling on its members to
lobby Congress to repeal the law.  “The way this new law is structured is totally
disproportionate and unworkable, the equivalent of using a
bulldozer to destroy an ant hill,” Jackie Bugnion, ACA’s
director, said in an e-mailed statement.  The IRS responded to initial concerns with guidance in
April that said the agency will spend less time focusing on
accounts of U.S. citizens with less than $50,000. The agency
said its actions would be targeted on citizens with more than
$500,000 in offshore bank accounts and those with private
banking relationships at overseas institutions.  Heather Lowe, the director of government affairs at  Global
Financial Integrity , a Washington-based group focused on ending
bank secrecy, said the delay is unnecessary.  “That’s certainly going to open up the time period for
lobbying,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  