-- 
IRS Slow to Notify Taxpayers About Personal Data Breaches

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-07-14T18:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/irs-slow-to-notify-taxpayers-about-personal-data-breaches-1-.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
doesn’t always promptly notify taxpayers when personal
information has inadvertently been disclosed, a government
review of IRS procedures has found.  The IRS failed to properly alert taxpayers to privacy
breaches in 35 of 98 cases of inadvertent disclosures sampled by
the  Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration , according
to a report by the inspector general released today.  “Taxpayers need to be assured that the IRS will promptly
notify them of inadvertent disclosures of their confidential
information, so they can take appropriate steps to protect
themselves from  identity theft  or other harm,” Inspector
General J. Russell George said in a statement accompanying the
report.  Inadvertent disclosures of taxpayer information can occur
through mix-ups, such as sending a  tax return  to an incorrect
fax number or mailing a return to a different person with a
similar name.  The inspector general considered notifications timely if
they were made within 45 days. Notification letters in the
sample took an average of 86 days.  The IRS identified 1,493 cases of inadvertent disclosure
that required notification of 2,812 taxpayers in 2009 and 2010,
according to the report. The IRS processed more than 140 million
individual returns in each of those years.  No ‘Systemic Vulnerability’  “While any inadvertent disclosure is of great concern,
nothing in this report suggests any systemic vulnerability,”
IRS spokeswoman Julianne Breitbeil said in a statement.
“Taxpayers can be confident that their data is secure with the
IRS, and protection of taxpayer data is a top priority for the
agency.”  There’s no indication that any of the incidents of
inadvertent disclosure examined by the inspector general led to
any taxpayer harm, Breitbeil said.  George’s report made four recommendations to improve
training and procedures to ensure faster notifications.  The IRS agreed with all of the recommendations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  