-- 
Israel Bond Yield Drops to 5-Month Low Before Inflation Report

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-14T17:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/israel-bond-yield-drops-to-5-month-low-before-inflation-report.html
Israel ’s 10-year government bonds
rose, pushing yields to the lowest level in five months, on bets
the central bank will keep rates on hold after the inflation
report tomorrow will show the prices increase was seasonal.  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January
2020 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5
percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the lowest since
Feb. 15. The yield plunged 11 basis points over the past week.  Annual inflation rose to 4.2 percent from 4.1 percent,
according to the median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The consumer-price index advanced 0.4 percent in June
from the previous month, according to the survey. The increases
are “seasonal” because of increased spending during the summer
vacation and inflation will probably slow in the coming months,
Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS Securities & Investments
Ltd., said by telephone.  “Yields are falling on expectations that borrowing costs
won’t be raised at the end of the month,” Zabezhinsky said from
 Tel Aviv . “Signs of a slow recovery in the global economy,
which impact exports and the local economy, increase bets
inflation will moderate.”  Yields on Israel’s fixed-rate bonds due in September 2013
fell nine basis points this month to 3.9 percent.  Inflation exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target for a fifth month in May, as the economy recovers from
the global recession faster than most advanced countries. The
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to
release June-price data at 2 p.m. tomorrow.  Less Hawkish Tone  Investors should buy Israel’s 10-year interest-rate swaps
to benefit from declining borrowing costs in the future, Rogerio Oliveira, an emerging-markets strategist at Morgan Stanley in
 New York , wrote in an e-mailed report dated July 13.  “With headline inflation appearing to have peaked and
inflation expectations being lowered, the Bank of Israel has
started to verbalize a less hawkish tone,” Oliveira wrote.
“Inflation can be expected to gradually move lower in the
remainder of the year and in 2012.”  Ten-year swaps, which investors use to fix borrowing costs
in the future, fell 5 basis points to 5.15 percent, the lowest
level in a month.  Growth slowed to an annualized 4.8 percent in the first
quarter from 7.6 percent in the previous three months, which was
the fastest since 2006. The economy may expand at a pace below
the Bank of Israel’s 5.2 percent forecast in 2011, Governor
 Stanley Fischer  said July 7. Economic indicators published
before the last interest-rate decision support the assessment
that growth slowed in the second quarter from the previous three
months, according to  minutes  of the June 27 decision released
July 11.  Rates on Hold  Fischer will probably keep  interest rates  on hold at its
July 25 meeting, according to 13 of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The central bank left the benchmark lending rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent on June 27 after 10 increases in two
years, citing concern over slower U.S. economic growth and the
worsening of debt risks in  Europe .  The shekel strengthened 0.5 percent to 3.4154 against the
dollar at 5:18 p.m. The currency has weakened 0.5 percent over
the past week.  “The  Bank of Israel  is considering whether inflation or
global macroeconomic concerns are the bigger threat in its end-
of-month decision,” Saar Golan, a trader at Tel-Aviv based Clal
Finance Brokerage Ltd. wrote in an e-mailed report today.
“There have been more signs of a slowdown in the pace of
economic growth in the second and third quarter and a slowdown
in housing transactions after several measures by the Bank of
Israel and Ministry of Finance to cool the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sharon Wrobel} in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  