-- 
Italian Austerity Plan Survives as Berlusconi Wins Senate Confidence Vote

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-14T14:43:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/italian-austerity-plan-survives-as-berlusconi-wins-senate-confidence-vote.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
survived a confidence vote on a 40 billion-euro ($56 billion)
austerity package that aims to protect Italy from the region’s
debt crisis.  Berlusconi staked the survival of his government on the
outcome and carried the vote in the Senate in Rome, 161 to 135.
The lower house Chamber of Deputies, where Berlusconi has a
narrower majority than in the Senate, holds a confidence vote
tomorrow to secure final passage of the measures.  “We are required to seek a path in 2011 aimed at achieving
a balanced budget in 2014,” Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
told the Senate before the vote. “The European Commission, the
OECD and Germany have expressed positive views of our budget
plan,” the bulk of which will be implemented in 2013 and 2014.  Berlusconi pushed for quick passage of the legislation
after investors began dumping Italian securities on concern that
 Italy , with the region’s second-highest debt, would become the
next victim of  Europe ’s sovereign crisis. The selloff pushed the
yield on Italy’s 10-bond to a 14-year high and sent its
benchmark stock index to the lowest in more than two years.  New Phase  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has entered a new phase as
contagion now threatens to spread to Italy and Spain,  European
Central Bank  incoming President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday in
Rome. Italy’s austerity package is “an important step in
strengthening the public accounts,” he said.  The surge in Italy’s bond yields is already boosting the
cost of financing its deficit. Italy priced 1.25 billion euros
of five-year bonds at an auction today to yield 4.93 percent,
the highest in three years and up from 3.9 percent at the
previous sale on June 14.  “This is not a result that sweeps away contagion fears,
ratings fears,”  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate
strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, said in an e-mailed comment.
“Concessions are costly, though not crippling at this point.”  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
over German bunds widened six basis points to 286, down from a
euro-era of 348 basis points hit during trading two days ago.
The benchmark FTSE MIB  stock index  lost 0.7 percent today and
has fallen more than 7 percent in July.  Credit Ratings  Warnings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s that they were reviewing Italy’s rating for a possible
downgrade, coupled with opposition within the government to the
budget plan designed by Tremonti, helped drive yields higher.  Berlusconi is resorting to confidence votes to pass the
package to end debate and force his allies to back the measure
or risk the collapse of the government. His popularity has
fallen to a record low amid corruption allegations and sex
scandals that prompted dozens of his allies to abandon his
government last year.  Until now, Italy had avoided the worst of the fallout from
the debt crisis that forced  Greece , Ireland and Portugal to seek
bailouts. Italy hasn’t had its rating cut since Greece set off
the crisis in October 2009 and the country’s deficit of 4.6
percent of gross domestic product last year is less than half
those of Greece,  Spain  and Ireland. Tremonti’s success at
containing the shortfall helped limit increases in the country’s
debt, even though total borrowing has topped 100 percent of GDP
for more than 20 years.  Debt Load  Italy has about 1.8 trillion euros of debt, more than
Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland combined, making it
difficult for the euro-area to bail out the country if its
borrowing costs became prohibitive.  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday
that Italy is set to meet this year’s budget-gap target of 3.9
percent of GDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 