-- 
Lithuania Wins on Germany’s Nuclear Exit With Hitachi Offer

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-07-15T07:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/lithuania-wins-on-germany-s-nuclear-exit-with-hitachi-s-offer.html
Lithuania  may have won an
“attractive proposal” from  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  to build a nuclear
power plant because of  Germany ’s decision to give up atomic
energy, said  DnB Nord Bank  economist Jekaterina Rojaka.  The government picked Hitachi Ltd. together with its
Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy Ltd., a joint venture with  General
Electric Co. (GE) , yesterday for what is expected to be the biggest
investment project in the Baltic region in two decades.
Lithuania is seeking to cut its dependence on energy imports
after closing the Soviet-era  Ignalina nuclear facility  at the
end of 2009 as part of its agreement to join the European Union.  Germany unexpectedly boosted Lithuania’s leverage in the
bidding process to build the planned Visaginas plant when
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided in May to shut more than 25
percent of the country’s atomic capacity after an earthquake in
 Japan  triggered a meltdown at a plant in Fukushima. Germany
plans to close all of its nuclear reactors by 2022.  “That’s good timing for Lithuania,” Rojaka said by phone
from Vilnius. “Germany is exiting nuclear energy, which opens
more opportunities for Lithuania to pick an investor and also
increases the interest of investors in the Lithuanian project.”  The  Baltic region  needs to diversify its energy resources
after energy costs soared because of an increasing dependence on
Russian energy sources. Lithuania imports almost 50 percent of
its power. Russia’s OAO Gazprom supplies all of its gas.  ‘Attractive Proposal’  Lithuania picked Hitachi’s bid over Westinghouse Electric
Corp. because it was “the most-economically attractive
proposal,” Deputy Energy Minister Romas Svedas said at a news
conference yesterday. He declined to disclose preliminary costs
of the investment.  Hitachi shares rose the most in a week, adding 1.1 percent
today to 484 yen in  Tokyo .  Both bidding investors saw the project as “commercially
viable and attractive because of decisions in Germany” which is
turning the country into a power importer, Svedas told  Verslo
Zinios  newspaper in an interview today.  The government, which has said the investor may be offered
as much as a 51 percent stake in the plant, aims to sign an
agreement with Hitachi by the end of the year and to complete
construction by the end of 2020, he said.  Path for Region  “For Lithuania and the whole region it is important to
have independent capacity to generate electricity,” Prime
Minister Andrius Kubilius said on June 1. “We are choosing a
path that we believe is the best for Lithuania and for the whole
region.”  Hitachi offered its ABWR reactor technology with a proposed
capacity of 1,300 megawatts in output at the projected plant in
Visaginas, about 160 kilometers (100 miles) northeast of the
capital.  A tender for a strategic investor to build a nuclear plant
failed last year after  Korea Electric Power Corp (KEP)  withdrew its
bid. Lithuania continued to look for an investor through direct
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  