-- 
Lithuania Picks Hitachi for New Reactor Amid European Debate

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-07-14T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/lithuania-picks-hitachi-for-new-reactor-amid-european-debate.html
Lithuania  picked  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  over
Westinghouse Electric Corp. to build a new nuclear power plant
in the nation amid European concerns over the safety of atomic
energy.  The government plans to sign an agreement with Hitachi this
year and to complete construction by the end of 2020, Deputy
Energy Minister Romas Svedas said at a news conference in
Vilnius yesterday. He declined to disclose the preliminary costs
of the investment.  Lithuania closed its last nuclear reactor, the Soviet-era
Ignalina plant, in 2009 to comply with European Union rules.
Shutting the reactor, which had been generating 70 percent of
the nation’s electricity, forced Lithuania to became a net
importer of power and caused electricity prices to rise,
according to the  World Nuclear Association .  “We picked the most economically attractive proposal,”
Svedas said.  A March 11 earthquake and tsunami at  Japan ’s Fukushima
plant caused the world’s worst nuclear catastrophe since
Chernobyl, prompting other European nations to reevaluate or
reject atomic power.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered in May the closure
of all of the nation’s nuclear plants by 2022. Italians voted in
June against building new reactors. The European Union has
called for safety tests to evaluate whether reactors can
withstand natural as well as man-made disasters at its 143
nuclear power plants.  Russian Dependence  Other nations, like Lithuania, continue to support nuclear
energy, viewing it as a way to cut carbon-dioxide emissions and
reduce dependence on Russian natural gas and oil. The  Czech
Republic  is going ahead with its project to build two new
reactors at the Temelin power plant near the Austrian border.  Lithuania Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius said last month
the country’s nuclear project will help the region establish
energy independence.  Hitachi, which was selected as the “strategic investor,”
is joined in the project by GE-Hitachi Nuclear Energy, a U.S.-
based venture with  General Electric Co. (GE)  The GE-Hitachi venture
will provide support, equipment, supply-chain consulting and
fuel, said Michael Tetuan, a spokesman for the unit.  The advanced boiling-water reactor would be capable of
generating 1,300 megawatts at the site in Visaginas, about 160
kilometers (100 miles) northeast of the capital.  The Lithuanian government has said in the past that the
strategic investor could be offered as much as a 51 percent
stake in the new plant. Any agreement would require parliament’s
approval. Lithuania, which is building the facility along with
neighbors Latvia, Estonia and Poland, is continuing talks on the
size of each stake with all parties in the project, Svedas said.  Hitachi and Westinghouse, a subsidiary of  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,
bid for the project after after  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) 
withdrew its proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net . 