-- 
Japan Should Nationalize Its Nuclear Reactors, Former Kan Adviser Says

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-07-14T06:40:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/japan-should-nationalize-reactors-after-disaster-former-kan-adviser-says.html
Japan should nationalize the
operation of nuclear plants following the disaster at  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi station in Fukushima, a candidate
to replace Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said.  “When we consider the risk of atomic energy, I don’t think
private companies can bear the burden,”  Sumio Mabuchi , a former
adviser to Kan on the nuclear accident, said yesterday in an
interview at his office in Tokyo. “I think at least  Tokyo
Electric  must separate” its nuclear operations.  Mabuchi, 50, a former land and transport minister, is seen
as a possible candidate to replace Kan when he steps down, Atsuo Ito, an independent political analyst, said in a phone
interview. Kan, 64, pledged yesterday to gradually phase out
nuclear energy and last month said he’d resign and pass his
responsibilities to a “younger generation” after making
progress on containing the nuclear crisis.  Kan will probably resign in August, Mabuchi said, declining
to say whether he hoped to become prime minister.  “Kan talked about a younger generation and each DPJ
lawmaker must think seriously about that,” he said. “I’m one
of them.”  Falling Approval  Opinion surveys show mounting dissatisfaction toward Kan,
with 70 percent of respondents in an Asahi newspaper survey
published July 12 saying he should step down by the end of
August. The same study showed his personal approval falling to
15 percent from 22 percent last month. At the same time, 77
percent said they were in favor of phasing out nuclear energy in
 Japan , up from 74 percent.  The Asahi phone survey of 1,920 voters on July 9 and 10
didn’t provide a margin of error.  The nuclear disaster at the Dai-Ichi plant began after a
magnitude-9 earthquake and subsequent tsunami on March 11 cut
power to reactors. The world’s worst atomic accident in 25 years
has displaced about 50,000 households after radiation leaked
into the air, soil and sea.  Mabuchi said Japan shouldn’t raise taxes to pay for
rebuilding after the disasters, which the government estimates
will cost around 16.9 trillion yen ($213 billion). Kan’s
reconstruction panel proposed last month to raise some levies to
avoid adding to the world’s largest public debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  