-- 
Japan to Submit Stress Tests Draft to Safety Commission Tomorrow

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-07-14T09:49:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/japan-to-submit-stress-tests-draft-to-safety-commission-tomorrow.html
Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency plans to submit a draft on stress testing power
stations to the country’s top atomic safety commission tomorrow,
a spokesman said.  The draft to be submitted to the Nuclear Safety Commission
will outline the timetable and details of the  stress test , NISA
spokesman Noboru Noguchi said by phone from  Tokyo  today.  The so-called stress tests on nuclear stations were
announced last week by Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda , almost three
weeks after he declared all reactors safe. Shikoku Electric
Power Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co. have delayed restarting
units because of concerns about the safety of Japan’s atomic
power industry after the Fukushima disaster.  The tests, to be carried out in two phases, may take more
than six months, Tetsuya Yamamoto, the director of the nuclear
power inspection division of NISA, said in a phone interview.
The first tests will be on units idled for maintenance and may
take as long as two months, the Nikkei newspaper said today.  “We don’t know how long the tests will take. It depends on
the preparations of individual utilities,” Yamamoto said.  The second phase checks will cover all reactors, the
government said earlier.  “They will be similar to tests in  Europe , which take about
half a year. Japan’s tests may take about the same time,”
Yamamoto said.  Testing will be carried out by the power utilities and
their results will be checked by NISA, Shigeharu Kato, an
official for the Nuclear Safety Commission, said at a news
conference on July 11. The safety commission will examine the
validity of the agency’s checks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  