-- 
Japanese Stocks Drop as Moody’s U.S. Debt Review Hits Dollar, Exporters

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-07-14T15:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/japanese-stocks-fall-as-moody-s-threat-drives-down-dollar-nissan-declines.html
Japanese stocks fell for the third
time this week after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
the U.S.’s credit rating, driving down the dollar against the
yen and hurting the outlook for Asian exporters.  Toyota Motor Corp., which counts  North America  as its
largest market, lost 0.7 percent. Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Japan ’s
biggest shipping line by sales, retreated 1.7 percent after
cargo rates dropped. Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co. led
declines among chip-related companies after ASML Holding NV,
 Europe ’s biggest maker of semiconductor equipment, said orders
weakened.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.3 percent to 9,936.12
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The gauge spiked as much as 0.4
percent after the yen weakened amid speculation Japan will sell
the currency to protect manufacturers. The broader Topix
declined 0.4 percent to 856.88.  “If the U.S. government, facing revenue shortfalls because
of the restriction on the issuance of new  government bonds ,
increases taxes or reduces budget expenditures, a negative
impact on the economy will be unavoidable,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Exporters to the country will be
damaged if  consumer spending  becomes stagnant.”  Japan’s March 11 natural disasters erased 25.7 trillion yen
($325 billion) of market value from the Topix, an 8 percent
decline. The gauge has recovered 5.5 percent in the past month
as manufacturers including Toyota said they are restoring
production and amid increasing confidence  Greece  would avoid a
default.  Debt Ceiling  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent
today, extending a 0.3 percent decline yesterday after Moody’s
put the U.S. under review for a credit-rating downgrade on
concern Congress won’t raise the federal debt limit in time to
prevent a missed payment. Moody’s last reviewed the Aaa rating,
in place since 1917, in 1996.  U.S. stocks had earlier risen as much 1.4 percent after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the
central bank is prepared to buy more government bonds if the
recovery appears to be in danger of stalling. The Fed had said
it wouldn’t expand Treasury purchases designed to stimulate
growth by reducing borrowing costs and boosting stock prices.  ‘Slow Recovery’  Japanese stocks slipped today as the focus shifted away
from Bernanke’s comments toward the risk of a U.S. default and
the impact of dollar weakness on exporters. Toyota, the world’s
largest automaker, lost 0.7 percent to 3,340 yen. Kyocera Corp.,
a maker of solar panels which gets 17 percent of its revenue in
the U.S., dropped 0.7 percent to 8,220 yen.  “If concerns about the U.S. increase, it’s possible the
yen will appreciate further against the dollar,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  The yen touched 78.47 against the dollar today, its
strongest since March 17, from 79.56 at the close of  stock
trading  in Tokyo yesterday. A stronger yen hurts exporters
because it cuts the value of their overseas sales.  Shipping companies retreated after the Baltic Dry Index, a
measure of cargo rates, dropped 2 percent. Rates have fallen
four days straight.  Nippon Yusen lost 1.7 percent to 295 yen. Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd., Japan’s second-largest shipping line by sales, slid
1.6 percent to 420 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., the No. 3,
declined 1.1 percent to 269 yen.  Chipmaking Tools  Makers of tools and materials used to manufacture
microchips declined after ASML said orders missed its own
forecast last quarter and projected bookings will fall in the
current period. Concern the global economy will slow “creates
uncertainty, which currently reflects the hesitance of our
customers,” Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink said on the
company’s website.  Dainippon Screen, a maker of equipment used to clean
semiconductor wafers, slumped 4.2 percent to 645 yen, the lowest
since Jan. 13. Advantest Corp., the world’s biggest manufacturer
of chip-testing gear, dropped 2.6 percent to 1,473 yen. Sumco
Corp., a maker of silicon wafers, retreated 2.7 percent to 1,323
yen.  Titanium, Steel  Among stocks that rose, smelter Toho Titanium Co. climbed
1.7 percent to 2,336 yen after being rated “outperform” in new
coverage at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. A
“sharp recovery” in titanium demand should boost Toho sales,
the securities firm said.  Nisshin Steel Co. and Nippon Metal Industry Co. surged
after the Nikkan Sangyo newspaper said the steelmakers are in
talks to merge. Nippon Metal’s Isao Fujiwara, a deputy manager
in the corporate planning department, denied the report. Nisshin
Steel said in a statement that “nothing has been decided.”  Nisshin Steel advanced 2 percent to 157 yen and Nippon
Metal climbed 8.6 percent to 101.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 