-- 
JPMorgan to Cut Mortgage Holdings to ‘Close to Zero’

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-14T22:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/jpmorgan-to-phase-out-mortgage-holdings.html
(Corrects to add Dimon’s title in second paragraph.)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is winding down
its $154 billion mortgage portfolio to “close to zero” as the
bank works through mortgage losses and litigation over loan-
servicing and foreclosure practices.  JPMorgan, which has reduced mortgage holdings by $19.3
billion in the past year, will continue shedding assets by about
as much as 15 percent a year “forever,” Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon told analysts on a conference call after the
New York-based company reported a 13 percent increase in net
income for the second quarter.  “It’s going to go down 10 or 15 percent a year until it’s
close to zero,” Dimon said in answering a question from Ed Najarian, the head of bank research at International Strategy
and Investment Group in New York.  Mortgage losses and litigation costs continue to weigh on
JPMorgan’s earnings. The company, the second-largest  U.S. bank 
by assets, added $1.27 billion to its litigation reserves,
mostly for mortgage-related issues, and took a $1 billion charge
in the second quarter to clean up some of its outstanding
foreclosure matters.  Dimon told reporters that the $1 billion charge covered
some of the costs to settle charges by U.S. and state officials
that the bank improperly foreclosed on borrowers.  It will take “some time” to resolve the mortgage problems
and the bank may face more expenses in the future, Dimon said.  “There have been so many flaws in mortgages that it’s just
-- it’s been an unmitigated disaster,” Dimon said. “We just
really need to clean it up for the sake of everybody. And
everybody is going to sue everybody else and it’s going to go on
for far too long a time.”  While the bank will continue originating home-equity loans
at its current pace of $1 billion to $2 billion a quarter, home
loans “will never go back to where they were,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  