-- 
JPMorgan Has $2.5 Billion of Costs Tied to Faulty Mortgages, Forecolsures

-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n
-- 
2011-07-14T13:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/jpmorgan-has-2-5-billion-of-costs-tied-to-faulty-mortgages-forecolsures.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  listed about
$2.5 billion in second-quarter costs tied to cleaning up faulty
mortgages and foreclosures as the industry tries to quell
concern over lending practices.  The bank added $1.27 billion to litigation reserves, mostly
for mortgage-related matters, and incurred $1 billion of
expenses tied to foreclosures, according to a  slide show 
accompanying today’s quarterly earnings report. Repurchase
losses were $223 million, according to the New York-based
company, which ranks second by assets among U.S. banks.  Lenders are struggling to stanch losses tied to home loans
that were based on missing or wrong data about borrowers and
properties, and are facing probes of foreclosures that may have
used falsified documents. Some banks have bought back soured
mortgages sold to investors, with JPMorgan saying today it has
$3.3 billion in costs so far on repurchases from government-
backed firms such as  Fannie Mae .  JPMorgan’s additional litigation reserve may help cover
“fees and assessments related to foreclosure delays and
payments for other settlements,” including probes by the  U.S.
Department of Justice  and the state attorneys general, the bank
said. Litigation reserves also cover projected costs tied to so-
called private-label mortgage bonds that may have contained
faulty loans, the lender said.  Washington Mutual  The reserves aren’t earmarked for liabilities from loans
made by Washington Mutual, the lender acquired after it
collapsed during the financial crisis. JPMorgan said those
liabilities are the  responsibility  of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., adding that the “FDIC has contested this
position.”  The outstanding balance of those loans related to
Washington Mutual was approximately $70 billion as of March 31,
with about $24 billion overdue by 60 days or more, according to
the company’s first-quarter regulatory  filing .  JPMorgan’s second-quarter net income climbed 13 percent to
$5.43 billion as investment banking profit surged and more
customers paid credit cards on time, the company said today. The
lender advanced $1.44, or 3.6 percent, to $41.06 at 9:31 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The bank declined 6.6
percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  