-- 
JPMorgan Sells First 30-Year U.S. Bank Bonds Since January

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-07-14T22:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/jpmorgan-plans-first-30-year-bank-bond-since-january-as-credit-swaps-fall.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is taking
advantage of its stature as the most creditworthy of the largest
U.S. banks with its $1.75 billion sale of 30-year bonds, the
first from an American financial firm in almost six months.  The second-biggest  U.S. bank  issued the 5.6 percent notes
today to yield 140 basis points, or 1.4 percentage points, more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the last U.S. bank to sell
debt with such a long tenor, raised $2.5 billion of the
securities at a spread of 170 basis points on Jan. 21.  JPMorgan, the least risky of the six-biggest U.S. banks
based on derivatives prices, tapped the corporate  bond market  as
issuance revived after being largely shut this month. The New
York-based lender’s better-than-expected earnings helped bolster
confidence in U.S. company debt even after Moody’s Investors
Service threatened to cut its rating on the world’s biggest
economy as negotiations over raising its debt limit faltered.  “Coming to the market with a 30-year bond right after
earnings is a show of strength,” said Pri de Silva, a New York-
based analyst at CreditSights Inc. “By doing it now, they’re
basically getting ahead of any potential uncertainty surround
Treasuries and the debt ceiling negotiations.”  Previous Offer  In its previous offering of 30-year debt, JPMorgan sold
$1.25 billion of 5.5 percent bonds on Oct. 14 that paid 165
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg
data show. The debt traded yesterday at 102.5 cents on the
dollar to pay a spread of 115.2 basis points, according to
Trace, the bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  JPMorgan credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge
against losses on the company’s debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 0.6 basis point to 89.4 basis points
after the company reported its highest half-year profit ever, at
$11 billion, according to data provider CMA. The contracts have
fallen from 114.3 basis points on Aug. 31, CMA data show.
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Trading and investment-banking fees bolstered results at
JPMorgan as second-quarter net income rose 13 percent from a
year earlier, to $5.43 billion, or $1.27 a share, six cents
higher than the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Bank Swaps  Credit-default swaps on San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  climbed 2.2 basis points to 98.7, contracts on Bank of
America Corp. rose 2.4 basis points to 171.5, and swaps on
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  increased 1.8 basis points to 149.6, the data
show. Contracts protecting the debt of Goldman Sachs were little
changed at 147.3 basis points and those on  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
climbed 1.5 basis point to 174.3, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Banks have sold $240.5 billion of investment-grade
corporate bonds in the U.S. this year through yesterday, with 98
percent of offerings maturing in 10 years or less, Bloomberg
data show.  JPMorgan is able to issue 30-year debt because it’s “going
to generate $20-plus billion of profits in 2011 and 2012, and
has amongst the best balance sheets of all banks,”  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  ‘Enticing Investors’  The company is taking advantage of a difference between
yields on 10-year Treasury notes and 30-year  government bonds 
that’s twice as big as the average over the last decade,
attracting investors as yields on investment-grade corporate
bonds hover at about the lowest this year, said Anthony Valeri,
market strategist at  LPL Financial  in  San Diego .  “It’s a way of issuing debt at an attractive level while
recognizing the curve is enticing investors to buy longer-term
debt,” Valeri said in a telephone interview.  The yield gap widened to 130.1 basis points, compared with
a 10-year average of 63.8 basis points, Bloomberg data show.
Investment-grade corporate bonds yielded 3.72 percent, versus a
2011 low of 3.68 percent on June 1, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  “JPMorgan seems to trade on their reputation, which is
obviously very good,” said James Leonard, an analyst at
Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “There’s a belief that U.S. banks
have really gotten a lot of their problems behind them, as
opposed to the Europeans. Whatever their troubles are, they’re
very manageable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 