-- 
JPMorgan Names Larry Slaughter Co-Chief of North American Investment Bank

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-07-14T14:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/jpmorgan-names-larry-slaughter-co-head-north-american-investment-bank-unit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , this year’s
top adviser on corporate takeovers, promoted Larry Slaughter to
co-head of its North American investment banking division,
replacing Jeff Urwin.  Slaughter, based in London and head of corporates for
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, will relocate to New York at
the end of the third quarter, according to a memo. A spokeswoman
for the second-biggest U.S. bank confirmed the appointment
today. He joins Kevin Willsey as head of the unit.  The promotion follows less than a month after Urwin was
appointed global head of investment banking. Slaughter, who
joined JPMorgan more than two decades ago, had helped oversee
European mergers & acquisitions and advised private-equity and
industrial clients, according to the memo. The spokeswoman
declined to say who will replace Slaughter.  JPMorgan, based in New York, is the No. 1 adviser on global
M&A this year, providing counsel on $282 billion in
transactions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm
is working with  AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, on its $39 billion bid for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile USA Inc. unit, the biggest transaction of the year,
Bloomberg data show.  Slaughter has been based in London since 1992. He has
advised on the sale of Chrysler by DaimlerChrysler, moisturizer-
ingredient maker Cognis Holding GmbH’s sale to to  BASF SE (BAS)  and on
the acquisition of British drugstore chain Alliance Boots
Holdings Ltd. by KKR & Co.  Separately, the company said today that second-quarter net
income rose 13 percent, more than analysts projected, partly
because of surging profit at the investment-banking unit. Fees
from underwriting stocks and bonds boosted investment-banking
earnings to $2.06 billion, or 38 percent of the total.  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, was
the most profitable bank in 2010, with a record $17.4 billion in
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  