-- 
JPMorgan Gains as Net Tops Estimates on Underwriting Fees for Securities

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-14T16:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/jpmorgan-beats-estimates-as-net-rises-13-on-lower-credit-costs.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rose the most
in eight months in New York trading after earnings beat
analysts’ estimates and revenue unexpectedly climbed on gains
from underwriting stocks and bonds.  JPMorgan shares jumped as much as 4.1 percent after the New
York-based bank reported its highest half-year profit ever, at
almost $11 billion. Second-quarter net income increased 13
percent from a year earlier, to $5.43 billion, or $1.27 a share,
six cents higher than the average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Trading and investment-banking fees bolstered results as
the retail bank labored under bad mortgages, low  interest rates 
and litigation over loan-servicing and foreclosure practices.
JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , was the
first of the six-largest U.S. banks to report earnings, topping
estimates for the 13th straight quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’ve set a high bar for the rest of the industry in a
very difficult environment,”  Michael Holland , who oversees more
than $4 billion in assets at New York-based Holland & Co., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Radio. The firm’s $26.8 billion
in revenue was “a blow-away number,” Holland said.  JPMorgan rose $1.17, or 3 percent, to $40.79 at 11:51 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after reaching
$41.24 earlier today, the biggest gain since Nov. 4. The shares
were down 6.6 percent this year through yesterday.  Fixed Income  Second-quarter revenue jumped 7 percent, beating the
highest estimate among 18 analysts surveyed, as fixed-income and
equity markets revenue climbed to $5.5 billion from $4.6 billion
a year earlier, a 20 percent gain. Revenue was projected to be
$26 billion, according to the survey.  JPMorgan’s fixed-income and equity trading results beat the
estimates of $5.29 billion from Chris Kotowski, an Oppenheimer &
Co. analyst, and $4.95 billion from  Keith Horowitz , a  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  analyst.  The bank was able to boost trading results by increasing
leverage and making bets on safer securities, according to  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  and an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia.  Trading gains were “pretty broad-based,” Dimon said on a
call with reporters.  Fee Revenue  The investment bank posted its second-best quarter for fee
revenue out of the last 14 quarters and revenue outside the U.S.
climbed 11 percent from the same quarter last year, Chief
Financial Officer Doug Braunstein told reporters on the
conference call.  The investment bank and trading desk are “carrying the
bank right now, and the bank continues to struggle,” Miller
said. “This was all driven by the broker-dealer side of the
business.”  The bank’s outstanding loans and contracts in  Portugal ,
Ireland,  Italy ,  Greece  and  Spain  total about $15 billion, which
“bounces around by several billion,” after taxes and after
taking into account hedges against that risk, Dimon said. In the
worst-case scenario, the bank may lose about $3 billion, he
said.  “We’ve not dramatically reduced those exposures,” Dimon
said. “We’re still doing a lot of business in  Europe . We hope
the Europeans appreciate it.”  Credit Cards  JPMorgan’s credit-card division, which lost money for all
of 2009, generated $911 million in profit, or 17 percent of the
bank’s net income for the quarter. The investment bank’s $2.06
billion of earnings accounted for 38 percent of the total.  Fewer consumers fell behind on their credit-card payments
in the second quarter. Thirty-day delinquency rates dropped to
2.98 percent from 4.96 percent in the same quarter of 2010 and
3.57 percent in the first quarter of 2011. The rate of credit
cards charged off as bad debt also fell, to 5.82 percent from
10.2 percent the prior year and 6.97 percent in the previous
quarter.  “Within our wholesale credit portfolio, credit trends
appear to have normalized,” Dimon said in a statement.  Provisions for credit losses dropped 46 percent to $1.81
billion from $3.36 billion as defaults and late payments
declined. The bank released $1.2 billion of reserves held
against future losses back into earnings.  Beating Estimates  “You continue to get reserve releases, which mean that
your headline earnings-per-share numbers beat” estimates,
Miller said. “Investors see that as poor quality and instead
look at the underlying fundamentals, pretax pre-provision
profits or your underlying revenue numbers.”  The retail bank, which includes mortgages, consumer bank
accounts and small business lending, posted a $582 million
profit, from a $1.04 billion gain a year before and a $208
million loss in the first quarter.  The division benefited from a $587 million reduction in
provisions to $1.13 billion, JPMorgan said.  The bank added $1.27 billion to litigation reserves, mostly
for mortgage-related issues, and took a $1 billion charge to
clean up foreclosure matters, according to a slide show
accompanying the earnings report. Repurchase losses were $223
million, JPMorgan said.  Dimon told reporters that the $1 billion charge covered
some of the costs to settle charges by U.S. and state officials
that the bank improperly foreclosed on borrowers.  Delaying Foreclosures  “I would do anything to get it done today, but my counsel
advises us that it could take a while,” Dimon said of
negotiations with 50 state attorneys general and the  Justice
Department . “Delaying foreclosures is not a good thing for the
economy.”  The reserves don’t cover liabilities from loans made by
Washington Mutual, the lender JPMorgan acquired during the
financial crisis. JPMorgan said those liabilities are the
responsibility of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., adding
that the “FDIC has contested this position.”  The outstanding balance of loans related to Washington
Mutual was approximately $70 billion as of March 31, with about
$24 billion overdue by 60 days or more, according to the
company’s first-quarter regulatory filings.  JPMorgan and other large banks, which have benefited from
record low costs of funding mortgages and other assets, face a
squeeze on net interest margins -- the difference between what
they pay to borrow money and what they get for loans and on
securities.  Interest-Earning Assets  The net yield on interest-earning assets -- what the bank
collects on interest on loans and securities minus what it pays
out on deposits and other borrowings -- fell to 2.72 percent in
the second quarter, from 2.89 percent in the first quarter and
3.01 percent a year earlier.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender behind JPMorgan
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , may report a second-quarter profit of
$2.95 billion when it releases results on July 15, the survey of
analysts shows.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
may report a profit of $3.08 billion excluding mortgage-related
costs on July 19. San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  may say
it earned $3.75 billion when it announces results the same day.  Capital One Financial Corp., this year’s best-performing
major U.S. bank stock, said yesterday that net income rose 50
percent to $911 million as it set aside fewer provisions for
loan losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  