-- 
JPMorgan Reworks $2 Billion Cumulus Debt as Loan Market ‘Sanity’ Returns

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 
2011-07-14T15:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/jpmorgan-reworks-2-billion-cumulus-debt-as-loan-market-sanity-returns.html
Cumulus Media Inc. (CMLS)  increased the
interest rate and changed the structure on $2.04 billion in
loans it’s seeking to back the acquisition of Citadel
Broadcasting Corp. after lenders pushed back against the
original terms.  The U.S. broadcaster cut the size of the first-lien term
loan to $1.25 billion and is now offering a $790 million second-
lien portion, said three people with knowledge of the deal, who
declined to be identified because the transaction is private  JPMorgan Chase & Co., which is arranging the transaction,
had to rework the financing after loan prices fell in June by
the most since May 2010 amid sovereign-debt concerns that could
threaten the global economic recovery and a growing pipeline of
transactions. Lenders are also demanding higher yields from
transactions such as Cumulus that don’t contain maintenance
covenants.  “The market, with the reemergence of the Greece crisis and
worsening economic data, has shifted more neutral,” said Marc Gross, who helps oversee $3 billion in fixed-income funds as a
 money manager  at RS Investments in New York. “You needed a
little bit of a correction to help restore sanity to the market
and that’s what’s happening. Sanity is being restored to the
market.”  J.P. Hannan, chief financial officer at Atlanta-based
Cumulus, didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Pricing Terms  Cumulus is offering lenders 4.25 percentage points to 4.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate on
the seven-year, first lien-portion, with a 1.25 percent minimum
on the lending benchmark, the people said. The loan is expected
to price at 99 cents on the dollar, increasing the yield for
lenders.  The 7.5-year, second-lien loan will pay 6 percentage points
over Libor, with a 1.5 percent Libor floor, the people said. The
loan will price at 98.5 cents on the dollar. Commitments from
lenders are due at 12 p.m. New York time on July 19.  The deal was initially offered as a $2.04 billion  term loan 
that would pay 3.75 percentage points to 4 percentage points
more than Libor, with a 1.25 percent floor on the lending
benchmark, according to two other people familiar with the
transaction.  Cumulus offered to buy Citadel in a deal worth $2.4 billion
to expand its coverage and cut costs, the company said in a
March 10 statement. Cumulus’s leverage, or debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, was
expected to be 5.7 times after the initial $2.04 billion deal
had been completed, according to an April 25 Moody’s Investors
Service report.  Call Protection  The first-lien loan will give lenders a one-year soft-call
protection of 101 cents, meaning Cumulus would have to pay 1
cent more than face value to refinance the debt during the first
year, the people said. The company will not be able to refinance
the second-lien portion during the first year, then can do so at
103 cents on the dollar in the second year, 102 cents in the
third year and 101 cents in the fourth year.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index,
which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans, has dropped 0.81 cents on the dollar to 94.72
cents on the dollar since March 10. The index declined 0.94 cent
in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  