-- 
Kenya 3-Month Borrowing Costs Rise for 1st Sale in 5 on Tighter Bank Rules

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-14T14:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/kenya-3-month-borrowing-costs-rise-for-1st-sale-in-5-on-tighter-bank-rules.html
Kenya ’s three-month borrowing costs
rose for the first time in five auctions as the central bank
tightened overnight borrowing rules to curb  money supply  and
inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy.  The yield on the 91-day Treasury bills climbed to 8.999
percent at today’s sale from 8.954 percent on July 7, the
Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed
statement. Yields on three-month bills surged to 9.016 percent
on June 10, the highest in more than nine years. The bank issued
1.2 billion shillings ($13 million) of debt after investors bid
for 2.2 billion shillings of the 2 billion shillings offered.  Banks planning to lend to other operators in the  interbank
market  can no longer access funds through the discount window on
the same day, the central bank said on July 12. It also reversed
an increase in the rate it charges lenders for overnight loans
back to 6.25 percent after raising it just two weeks ago.  “The yields have gone up due to tight liquidity in the
market and lenders are avoiding locking in their funds while
they may have limited access to other funding sources unless
they discount the securities they are holding,” Fred Mweni, a
fixed-income dealer at Nairobi-based Tsavo Securities Ltd., said
in an interview.  The bank had raised the overnight rate to 8 percent from
6.25 percent on June 29 to rein in inflationary expectations and
curb speculative trading in the shilling, which reached the
weakest level in 17 years on June 22.  Lenders were using the 8 percent rate as a base for
interbank lending, resulting in “distortions in the money
market,” the central bank said. Weekly borrowing is now capped
to a maximum of banks’ statutory cash reserves, or the money
kept at the central bank, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  