-- 
N. Korea May Provoke Again, Creates ‘Urgency,’ Mullen Says

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-07-14T10:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/n-korea-may-provoke-again-creates-urgency-mullen-says-1-.html
North Korea  may provoke again,
creating a “sense of urgency” for the U.S. and its allies to
craft measures deterring Kim Jong Il’s regime from aggravating
regional tensions, the top American military chief said.  “We have a sense of urgency to essentially work on
planning to deter the North from further provocations,” Admiral
Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, told
reporters today in Seoul, according to a pool report provided by
the  Associated Press . “Whether they will be deterred or not,
that’s to be seen.”  North Korea has vowed “never” to deal with President Lee
Myung Bak’s administration in South Korea, dashing hopes of
easing tensions heightened after attacks blamed on  Kim Jong Il ’s
regime killed 50 South Koreans last year. The standoff has led
North Korea to deepen ties with its biggest benefactor  China  as
it becomes increasingly isolated under United Nations sanctions
toughened after its second nuclear test.  Lee cut off most trade with North Korea in May 2010,
accusing the Kim’s regime of torpedoing one of its warships,
killing 46 sailors. In November, the regime shelled a South
Korean island near the disputed western sea border, killing
another four people including two civilians. The two countries
remain technically at war since the 1950-53 Korean War ended in
a cease-fire.  ‘Not Convinced’  “I’m not convinced that they won’t provoke again,” said
Mullen, who arrived in  South Korea  after a visit to China and
before heading to  Japan  later this week. Mullen attended a
ceremony today in Seoul, marking the inauguration of Army
General James Thurman as commander of about 28,500 American
forces in South Korea.  North Korea’s National Defense Commission, the highest
government body, said on May 30 it won’t engage in talks with
Lee’s government for insisting on an apology for sinking the
warship Cheonan, an allegation it denies. The tensions have
dampened the mood for resuming international talks on North
Korea’s nuclear program, allowing the regime to continue
developing atomic weapons.  China is host of the disarmament talks, also involving
South Korea, Japan,  Russia  and the U.S. The U.S. and China have
pushed to strengthen military ties that have been strained over
issues including a 2010 U.S. decision to sell arms to Taiwan.  While China has influence over North Korea, “it’s not an
infinite amount of influence,” Mullen said, adding China’s
military is “very focused” on working at that challenge.  “I just think we also have to have realistic expectations
about how much any one country can do,” he said. “I think
working together, the power of that, is one of those things that
the sum of parts is a lot bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  