-- 
New York Mets Mull Future for Beltran, Reyes After Trading Rodriguez

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/new-york-mets-mull-future-for-beltran-reyes-after-trading-rodriguez.html
After the  New York Mets  got some
payroll relief by trading  Francisco Rodriguez  to the  Milwaukee
Brewers , the question is what further changes are in store for a
franchise that may lose $70 million this year.  The Mets, who rid themselves of a $17.5 million option on
Rodriguez’s contract for 2012, have decisions to make on the
future of All-Star outfielder  Carlos Beltran  and shortstop  Jose Reyes , both of whom will be free agents after the season.  The Mets have a 46-45 record and are 11 games out of first
place in the National League Eastern Division entering the
second half of the campaign, which resumes today after the
three-day All-Star break. New York trails Atlanta by 7 1/2 games
in the race for the NL’s wildcard playoff spot.  “This doesn’t signify a change in direction from our
continuing attempt to win games this season,” Mets General
Manager  Sandy Alderson  said of the Rodriguez trade on a media
conference call yesterday. “We’re obviously in a delicate part
of the season where wins and losses might dictate what we do,
but I certainly wouldn’t draw any conclusions from this
transaction.”  During the ninth inning of the July 12 All-Star Game, the
Mets completed a trade to send cash and Rodriguez, who had 23
saves, to the Brewers for two players to be named. Rodriguez had
finished 34 games this season and would vest a $17.5 million
option for 2012 if he completed 55.  Rodriguez, 29, will probably pitch in eighth-inning
situations ahead of closer John Axford in Milwaukee, which is
tied with  St. Louis  for first place in the NL Central.  Bobby Parnell may take over the closer role for the Mets,
who open the second half with a seven-game home stand that
starts with three games against the  Philadelphia Phillies .  Interest in Beltran  With baseball’s trade deadline on July 31, Alderson said
the next 17 games will play a role in determining what the Mets
do. The Mets have had conversations with other teams about a
number of players and Alderson said there’s considerable
interest in Beltran, who’s hitting .285 with a team-leading 13
home runs and 58 runs batted in.  “We have not pursued that interest to any great length at
this point, rather we have been focused on our play on the
field,” Alderson said. “The Rodriguez trade should not signal
anything to anyone about Beltran. That will realistically be
determined by how we play over the next two or three weeks.”  Alderson wouldn’t comment on how the trade of Rodriguez may
affect negotiations on a new contract with Reyes, who was
hitting .354 with 15 triples and 30 stolen bases when he went on
the disabled list last week with a strained hamstring.  Reyes Holds Out  Reyes, who’s spent nine seasons with the Mets, has said he
won’t negotiate a new deal until after the season.  “We now can look forward in 2012 to considerably more
payroll flexibility and have more latitude in how we allocate
our payroll,” Alderson said.  The Mets started this season with a $120 million player
 payroll , seventh in the major leagues, according to the
 Associated Press . The team needed a $25 million emergency loan
from  Major League Baseball  in November and owner  Fred Wilpon 
told Sports Illustrated magazine in May that it may lose $70
million this season. Wilpon also is negotiating to sell 33
percent of the team for $200 million to David Einhorn, head of
Greenlight Capital Inc.  These financial maneuvers come as Wilpon and co-owner Saul Katz battle a $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  Buyout Clause  Rodriguez, who has 291 career saves, had a $3.5 million
buyout clause that he could collect after this season and about
$4.9 million remaining on his current deal for 2011. Alderson
said the amount of cash the Mets sent to  Milwaukee  covered a
“substantial portion” of that $8.4 million.  The timing of the trade was determined by weighing the
current market for relievers against future availability as the
trade deadline approaches, Alderson said.  “We felt it was better to do something earlier rather than
later,” he said.  As for what comes next, Alderson said he’d “love to see
Carlos with us as we continue this run,” yet he acknowledged
that further trade talks are likely if the Mets aren’t able to
pull closer to a playoff spot before the end of the month.  “It represents a little more than 10 percent of the season,
but it’s a transitional period and most clubs realize it, as do
fans,” Alderson said. “It gets more difficult to make up games
as you get later and later in the season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  