-- 
New Cyber Strategy Defends, Not Deters, Cartwright Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-14T19:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/new-cyber-strategy-is-defense-not-deterrence-cartwright-says.html
The Pentagon’s new strategy for
blunting cyber-attacks focuses almost exclusively on improving
defense instead of deterring intrusions or threatening
retaliation, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Marine General James Cartwright, said today.  Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn today released the
Pentagon’s “Strategy for Operating In Cyberspace,” which
outlines five “strategic initiatives.” One is increased
partnering with other U.S. agencies and private industry to
craft a “whole-of-government” approach.  “This strategy talks more about how we are going to defend
the networks,” Cartwright told a breakfast meeting of
reporters. “The next iteration will have to start to talk about
here’s a strategy that says to the attacker, ‘If you do this,
the price to you is going to go up. It’s not just free.’”  Cartwright called the current approach “way too
predictable. It’s purely defensive. There is no penalty for
attacking right now. We’ve got to figure out a way to change
that.”  Asked why the Pentagon’s emphasis remains focused on
defense, Cartwright said the U.S. government has “been
challenged” in crafting an aggressive deterrence strategy. This
includes disagreement on what “legal precedents ought to”
govern U.S. action and the jurisdictional lines between domestic
U.S. agencies and the  Department of Defense , he said.  24,000 Files Stolen  Lynn in his speech disclosed that foreign hackers stole
24,000 U.S. military files in a single attack on a defense
contractor in March in one of the Pentagon’s worst cyber
attacks.  While he didn’t identify the contractor hit in March, he
said terabytes of data have been extracted from defense
companies over the past decade.  Cyber attacks have compromised “our most sensitive
systems, including aircraft avionics, surveillance technologies,
satellite communications systems and network security
protocols,” Lynn said in a speech at National Defense
University in  Washington .  Lynn didn’t name the country suspected to have been the
origin of the March attack. Officials in the past have often
blamed  China . Lynn didn’t say whether the March attack was
sponsored by a foreign government or the work of criminal
hackers.  Repeated Attacks  Lynn’s disclosure of the March attack is the second time
he’s revealed a once-classified example to illustrate his point
about the need for better  cyber security .  Lynn in a September-October 2010 Foreign Affairs article
disclosed a 2008 incident at a U.S. Middle East base of what he
called “the most significant breach of U.S. military computers
ever” that served “as an important wake-up call.”  That incident started with a flash drive infected with
spyware from a still unidentified foreign intelligence agency.
The drive was inserted in to a military laptop and the code
spread, Lynn wrote.  “Ninety percent” of U.S. government and Pentagon thinking
about cyber-attacks has been “how to build the next best
firewall, and 10 percent” of the thinking has been “about what
we might do to prevent them from attacking us,” Cartwright
said.  Cyber-Attack Deterrence  The military role should also “be convincing people that
if they attack us, that we have the capability and capacity to
do something about it,” he said.  “That’s not part of this discussion but part of what we
are trying to understand,” Cartwright said. “How do you build
something that convinces a hacker that doing this is going to be
costly and the price will escalate?”  Defense Department networks “are probed millions of times
every day, and successful penetrations have led to the loss of
thousands of files from U.S. networks and those of U.S. allies
and industry partners,” he said.  The Pentagon is working with industry groups and companies
to strike a balance between mandating increased protections and
avoiding undue financial and regulatory burdens for improved
security, Cartwright said.  Private-Sector Measures  “Public-private partnerships will necessarily require a
balance between regulation and volunteerism, and they will be
built on innovation, openness and trust,” the strategy says.  “In some cases, incentives or other measures will be
necessary to promote private-sector participation,” the
document says. “DoD’s efforts must also extend beyond large
corporations to small and medium-sized businesses to ensure
participation and leverage innovation.”  Incentives might take the form of contract clauses,
Cartwright said, because those are vehicles “by which we could
allow them to ‘burden’ the cost -- if we say you have to have a
more secure network, then you can charge that off as part of the
contract.”  “Another way is to say if you are going to work in this
environment, the expectation is that certain elements” of a
company’s network will be protected “in a way that’s greater
than the normal corporate network,” he said.  The Defense Department and the Department of  Homeland
Security  have begun a pilot program with a “handful” of
defense companies to provide more “robust” protection of their
 computer networks , Lynn said.  Classified threat intelligence is shared with defense
contractors or their commercial  Internet service providers , he
said.  “By furnishing this threat intelligence, we are able to
help strengthen these companies’ existing cyber defenses,” Lynn
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net 
and David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  