-- 
News Corp. Inquiry Led by ‘Formidable’ Former Prosecutor of Serial Killer

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-07-14T10:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/news-corp-inquiry-led-by-formidable-former-prosecutor-of-serial-killer.html
The U.K. judicial review into the
phone-hacking scandal that has engulfed  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News
Corp. (NWSA)  will be led by a former prosecutor best known for the
conviction of an English serial killer.  Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday chose Lord Justice
Brian Leveson, 62, to head up the independent review. Speaking
to Parliament, Cameron said the inquiry will report back within
12 months regarding press regulation and will have the power to
question under oath proprietors and managers, such as Murdoch,
his son James, and Rebekah Brooks, chief executive officer of
News Corp.’s British unit News International. A second part of
the inquiry, a probe of wrongdoing by the press and police, may
take longer because of criminal proceedings, Cameron said.  Leveson “has been involved in any number of high-profile
cases where public scrutiny has been intense,” said John
Benson, a barrister at Atlantic Chambers in Liverpool. “He
won’t be in any way fazed by the fact that the eyes of the world
will be watching.”  The judicial inquiry is in addition to a Parliamentary
investigation and pending police probes of allegations that
Murdoch’s News of the World newspaper hacked into mobile-phone
voice-mail messages for stories and bribed police officers. The
scandal forced News Corp. to shut the tabloid newspaper and drop
its bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Leveson is best known for prosecuting serial killer Rose
West at Winchester Crown Court in 1995. She was jailed for life
for 10 murders. He also unsuccessfully prosecuted the British
comedian Ken Dodd for  tax evasion .  Prison Term Guidelines  (For a story on Murdoch's digital ambitions, click here.
To read about his media empire, click here.)  Leveson has chaired the sentencing council, which develops
prison term guidelines for England and  Wales , since its
inception last year, according to a statement from the judicial
press office yesterday.  Leveson was born in Liverpool and has lived in London since
1993. He studied law at Oxford and became a barrister, as most
English  trial lawyers  are known, in 1970. He was named a High
Court judge 11 years ago, and was Senior Presiding Judge for
England and Wales from 2007 through 2009.  As a judge, Leveson oversaw cases including an appeal of
the 48-year-old murder conviction of a woman who was hanged
after she shot her lover.  Leveson has “vast experience” as a prosecutor and judge
in both civil and criminal cases, said Benson, who worked under
him on a case at the House of Lords, the predecessor to the U.K.
Supreme Court.  He “is formidable,” Benson said. “He is likely to leave
no stone or even any suspicious-looking pebble unturned.”  Summon ‘Proprietors’  Cameron specifically included “proprietors” in the list
of people that the inquiry will have the power to summon. He
said yesterday it will be in two parts: a review of press
regulation to report within 12 months and an investigation into
wrongdoing by press and police.  Leveson said while work on press regulation “will begin
immediately,” other issues will have to wait until the police
probe is completed.  “This inquiry cannot cut across or prejudice the ongoing
criminal investigations or any subsequent prosecutions,” he
said. “This means that the detailed issues” in the probe into
wrongdoing by press and police “must inevitably be deferred.”  The Leveson probe still may have the power to look at
issues more broadly than prosecutors, said Chris Watson, a
lawyer at  CMS Cameron McKenna  in London.  So Horrified  “The public inquiry could find fact and make
recommendations on things that weren’t in the past considered
criminal but may be,” Watson said in a phone interview. The
findings “could say that people are saying they are so
horrified as to what happened that if it wasn’t illegal, it may
well ought to be.”  London’s Metropolitan Police has made nine arrests in its
ongoing probe, including at least six who have worked at the
News of the World. Cameron has been criticized because his
former press adviser,  Andy Coulson , was the editor of the paper
while some of the phone hacking took place. Coulson was arrested
last week as part of the police probe. A ninth person, a 60-
year-old man, was arrested today in  London , police said. Sky
News reported the suspect is Neil Wallis, a former editor at the
tabloid.  “The people involved, whether they were directly
responsible for the wrongdoing, sanctioned it, or covered it up,
however high or low they go, must not only be brought to
justice, they must also have no future role in the running of a
media company in our country,” Cameron told lawmakers in
Parliament in London.  11,000 Pages  Cameron said police “are looking through 11,000 pages
containing 3,870 names, including around 4,000 mobile and 5,000
landline phone numbers. They have contacted 170 people so far --
and they will contact every single person named in those
documents.”  Leveson said the inquiries “raise complex and wide-ranging
legal and ethical issues of enormous public concern” and that
he’ll provide more information on how the inquiry will proceed
later this month.  “The inquiry must balance the desire for a robustly free
press with the rights of the individual while, at the same time,
ensuring that critical relationships between the press,
Parliament, the government and the police are maintained,” he
said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net  and;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 