-- 
Ex-News of the World Editor Is Ninth Person Arrested in Phone-Hack Probe

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-14T20:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ninth-suspect-arrested-in-u-k-in-news-of-the-world-probes-1-.html
London  police arrested a former News
of the World editor as part of the investigation into phone
hacking at the News Corp. tabloid, a day after the company
dropped a bid for full ownership of British Sky Broadcasting
Plc.  Neil Wallis, 60, was arrested today on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept phone calls. He had also worked as a
paid communications consultant for the police in 2009 and 2010,
the  Metropolitan Police Service  said in a statement.  The arrest is at least the seventh of a reporter or editor
with ties to News of the World this year. Police are
investigating allegations reporters at the now-defunct tabloid
hacked into the mobile phones of politicians, celebrities, and
murder and terror victims, and bribed police officers for
information. The scandal forced Rupert Murdoch-led  News Corp. (NWS)  to
shut the newspaper.  Wallis had a contract to provide communication consulting,
including advice on speech writing and public relations, while
the agency’s deputy director of public affairs was on sick
leave, the police said.  A call by Bloomberg News to a North London phone number
listed for an N. Wallis wasn’t answered.  Andy Coulson , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s former
spokesman and the ex-editor of News of the World at the time of
the alleged crimes, was detained and questioned by police last
week in the highest-profile arrest so far.  Boris Johnson   The Metropolitan Police agreed the hiring of Wallis should
be reviewed after London Mayor Boris Johnson had a “very frank
discussion” with Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson, Johnson’s
office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Stephenson agreed with Johnson that the judge who was
appointed to lead an independent review of the phone-hacking
scandal should probe the Wallis hiring arrangements in an effort
to reassure the public it “was not inappropriate,” the
statement said.  The tabloid’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , was re-
arrested on July 8 and his office at the  Daily Star  was searched
in relation to the phone-hacking probe. On the same day, police
arrested a 63-year old man in Surrey,  England , on suspicion of
corruption.  Police in April arrested James Weatherup, a former News of
the World reporter. Ian Edmondson, who was fired from his job as
a news editor at the tabloid in January, and Neville Thurlbeck,
the paper’s former chief reporter, were also arrested in April.
Last month, Terenia Taras, a former freelance writer for the
tabloid, and a 34-year-old woman who works at the U.K. news
service Press Association were also arrested in the probe.  The Sun  Wallis worked at News of the World from 2003 until 2009 and
had previously worked for its sister  News Corp. (NWSA)  weekday tabloid
the Sun, the Telegraph reported.  Goodman and private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  were jailed
in 2007 for tapping mobile phones. Mulcaire was sentenced to six
months for hacking into the messages of celebrities, while
Goodman was sentenced to four months for conspiring to intercept
communications.  The investigation was re-opened in September after the New
York Times reported phone hacking was more widespread at the
newspaper than the prior case showed. In December, prosecutors
said they didn’t have enough evidence to file further criminal
charges.  Civil Suits  The current police investigation was opened in January
after new information surfaced as the result of civil lawsuits
filed by celebrities, including actress  Sienna Miller , against
the tabloid. Police opened a second investigation last week into
the allegations of payments made to police. Cameron appointed a
judge yesterday to lead a public inquiry into the scandal.  The paper’s owners previously denied that illegal activity
went beyond Goodman and Mulcaire, and insisted phone-hacking
stopped with their 2007 jailing. It has since admitted liability
in some of the lawsuits, and settled with Miller and sports
commentator Andy Gray.  Separately, the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation is
examining whether News Corp. employees tried to hack into the
phones of Sept. 11 victims, according to a person familiar with
the matter who wasn’t authorized to discuss it publicly.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 