-- 
Nokia Siemens Productivity Trailing Ericsson May Signal Job Cuts

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-14T22:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/nokia-siemens-productivity-trailing-ericsson-may-signal-job-cuts.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, which this
week ended talks to sell a stake to buyout firms, needs to cut
jobs to gain the option of independence as competition with
rivals including Huawei Technologies Co. intensifies.  The phone equipment venture between  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens
AG (SIE)  generated sales of about $254,000 per employee last year, 19
percent less than larger rival Ericsson AB, based on numbers
from the companies’ financial reports. The figure for both
manufacturers is sinking as selling prices for equipment such as
base stations and packet-switching networks decline.  Nokia Siemens  said  this week that it plans to improve its
competitiveness “as a standalone entity” while announcing the
end of talks over a stake sale. The Espoo, Finland-based
venture, which has been unprofitable for all but one quarter
since it started in April 2007, has increased its headcount to
about 73,000 from about 60,000 after additions for outsourcing
and the acquisition of a Motorola Solutions Inc. unit. In
 Germany  alone, Nokia Siemens has almost 10,000 workers.  “They haven’t fired enough,” said James Crawshaw, a
London-based equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s . “Siemens
historically over-engineered their products and in certain
industry verticals people will pay for that, but the telecom
sector isn’t prepared to pay that premium for German engineering
when Chinese engineering gets the job done.”  ‘Options’  While an initial public offering for Nokia Siemens is a
possibility, it could only happen after the company becomes
profitable, said people familiar with the situation, declining
to be named because the deliberations are private.  Ben Roome, a Nokia Siemens spokesman, declined to comment.
Operating matters regarding Nokia Siemens are the responsibility
of management, said Wolfram Trost, a spokesman for Siemens.  “The current focus is on improving profitability and
managing costs,” said James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman,
declining to discuss the possibility of job eliminations.  Nokia said July 12 that it’s open to other ownership
options for the 50-50 venture, without elaborating. The unit may
report second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes of 82.7
million euros ($117 million) on revenue of 3.3 billion euros,
JPMorgan Cazenove analyst Sandeep Deshpande wrote in a July 13
report. Nokia, the biggest maker of mobile phones by volume,
reports earnings July 21.  Nokia, which has more shared interest with Nokia Siemens
since both sell to phone companies, is paring down assets that
aren’t essential to its main devices product lines.  Cash  Nokia and Siemens had a combined total of more than 26
billion euros in cash and short-term investments at March 31.
That money could help Nokia Siemens to buy out employees whose
qualifications don’t fit the current business profile, make
better offers to customers, or acquire assets.  “I don’t think it’s an IPO-ready company,” said Bengt
Nordstroem, who heads Stockholm-based telecommunications
consultant Northstream AB. “There is strong growth in mobile
broadband, but also tough competition so prices are still very
low.”  The joint venture has lost 3.35 billion euros from
operations, restructuring, and impairment charges for Siemens
since it was formed. Siemens Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser
has repeatedly said that telecommunications is no longer a core
business for the company.  Market Share  Nokia Siemens and Ericsson have focused on wireless  network
equipment  such as base stations and core networks and have
expanded in software and services to a greater extent than
competitors Alcatel-Lucent SA, Huawei and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  Nokia
Siemens gets about half its revenue from services, including
running entire networks remotely from India and  Portugal .
Ericsson counts about 40 percent of its revenue as services.  Nokia Siemens had 20.4 percent of the wireless equipment
market in the first quarter, up from 18.2 percent a year
earlier, according to Redwood Shores, California-based
researcher Dell’Oro Group. Huawei was almost tied with Nokia
Siemens at 20.3 percent and Ericsson had 34.5 percent. Alcatel-
Lucent’s share was 13.7 percent.  Nokia Siemens announced in November 2009 that it would
eliminate between 7 percent and 9 percent of the 64,000
positions it had at the time. The aim was to cut 500 million
euros in annual costs by the end of this year. It has reported
more than 1.05 billion euros in operating losses since the job
cuts announcement.  “They need to remove the question mark around the
ownership structure,” Sylvain Fabre, an analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc., said in a phone interview. “The
first thing you learn in business school is you never do 50-50,
you do at least 51-49. Until you really know who’s in charge you
don’t really know what direction is ultimately imposed in the
company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 Rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  