-- 
Novartis Fails to Win U.K. Backing for Lucentis in Diabetic Eye Condition

-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 
2011-07-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/novartis-fails-to-win-u-k-backing-for-lucentis-in-diabetic-eye-condition.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
drugmaker, failed to win approval from the U.K.’s health-cost
agency for its drug Lucentis in diabetics who suffer an eye
condition.  Lucentis wasn’t cost effective in patients with macular
edema, the  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
said today in a  statement . The medicine costs 742 pounds
($1,200) for a monthly injection, NICE said. The agency advises
the U.K.’s state-run  National Health Service  on which treatments
represent value for money.  Novartis’s estimates for the cost of the treatment were
based on “implausible assumptions” and if more realistic
estimates had been made, the cost would have exceeded limits
that NICE sets, the agency said. It was unable to recommend the
medicine over an existing treatment for diabetics with macular
edema, laser therapy.  “Laser therapy has provided stabilization of vision in
many patients, but generally does not improve vision, and
despite treatment many patients continue to lose vision,” the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement. “Lucentis
has been shown to double the likelihood of gaining vision and
reduce the chance of losing vision by up to three-fold compared
to laser” therapy.  One study found that patients required a median of eight to
nine injections of Lucentis in the first year of treatment and
two to three in the second year, according to the company.  Novartis said it plans to appeal NICE’s draft
recommendations. The agency said it expects to publish a final
decision next month.  Diabetic macular edema is caused by leaky blood vessels in
the eye. Laser therapy cauterizes the vessels and seals them
off, minimizing the leakage. NICE already recommends Lucentis
for a separate eye condition, wet age-related macular
degeneration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  