-- 
Obama ‘Skating on Thin Ice’ in Arab World as Popularity Slumps, Poll Shows

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T17:18:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/obama-skating-on-thin-ice-in-arab-world-as-popularity-slumps-poll-shows.html
President  Barack Obama ’s popularity
has  plunged  in the Arab World following a wave of popular
uprisings and the U.S. opposition to a Palestinian quest for
statehood at the United Nations.  The Zogby International survey of Arab attitudes toward the
administration, commissioned by the Arab-American Institute
(AAI), interviewed 4,000 people in six Arab nations -- Morocco,
Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan,  Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab
Emirates -- between May 25 and June 27. There is a margin of
error between 3.5 percent and 5 percent, the report says.  “Enough damage has been done to U.S. standing in the
region,” AAI President James Zogby, who analyzed the data, said
in a telephone interview. “Obama is skating on thin ice and
must tread very carefully now and not waste what little goodwill
is left by pushing the Palestinians to back down.”  Support for the U.S. fell the most in  Egypt , to 5 percent
from 30 percent in 2008, when newly elected Obama addressed a
university audience in Cairo and called for “new beginnings.”
President Hosni Mubarak was toppled in February after 18 days of
protests during which the Obama administration’s response ranged
from backing Mubarak to urging him to step aside. Only in
Lebanon is U.S. standing little changed.  The survey sought to measure the impact on key  Middle East 
states of Obama’s May 19 speech, which outlined U.S. foreign
policy in the region in the aftermath of protests that toppled
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt, threatened autocratic regimes in
Yemen and Syria and prompted a UN-sanctioned resolution to bomb
 Libya .  Israel  Borders  Obama asked Israel to agree to new talks on a Palestinian
state “based on the 1967 lines,” endorsing a key Palestinian
demand, while discouraging Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas from pursuing “symbolic actions” at the UN in
September.  The Obama administration restarted talks between Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Abbas in September 2010
with the goal of reaching agreement on core issues a year later
-- a deadline now just weeks away. The talks quickly stalled.  Muslims in  Morocco , Egypt and Jordan identify “continuing
occupation of Palestinian lands” as the biggest obstacle to
peace in the Middle East, the survey showed. Lebanon, Saudi
Arabia and U.A.E. identified “U.S. interference in the Arab
World” as the biggest irritant, according to the poll.  Middle East envoy Tony Blair said Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks can still be renewed before the UN considers a resolution
on Palestinian statehood in September.  “It’s possible, and that’s what we’re going to work on,”
Blair, a representative of the so-called Quartet -- the U.S.,
the European Union, the United Nations and  Russia  -- said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today from Jerusalem. “The
trouble is, even if we get through to September, and we have a
debate at the  United Nations , in the end that doesn’t deliver a
Palestinian state.”  -- Editors:  Steven Komarow , Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  