-- 
Obama May Summon Lawmakers to Camp David to Save Debt Talks

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-07-14T15:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/obama-said-to-consider-camp-david-summit-this-weekend-for-deficit-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  may summon
congressional leaders to a Camp David summit this weekend after
the latest round of White House negotiations on the deficit
ended on a tense note and Moody’s Investors Service warned the
stalemate could jeopardize the U.S.’s credit rating.  Obama told the lawmakers they have until tomorrow to decide
whether they can reach a deal to cut the deficit or settle for a
way to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before U.S.
borrowing authority expires Aug. 2, two Democratic officials
said.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told a White House official this
morning that “he sees no need to go to Camp David this
weekend,” according to  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for the Ohio
Republican.  The increasing tension between Democrats and Republicans
was underscored by dueling accounts of a White House meeting
that ended sourly. Obama “got very agitated” and left the room
after House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  suggested a vote on a
smaller deal, Cantor said in an interview. “Don’t call my
bluff; I am going to the American people,” Obama said,
according to Cantor, a Virginia Republican.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, said today
that Cantor has shown “he shouldn’t be at the table,” adding
that “it was childish” when Cantor quit attending negotiating
sessions led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  Laena Fallon, a spokesman for Cantor, said in response,
“This isn’t a question about personalities -- Eric, President
Obama or Harry Reid -- it’s about doing what is right for the
country.”  Economic Tailspin  Other Democratic officials disputed Cantor’s
characterization of Obama’s demeanor, while the White House
concedes it may have to accept a smaller accord as Republican
opposition to tax increases hardens and both sides acknowledge a
government default could send the  U.S. economy  into a tailspin.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House
Financial Services Committee yesterday that failure to raise the
debt limit would lead to a “huge financial calamity” that
could add to unemployment. Unless the debt ceiling is raised, he
said, the economy could be in greater peril than when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in September 2008.  Both sides have few options for resolving the standoff
quickly. Obama said he would veto any plan that doesn’t raise
the debt ceiling through the 2012 elections. Republicans are
demanding $2 trillion or more in spending cuts without any tax
increases.  Political Posturing  Democratic officials, speaking on condition of anonymity,
disputed Cantor’s assertion that Obama’s departure was abrupt
and said the president had emphasized he believed the lawmakers
were engaging in too much political posturing.  In a sign of concern within the financial community, the
U.S.’s Aaa bond rating was put under review by Moody’s, a
possible prelude to a downgrade that would trigger higher
borrowing costs.  “There is a small but rising risk of a short-lived
default,” Moody’s said.  Treasuries declined after Moody’s statement. The 10-year
Treasury yield rose four basis points to 2.92 percent at 10:10
a.m. today in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  As part of a broader $4 trillion accord, Obama was poised
to accept cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and possibly Social
Security in exchange for $1 trillion in revenue, mostly from
repealing President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans after 2012.  Discretionary Spending  Absent that tradeoff, the two sides had identified about $1
trillion in discretionary spending cuts and $500 billion in
other savings from agriculture subsidies and other non-health-
care-related spending.  That isn’t enough for the $2 trillion minimum in spending
cuts that  House Republicans  are demanding in exchange for
raising the debt ceiling through the next election. The White
House insists that any deal of that magnitude must include more
revenue.  The stalemate prompted Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  this week to offer a “last-choice” plan to give
Obama unilateral power to raise the debt ceiling, in an effort
to put the onus on the president to identify spending cuts. The
idea drew criticism from both sides of the aisle, particularly
from Republicans who said it would fail to curb spending.  Recounting how the 1995 government shutdown helped
President  Bill Clinton  win re-election the following year,
McConnell warned fellow Republicans any impasse that drove down
the nation’s credit rating and led to government checks being
delayed could have the same result for Obama.  ‘Very Bad Position’  “He will say Republicans are making the economy worse,”
McConnell said in an interview with radio host Laura Ingraham.
“It is an argument that he could have a good chance of winning,
and all of the sudden we have co-ownership of the economy. That
is a very bad position going into the election.”  Senate and House leaders, reacting cautiously to
McConnell’s proposal, are exploring ways to modify it as a
backstop to prevent a government default. While Republicans are
pressing for hard spending caps, the White House would only
accept setting a ceiling on future deficits, perhaps by tying
them to a percentage of the gross domestic product. Senate
leaders are also discussing a commission with enforcement
powers, according to a congressional aide.  Obama and the lawmakers discussed discretionary and other
spending yesterday and plan to discuss health care and revenue,
including an employer payroll tax holiday, at a meeting
scheduled for today at the White House, a Democratic official
said.  Camp David  A final decision on a possible Camp David retreat in the
Maryland mountains hasn’t been made, said the people, who
requested anonymity.  Cantor told reporters that the amount of cuts under
discussion has shrunk to less than $1.4 trillion in part because
he said the administration is seeking additional spending on
 unemployment benefits  and health-care programs. Cantor said he
proposed having multiple votes into next year to raise the debt
limit in stages, which he said Obama rejected.  “We’re so far apart and going back on the momentum,”
Cantor said.  Shortly before Obama’s departure from the meeting, he told
Republicans they had two choices: Either accept revenue
increases for a $2.4 trillion deal or take a deal of a lesser
amount and give up on their demand for dollar-for-dollar
spending cuts to match an increase in the debt ceiling so the
borrowing authority will go through the election.  The gamesmanship may already be putting the U.S. credit
rating at risk.  ‘Dreaded’ News  The announcement by Moody’s was “the news that we have
dreaded,” said House Democrat Robert Andrews of  New Jersey . “I
am fearing that much worse news will be right around the corner.
I hope this very unwelcome news shakes people into a sense of
reality.”  U.S. stock-index futures fell and the euro strengthened
versus the dollar after Moody’s said U.S. may lose the Aaa
credit rating it has held since 1917.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
said in a statement that Obama has listened to congressional
leaders’ suggestions “at extensive meetings over the past few
weeks, and now we have a responsibility to act.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  