-- 
Obama Recession Symbol Elkhart Mends as U.S. Manufacturing Grows

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-07-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/obama-recession-symbol-elkhart-mends-as-u-s-manufacturing-grows.html
Indiana ’s Elkhart County became a
symbol of what was wrong in the U.S. economy when President
 Barack Obama  traveled there in February 2009 to make an appeal
for more federal spending during a “deep and dire” recession.  Today, the county’s rebound is evident in the “Employment
Opportunities” sign at truckmaker Utilimaster Corp., the return
of laid-off workers at recreational-vehicle producer Jayco Inc.,
and the restoration of a downtown theater. The manufacturing
community, which was losing jobs faster than anywhere in the
U.S. as its unemployment rate soared to 20.3 percent in March
2009, is now a  leader  in the year-over-year drop in joblessness.  Elkhart’s turnaround, largely a result of the revival of
its main industry, recreational-vehicle production, reflects a
nationwide strengthening in manufacturing, one of the few bright
spots in a  U.S. economy  whose growth has slowed.  “What’s happening in Elkhart is typical of what’s
happening across America,” said Morton Marcus, an Indianapolis
economist and former Indiana University professor. “It’s just
noticeable in Elkhart because the unemployment rate was so
high.”  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in June as
factories rebuilt inventories, a report this month by the
 Institute for Supply Management  showed. The group’s measures of
production, new orders and employment also climbed.  “With the recovery has come a rebound in RVs and autos, so
now you are seeing places like Elkhart doing much better, as are
towns like Toledo and Youngstown,  Ohio , where the  auto industry 
is the dominant influence,” said  Ken Mayland , president of
ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper Pike , Ohio.  ‘Worst Situation’  Motor vehicle output nationwide, which includes RVs, has
climbed at a 40 percent annual rate per quarter on average since
the recession ended in June 2009. As a result, the  unemployment
rate  in the Elkhart County area declined to 10.1 percent in May.  “While we had the worst situation in the country, our
recovery is probably the fastest,” said Dick Moore, the mayor
of Elkhart, the largest city in the northern Indiana county.
“We weren’t passive, and we weren’t stagnant.”  Elkhart has gone from the epitome of economic malaise to a
standout during the recovery as much of the nation struggles
with slow job growth. American employers added jobs at the
slowest pace in nine months in June and the  unemployment rate 
rose to 9.2 percent, sparking concern the economy is faltering.  While the Elkhart area has a long way to go to return to
its pre-recession unemployment of 4.7 percent, it’s benefiting
from economic-development efforts and a push from  Washington .  700 Jobs  This year, new and expanding manufacturers aided by state
and local tax abatements have made more than $66 million in
capital investments and created at least 700 jobs, said Dave
Ogle, director of business retention and expansion for the
Elkhart County Economic Development Corp. In 2010, companies
invested $96.2 million and added almost 1,800 jobs countywide.  Obama put the national spotlight on Elkhart, making it his
first trip as president to push Congress to pass a stimulus plan
now valued at $830 billion, mentioning the town eight times in a
press conference, then returning to the area six months later to
announce Energy Department grants for electric cars.  The city of Elkhart received $41 million in stimulus money,
which has been used to rebuild a runway, make sewer improvements
and redo roads and sidewalks. About 200 jobs resulted, said
Barkley Garrett, who heads the economic-development department.  “Everyone had written us off,” said Garrett. “The things
we’ve been able to do in the past two years are pretty
amazing.”  RV Capital  Elkhart County, home to about 200,000 residents, makes more
than  60 percent  of the recreational vehicles sold in the U.S., a
$13 billion market, and manufacturers have called back workers
let go after the credit crunch in 2008 and early 2009. RV
shipments dropped 33 percent in 2008 and another 30 percent in
2009, prompting a 50 percent workforce reduction, according to
the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association in Reston, Virginia.  The loosening of lending and the stock market’s recovery
helped fuel a 46 percent rise in shipments in 2010, according to
RVIA data.  “All the lots down here are full of RVs again,” said
Barbara Rowe, 73, recalling how her church in Nappanee opened a
food pantry when unemployment skyrocketed. “They don’t mention
the food pantry from the pulpit anymore.”  ‘Lot of Uncertainty’  Keystone RV Co., a Goshen-based unit of  Thor Industries
Inc. (THO) , cut its payroll to about 2,000 workers during the
recession from 3,000. It’s now back to more than 3,000.  “We’ve seen the credit come back very strong,” said Bob Martin, Keystone’s president. “It’s been nice to see many of
the companies hire people back and the community come back to
life.”  Jayco in Middlebury cut almost half of its 2,300 workers
and has since brought back more than 600.  “We’re not striking up the band and having any parties in
the street, because there is still a lot of uncertainty out
there,” said marketing director Sid Johnson. “But we are
pretty pleased with how things have gone.”  The racket at the Utilimaster production plant, where
workers assemble truck bodies for companies, including  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , is welcome noise to  John
Marshall , senior vice president of sales and marketing.  After dropping to about 400 workers from 600 during the
recession, the unit of Charlotte, Michigan-based  Spartan Motors
Inc. (SPAR) , soon will peak at about 930 employees.  Positions to Fill  Utilimaster hired 150 workers in the last three weeks of
June. It still has 105 positions to fill at its plant in
Wakarusa, about 10 miles south of Elkhart, as the company
prepares to manufacture its new, lightweight Reach van, in a
joint venture with  Japan ’s Isuzu Motors Ltd.  Customers are replacing aging fleets, and Utilimaster is in
the middle of a $1.9 million plant expansion.  A tax measure Obama signed last year that included a
provision allowing companies to write off 100 percent of some
capital investments helped spur sales, Marshall said.  Elkhart resident Dedrick Brown, 30, was making $7 an hour
as a fast-food restaurant cook until he got a job on
Utilimaster’s assembly line last year. He’s now earning $13.85.  “We bought a house and we’re making our bills,” said
Brown, whose wife is expecting their second child.  Kem Krest Corp ., a supply-chain management company whose
clients include  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , is
investing $6 million in a second warehouse and will double its
staff to about 200 over the next five years.  Anybody Can Fail  “People are working their tails off because they are no
longer thinking their industries can’t fail,” said Chief
Executive Officer Amish Shah.  Some federal stimulus money will help pay interest on bonds
used to finance part of an $18 million restoration of a 1,700-
seat, 1924 theater, which opened in June and held two sold-out
Broadway productions of Fiddler on the Roof.  Still, the Elkhart County area had more than 60,000
manufacturing jobs before the recession and has 47,300 now.
While that’s up from a low of 36,900 in March 2009, wages mostly
have remained stagnant. The average weekly salary unadjusted for
inflation rose to $812 in the third quarter of 2010, the most
recent data available, from $797 in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Moore, Elkhart’s mayor, estimates it could take 12 years
for the city to see employment peak again as it looks to
diversify beyond the RV business.  “We’ve still got a lot of empty factories and warehouses
that we need to get filled,” he said. “We’re not down and
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  