-- 
Moelis Names Yorick Van Slingelandt as Director in Dubai

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-14T12:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/moelis-co-names-yorick-van-slingelandt-as-director-in-dubai.html
Moelis & Co., the New York-based
investment bank that advised on Dubai World’s $25 billion debt
restructuring, appointed Yorick Van Slingelandt as co-head of
 investment banking  for the Middle East and North Africa.  Slingelandt joins after 15 years with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in  London ,  Hong Kong  and Dubai and will be based in Dubai,
Moelis said in an e-mailed statement today. He starts in October
and will be jointly responsible for expanding the firm’s
financial advisory and capital-raising services in the region
with Augusto Sasso, according to the statement.  Moelis & Co., set up by former UBS AG banker Kenneth Moelis
in 2007, announced the opening of an office in the Dubai
International Financial Center in January and now has eight
bankers, Sasso said in a phone interview today. In the past 12
months, Moelis has seen an equal mix of debt restructurings and
mergers and acquisition deals, although most of its future work
will be providing mergers and acquisitions advice, he said.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, completed its debt restructuring in June.
Moelis is working on selling an asset for a sovereign wealth
fund in the region, and helping to recapitalize three companies
for sovereign funds, Sasso said in January.  “The merger and acquisition market will gradually get
better as the financial markets get better,” Sasso said.
“Valuations are at reasonable levels, and sellers are getting
more comfortable with transacting at these valuations.”  Slingelandt was head of corporate finance for the  Middle
East  & North Africa at JPMorgan, where he worked on mergers and
acquisitions and capital-markets origination, Moelis said. His
expertise includes telecommunications, aerospace and defence,
transport and industrials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  