-- 
Republic of South Sudan Becomes 193rd Member of UN

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-14T17:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/oil-rich-republic-of-southern-sudan-becomes-193rd-member-of-united-nations.html
The flag of the Republic of South
 Sudan , with its yellow star, was raised at  United Nations 
headquarters in  New York  today after the oil-rich African
country became the 193rd member of the world body.  The ceremony followed the General Assembly’s vote by
acclamation to admit South Sudan, which proclaimed its
independence on July 9. Vice President Riek Machar was escorted
to South Sudan’s seat in the General Assembly hall amid applause
from diplomats of the other member governments.  “At this moment, in this place, the world gathers to say
in one voice, ‘Welcome South Sudan,’” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said. “The task ahead is great, but so too is the
country’s potential, with its abundant natural resources, arable
land, the waters of the Nile and, of course, proud and hard
working people.”  Machar later said the flag’s star symbolizes the hopes of
the world’s newest nation. Its black stripe stands for the word
“Sudan,” a derivation of black in Arabic. White, green, blue
and red stripes represent, respectively, peace, land, the Nile
River and the sacrifice of the South Sudanese people to achieve
their independence, he said.  Militia Groups  South Sudan’s independence follows a year that has been the
most violent in the region since the end of a two-decade civil
war in the region in 2005. Rebel attacks and ethnic violence
have killed 2,368 civilians, compared with 940 last year,
according to the UN. As many as nine militia groups operate
mainly along the new state’s border with the north.  The UN has established two peacekeeping missions in the
region in the past month, one in the disputed border area of
Abyei and the other in South Sudan. The latter will include as
many as 7,000 soldiers and 900 civilian police to provide
security and aid the new nation’s development.  “Our fundamental hope and desire is to see peaceful
coexistence between the two neighboring states of Sudan and
South Sudan,” Machar said. “Both states must be viable and
stable.”  South Sudan gained control of about 75 percent of Sudan’s
daily oil production of 490,000 barrels when it became
independent. The crude, pumped mainly by China National
Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and  India ’s
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. day, is exported through a pipeline that
runs to  Port Sudan  on the Red Sea.  Oil earnings accounted for about 98 percent of South
Sudan’s 2010 budget.  Sudan is the first new UN member since Montenegro in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  