-- 
Holbein Madonna Sells for at Least $70 Million to Wuerth

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-07-14T15:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/holbein-madonna-sells-for-at-least-56-million-to-german-magnate-wuerth.html
Reinhold Wuerth, a German
billionaire who turned a family-owned screw wholesaler into a
 global company , paid more than $70 million to buy a Holbein
painting, beating a bid from the Staedel Museum in  Frankfurt .  Wuerth purchased the painting from the heirs of the princes
and landgraves of the state of Hesse, an aristocratic family
descended from Charlemagne, according to an e-mailed statement
sent today by Britta Fischer Public Relations on behalf of the
Wuerth Collection. The  Staedel Museum , where the Holbein has
hung on loan since 2003, said in a separate statement that its
own final offer of 40 million euros ($57 million) was rejected.  Christoph Graf Douglas, the  art dealer  who negotiated the
sale, said the price was more than 50 million euros, the highest
ever paid for an artwork in Germany. He declined to name the
final sum because of an agreement between the buyer and sellers.  “It is the most important painting sold in  Germany  since
World War II,” Graf Douglas said by telephone from Frankfurt.
“I had other willing buyers but they wanted to take it out of
Germany, which wasn’t allowed. I could probably have sold it for
more than 100 million euros if it wasn’t barred from export.”  Interested buyers included the J. Paul  Getty Museum , he
said.  Protective Cloak  The 1525-8 oil painting by Hans Holbein the Younger, “The
Madonna With the Family of Mayor Meyer,” was painted on
commission for the Basel mayor Jakob Meyer zum Hasen. The Meyers
are portrayed at the feet of the Madonna, sheltered under her
cloak. It belonged to the family for almost 100 years.  “It is the transition from the wonderful German late
Gothic to the Renaissance,” Graf Douglas said. “When you stand
in front of it you see how mystical, wonderful it is.”  Wuerth  pledged to keep the painting on public view and said
the Staedel Museum in Frankfurt and the Landesmuseum in
Darmstadt “will be the preferred borrowers of the artwork.”  Wuerth’s  collection  spans more than 14,000 works, ranging
from  Anish Kapoor  and  Henry Moore  to Picasso and Max Beckmann.
Graf Douglas negotiated Wuerth’s purchase of the Fuerstenberg
collection in 2003, extending his range to late medieval works
by artists including Lucas Cranach and Tilman Riemenschneider.
The Wuerth family converted the Johanniterhalle, a  12th-century
church  in Schwaebisch Hall, to put the works on permanent
display.  Wuerth Gruppe employs 65,000 people in 84 countries. Sales
for the first half of 2011 totaled 4.78 billion euros, according
to the company website. Its main products aside from screws are
dowels, plugs, tools and chemical products.  Staedel Museum director Max Hollein said the museum went to
its “absolute limits” in offering 40 million euros in cash,
the last of several offers over many years of negotiating.
Nikolaus Schweickart, the chairman of the Staedel’s
administration, said the museum had discussed purchasing the
painting jointly with Wuerth.  The Holbein will remain on display at the Staedel Museum
until July 24, before moving to the Johanniterhalle.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 