-- 
Thomas Bjorn Leading in British Open First Round as Replacement for Singh

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-14T14:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/thomas-bjorn-leading-in-british-open-first-round-as-replacement-for-singh.html
Thomas Bjorn  says he’s enjoying life
as a late addition to the British Open field.  The Dane, who entered the tournament as an alternate when
 Vijay Singh  withdrew three days ago, shot 5-under-par 65 to hold
a one-stroke advantage in the first round at Royal St. George’s.
In 2003, the last time the Open was held at the course in
Sandwich,  England , Bjorn blew a three-shot lead with four holes
to play. This time, he said, he’s playing relaxed.  “I just kind of promised myself to try and enjoy it,”
Bjorn said at a news conference. “I never really expected to
play in it, so there’s no reason to get too uptight. I knew I
wasn’t coming in in the greatest of form, so just try and enjoy
really being down here and try to use it more to find some
form.”  He recorded seven birdies and two bogeys in his round and
leads  Spain ’s Miguel Angel Jimenez by one stroke. It was Bjorn’s
best round ever at the Open.  The 40-year-old has struggled with his game since his
father died in May. He had a hard time controlling his emotions
when asked how his late father would have felt seeing him in the
lead.  “He meant a lot to me,” a teary Bjorn said, taking a
moment to compose himself. “He would have been very proud of
what I did today.”  In addition to the late entry, Bjorn had to overcome his
past failure at Royal St. George’s. He said what happened eight
years ago, when he tied with Singh for second a shot behind
winner Ben Curtis, is in the past.  “I got myself in that position in ‘03 and that was my
biggest chance to win a major championship,” Bjorn said. “I’ve
always promised myself I’ll keep going and keep going. I look
ahead and I always look ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 