-- 
Thomas Cooley Law School Sues Kurzon Strauss Law Firm Over Job Data Query

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T04:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/thomas-cooley-law-school-sues-kurzon-strauss-law-firm-over-job-data-query.html
Kurzon Strauss LLP  was sued by the
 Thomas M. Cooley Law School  over claims the New York law firm
and two of its lawyers falsely claimed on websites that the
school misrepresented graduate employment statistics.  Jesse Strauss, a Kurzon partner, along with attorney David
Anziska, posted false statements on websites to “incite” the
readers and to “troll” for plaintiffs for a purported class-
action lawsuit against Cooley, according to the school’s
complaint filed yesterday in state court in Lansing, Michigan.  “With ethics and professionalism at the core of our law
school’s values, we cannot -- and will not -- sit back and let
anyone circulate defamatory statements about Cooley or the
choices our students and alumni made to seek their law degree
here,” Brent Danielson, chairman of Cooley’s board of
directors, said in a statement posted on the school’s website.  Anziska said yesterday in a phone interview that his firm
was investigating numerous law schools for inflating the job
placement rates of its graduates.  “This is one of the most ridiculous, absurd lawsuits
filed in recent memory,” Anziska said. “We fully intend to
countersue both Thomas Cooley and their lawyers for abusing the
legal system.”  Anziska declined to comment further on the complaint filed
by Cooley.  Cooley accused Anziska of posting statements on websites,
including JD Underground and Craigslist, beginning in June to
seek information from its graduates. The firm posted a
retraction statement on JD Underground on June 15, according to
the complaint.  ‘Manipulating’ Data  Posts on Craigslist in  New York  and  Detroit  advertised a
broad “wide-ranging” investigation of a number of law schools
for “purportedly manipulating their post-graduate employment
data,” lawyers for Cooley said in court papers.  In its statement yesterday, Cooley said its job placement
rates are reported annually to the  American Bar Association  and
the National Association for Law Placement nine months after
graduations based on the results of surveys and are consistent
with all 201 ABA accredited law schools.  Founded in 1972, Cooley is the largest law school in the
nation, according to its Web site. The school has four campuses
in Michigan.  The case is Thomas M. Cooley Law School v. Kurzon Strauss
LLP, State of  Michigan  Circuit Court for the County of Ingham
(Lansing).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  