-- 
Honda Civic Hybrid Makes Great Mileage, Noise: Jason H. Harper

-- B y   J a s o n   H . H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/honda-civic-hybrid-makes-great-mileage-noise-jason-h-harper.html
Honda Civics  are everywhere. Like
the impala of the asphalt savannah, modest LX sedans and Si
coupes crowd parking lots and fill the highways. They’re so
ubiquitous that you tend to look right through them, fixating
instead on elephantine SUVs or cheetah-esque  sports cars .  No wonder I found it so hard to assess the newest Civic
with fresh eyes. Around since the 1970s, this is the ninth
generation of the compact and one is pretty much like the next,
right?  Yet this time I was testing the 2012 hybrid model, which
stands apart in price and gas mileage. It starts at $24,050, not
including the $770 destination charge. That’s a healthy premium
over the base $15,800 sedan.  Hybrids generally see the most gas savings around town, and
the Civic hybrid achieves 44 mpg on both the wide-open road and
around the city. That easily bests the regular Civic (and most
other sedans), which gets 28 mpg city, 39 highway.  It takes regular unleaded as well.  If you’re a town-bound commuter who plans to keep the
hybrid for a number of years, the jump in price just might make
sense, especially if the cost of gas skyrockets. Yet the hybrid
also comes with a dose of hassle.  After all, Honda’s gas engines have always been a strong
selling point. The regular 2012 Civic has a punchy 1.8-liter i-
VTEC four-cylinder which gamely winds up to a redline of 6,700
rpm. It has 140 horsepower. Not powerful, but good fun,
especially when mated to a five-speed manual transmission.  Alas, Poor Civic  The hybrid gets a 1.5-liter four-cylinder and a small
electric motor for a combined horsepower of only 110. The only
offered transmission is a continuously variable system. Pickup
is slow and you can forget about power passes on two-lane roads.  But unlike the  Toyota Prius , which can silently set off on
the electric motor alone, the Honda is a mild hybrid, and the
gas motor is activated whenever the car is on the move. It shuts
off at stoplights and then comes back to life when you take your
foot off the brake.  This is not unlike the stop-and-start systems which are
popping up on all kinds of non-hybrid cars, even Ferraris and
Porsches, and it does take a bit of getting used to.
Unfortunately for the Civic, a shudder runs through the car
every time the engine dies. I’ve seen Hamlets expire with less
drama. Gasp, cough, gasp.  When it’s time to go again you take your foot off the brake
and there’s a pause -- wait for it -- and the engine gurgles to
life. Neither smooth nor quick, and it bugged me to an Ophelia-
worthy madness in traffic.  Loud Engine  It’s loud, too. Work the engine hard, and it unleashes a
full vocabulary of mechanical complaints, none of which are
pleasant to the ear. The low-rolling-resistance tires also
transmit every slap of the asphalt.  The good news is the Civic retains its overall modesty,
especially in terms of size. This is not one of those cars which
has grown obscenely long or heavy. None of the models has grown
in length for 2012; in fact the wheelbases have decreased and
curb weights have been trimmed.  Because of the extra motor and battery pack, the hybrid is
heavier than a fully-loaded EX-L sedan, but even it weighs less
than 2,900 pounds with added options.  Those choices on the hybrid are scant, making for easy
shopping. Leather is an extra $1,200 and also gets you heated
front seats. The steering wheel is wrapped and the seats are
trimmed with hide, but the quality is nothing to crow about.  Buyers can also opt for the $1,500 navigation system
separately or with the leather option. It includes XM satellite
radio.  Highway Skimmer  It wasn’t until I found myself on 35-mph winding roads that
I re-discovered the joy of a Civic. Since power wasn’t a
concern, I simply pointed it down sloping hills.  Honda’s mastery of its Civic is evident in the careful
tuning of the chassis and the exactness of the steering. They’ve
been at this a long time and the Civic skimmed along the narrow
roads, going precisely where I aimed it.  For those looking for a hotter option, there’s always the
201-hp Si coupe with a close-ratio six-speed manual. I’ll be
driving it later, but expect good things.  Also new for this year is a model called the Civic HF.
Rather than taking the hybrid route, it is outfitted with light
alloy wheels and low-rolling-resistance tires and has additional
aerodynamic tweaks to its body. That includes a flat underbody
and a lower riding height.  While it can’t approach the same mileage figures for the
city (a still decent 29), it does achieve 41 mpg highway.  At a price of less than $20,000, it seems a likely choice
for gas-conscious buyers who might not love some of the noisy
drawbacks of the hybrid.  The 2012 Honda Civic Hybrid At a Glance  Engine: 1.5-liter four-cylinder engine and 20-kilowatt  electric motor, for a combined horsepower of 110.  Transmission: Continuously variable.  Gas mileage per gallon: 44 city; 44 highway.  Price as tested: $27,520.  Best feature: Real gas savings.  Worst feature: Noisy engine.  Target buyer: The Honda loyalist who wants his hybrid.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 