-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Retreat as Moody’s Reviews U.S. Debt

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-07-14T15:10:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/hong-kong-stocks-advance-as-metal-shares-gain-correct-.html
(Corrects year of last Moody’s review of U.S. credit
rating in eighth paragraph.)  Hong Kong  stocks fell for a third
day this week after Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. under
review for a credit-rating downgrade, hurting the outlook for
earnings at companies tied to the global economic recovery.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  sank 2.6 percent to the lowest level
in almost eight years after CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets cut its
rating on the stock, citing a disappointing earnings outlook as
the European and North American retail industries slow.  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. (2038) , a mobile phone maker that gets
about a quarter of its revenue outside  China , lost 2 percent.
Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s No. 1 gold producer by market
value, jumped 6.5 percent after metal prices gained.  “The Hong Kong market is in a downtrend, and it’s still
finding its bottom,” said Linus Yip, chief strategist at First
Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong. “All the global economic
uncertainties remain. Investors should stay on the sideline,
wait for more news to come in and re-arrange their strategy.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  slid 0.2 percent to 21,882.10 as of
2:25 p.m. in Hong Kong. Almost twice as many stocks fell as rose
in the 46-member gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
Chinese companies’ H shares dropped 0.1 percent to 12,280.43.  The Hang Seng Index has dropped 4.8 percent this year
through yesterday after Chinese policymakers raised  interest
rates  and slowed bank lending to curb inflation. Shares in the
gauge traded at 11.8 times forecast earnings at the last close,
compared with about 14.4 times at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Review  Esprit, a clothing retailer that gets most of its revenue
from  Europe , sank 2.4 percent to HK$22.15 for the biggest drop
in the Hang Seng Index. CLSA cut its rating on the stock to
“underperform” from “buy.” Second-half earnings will be
“very disappointing,” according to a note to clients from
analysts Aaron Fischer and Mariana Kou.  Foxconn slid 2 percent to HK$3.43.  Techtronic Industries
Co. (669) , maker of Ryobi power tools and Hoover vacuum cleaners, fell
2.3 percent to HK$8.16.  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S., rated Aaa since
1917, under review for a credit-rating downgrade for the first
time since 1996 on concern an agreement won’t be reached to
boost the $14.3 trillion debt limit. The rating would likely be
dropped to the Aa range, and there’s no assurance Moody’s would
restore a top rating even if a default was quickly cured.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday told
Congress the central bank is prepared to take additional action,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be in danger of stalling.  Miners Rise  The launch of another so-called quantitative easing “means
the  U.S. economy  is in big trouble and that’s not a good sign
for Hong Kong,” said First Shanghai’s Yip. “ It’s good for
gold prices. The overall market risk is still high, and it’s
becoming a safe haven.”  Zijin Mining jumped 6.5 percent to HK$4.43, while Zhaojin
Mining Industry Co., a Shandong-based gold miner, increased 4.2
percent to HK$16.04. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, rose 2.8 percent to HK$27.45.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed 2.2
percent yesterday, while gold futures reached a record in  New
York .  Joy Global Inc. is in talks to buy  International Mining
Machinery Holdings Ltd. (1683) , a Chinese maker of coal-mining
equipment, according to two people with knowledge of the matter,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. Shares in International Mining, controlled by private-
equity firm Jordan Co., shares have been suspended from trading
since July 12.  Golden Shield Holdings Industrial Ltd., a producer of
cotton yarn, tumbled 10 percent to 63 Hong Kong cents, while
China Fiber Optic Network System Group Ltd., a maker of optic
patch cords, rose 6.7 percent to HK$1.28 on their first day of
trading.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index declined 0.6 percent to
21,865. The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong
Kong stock options, rose 1.3 percent to 21.26, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 6.1 percent in the Hang Seng
Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 