-- 
Loomis’s Gaffney Adds Italian Bonds as BlackRock’s Rieder Remains Cautious

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-15T15:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/loomis-s-gaffney-adds-italian-bonds-as-blackrock-s-rieder-remains-cautious.html
Kathleen Gaffney, whose $20.7
billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund has beaten 97 percent of peers
this year, said Italian bonds present buying opportunities after
this month’s selloff.  Gaffney and co-manager Daniel Fuss have been buying debt
from  Italy , Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  in the last 12
months, she said in a telephone interview. Italian and Spanish
corporate debt offers the best opportunities now, said Gaffney,
whose fund has shunned U.S. Treasuries.  “These are productive economies simply dealing with an
inflexible currency regime,” Gaffney said. “That will be
resolved. They are not going to have their capital cut off.”  Gaffney is among top bond fund managers, including
BlackRock’s Rick Rieder and Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Andrew Bosomworth , who are either adding to their holdings of
Italian bonds or staying put, after the crisis that brought
Greece to the brink of default during the last week of June
reached the euro-area’s third-largest economy. The yield on 10-
year Italian government bonds surged above 6 percent July 12,
the highest since 1997.  The premium investors demand to hold Italian bonds over
German bonds reached a euro-era record of 348 basis points on
July 13. The spread was 308 basis points at 11:16 a.m.  New York 
time today. One hundred basis points equal 1 percentage point.  “The market pressure is creating a demand for a solution
sooner rather than later, and that’s a good thing,” Gaffney
said. “Unfortunately, it seems to be the only thing that gets
the politicians’ attention.”  Strong Institutions  Bosomworth, a Munich-based executive vice president with
Pimco, said volatility in Italian bonds is creating opportunity.
He declined to say whether his firm is buying or selling Italian
bonds.  “Italy is no Greece,” he said in an interview today.
“They’ve shown that they can run a primary surplus. Their
institutions are relatively strong, and their private savings
rate is good.”  Arthur Steinmetz, chief investment officer at New York’s
OppenheimerFunds Inc., said his bond funds had maintained
investments in Italian sovereign debt while all but eliminating
holdings in other indebted European countries.  His International Bond Fund had 3.8 percent of its assets
in Italian sovereign bonds as of May 31 and 18 percent in non-
investment grade debt, according to the firm’s  website . The
$13.5 billion fund beat 84 percent of rivals over the past five
years.  ‘Being Cautious’  “I haven’t changed my view on Italy one iota,” Steinmetz
said in a telephone interview. “Italy isn’t going to hit a debt
wall anytime soon.”  Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for fixed-income at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in New York, said his firm added to Italian debt
holdings “in an insignificant way” in recent days.  “We’re being cautious,” he said in a telephone interview.
“It’s hard to make a significant decision because of the
tremendous amount of political wherewithal required to fix this
situation.”  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi today survived a
confidence vote on a 40 billion-euro ($56.6 billion) austerity
package in the country’s lower house Chamber of Deputies. The
vote paves the way for final passage of the package, intended to
balance the budget and keep the region’s debt crisis at bay.  BlackRock’s $280 million International Bond Portfolio,
managed by Andrew Gordon, held 10.7 percent of its portfolio in
Italian securities as of June 30. The fund has returned 3.8
percent this year, trailing 75 percent of rival funds.  ‘Long-Term Investors’  Like BlackRock’s fund, Oppenheimer International Bond Fund
has been hurt this year by the selloff in European debt. It has
returned 4.1 percent since the start of the year, including re-
invested interest, trailing 62 percent of similarly managed
funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Steinmetz said
he believes  Greece  will default on its debt and that may hurt
his Italian holdings.  “That’s OK,” he said. “We’re long-term investors and I’m
confident that Italian debt is ultimately” sound.  Steinmetz, whose firm oversaw about $185 billion as of
March 31, said he has resisted the temptation to buy more
Italian debt because he didn’t want to increase volatility.  Gaffney’s fund, which has returned 6.4 percent this year,
had 21 percent in non-U.S. debt as of May 31, with 9 percent in
cash, according to the Loomis Sayles  website . It didn’t hold any
Treasuries.  Boston-based Loomis Sayles had $156.3 billion in assets
under management as of March 31. BlackRock, the world’s largest
money manager, oversees $3.65 trillion. Newport Beach-based
Pimco manages $1.28 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 