-- 
Canadian Wives Out-Earning Husbands on Education Gains

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/more-wives-in-canada-out-earning-husbands-on-education-gains.html
Alexandra Macqueen says she wants
family happiness and not a “feminist dream” as she pursues a
full-time career while her husband works from home and makes
their daughters’ lunches.  Though she doesn’t like to advertise it to family and
friends, the projects director at BlueRush Media Group Corp. in
Toronto also makes more money than her husband, who works at
another media company.  “I never set out to be either an executive or to out-earn
my husband; it is how things turned out for us,” says Macqueen,
43. “The whole idea of fluid gender roles is super exciting and
liberating.”  Canadian women in growing numbers are making more money
than their husbands, after three decades of gains in post-
secondary education and professional jobs. About 31 percent of
wives made more than their husbands in 2009, up from 12 percent
in 1976, according to the most recent data from  Statistics
Canada .  The shift from a few generations ago, when most women quit
work as they married, is sparking other changes from who does
the dishes to how companies market products to richer women.  Macqueen’s husband Warren Huska, 48, said he enjoys the
chance to be more involved in raising their six- and nine-year
old daughters in Canada’s biggest city. The increased acceptance
of self-employment and consulting contracts has also helped with
juggling career and family, he said.  “Anyone it works out better for, they should go for it,”
he says about flipping traditional roles, before he ended the
telephone interview to make his daughter’s lunch. On his wife’s
career he says: “Who am I to do anything but applaud that?”  Demands in Education  Women in  Canada  have advanced in prestigious jobs that
demand the most education. In 2009, women accounted for 55
percent of medical professionals such as doctors and dentists,
 according  to Statistics Canada.  “The representation of women now, which is so strong in
medical schools, is really the manifestation of a lot of
investment in the potential of women,” said Ashley Miller, a
medical student at the University of Ottawa.  Miller, 24, vice president of advocacy at the Canadian
Federation of Medical Students, was in Ottawa  lobbying  the
federal government to ensure a diverse pool of medical students.
“Long term, we would want to look at solutions to encourage men
to apply to medical school,” she said.  The U.S. has also seen a rise in women taking higher-paying
jobs. The share of American working women with a college degree
tripled by 2009 from 1970, and women accounted for 51 percent of
U.S. management and professional occupations in 2009,  according
to  the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  ‘Right Balance’  The U.S. is also one of three nations of 181 studied by
 Harvard University  and  McGill University  in Montreal that don’t
guarantee working mothers leave with compensation.  Canada has found “the right balance” between the U.S.
system and expensive European family benefits, said Tracy
Redies, president of Coast Capital Savings, the country’s
second-largest credit union and the  company  with the highest
percentage of female executives, based on a  survey  by Catalyst
Canada. Redies has four children and also worked for two decades
at HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank.  “To know you can come back to a job and not necessarily
have to give up your tenure or position has to be extremely
important for the psyche of the parents,” Redies said from
 Vancouver .  In 2001, Canada increased parental benefits to 35 weeks
from 10 weeks, and five years later the share of fathers taking
time off had risen to 20 percent from 3 percent, Statistics
Canada said in a 2008 paper. In couples where the mother earned
the same or more than the father, the father was 2-1/2 times
more likely to file for benefits.  Closer to Customers  Redies said her company’s inclusion of women is a business
advantage because it helps create new ideas and brings the
company closer to its customers.  Women in Canada and the U.S. controlled 33 percent of  North
America ’s wealth in 2009, the highest share in the world,
according to a July 2010  report  by The  Boston Consulting Group .
The worldwide average was 27 percent and the lowest share was 11
percent in  Africa .  Companies can make money by taking advantage of the growing
financial power of women. Investors should consider buying
retail stocks including  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU)  and  Tiffany &
Co. (TIF)  to profit from the trend, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said
in January.  Not Super Rich  Households where women earn more than their male partners
may have less to spend on luxuries because of gender inequality
in wages. Canadian women earned an average C$721 ($749) a week
in June, or 76 percent of the C$946 made by men, according to
Statistics Canada.  “The bulk of them are going to be lower middle class
families, not the super rich,” said Alison Konrad, professor of
organizational behavior at the  University of Western Ontario ,
and an author of more than 50 articles on gender and diversity.  The additional earnings power hasn’t necessarily freed
women of household chores. Women spent an average of four hours
and 38 minutes a day on unpaid work last year, about the same as
in 1998, Statistics Canada  said  July 12. For men, the time
devoted to unpaid tasks rose 15 minutes over that period,
leaving them 73 minutes short of the female average.  “We still see a gender factor whereby men are reluctant to
take on a major proportion of responsibility for the home and
children, even when their wives earn substantially more than
they do,” Konrad said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 