-- 
Morrison Plans Own-Brand Makeover Amid Supermarket Discounts

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-07-14T23:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/morrison-plans-own-brand-makeover-amid-supermarket-discounts.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc
plans the first makeover of its own-brand range in four years as
it joins rival U.K. food retailers in adding private label items
to boost profitability amid slowing sales growth.  The 8,000 items will be given a new look that differs from
the three-tier system of good, better and best-priced items
typically used by British grocers for their own-label products,
Commercial Director Richard Hodgson said in an interview. They
will start appearing in Morrison stores at the end of September.  Supermarkets are placing greater emphasis on own labels,
which are more profitable than branded items, as weak  consumer
spending  restricts sales growth. Their plans are being hastened
as record levels of promotions draw customers toward branded
goods and budget chains grab a larger share of the market.  “Retailers are doing a lot more on own-label, it’s an
important part of their mix, especially as competition
increases,” said Rod Street, an analyst at consulting firm
SymphonyIRI Group. “In an awful lot of categories, own-label
has been pushed back simply because the acceleration of
promotions means national brands are much cheaper.”  Bradford, England-based Morrison, which has 455 stores,
last overhauled its own-brand range in 2007, when it replaced
its black and yellow logo with yellow and green branding.  The revamped offering will be “different to anything
you’ve ever seen in the U.K.,” Hodgson said, without being more
specific. Morrison’s three-tiered own-brand offer is similar to
that of larger competitors  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda unit, comprising the highest-priced the
Best line, the mid-market Morrison range and a value label.  ‘Oversimplified’  “We think it’s oversimplified and there’s a better way to
present to customers” by developing “a family of brands,”
Hodgson said.  Own-brands account for 45 percent of sales at Morrison,
which hired Belinda Youngs, the former chief marketing officer
at Sobeys Inc. in  Canada , as director for that part of its
business in January. The grocer sees an opportunity to widen
profit margins by expanding that proportion, Hodgson said. He
wouldn’t comment on how much it plans to spend on the rollout.  Morrison isn’t alone in seeking to improve its own-label
ranges. Sainsbury is about a third of the way a program to re-
launch its 6,500-product mid-tier “By Sainsbury’s” line.  Selling Prices  Mike Coupe, Sainsbury’s group commercial director, says
investing in the London-based company’s house brand helps it
differentiate from rivals. Previous investment in its lowest-
priced value line helped Sainsbury leapfrog Asda to become the
second-largest value range, behind Tesco.  About 25 percent of products are new each year, Coupe said,
so “customers don’t get bored and go elsewhere.” Average
selling prices on branded items are moving “a lot closer” to
own-brand items as suppliers reinvest in promotions, Coupe said.  About 39 percent of branded goods in U.K. supermarkets are
being sold on promotion, according to Nielsen Research.  Improving their own labels is also aimed at helping the
supermarkets contend with the growth of discount chains such as
Aldi and Lidl, which both posted sales growth around 18 percent
in the three months through June 15, according to estimates from
market researcher  Kantar Worldpanel . That compares with
Morrison’s 5.6 percent and Tesco’s 4.9 percent growth.  Waitrose Essentials  Waitrose, whose Essentials range helped get shoppers using
the chain for a full weekly shop when it was introduced in 2009,
is also investing in own-label. The unit of employee-owned John
Lewis Partnership Plc is adding 3,500 new lines this year, a 70
percent increase on last year.  The grocer is also embarking on a re-launch of its largest
7,000 mid-tier range under the Waitrose label, according to
Rupert Thomas, the company’s marketing director. An initial
rollout in meat and some fruit and vegetables is showing “some
good success,” he said, without being more specific.  “We’re very focused on being differentiated and own-brand
clearly allows you to do that,” Thomas said. “And it can be
more profitable in some categories.”  Waitrose has 600 top-tier lines including the Duchy range
founded by Prince Charles, 1,400 lower-priced “Essential”
products and the 7,000 mid-tier items. About 54 percent of
Waitrose’s revenue comes from own-label, while the
“Essentials” range accounts for 18 percent of sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Jarvis at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net  