-- 
Emerging Stocks Retreat on Dimmer Stimulus Outlook, U.S. Rating Concern

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T21:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/most-emerging-market-stocks-fall-rand-weakens-amid-u-s-rating-concern.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell
after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he
won’t immediately act to stimulate the largest economy in the
world.  More than 450 stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated while 311 advanced as of 4:30 p.m. in  New York . The
21-country gauge fell 0.2 percent to 1,135.42.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
index fell for the seventh time in eight days on speculation the
global recovery may falter and the country will raise  interest
rates .  Bernanke’s remarks damped investor speculation that the Fed
may launch a third round of quantitative easing, nicknamed
“QE3” by investors, and snuffed out an early rally in stocks.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may cut the
U.S. government’s Aaa rating after negotiations to increase the
debt limit stalled in Congress. Italy sold five-year bonds at
the highest yield in three years today, a sign investors are
concerned the sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  may spread to
larger economies.  “U.S. borrowing costs could go up from a credit-rating
downgrade, slowing corporate expansion and  consumer spending ,”
said Mike Raz, who helps manage about $1.5 billion at Manila-
based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. “Weak U.S. demand will
soften the recovery and hurt exporters in emerging markets.”  Falling Valuations  The MSCI emerging-market index has retreated 1.4 percent
this year through yesterday, led by losses by industrial
exporters such as Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-
largest steelmaker, and technology companies, including Taiwan’s
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. and  India ’s Infosys Ltd., that
sell products to customers in developed countries.  Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the Americas,
declined 1.5 percent following Bernanke’s comments. The  United
States  accounted for 18 percent of Cemex’s sales in 2010.  The MSCI index is valued at 10.9 times analysts’ 12-month
profit estimates, down from 11.6 times at the beginning of the
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Technology companies led today’s retreat, with Hon Hai, the
world’s largest contract maker of electronics, falling 1.5
percent and Infosys, India’s second-largest software producer,
retreating 1.3 percent.  Rossi Residencial SA, Brazil’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by
revenue, fell 5 percent, the most on the Bovespa index, as
traders boosted bets for higher Brazilian borrowing costs.\  Indian Inflation  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 0.1
percent after the government said the inflation rate was 9.44
percent in June. The figure was lower than economists estimated
and boosted investor confidence after bomb blasts last night
killed at least 17 people in India’s financial hub. The Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 0.5 percent to the highest level in a
week, while Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped less than one percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.07 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX
CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps for emerging Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa rose 0.95 basis point to 209.95,
according to data provider CMA in  London .  At least 150 gas stations in Gauteng, South Africa’s most
populous province, ran out of fuel today as a strike by
unionized workers entered its fourth day, the Fuel Retailers
Association said. Steel and engineering workers downed tools 11
days ago, sparking concern loss of output will stall the
nation’s economic recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  