-- 
Total, Arkema Lose EU Appeals of 78.6 Million-Euro Cartel Fine

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-07-14T09:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/total-arkema-lose-eu-appeals-of-78-6-million-euro-cartel-fine.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s largest refiner,
and its former subsidiary  Arkema SA (AKE)  lost European Union court
appeals against a 78.6 million-euro ($112 million) fine levied
for unlawful price-fixing of bleaching chemicals.  The  EU General Court , the region’s second-highest tribunal,
rejected all arguments by the companies and upheld the fines in
a ruling in Luxembourg today.  Total’s arguments “were manifestly not capable of
constituting a sufficient body of evidence to rebut the
presumption of imputability to the parent company,” the court
said.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
 fined  seven companies 388.1 million euros in 2006 for fixing
prices of hydrogen peroxide and sodium perborates, used by the
pulp and paper industry and to make antiseptic and hair-care
products.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  and  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  previously paid $72.8
million to settle U.S. criminal charges in a similar cartel.  Sandra Dante, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Total, declined
to immediately comment. Spokespeople for Colombes, France-based
Arkema didn’t immediately answer to a call seeking comment.
Today is a public holiday in  France .  Overturned Fines  The General Court last month overturned a 58.1 million-euro
penalty that had been imposed on  Edison SpA (EDN)  in the same cartel.
The court also overturned the EU decision holding  Air Liquide
SA (AI) , the world’s biggest producer of industrial gases,
responsible for price-fixing. Air Liquide hadn’t been fined
because it left the market early and the EU’s deadline to levy a
fine had run out.  The court last month also slashed Solvay’s fine for its
role in the price-fixing to 139.5 million euros, from 167
million euros.  FMC Corp. (FMC)  lost an appeal against its 25 million-
euro penalty.  The cartel lasted from 1994 until 2000, according to the EU
regulator. The penalties followed a 3 1/2 year probe against 18
companies.  The cases are: T-189/06, Arkema France v. European
Commission; T-190/06, Total and Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  