-- 
Palin’s Political Action Committee Has $1.4 Million in Bank

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-14T23:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/palin-s-political-action-committee-has-1-4-million-in-account.html
Sarah Palin’s political action
committee has $1.4 million in the bank, according to a Federal
Election Commission  filing , as the former Alaska governor
continues to contemplate a possible Republican presidential bid.  Palin’s  SarahPAC  raised about $1.7 million during the first
six months of the year, while spending about $1.6 million,
today’s report shows.  The 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate said this
week she will announce her 2012 intentions in August or
September.  Should she run for president, Palin can’t use the PAC money
to directly fund her campaign, though the funds can be donated
to others running for office and pay for travel by her on behalf
of candidates.  The filing shows the PAC paid a  Tennessee  company $13,708
for “bus wrap” decor as part of her “One Nation” bus tour
through the Northeast in late May and early June. The PAC also
spent thousands of dollars for hotels, flights, meals and rental
cars around the time of the tour. A $2,509 bill at the  Key
Bridge Marriott  in Arlington, Virginia, was one of the larger
hotel tabs.  Israel  Trip  About $5,000 was spent by the PAC for security, cars and
drivers for Palin’s trip to Israel in March.  The PAC contributed $65,000 to mostly congressional
candidates in Alabama, Colorado,  Florida , Indiana, Mississippi,
Missouri,  New York ,  North Carolina , Pennsylvania, Tennessee,
 Texas  and Wisconsin.  Much of the PAC’s spending was for media and political
expenses, as well as for speechwriting services, air charters,
postage and fundraising expenses.  In an interview on  Fox News  yesterday, Palin said she’s
thinking about seeking the presidency “in the name of service”
and that she believes she could win the office.  “I’m not so egotistical as to believe that it can only be
me to turn this country around,” she said. “If there are those
who are out there willing to serve, with good executive
experience, who have that servant’s heart and -- and know not to
be so excessively partisan that they can’t just do what’s right
for the people who have elected them -- then I would certainly
find that person and support them and do all that I could to
make sure that they defeat  Barack Obama  in 2012.”  Palin, 47, traveled to Iowa late last month to attend the
premiere of “The Undefeated,” a documentary about her
political career. The first contest in the Republican nomination
race is the Iowa caucuses, scheduled for Feb. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  