-- 
Pastor, Catalunya Say They Pass Stress Test With Provisions

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-14T16:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/pastor-catalunya-say-they-pass-stress-test-with-provisions-1-.html
Banco Pastor SA (PAS) , a Spanish
commercial bank, and CatalunyaCaixa, a grouping of savings
banks, said they would pass European stress tests when
calculations of their capital include a provisioning buffer.  Pastor “will pass the stress tests in any macro-economic
scenario and with no kind of additional measure” if its
provisions and bonds that automatically convert into stock are
taken into account, the La Coruna, Spain-based lender said in a
filing to regulators today. CatalunyaCaixa said in a filing it
would pass if its extra reserves and funds from the sale of a
stake in oil company Repsol YPF SA are included.  Spanish lenders make up more than a quarter of the banks
submitting to stress tests by the European Banking Association,
which has not allowed them to include capital instruments such
as provisions and some convertible bonds in its main results
category. The  Bank of Spain  makes lenders set aside so-called
“generic” reserves when they make loans to provide an
additional buffer against loan losses.  “I do have some sympathy for the Spanish banks,” said
 Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF Global Ltd.
in  London . “But provisions are provisions, they’re there for a
purpose and some of these banks are going to end up using every
last drop.”  Pastor rose 1 cent, or 0.3 percent, to 2.93 euros in Madrid
trading, valuing the bank at 799 million euros ($1.13 billion).  EBA’s attempt to produce a single  stress-test  format for
 Europe  has caused tension with lenders.  Germany ’s Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen refused to give permission for the publication
of all its data because it disputes EBA’s measurements of core
Tier 1 capital.  While Spanish lenders say “generic” provisions should be
counted as capital, some banks are using up the buffer quickly
to cover losses. Banco Espanol de Credito SA, a unit of Banco
Santander SA, said July 12 it had run its buffer down to 82
million euros from 411 million euros a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  