-- 
Paul Allen’s Lawsuit Against Apple, Google to Remain on Hold

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-14T14:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/paul-allen-s-lawsuit-against-apple-google-to-remain-on-hold.html
Paul G. Allen’s claims that 11
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  infringed his
business’s online-shopping technology will remain on hold while
the U.S. government reviews the quality of the patents, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman in Seattle said she
won’t reconsider staying the lawsuit filed by Allen’s patent-
licensing company. Interval Licensing LLC, she said July 12,
“has failed to show any manifest error in the order granting
the stay or any new facts that could not have been brought to
the court’s attention earlier that compel the court to
reconsider its order.”  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, at the request of the
companies sued by Interval, is evaluating whether the four
patents cover novel inventions. The patents, which mainly cover
common electronic-commerce applications for displaying and
categorizing product information, were obtained from a defunct
computer-science and communications research business  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Allen, 58, and David Liddle formed in 1992.  The other defendants are  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Facebook Inc.,  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) , AOL Inc.,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ,  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
Yahoo! Inc. and Google’s YouTube business. Seattle-based
Interval is seeking unspecified cash compensation and a court
order to block further use of the inventions.  In granting the request to maintain the stay, Pechman said
that since Interval doesn’t compete with the companies, it won’t
lose any market share from the delay. The patent office review
could alter the scope of the patents, which would affect how the
case proceeds, she said.  The lead case is Interval Licensing LLC v.  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,
10cv1385, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  