-- 
Pentagon Lost 24,000 Computer Files in March Cyber Attack

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-14T18:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/pentagon-lost-24-000-computer-files-in-march-cyber-attack.html
Foreign hackers stole 24,000 U.S.
military files in a single attack on a defense contractor in
March in one of the Pentagon’s worst cyber attacks, Deputy
Defense Secretary William Lynn disclosed today.  Cyber attacks over the last few years have compromised
“our most sensitive systems, including aircraft avionics,
surveillance technologies, satellite communications systems and
network security protocols,” Lynn said in a speech at National
Defense University in  Washington , where he released the
Pentagon’s new strategy on cyber security.  While he didn’t identify the contractor hit by the March
attack, he said terabytes of data have been extracted from
defense companies over the past decade.  “The cyber exploitation being perpetrated against the
defense industry cuts across a wide swath of crucial military
hardware,” including missile tracking systems, satellite
navigation devices and the Joint Strike Fighter jet, Lynn said.  “Current countermeasures have not stopped this outflow of
sensitive information,” he said. “We need to do more to guard
our digital storehouses of design innovation.”  To combat future attacks, the Defense Department and the
Department of  Homeland Security  have begun a pilot program with
a “handful” of defense companies to provide more “robust”
protection of their  computer networks , Lynn said. Classified
threat intelligence is shared with defense contractors or their
commercial  Internet service providers , he said.  “By furnishing this threat intelligence, we are able to
help strengthen these companies’ existing cyber defenses,” Lynn
said.  Lynn didn’t name the country suspected to have been the
origin of the March attack. Officials in the past have often
blamed  China . Lynn didn’t say whether the March attack was
sponsored by a foreign government or the work of criminal
hackers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 