-- 
Petrobras Says Brazil Oil Reserves Similar Size to North Sea

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-14T17:38:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/petrobras-says-brazil-oil-reserves-are-similar-size-to-north-sea.html
Brazil ’s oil reserves, including
recent discoveries in deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean, are of
a similar size to those found in the  North Sea , said an
exploration official at  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   The U.K. and  Norway  held about 62 billion barrels of
reserves in the North Sea before the deposits were developed,
Francisco Nepomuceno Filho, Petrobras’s  London  head of
exploration and production, said in an interview in London
today.  “Brazil as a whole could have a potential of the same size
of the North Sea, including Norway and the U.K.,” Nepomuceno
said. “Those two countries grew a lot and had huge
development.”  Brazilian reserves that sit miles below the floor of the
Atlantic Ocean trapped under layers of rock and salt hold an
estimated 50 billion barrels of oil, according to the country’s
oil regulator. Lula, the largest discovery in the Americas in
over three decades, had the country’s most productive well in
May, yielding 36,322 barrels a day of oil and natural gas.  Petrobras, based in  Rio de Janeiro , is also preparing to
test a recent discovery well in the offshore Sergipe Basin in
northeastern Brazil, an area that may be a “new oil province,”
Nepomuceno said. Petrobras will reach its target of 2.1 million
barrels a day of average oil production in Brazil for this year,
he said.  Investment Plan  The North Sea reached peak production of 6 million barrels
a day in 1999, Nepomuceno said. Petrobras plans to triple
production to 6 million barrels a day by 2020, including output
from deep-water reserves where Petrobras bought production
rights from the government last year.  Petrobras is revising its $224 billion, five-year
investment plan and the company’s board may approve it on July
22, Nepomuceno said, without providing details of the plan.  Rising output rates in the pre-salt area are reducing costs
because the company can supply each production platform with
fewer wells, Nepomuceno said. Each pre-salt well costs about
$100 million dollars to drill in Brazil. Improved productivity
will help compensate for the larger exploration area Petrobras
needs to tackle under its new plan, he said.  “It’s possible for investments to remain similar,” he
said.  Cost Cuts  Petrobras’s government-controlled board has rejected two
proposals for the 2011-2015 business plan. Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega , who represents the government on the board, said
June 20 that Petrobras needed to “cut costs” from the proposed
plan.  It will be “extremely difficult” for Petrobras to raise
the funds to meet its investment goals, Simon Nocera, co-founder
of San Francisco-based hedge fund Lumen Advisors LLC and a
former economist at the  International Monetary Fund , said at the
Bloomberg Brazil Conference today in  New York .  Petrobras is seeking to borrow about $47 billion by 2014 to
finance investments and refinance existing debt, Chief Financial
Officer Almir Barbassa said June 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio De Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  