-- 
Philadelphia 76ers Owner Reaches Agreement to Sell Team to Apollo’s Harris

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/philadelphia-76ers-owner-reaches-agreement-to-sell-team-to-apollo-s-harris.html
The owner of the Philadelphia 76ers
agreed to sell the National Basketball Association team to a
group led by Joshua Harris, the co-founder of Apollo Global
Management LLC.  Comcast-Spectacor, the unit of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  that owns the
team, didn’t disclose financial terms in an e-mailed statement
last night. Harris will pay about $280 million, a person
familiar with the transaction said July 7.  “As a basketball fan who attended college in Philadelphia,
and with family roots here, I have always felt a strong
connection to this city and the 76ers,” Harris said in the
statement. “We look forward to helping the 76ers organization
build on this past season’s accomplishments.”  Harris  co-founded  Apollo Management in 1990 and holds a
bachelor’s degree from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School of Business and a master’s degree from the Harvard
Business School.  Shares in Apollo have dropped 14 percent to $16.39 since
they were offered to investors at $19 each in March, valuing
 Leon Black ’s private-equity firm at $5.93 billion.  Comcast-Spectacor said a month ago that it was exploring a
sale. The agreement doesn’t include the Wells Fargo Center or
the National Hockey League’s Philadelphia Flyers, which Comcast-
Spectacor will retain.  The 76ers “will remain a long-term tenant of the Wells
Fargo Center and will have a long-term cable broadcast agreement
for its games with Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia,” the
seller’s statement said.  Comcast is the biggest U.S. cable television operator and
bought a controlling interest in NBC Universal from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in January.  Blackstone’s Blitzer  The new ownership also includes  David Blitzer , who moved to
London from  New York  in 2002 to create the European office of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest private-equity firm.  The purchase is a personal investment by the buyers, who
also include Art Wrubel and Jason Levien. Apollo and Blackstone
aren’t involved in the transaction.  The sale, which is subject to approval by the NBA’s board
of governors, is expected to be completed later this year,
Comcast-Spectacor said.  The 76ers finished 41-41 last season, seventh in the
Eastern Conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  