-- 
Philippine Peso Strengthens Most in Three Weeks on Fed Outlook

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-14T02:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/philippine-peso-strengthens-most-in-three-weeks-on-fed-outlook.html
The Philippine peso rose by the most
in three weeks after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the U.S. central bank is prepared to buy more  government
bonds , fanning concern the supply of dollars will increase.  The Southeast Asian currency advanced for a second day as
Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said it may get
a boost from a possible downgrade in the U.S. government’s debt
rating. Moody’s Investors Service put the rating on review for
possible downgrade for the first time since 1995 yesterday. The
Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against those of six
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent today after a 1.2 percent
decline yesterday.  Another phase of “quantitative easing is dollar
negative,” said Rafael Algarra, a treasurer at Security Bank
Corp. in  Manila . “The market will be flooded with a lot of more
dollars. That means most, if not all currencies, will strengthen
against the dollar.”  The peso climbed 0.4 percent to 42.87 per dollar as of
10:18 a.m. in Manila, following a 0.4 percent increase yesterday,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The peso is unlikely to rise
beyond 42.72 this week, Algarra said.  “For the peso and other emerging-market currencies, we
could be impacted by possible shift to our markets as emerging
markets are seen to continue to be the global growth drivers,”
Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message today.  Philippine five-year bonds were unchanged. The yield on the
7 percent securities due January 2016 held at 4.90 percent, the
highest level in two weeks, according to Tradition Financial
Services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 