-- 
Pickens Water-to-Riches Dream Unravels as 11 Texas Cities Scoop Up Rights

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/pickens-water-to-riches-dream-unravels-as-11-texas-cities-scoop-up-rights.html
Amarillo, Lubbock and nine other
West  Texas  cities coping with the worst  drought  in more than 50
years solved some of their water problems by waiting outT. Boone Pickens, the billionaire Dallas oilman.  The Canadian River Municipal Water Authority, supplying the
11 cities with a combined population of about 500,000, will
issue bonds to buy Pickens’s water rights on 211,000 acres,
General Manager Kent Satterwhite said. Most of the rights are in
Roberts County, which has more groundwater than any Texas
county, according to Amarillo Utilities Director Emmett Autrey.  Pickens, 83, started buying water rights northeast of
Lubbock and Amarillo more than 10 years ago. By 2002, the
investor was predicting that he could start selling water in
three years to the Dallas-Fort Worth area, Satterwhite said.
Pickens sought to build a $3 billion pipeline to the fourth-
largest U.S. metropolitan area by population, 350 miles (560
kilometers) away, yet couldn’t make a deal.  “I wasn’t getting any serious negotiations with Dallas-
Fort Worth,” Pickens said July 12 in an interview in  New York .
“I thought, if we’re going to sell it and they want it locally,
we’ll sell it to them.”  The Canadian River authority, based northeast of Amarillo
in Sanford, will sell bonds in the next 60 days to pay for its
$103 million water purchase. Pickens sold the rights held by
Mesa Water Inc. for about $500 an acre, about half his initial
asking price, said Marsha Reed, Lubbock’s chief operating
officer and one of the deal negotiators.  “We didn’t pay more than we wanted to,” Reed said.  Profit Margin  Pickens paid $300 to $350 an acre for the water rights and
spent additional money on engineers and lawyers, Amarillo’s
Autrey said by telephone July 8.  “It wasn’t a highly profitable deal for Mesa,”
Satterwhite said.  Pickens declined to comment on the details of the
transaction, or on what he paid for the rights.  “We made some money out of it,” he said.  Mesa Water will close after the sale, said Bobby Stillwell,
a principal at Pickens’s BP Capital LLC in  Dallas . He declined
to provide details.  “Boone’s timing was always a little bit off,” said
Satterwhite, who met several times with Pickens over 18 months
to negotiate the water sale. Piping water to Dallas “never made
sense, but if anybody could have done it, it would have been
Boone, because he has so much political influence,” he said.  Bond Sale Planned  The sale benefits both sides and reflects Pickens’s concern
that the panhandle region’s water supply is dwindling, said Jay Rosser, a spokesman for BP Capital. Pickens owns a 70,000-acre
ranch in Roberts County that he started assembling in 1971,
Stillwell said.  The county, with about one person for each of its 924
square miles (1,487 square kilometers), sits atop part of the
Ogallala Aquifer, an underground river that flows across 174,000
square miles from  South Dakota  into  Wyoming , Nebraska,  Colorado ,
 Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  New Mexico , as well as Texas.  Local surface-water sources have been depleted by drought.
The Mesa purchase will give cities in the panhandle region,
dotted with cattle ranches and cotton farms, including Lubbock,
home to Texas Tech University, a dependable water source for at
least 50 years, Satterwhite said.  “This gives Amarillo and Lubbock the opportunity to thrive
in an area where we don’t get much rain,” Reed said.  Boosting Rates  To pay for the Mesa purchase, water bills in authority
cities including Amarillo will rise 8 percent to 12 percent next
year, Satterwhite said. Lubbock alone boosted its  base rate  30
percent to $24 a month this fiscal year to help finance a $250
million, 60-mile pipeline project slated for completion next
year, Reed said. Another increase of 10 percent or more in the
city is likely because of the Pickens transaction, she said.  Separately, the authority bought water rights on 266,000
acres in Roberts County from 160 owners over the past decade,
driven by concern that its main water source, Lake Meredith, on
the Canadian River in neighboring Hutchinson County, was drying
up because of a lack of rain, Satterwhite said. Amarillo is
building an $85 million well and pipeline 20 years ahead of
schedule because of the lake’s decline, Autrey said.  The lake’s level has fallen as rainfall in Roberts County,
at about 1.25 inches (3.2 centimeters) this year, is on a pace
to be down about 75 percent from a typical year’s 10 inches,
Cook said. Lake Meredith has an average depth of about 34 feet,
the lowest level since it was created in 1967, Satterwhite said.  ‘Exceptional’ Drought  “People around here say it hasn’t been this bad since
1956,” said Judge Vernon Cook of Roberts County. “I remember
those days because the wind erosion was so bad they’d have to
shut down school in the middle of the day.”  The panhandle is in an “exceptional” dry period,
according to the U.S. Drought Monitor at the University of
 Nebraska  in Lincoln. Amarillo has had about 1.6 inches of rain
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Because he didn’t sell his land, Pickens will still reap
the benefits of ranching, hunting and whatever minerals lie
underground, said Ken Rainwater, director of Texas Tech’s Water
Resources Institute.  “Pickens was trying to sell water to big cities that could
pay more, but the distances were too long and other supplies
were available, so those customers never showed up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  