-- 
Asia Pizza Demand Boosts U.S. Cheese Exports, Kraft’s Costs

-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-07-15T18:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/pizza-demand-in-asia-boosts-u-s-cheese-exports-kraft-s-costs.html
Asia ’s growing appetite for pizza
and cheeseburgers means the U.S. is exporting the most cheese
ever, boosting commodity costs for companies including  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)   Wholesale cheddar-cheese prices have rallied 53 percent
this year as the U.S. shipped more than twice as much to Asia in
the first four months of 2011 as a year earlier, U.S. Dairy
Export Council data show.  South Korea , the region’s biggest
buyer, almost tripled imports while China’s more than doubled.  The cheese boom pushed milk futures to a four-year high
this week and is increasing costs for Kraft, the world’s second-
largest food company, and Costco Wholesale Corp., the largest
U.S. warehouse-club chain. Surging global demand for food will
boost U.S. farm exports to a record $137 billion in the year
ending on Sept. 30, the government said in May.  “Asians traditionally have not been big cheese consumers,
but that’s changing,” Jon Spainhour, a broker and partner at
Rice Dairy LLC, said by telephone from Chicago. McDonald’s
Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain, plans to add 200
outlets in  China  next year, a 16 percent increase from 1,287 at
the end of 2010. “That’s a lot of cheeseburgers,” Spainhour
said.  In the four months ended April 30, cheese shipments from
the U.S. increased 68 percent from a year earlier, and exports
in 2010 were a  record  173,531 tons, according to the export
council. This year, the total may be higher, said Jim Tillison,
the chief operating officer of Cooperative Working Together, a
group which includes dairy farmers that produce almost 70
percent of U.S. milk.  Retail Cheese  Cheddar cheese at American supermarkets climbed to $5.443 a
pound in June, the highest since at least 1984, data from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture show. Futures linked to class III
milk, used to make cheese, reached $21.19 per 100 pounds today
on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange, the highest since July 2007.  Inputs that influence Kraft’s cheese are “mostly milk,”
spokesman John Simley said in a telephone interview from
Northfield.  ‘Cheese Revenue’  Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft Foods, the top U.S. seller
of branded cheese, has passed some of its increased dairy costs
to consumers. The majority of the company’s first-quarter growth
in cheese revenue came from higher prices, Simley said.  In May, Kraft lowered its full-year earnings forecast
because of the loss of the Starbucks Corp. distribution business
and cited escalating raw-material costs in its outlook. Food and
beverage makers that also include Sara Lee Corp. and Kellogg Co.
have raised prices to cope with higher costs for raw materials
such as dairy products, meat, grain and coffee.  Commodity costs created “headwinds,” Kraft Chief
Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld said on a conference call with
investors on May 5.  At Issaquah, Washington-based Costco, higher cheese prices
have meant smaller profit margins for grocery products including
pizza.  “We’re not going to change the price of pizza every day,
even though cheese prices skyrocketed,” Chief Financial Officer
Richard A. Galanti said on a May 25 during a conference call.  Global food costs have doubled in the past six years,
climbing to a record in February, a United Nations index showed.
High grocery prices and corruption have spurred unrest in
northern  Africa  and the  Middle East  this year, ousting leaders
in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Australia  Production  Rising dairy production from competing exporters including
Australia and  New Zealand  may reduce demand for U.S. supplies,
said Steven Schalla, a dairy market advisor at Stewart-Peterson
Inc. Wholesale cheddar may drop to $1.80 and milk futures may
slide to as low as $18, he said by telephone from West Bend,
 Wisconsin .  The export market for U.S. dairy products is growing eight
times faster than domestic demand,  according  to the National
Milk Producers Federation. The U.S. is the world’s fourth-
biggest cheese shipper, behind the European Union, New Zealand
and Australia.  “ Pizza Hut  casual dining in China is absolutely on fire,”
Yum! Brands Inc. Chief Executive Officer David Novak said on a
conference call with investors this week. Same-stores sales in
the country jumped 22 percent in the second quarter, he said.  Papa John’s  Papa John’s International Inc., which has 160 restaurants
in China, exports U.S. cheese to its stores “for quality
control,” spokesman Chris Sternberg said by telephone from
Louisville,  Kentucky .  In China and  India , the world’s most-populous countries,
“there are just a lot of people, particularly people ascending
to the middle class,” Chris Galen, the senior vice president of
communications for CWT, the milk-industry trade group, said by
telephone from Arlington, Virginia. “What we’ve see time and
again is people spending on more of a Western-style diet.”  U.S. shippers may have an advantage over competitors
because of the cheese-futures market in Chicago, which offer
buyers added pricing transparency, Spainhour of Rice Dairy said.
Wholesale cheddar will remain at about $2 a pound this year, he
said. Last year, the price averaged about $1.50.  “Our exporters can offer a fixed price on cheese 24 months
into the future,” Spainhour said. “That’s something no one
else can do.”  U.S. cheese exports may be at least 10 percent higher than
last year’s record, said Jerry Dryer, the Delary Beach, Florida-
based publisher of the Dairy & Food Market Analyst newsletter.  “There is very strong international demand,” Dryer said.
“Personal disposable income is ratcheting up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  