-- 
Polysilicon Maker OCI Falls to a Four-Month Low After Profit Decline

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-07-14T02:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/polysilicon-maker-oci-falls-to-a-four-month-low-after-profit-decline.html
OCI Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest
polysilicon maker, fell to a four-month low in Seoul trading
after reporting a quarterly profit decline.  The shares of OCI, which makes the material used in solar
cells, dropped 5.2 percent to 390,500 won as of 10:36 a.m. on
the Korea Exchange, set for the lowest close since March 3. The
stock is the worst performer on the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index.  Second-quarter net income fell to 275.6 billion won ($261
million) from 330.9 billion won in the previous three months,
the company said in a filing yesterday after the market close.
Polysilicon prices on the  spot market  declined 32 percent in the
second quarter, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimated.  “Although we expect polysilicon price to stabilize in the
third quarter, it will take time for solar downstream players to
digest inventory and raise polysilicon prices,” Macquarie Group
Ltd. analysts Benjamin Ban and Justin Bae wrote in a report
today. “In the second half, we believe OCI has limited upside
in earnings and we should wait another period of weak seasonal
demand in the first half of 2012.”  Macquarie cut its stock rating on OCI to “neutral” from
“outperform.” NH Investment & Securities Co., Hyundai
Securities Co. and Shinyoung Securities Co. also lowered their
share-price estimates.  Asia’s largest makers of silicon for solar panels are
almost doubling their output capacity this year just as surplus
production sends prices tumbling for the main raw material for
the $35 billion industry. Global demand for polysilicon is
growing at less than a third of that rate, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance estimated.  OCI shares fell 18 percent in the second quarter, compared
with the 0.3 percent drop in the benchmark  Kospi Index. (KOSPI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 