-- 
Private-Equity Groups Said to Vie for Anglo Irish Loans

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-07-14T16:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/private-equity-groups-said-to-vie-for-anglo-irish-u-s-real-estate-loans.html
Four private-equity firms are
leading investor groups seeking to buy  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp.’s
$9.65 billion of U.S. property loans, according to two people
with knowledge of the sale process.  Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC is teaming with  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , Paulson & Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to
make a bid, while  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is working with  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , said the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is private. TPG Capital is pairing with LoanCore Capital
LLC, while KKR & Co. is with Westbrook Partners LLC, the people
said. The groups may ultimately opt not to submit offers and
coalitions may change before bids are due Aug. 9, they said.  The firms are weighing offers for the entire portfolio of
248 loans, tied to buildings from Manhattan to Beverly Hills,
 California , and may sell them in pieces to property owners or
other private-equity companies after the purchase, the people
said. The competition underscores the appetite for real estate
by buyout firms that are pushing deeper into acquisitions at the
expense of smaller companies seeking deals.  “These consortia may be leading this process because they
have sufficient firepower and expertise to take down the whole
portfolio,” said  Ben Thypin , director of market analysis for
Real Capital Analytics Inc. in  New York . “A winning consortium
is likely to retain some of the assets and quickly flip the rest
to smaller firms that were unable to compete in the auction.”  Sale at Discount  Anglo Irish, based in Dublin, is seeking to unload the
assets after being nationalized two years ago. Bids are likely
to value the loans at a discount to face value, the people with
knowledge of the process said.  Representatives of Centerbridge, Blackstone, TPG and KKR
declined to comment. Officials for their partners either didn’t
comment or didn’t return messages.  A message left at Anglo Irish’s U.S. office in  Boston  after
regular business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  Eastdil Secured LLC and  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN)  are advising
Anglo Irish on the sale, the people said. The portfolio has been
divided into eight pools, with the largest consisting of $2.26
billion (1.58 billion euros) of distressed office and industrial
loans, according to an offering document from Eastdil.  Colony Considers Offer  Colony Capital LLC, the private-equity and real estate
investment firm run by Thomas Barrack, is weighing a bid for the
portion of loans that are considered sub-performing and non-
performing, according to a person familiar with the deal. That
comprises roughly half the total Anglo-Irish U.S. portfolio, or
about $5 billion worth of loans. A Colony spokesman declined to
comment.  Potential buyers may bid on the entire portfolio or on
specific pools, according to the document. Bids will not be
accepted on individual loans, which are backed by such
properties such as the Two Rodeo Drive shopping center in
 Beverly Hills  and the Apthorp apartment complex in New York,
according to the document.  “The offering presents investors with a one-of-a-kind
opportunity to access a diversified portfolio secured by a
distinct combination of quality assets,” the document said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  