-- 
Progressive Misses Estimates as Online Sales Growth Slows

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-14T20:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/progressive-profit-gains-16-to-245-million-as-investment-results-improve.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR) , the fourth-
largest U.S. auto insurer, posted profit that missed analysts’
estimates as Internet sales growth slowed.  Second-quarter operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was about 35 cents a share, missing by 5
cents the average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The Mayfield Village, Ohio-based insurer slipped 79 cents, or
3.8 percent, to $20.13 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the biggest decline since December.  Chief Executive Officer Glenn Renwick has been pushing
packages of home and auto coverage over the Internet to boost
retention and attract drivers who want to get both policies from
the same carrier. Rivals including  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  have been
investing in online sales to win customers.  Progressive targets “a segment of the market where
shoppers are very price sensitive,” said  Mark Dwelle , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , who has an “outperform” rating
on the company. “The customer you win on price, you run the
risk of losing on price. That is a continued challenge.”  Progressive and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico Corp. built
sales through the Internet as younger drivers shunned agents
while shopping for coverage. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. and Allstate, the two largest U.S. home and car
insurers, rely more on agents to sell policies and maintain
client relationships.  Premium Revenue  The number of individual car customers who used direct
channels such as the Internet and telephone to buy coverage from
Progressive expanded 7.8 percent to 3.77 million, compared with
a 15 percent gain a year earlier. Overall, premium revenue
increased 3.6 percent to $3.72 billion, the company said in a
statement today. Progressive reports results on a monthly basis
and had already disclosed data from April and May.  Renwick has said policy growth has been hurt by a “leaking
bucket.” If customers stayed, “we would be considerably bigger
than we are,” Renwick said at the company’s investor day
presentation last month.  This is the first year in which a majority of new auto
insurance buyers initiated their search online, according to a
study last month from J.D. Power & Associates. About 54 percent
of the buyers started on the Internet, compared with 44 percent
in 2007, the report showed.  Net income advanced to $245.2 million, or 38 cents a share,
from $211.9 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier, as investment
results improved, the insurer said. The company had a net
realized investment gain of $26 million in the period, compared
with a $39.5 million loss a year earlier.  Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$9.88 a share, compared with $9.64 on March 31. The insurer rose
1.3 percent this year on the New York Stock Exchange, compared
with the 5.8 percent drop in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Progressive had an underwriting profit margin of 6.6 cents
on every dollar it collected in premiums for the quarter, down
from 7.3 cents a year earlier, as an above average number of
tornadoes in the U.S. drove up claims costs for insurers. The
firm said natural disasters cost the company $125 million,
compared with about $47 million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 Bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  