-- 
Qaddafi May ‘Blow Up’ Tripoli: Russian Envoy

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-07-14T14:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/qaddafi-may-blow-up-tripoli-if-rebels-advance-izvestiya-says.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  may
“blow up” the capital Tripoli if rebels seize the city,
 Mikhail Margelov , Russia’s envoy for negotiating Qaddafi’s
departure, told the Izvestiya newspaper.  Prime Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi told Margelov the regime is
ready to implement a “suicidal plan” if insurgents overrun
Tripoli, the envoy said in an  interview  with the Moscow-based
newspaper. “Qaddafi has plenty of missiles and explosives.”
His comments were confirmed by his spokeswoman, Varvara Paal.  Margelov flew to  Libya  last month for talks with rebels
and government officials, including the prime minister, saying
Mahmudi and his Cabinet hold the “real levers of power.” He
didn’t meet with Qaddafi himself. President  Dmitry Medvedev  said
May 27 that Qaddafi had forfeited his right to govern and that
 Russia  was using its contacts with the regime to persuade him to
step down.  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  started military
strikes against government forces in late March to aid rebels
seeking to topple the regime. Qaddafi said last week his regime
won’t fall and threatened to retaliate against  Europe  for its
involvement in attempts to overthrow him.  Beyond UN Mandate  Russia, which abstained from the  United Nations  Security
Council vote in March that backed the NATO-led campaign in
Libya, has repeatedly criticized the alliance for going beyond
its UN mandate.  Qaddafi’s forces have a “more than sufficient” arsenal of
ground-to-ground rockets which they haven’t yet used, “giving
reason to doubt that the regime is running out of weapons,”
Margelov said. Even so, the military may lack ammunition for
tanks and small-arms cartridges, he said.  Turkey  is hosting a meeting of the 22-nation  Libya Contact
Group  tomorrow to discuss the future of the North African nation
without Qaddafi. The rebels have demanded that Qaddafi cede
power before they halt attacks on government troops, while the
regime has said a cease-fire must precede any political
negotiations.  “The situation can be solved without the colonel,”
Margelov said. “The pragmatic part of the regime” must be
engaged to ease a transition.  Libya’s government and rebels are considering a UN proposal
to have their representatives form a panel to manage a political
transition in the North African nation, Abdul al-Khatib, the
Jordanian senator who is trying to negotiate an end to the
hostilities, said July 11.  France  has had indirect contact with the Qaddafi regime on
negotiating a settlement. Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, has said
that the government was in talks with France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  