-- 
Qaddafi Lives Up to Wily Reputation as Allies Yet to Oust Him

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-14T12:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/qaddafi-lives-up-to-wily-reputation-as-allies-yet-to-oust-him.html
As foreign envoys converge on
Istanbul to discuss yet again how to get rid of  Muammar Qaddafi ,
the Libyan dictator is living up to his reputation for cunning
by hanging on longer than any of them had predicted.  For all the early talk of days, not weeks to the endgame,
Qaddafi has survived four months of NATO bombings and confounded
diplomats with his mixture of bluffs and threats. It’s the same
bag of tricks he has used to keep more than 100 tribes under
control since taking power in a military coup in 1969.  “The man is a fox,” said Karim Mezran, a Libyan exile and
a political science professor at Johns Hopkins University’s
School of Advanced International Studies in Bologna, Italy.
“He’s adept at running rings around his enemies. He’s done it
for decades and he’s doing it again.”  By flitting between conciliatory overtures and threats, the
Libyan ruler has kept anti-Qaddafi allies guessing whether he
will accept exile in  Libya  or abroad, or if nothing short of his
capture or assassination will end the conflict. In the latest
aggressive posturing,  Russia ’s envoy to the country,  Mikhail Margelov , told the Izvestiya newspaper that Qaddafi may “blow
up” Tripoli if rebels seize the city.  Qaddafi’s foes have underestimated his resilience and while
his eventual ouster may be inevitable, he could hang on for
months even amid fuel shortages, according to Mezran.  International Recognition  The future of the North African nation without Qaddafi and
how to fund and arm the impoverished rebels trying to end his
four-decade rule has been at the crux of the past four monthly
meetings of the 22-nation  Libya Contact Group . The Turks host
the latest round tomorrow in Istanbul.  Since the last meeting in  Abu Dhabi , Turkey has become the
26th nation to recognize the rebels’ Benghazi-based National
Transitional Council. The U.S. isn’t one of them. Legislation to
give rebels access to frozen Libyan assets is stalled in the
 U.S. Senate , adding to the prospect that the rebels will run out
of cash to buy food and supplies.  “Qaddafi is brilliant,” Jason Pack, a researcher on Libya
at St. Antony’s College, Oxford University, said in an interview
yesterday. “Despite the fact that people are deserting him,
that Tripoli residents are running out of fuel and food, he has
stayed on and is playing factions against each other. He is a
great political operator.”  Defying the Odds  French officials, who had pushed hardest for military
action, predicted on March 25 that there would be a quick end to
the conflict. French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said then that
“military action will be counted in days and in weeks.”  Instead, Qaddafi has defied the odds and prolonged an armed
conflict. Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said he will
present his colleagues at the Turkey meeting with a “political
plan” for a “negotiated end.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told journalists
yesterday that Qaddafi’s camp has sent “contradictory”
signals.  “Tens, hundreds or thousands of Libyans might die in
 Europe ,” Qaddafi said on July 8, according to a recording of
his speech that was aired on Al Arabiya television. “We will
raid their houses, women and children, like they raided us, and
I told you an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.”  Three days later, his son, Saif al-Islam, who last month
approached the rebels to negotiate an exit from power for his
father, told Algerian newspaper El-Khabar that the regime was in
talks with  France .  Go or Stay?  “The Libyan regime is sending messengers everywhere, to
 Turkey , to  New York , to Paris,” saying Qaddafi is prepared to
leave and asking to discuss options, Juppe told  French Info
radio  on July 12.  For the first time, allies and rebels may be prepared to
grant his wish to live out his retirement on home soil on
condition he lay down his arms and give up power. The head of
the rebels, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, told Reuters last week that
Qaddafi may be allowed to stay in the country if he resigns and
there is international supervision of his movements.  Still, on July 4, Jalil said in an e-mailed statement there
was no possibility for Qaddafi to remain in Libya.  Such reversals of positions and contrasting statements have
proliferated since the June 27 indictment of Qaddafi on charges
of crimes against humanity, a move that seemed to leave the
dictator almost out of options.  Debt Crisis  As the civil war heads into its fifth month and Europeans
are drawn to other urgent concerns, the distractions may give
Qaddafi added time to play his hand.  One event likely to pull attention from the envoys’ meeting
is the anticipated emergency summit of their leaders on a debt
crisis now ensnaring  Italy , the former colonial power in Libya.
Additionally, Italy’s Chamber of Deputies will hold the final
vote on the government’s 40 billion-euro ($57 billion) deficit-
reduction plan tomorrow, when the contact group meets.  “It is plausible that the debt crisis has induced caution
in European countries,” said Shashank Joshi, an associate
fellow at the  Royal United Services Institute  in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  