-- 
Ralcorp to Spin Off Post Foods After Failing to Find Buyer

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-07-14T23:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ralcorp-to-spin-off-post-foods-after-failing-to-find-buyer-for-cereal-unit.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) , the maker of
Raisin Bran cereals and private-label food brands, plans to spin
off Post Foods after failing to sell the unit to rival
foodmakers or private-equity firms.  Co-Chief Executive Officer Kevin Hunt will be Ralcorp’s CEO
after the separation, which should be completed in about four to
six months, St. Louis-based Ralcorp said today in a statement.
Ralcorp said its board has formed a committee to search for a
CEO for Post.  Ralcorp had explored selling Post to fend off a $4.9
billion bid from  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , people familiar with the
matter said in May. Ralcorp received little interest in the
division, which generated about one-fourth of its sales last
year, the people said.  “Ralcorp did not see much interest in Post during
ConAgra’s campaign to acquire them,” Mark Baum, a managing
partner at consumer-product consultant Marcat Group in Reston,
 Virginia , said in an interview. “This makes sense if Ralcorp’s
strategy is to stay close to the core private-label business.”  Post Foods, the third-largest maker of breakfast cereal in
the U.S., will issue as much as $1.2 billion of debt, with
Ralcorp getting about $1 billion of the proceeds. Ralcorp, which
generated about $3 billion last year from selling nuts, sauces
and frozen foods under retailers’ own brands, said it will use
the funds to repay debt, make acquisitions and buy back shares.  “Our proposed acquisition of all of Ralcorp continues to
be in the best interests of their shareholders,” Omaha,
Nebraska-based ConAgra said today in a statement.  Forecasts Cut  Separately, Ralcorp said third-quarter profit excluding
some items may be as much as $1.18 per share, trailing the $1.38
average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company also cut its full-year profit projection to
$5.20 to $5.35 a share from a May forecast of as much as $5.55,
because of surging raw-ingredient costs.  Ralcorp fell $4.62, or 5.3 percent, to $82 at 5:55 p.m. in
trading after the regular close of the New York Stock Exchange.
The shares had gained 33 percent this year through the close of
regular trading today.  Ralcorp said it will continue seeking to acquire private-
label food manufacturers after completing 24 deals since 1997.
Post plans to expand beyond cereal into snacks, the company
said.  Ralcorp had rejected ConAgra’s most recent offer May 4, its
second snub of the Omaha, Nebraska-based foodmaker. ConAgra
first contacted Ralcorp in February and Ralcorp began exploring
a sale of Post soon after, people familiar with the matter said.
At the time Ralcorp shares traded around $64.  Ralcorp Acquisitions  Ralcorp began in 1994 through the spinoff of Ralston
Purina’s cereals and baby foods businesses. About a quarter of
Ralcorp’s sales come from Post, bought from  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  for
$2.7 billion in 2008. Ralcorp added to its private-label pasta
business with the $1.2 billion purchase of the American Italian
Pasta Co. last year.  Total sales of store-brand products increased 1.8 percent
to $88.5 billion in 2010, according to the Private Label
Manufacturers Association, a New York-based industry group.
Sales of branded goods fell 1.1 percent to $419.2 billion. From
2006 to 2010, store-brand items increased their share of units
sold in U.S. retailers from 20.2 percent to 21.8 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG is acting as financial adviser to
Ralcorp, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Bryan Cave LLP
are serving as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  