-- 
Rand Declines Against Dollar as Fuel Shortages Dampen Demand For Currency

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-14T16:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/rand-slips-to-1-week-low-versus-euro-as-fuel-shortages-spur-growth-concern.html
The rand declined versus the dollar
on concern that debt burdens in the U.S. and  Europe  will curb
global economic growth, while strikes by steel and energy
workers helped damp demand for the South African currency.  The rand weakened as much as 0.9 percent to 6.8821 per
dollar, and traded 0.6 percent down at 6.8602 as of 4:32 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the worst performance out of more than 20
emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The South
African currency slid 0.9 percent to 9.7380 per euro.  Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut America’s credit
rating amid concern political deadlock will lead to a U.S. debt
default, while Italian borrowing costs rose to e three-year high
at a sale of five-year debt today. In  South Africa , some gas
stations ran dry as a strike of energy workers entered its
fourth day.  “There is a lot of nervousness around the debt situation,
and the rand is living up to its high-beta status,”  Michael Keenan , an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest
rand trader, said by phone from Johannesburg. “If we add to
that the domestic strikes, they become a catalyst for rand
weakness.”  The three-month implied volatility, a measure of that tends
to rise in bear markets, of the rand versus the dollar rose 11
basis points today to 15.1 percent, indicating investors see
wider price swings in coming weeks. The gauge has climbed from
14.01 percent a week ago.  Recovery  At least 150 gas stations in Gauteng, South Africa’s most
populous province, ran out of fuel today, the Fuel Retailers
Association said. A strike of steel and engineering workers
continued for an 11th day, sparking concern loss of output will
stall the nation’s economic recovery. The rand declined against
all 16 of its most-traded peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We are becoming concerned about ongoing strikes and pay
disputes but not because of growing inflationary expectations
but through the prism of sustainability of first signs of
recovery in economic activity,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in an e-mailed research
note. “If the situation continues to deteriorate, we may well
see some more pronounced impact on the rand.”  South African companies took advantage of the rand’s rally
yesterday and in early trading today to buy dollars to pay for
imports, said Chris Becker, a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Econometrix Treasury Management, which advises companies on
currency transactions. The rand gained 0.8 percent yesterday,
snapping three days of losses, and rose as high as 6.7831 before
reversing its gain early today.  “There were big corporate flows from  oil companies  buying
dollars,” Becker said by phone, without naming the companies.  Bonds  Bonds gained for a second day as investors increased bets
the central bank won’t raise  interest rates  this year to cool
inflation driven by higher fuel and food prices. Morgan Stanley
yesterday reduced its inflation forecasts for South Africa and
said the central bank will delay a rate increase at least until
the first quarter of 2012.  Forward-rate agreements starting in January dropped three
basis points today to 5.82 percent. The rate has declined from
as high as 6.1 percent a month ago.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 rose 9 cents to 121.11
rand, driving the yield down three basis points to 7.48 percent.
The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 5 cents to 89.03
rand, reducing the yield one basis point to 8.43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  