-- 
Reactor Developers Needing Less Aid Gain U.S. Edge, Lyons Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-14T17:37:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/reactor-developers-needing-less-aid-gain-u-s-edge-lyons-says.html
Developers of modular reactors that
don’t rely on government for more than half their licensing
costs will have an edge as the U.S. picks projects to approve,
the Energy Department official in charge of nuclear power said.  “As part of the competitive solicitation that we will put
out for these plants, we will give preference to situations
where a vendor comes in with greater than a 50-50 cost share,”
Peter Lyons, assistant Energy secretary, said today at a Senate
hearing in Washington.  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric Co. and closely held  NuScale Power
Inc.  of Corvallis, Oregon, are weighing building small modular
reactors. President  Barack Obama ’s administration has proposed a
five-year, $452 million program to boost development of the
reactors.  The U.S. is working with industry to certify one or two
small-reactor designs. The domestic industry needs “government
encouragement” to become competitive globally, Lyons said.  Makers of reactors, including small-modular units, are now
eligible for a 1.8 cent-per-kilowatt-hour subsidy for each plant
under a 2005 energy law, Lyons said.  Such aid isn’t essential when government is cutting
spending and companies seeking to build small reactors are
“extremely financially capable,” said Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat.  “I don’t understand why it’s necessary for the taxpayers
to pay half of the cost of licensing,” she said.  Nuclear Waste  Small modular reactors would add to the U.S. burden for
disposing of spent fuel in part because the nation faces a
potential $12.3 billion liability by 2020 to remove nuclear
waste from reactor sites, Feinstein said.  “That’s a very deep concern and should concern every one
of us in this Congress,” she said.  Small reactors would contain waste storage pools that would
have “extremely robust systems designed to hold fuel for many
decades,” Lyons said.  An  independent commission  named by the Obama administration
last year is considering options for the storage of spent fuel.
The panel’s draft report is due July 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  