-- 
Treasuries Fall Before Bond Auction After Moody’s Rating Downgrade Signal

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-14T16:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/treasuries-trail-biggest-markets-after-moody-s-downgrade-warning.html
Treasuries fell before a $13 billion
sale of 30-year debt, a day after Moody’s Investors Service said
it may cut the Aaa credit rating held by the U.S. amid debt-
ceiling negotiations in Congress.  U.S. bonds extended losses after initial claims for jobless
benefits fell last week to the lowest since April while retail
sales rose. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank won’t immediately begin a third round of bond-
buying, known as quantitative easing, to stimulate economic
growth. Three- and one-month bill rates fell below zero.  “It’s a pretty modest reaction to a serious warning coming
from a U.S. ratings agency,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of
interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 20
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Not only are there
issues with the debt-ceiling limit, but there are also clearly
fiscal issues in the U.S. The perception is that there is demand
lined up for the bond today, but it could also be very tricky.”  Thirty-year yields increased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.20 percent at 12:42 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 4.375 percent
security due May 2041 dropped 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 31/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields were two basis points higher
at 2.91 percent. Rates on U.S. one- and three-month bills were
negative for a second day, the one-month reaching negative
0.0101 percent and the three-month at negative 0.0051 percent.  ‘Cut Bill Supply’  “The concern with the debt ceiling is that if the Treasury
needs to cut back issuance, they would cut bill supply first,”
said Christopher Bury, co-head of fixed-income rates at the
primary dealer Jefferies & Co. in New York. “The bigger story
in the front end is the money-fund community is starved for
yield, and there’s been essentially more demand than supply.”  Yields on 30-year bonds rose from a seven-month low of 4.12
percent reached on July 12 as Commerce Department data showed
sales at U.S. retailers rose 0.1 percent in June, compared with
the median forecast of a 0.1 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey.  Applications for jobless benefits dropped 22,000 in the
week ended July 9 to 405,000, Labor Department data showed.
Economists forecast 415,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Producer Price Index 
fell 0.4 percent in June, another department report showed.  ‘Nebulous Area’  “It’s going to leave us in a nebulous area,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New York at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., a primary dealer. “The labor market isn’t as weak as we
thought it was, although it’s still weak. Retail sales are on
the weakish side, and PPI is mixed.”  Treasuries pared losses yesterday after the U.S., rated Aaa
by Moody’s since 1917, was put on review for the first time
since 1996. The move was prompted by concern officials won’t
raise the debt limit in time to prevent a missed payment,
Moody’s said in a statement. The rating would probably be
reduced to the Aa range, the company said.  Obama may summon congressional leaders to a Camp David
summit this weekend after the latest round of White House
negotiations on the  budget deficit  and debt limit ended on a
tense note. The president walked out of yesterday’s White House
meeting with legislative leaders on the deficit, House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  told reporters.  The Treasury has said it has until Aug. 2 before its
ability to pay the debt expires.  Fed Chairman Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee
today a loss of investor confidence could complicate the
rollover of the U.S. government’s debt.  ‘Loss of Confidence’  “It is entirely possible that loss of confidence or
political risk could raise interest rates and make it more
difficult or expensive to roll over the debt,” Bernanke said in
comments today to the Senate Banking Committee.  He told the House Financial Services Committee yesterday
that failure to raise the debt limit would lead to a “huge
financial calamity” that could add to unemployment.  Bernanke said today he’s not prepared to take immediate
action to stimulate the economy. He said inflation now is
“higher” and “closer” to the central bank’s informal target
than was the case in August, and that’s one reason why the Fed
won’t immediately embark on a third round of bond purchases. Its
second round of quantitative easing, $600 billion of Treasury
acquisitions, ended on scheduled June 30.  The central bank must “keep all options on the table” to
stimulate the economy if necessary, Bernanke told the house
panel yesterday.  Bernanke Options  One option, he said yesterday, would be a third round of
government bond purchases. Another would be to pledge to hold
rates at record lows and the Fed’s balance sheet at a record
high of almost $3 trillion for a longer period of time. The
central bank also could reduce the interest rate it pays banks
on excess reserves parked at the central bank.  The 30-year bonds being sold today yielded 4.21 percent in
pre-auction trading, versus 4.238 percent at the last sale of
the securities on June 9.  Investors bid for 2.63 times the amount of debt offered
last month. The 10-sale average is 2.64. Indirect bidders, the
investor group that includes foreign central banks, bought 38.4
percent of the securities, compared with the 10-auction average
of 39.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  