-- 
Record Number of Somalian Pirate Incidents Boost Ship Attacks by 36%

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-07-14T09:02:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/record-number-of-somalian-pirate-incidents-boost-ship-attacks-by-36-.html
Pirate attacks climbed 36 percent in
the first half of the year as the number of attempts off  Somalia 
in East Africa rose to a record.  There were 266 attacks in the period, compared with 196 a
year earlier, the London-based International Maritime Bureau
said in a statement today.  “In the last six months, Somali pirates attacked more
vessels than ever before and they’re taking higher risks,” IMB
director Pottengal Mukundan said. They fired on ships for the
first time during the monsoon season last month, he said.  Shipowners are improving their vessels’ security measures
and a strengthened naval presence is also cutting the pirates’
success rate, the IMB said. While attacks by Somali pirates
climbed to 163 from 100 a year earlier, the number of ships they
hijacked fell to 21 from 27, it said.  Pirates hijacked one in eight vessels attacked in the first
half, compared with one in four a year earlier, the report
showed. The last hijacking took place April 30, with 44 further
attempted attacks since then, the IMB said.  Somali pirates took 361 sailors hostage and kidnapped 13 in
the first half. The number of violent and organized attacks off
West Africa also increased, the IMB said.  Engine Damage  The Brillante Virtuoso, a tanker carrying about 1 million
barrels of  fuel oil , was set on fire off the Yemeni coast and
suffered engine damage after pirates used a rocket-propelled
grenade to attack the vessel, a legal adviser to the ship’s
owner said July 6.  Bulk carriers that haul grains and minerals drew the most
attacks with 61 reported, followed by 41 crude tankers, 40
chemical tankers and 35  container ships .  Monsoon weather in the Indian Ocean region that began in
early June displaced pirates to the  Gulf of Aden  and the
southern  Red Sea , the IMB said. It called the 18 attacks
reported in the Red Sea area since May 20 “a cause for
concern.” Three attacks in the Indian Ocean in adverse weather
showed threats remained during monsoons for the first time, the
IMB said, citing winds of 34 miles an hour and swells of 4.5
meters (15 feet).  “It may be that these recent  Indian Ocean  incidents are a
sign of desperation on behalf of pirates, or that there are many
more pirate action groups operating now than there were in 2010,
particularly outside the Gulf of Aden,” the IMB said.  Piracy costs the world economy $7 billion, Mark Brownrigg,
director general of the U.K. Chamber of Shipping, told
legislators June 22. The Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean region
where Somali pirates operate is transited by 28,000 ships a
year, he said. Naval ships must patrol an area the size of
 Europe , and more than four-fifths of Somali pirates they capture
are released without prosecution, Major General Buster Howes,
operational commander of EU Navfor, told the lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  