-- 
Three Ex-U.S. Army Corps Workers Charged With Iraq Bribery, Kickbacks

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-07-14T21:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/three-ex-u-s-army-corp-workers-charged-with-iraq-bribery-kickback-scheme.html
Three former employees of the U.S.
 Army Corps  of Engineers and two other men were charged with
participating in a bribery and kickback scheme involving more
than $50 million in contracts in Iraq.  An indictment unsealed today in federal court in  Newark ,
New Jersey, accused John Alfy Salama Markus, 39; Onisem Gomez,
32, and Ammar Al-Jobory, 33, of using their USACE positions to
solicit bribes for construction and infrastructure contracts.  “The defendants allegedly treated projects to secure safe
access to fuel, electricity, education and medical treatment as
opportunities for illegally amassing personal wealth,” U.S.
Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  The 54-count indictment also charged Ahmed Nouri, 41, and
Mithaq Al-Fahal, 36, with participating in the scheme. They were
employees of separate private engineering and construction
companies that got contracts in  Iraq .  Markus and Nouri were first charged in October. Markus, a
U.S. citizen and Egyptian-born resident of Nazareth,
 Pennsylvania , is free on $500,000 bail with electronic
monitoring. Nouri, a U.K. citizen, was a vice president at Iraqi
Consultants & Construction Bureau.  Prosecutors said Markus, a USACE project manager, solicited
bribes in exchange for confidential bidding information and took
$4.2 million in illicit payments. The money covered contracts
for companies involving Nouri and Al-Fahal, an Iraqi citizen and
project manager at Sakar Al-Fahal, prosecutors said.  “My client denies the allegations,” said Markus’s
attorney, Michael Rogers. “As of right now, it’s just an
indictment and we really haven’t seen the government’s evidence.
He awaits his day in court.”  The projects included security enhancements to the Bayji
Oil Refinery, design and construction of the Baqubah Landfill,
and protection to the Bayji oil pipeline, according to the
indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Markus, 11-cr-366, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 