-- 
Reid Calls Republican Leader Cantor’s Behavior in Debt Talks ‘Childish’

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-07-14T14:50:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/reid-calls-republican-leader-cantor-s-behavior-in-debt-talks-childish-.html
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a
Democrat, said today that Republican House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  has been “childish” during deficit-reduction
negotiations and has shown he shouldn’t “be at the table.”  “The time for personal gain and political posturing are
over,” Reid of  Nevada  said on the Senate floor today. “It’s
time to put our economy and our country first.”  Reid said Cantor has demonstrated “he shouldn’t be at the
table,” adding that “it was childish” when the Virginia
Republican quit attending negotiating sessions led by Vice
President  Joe Biden .  Yesterday’s White House negotiating session among President
 Barack Obama  and the top eight congressional leaders, including
Reid and Cantor, ended on a tense note. Cantor said afterward in
an interview that Obama “got very agitated” and left the room
“abruptly” after Cantor suggested a vote on a smaller deal.  “Don’t call my bluff; I am going to the American people,”
Obama said, according to Cantor.  Democratic officials disputed that characterization of
Obama’s demeanor and said the president had emphasized he
believed the lawmakers were engaging in too much political
posturing. One Democratic official said Obama reacted after
Cantor interrupted him three times.  ‘Not Surprising’  Laena Fallon, a spokesman for Cantor said, “It’s not
surprising that  Harry Reid  doesn’t want to cut spending and
wants to raise taxes with so many Americans out of work. This
isn’t a question about personalities -- Eric, President Obama or
Harry Reid -- it’s about doing what is right for the country.”  The stalemate prompted Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  this week to offer a “last-choice” plan to give
Obama unilateral power to raise the debt ceiling, in an effort
to put the onus on the president to identify spending cuts.  “If he and the Democrat Senate would rather borrow and
spend us into oblivion, that’s on them,” McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, said today. “But don’t expect any more cover from
Republicans on it than you got on health care,” he said,
referring to last year’s health-care overhaul.  “It’s time to make it clear to the American people where
the two parties stand in this debate,” McConnell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  