-- 
Reinhart-Rogoff Warn Rising Government Debt Levels Threaten Global Economy

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-14T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/reinhart-rogoff-warn-rising-government-debt-levels-threaten-global-economy.html
Rising government debts pose a
significant risk to economic growth and financial stability in
the U.S. and  Europe , economists  Carmen Reinhart  and Kenneth Rogoff wrote in a column for Bloomberg View.  Nations historically have run into trouble when public debt
exceeds 90 percent of gross domestic product, Reinhart, a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington, and Rogoff, a Harvard University professor, said.
And by their reckoning, the U.S. and some European nations have
passed that threshold.  “While we expect to see more than one member of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development default or
restructure their debt before the European crisis is resolved,
that isn’t the greatest threat to most advanced economies,”
they wrote. “The biggest risk is that debt will accumulate
until the overhang weighs on growth.”  The analysis adds intellectual backing to the case for a
larger deficit-reduction package in talks between the White
House and Congressional leaders on raising the $14.3 trillion
national debt limit. Moody’s Investors Service raised the
pressure on lawmakers to increase the ceiling by placing the
nation’s credit rating under review for a downgrade yesterday.  Talks initially focused on reducing federal deficits by $4
trillion over 10 to 12 years. Republican congressional leaders
have scaled back their goal to about $2 trillion, and the
party’s Senate leader,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , on July 12
offered a “last-choice” proposal to allow a debt-ceiling
increase without any deficit-reduction measures.  Differing Means  President  Barack Obama  and Republican leaders have both
focused on reducing the deficit and the growth of government
debt, while differing over how to achieve that goal. Republicans
oppose any tax increases. Democrats oppose cuts in entitlement
benefits such as Social Security and the Medicare and Medicaid
health programs, unless there is more  tax revenue .  Sixty-one percent of Americans would not be willing to pay
more in taxes to reduce the deficit, according to a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted in June. Sixty percent believe it is
more important to keep Social Security and Medicare benefits
than to reduce the deficit, according to a survey conducted the
same month by the Pew Research Center for the People & the
Press.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
yesterday that high U.S. budget deficits, if not curbed, could
slow the economy and prompt an increase in  interest rates . At
the same time, he said Congress needs to be a “little bit
cautious” about “sharp cuts” in federal spending in the near
term because they could hurt the recovery.  ‘Prominent’ Intellectuals  Reinhart and Rogoff took issue with “prominent public
intellectuals” who play down the significance of the debt and
argue that the U.S. should take advantage of low yields on
Treasury securities to launch another big fiscal stimulus.  One such intellectual is Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman , whom
Reinhart and Rogoff don’t mention by name. Krugman, a Princeton
University professor and a columnist for The  New York  Times, has
castigated Obama and other policy makers for focusing on cutting
the  budget deficit  and has called for increased  government
spending  to help bring down the 9.2 percent unemployment rate.  “It would be folly to take comfort in today’s low
borrowing costs, much less to interpret them as an ‘all clear’
signal for a further explosion of debt,” the co-authors of the
book “This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial
Folly,” said. “Market interest rates can change like the
weather. Debt levels, by contrast, can’t be brought down
quickly.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note stood at 2.88
percent late yesterday in New York, compared with an average
5.38 percent since the start of 1990.  Study of Crises  Reinhart and Rogoff said their study of financial crises
shows that public obligations are often significantly larger
than official figures suggest. Case in point: the debt of
mortgage financing firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which was
never officially guaranteed by the U.S. government until the
financial crisis hit.  Based on their research on the experiences of 44 countries
for up to 200 years, nations with public debt in excess of 90
percent of GDP suffer 1 percent lower median growth of their
economies, the economists wrote.  History suggests “the need to be cautious about
surrendering to ‘this time is different’ syndrome and decreeing
that surging government debt isn’t as significant a problem in
the present as it was in the past,” they added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  