-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Stagnate as Rising Unemployment Keeps Consumers Away

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-14T20:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-stagnate-as-unemployment-hurts-consumers.html
Sales at U.S. retailers stagnated in
June, highlighting weakness in consumer demand that accounts for
70 percent of the economy.  Purchases rose 0.1 percent, the Commerce Department said
today in Washington. Sales excluding autos were little changed,
the poorest performance since July 2010. Wholesale prices fell
more than forecast in June on lower energy costs, the Labor
Department said.  Americans contending with declining home values and
unemployment above 9 percent are holding back on spending,
prompting retailers such as Target Corp. to sweeten discounts.
Another report today showed that first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell last week to the lowest level since
April, indicating dismissals may start to abate.  “The soft patch is likely to linger for a few more
months,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Even with the
drop in energy prices we’ve seen recently, consumers’ purchasing
power is still being stretched. Businesses are incredibly
cautious about hiring workers right now.”  Stocks declined as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank isn’t prepared to take immediate action to
stimulate the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
0.7 percent to 1,308.87 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.
Treasuries fell, pushing up the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note to 2.95 percent from 2.88 percent late yesterday.  Fed’s Bernanke  “We’re not prepared at this point to take further
action,” Bernanke said today, in response to a question from
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a Democrat from
 South Dakota . Johnson asked Bernanke why the Fed wasn’t
immediately starting a new stimulus program given the weak
economic recovery and rising unemployment.  Consumer confidence  rose last week as households became
more upbeat about the state of their finances. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index increased to minus 43.9 for the period
ended July 10 from minus 45.5 the prior week. Even with the
gain, which is within the survey’s 3-point margin of error, the
gauge is lower than it was at the start of the year.  A measure of consumers’ views of the economy dropped to the
lowest level since the end of March. Eight percent of consumers
rate the economy positively, according to today’s report.  Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee today that “in
the near term, the recovery is rather fragile,” with
“confidence pretty low” among consumers.  Sales and GDP  Retail sales excluding autos, gasoline and building
materials, which are the figures used to calculate gross
domestic product, rose 0.1 percent, the smallest gain this year.  After the retail sales data, economists at Morgan Stanley
and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York  were among those
cutting tracking estimates for second-quarter  consumer spending .
Morgan Stanley economists lowered their forecast to 0.4 percent
at an annual pace from a prior projection of 0.9 percent.  The lack of momentum at the end of the quarter also
prompted them to cut estimates for the gain in household
purchases in the July through September period to 2.6 percent
from 2.9 percent.  Economists’ estimates for retail sales ranged from a
decline of 0.7 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent. The unchanged
reading in non-auto purchases matched the Bloomberg survey
median.  Six Decline  Six of 13 major categories showed a decline in sales last
month, led by a 1.3 percent drop at gasoline stations and 0.8
percent decrease at furniture stores.  Auto dealers, department stores and building material
merchants were among the gainers.  Car sales showed a 0.8 percent increase, running counter to
industry data that is used to calculate gross domestic product.
Sales of cars and light vehicle ran at a seasonally adjusted
11.41 million annual rate in June, down from 11.76 million in
May and 13.14 million in April, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. deliveries each fell
21 percent from the same month last year, reflecting supply-
chain constraints linked to  Japan ’s March earthquake, while
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said sales rose 10
percent.  “The Japan crisis in and of itself was contributing to the
slowdown, and that’s starting to be behind us,” GM’s vice
president for U.S. sales  Donald Johnson  said on a July 1
teleconference. “While we’ve had these couple of bumps, we
believe that the recovery will be back on track.”  Jobless Claims  Applications for unemployment benefits decreased 22,000 in
the week ended July 9 to 405,000, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 415,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The data included
fewer layoffs in the  auto industry  than typical this time of the
year, according to an agency spokesman.  Jobless claims have been above 400,000 since the week ended
April 1, helping explain why companies are trying to keep a lid
on prices. Discounts to clear inventory ahead of the back-to-
school season helped June sales at chain stores beat analysts’
estimates.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, posted a 4.5 percent increase from a year earlier,
while demand at Gap Inc. rose 1 percent, the stores reported
last week.  The Labor Department said today that producer prices
dropped 0.4 percent in June as energy costs fell the most in two
years. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a
0.2 percent decrease.  The so-called core measure, which excludes volatile fuel
and food costs, increased 0.3 percent in June. The gain was more
than projected, with almost half of the increase tied to the
biggest rise in light truck prices since November 2009, the
Labor Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  