-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Stagnated in June as Vehicle Demand Cooled

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-stagnated-as-auto-demand-cooled.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
stagnated in June, reflecting declining auto demand and rising
unemployment, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.1 percent drop in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent May decrease, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
wholesale prices fell last month.  Supply constraints due to  Japan ’s earthquake helped push
car sales last month to the lowest level since June 2010, while
unemployment prompted stores like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Gap Inc. to
sweeten discounts to lure customers. A dearth of jobs raises the
risk that  consumer spending , which makes up 70 percent of the
economy, will have difficulty picking up for the rest of 2011.  “Improvements in retail sales will remain elusive if job
growth does not re-accelerate,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Services Inc. in  Detroit .
“Consumers still face a very tough environment.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decline of 0.7 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent.  The retail report may also show sales excluding automobiles
were unchanged last month after increasing 0.3 percent in May,
economists said.  The figures, which aren’t adjusted for inflation, probably
were depressed by receipts at service stations that reflected
lower gasoline costs. Regular fuel averaged $3.67 a gallon in
June, down from $3.90 the prior month, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest auto club.  Discounting Inventory  Discounts implemented to clear inventory ahead of the back-
to-school season helped June sales at chain stores beat
analysts’ estimates. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, posted a 4.5 percent increase from a year earlier,
while demand at Gap rose 1 percent, beating projections for a
drop, the stores reported last week.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 1 percent from the end of April. The broader  S&P 500 Index 
declined 3.4 percent during the same period as the European debt
crisis and a U.S. debt-ceiling impasse concerned investors.  Payrolls grew by 18,000 workers last month, the smallest
gain since September, the Labor Department reported July 8. The
jobless rate climbed for a third straight month, rising to 9.2
percent, the highest level this year.  Auto Sales  Sales of cars and light vehicle ran at a seasonally
adjusted 11.41 million annual rate in June, down from 11.76
million in May and 13.14 million in April, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co.
deliveries each fell 21 percent from the same month last year,
reflecting supply-chain constraints linked to Japan’s March
earthquake, while  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said
sales rose 10 percent.  “We have to recognize that the Japan crisis in and of
itself was contributing to the slowdown, and that’s starting to
be behind us,” said GM’s Vice President for U.S. sales  Donald
Johnson  on a July 1 teleconference. “While we’ve had these
couple of bumps, we believe that the recovery will be back on
track.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress
yesterday the central bank is prepared to take additional
action, including buying more  government bonds , should the
economy be in danger of stalling.  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony before the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington .  Prices Fall  The producer-price index fell 0.2 percent in June after a
0.2 percent gain in May, reflecting the drop in fuel costs,
economists projected a Labor Department report will show at 8:30
a.m. Core prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel, may have
climbed 0.2 percent from a month earlier.  A separate report at the same time will show the number of
workers filing claims for jobless benefits last week dropped to
415,000 from 418,000 the prior period, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  