-- 
Roger Clemens’s Lawyer Casts Pitcher as Victim of Congressional Bean Ball

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/roger-clemens-s-lawyer-casts-rocket-as-victim-of-congressional-bean-ball.html
Roger Clemens  wasn’t going to be
portrayed as a victim at his trial for allegedly lying to
Congress about using steroids, the ex-Major League Baseball
pitcher’s lead defense lawyer told a federal jury in Washington.  In the hour that followed, attorney  Rusty Hardin  did
precisely that. During his opening statement yesterday, he said
a congressional committee set up the former New York Yankees
pitcher.  “When he said publicly, ‘I did not do it,’ Congress called
him in and dared him to say what they knew he was going to say
under oath, and then charged him with perjury when he said it,”
Hardin said.  Clemens, 48, who was only trying to tell the truth, also
was “betrayed” by his longtime trainer, Hardin said.  Clemens, who was recognized as his league’s best pitcher in
an unmatched seven seasons, is on trial for perjury and
obstruction of Congress because he told the committee in 2008
that he didn’t use anabolic steroids or human growth hormone, as
alleged by his trainer. He isn’t charged with illegal drug use,
which allegedly occurred too long ago to prosecute.  “Hardin is gambling that the jury will be sympathetic to
Clemens as a victim of congressional over-reaching,” Robert Weisberg, who teaches criminal law at  Stanford University , said
in a phone interview.  “Clemens does not offer a very convincing picture of a
beleaguered victim,” Weisberg said.  Thrown Bat  Fans may remember Clemens flinging a broken bat at Mets
catcher Mike Piazza during the 2000  World Series , or how he
directed 95-mile-an-hour fastballs close to batters’ bodies.
Domination is what Clemens, known as the Rocket, was all about.  Few jurors may know that. Most said during jury selection
that they don’t follow baseball.  Hardin, a former prosecutor and longtime private lawyer in
Houston whose criminal defense clients have included Warren Moon
and Calvin Murphy -- both acquitted -- set out a sequence of
events with Clemens portrayed as a victim.  While Clemens may be disliked in some quarters, the  U.S.
Congress , according to Gallup Inc., has only an 18 percent
approval  rating .  Weisberg said the case will probably turn on the
credibility of the trainer,  Brian McNamee , which will depend on
how much the government can corroborate his testimony.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham, in his opening
remarks, told jurors that McNamee can give details about when
and where he injected Clemens with the forbidden substances and
that there is circumstantial evidence to back him up.  Cotton Swabs  McNamee also gave cotton swabs and needles to the U.S.,
which hired independent laboratories to test them. What they
found was Clemens’s DNA as well as anabolic steroids, Durham
said.  McNamee fabricated the evidence, Hardin countered.  The only accuser Hardin didn’t attack was Clemens’s former
teammate,  Andy Pettitte , who told Congress that his friend had
admitted using human growth hormone. Pettitte just made an
honest mistake and didn’t recall the conversation correctly,
Hardin said.  Durham described Clemens as an athlete worried about his
aging body, substantial income and place in the Baseball Hall of
Fame.  The prosecutor also headed off criticism of Congress. The
committee got involved in the issue of drugs in baseball because
it was “deeply concerned” about how young fans would react if
Major Leaguers were using these substances, Durham said.
Lawmakers wanted to “protect these younger people from
dangerous drugs and dangerous influences,” he said.  Mitchell Report  He said Congress had already told  Major League Baseball  to
either straighten itself out or risk Congress passing laws that
would impose changes. So the baseball commissioner,  Bud Selig ,
hired former Senator  George Mitchell  to investigate, which led
to a 409-page report in 2007 naming Clemens and others as users
of banned substances.  When Clemens went on  CBS News ’s “60 Minutes” program,
produced a YouTube video and held a press conference to denounce
Mitchell’s findings, the House committee had to find out who was
right, Durham said.  Near the end of his opening remarks, Hardin put a poster on
an easel facing jurors. The same image appeared on computer
screens around the courtroom.  103 Officers  “These are the resources the government used” to build
the criminal case against his client, Hardin said. The chart
showed 103 law enforcement officers working in 72 places across
the U.S., producing 229 investigative reports.  None of that effort produced anyone who could back
McNamee’s claim that Clemens had used steroids and HGH, Hardin
said.  Weisberg, the law professor, said congressional over-reach
is irrelevant to whether Clemens lied.  “The claim of unfairness is really not going to prove very
important,” Weisberg said.  The question is whether Clemens lied when he denied using
the banned drugs. Hardin’s task is to at least create reasonable
doubt that he did.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Woolner in federal court in Washington at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  