-- 
Rory McIlroy Pleased With British Open First Round After His Poor Start

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-14T16:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/rory-mcilroy-pleased-with-british-open-first-round-after-his-poor-start.html
Rory McIlroy is six shots behind the
leader after the first round of the British Open, but isn’t
panicking.  The U.S. Open champion shot a 1-over-par 71, bogeying two
of the first three holes at Royal St. George’s. The Northern
Irishman made just one bogey and two birdies the rest of the
way.  Thomas Bjorn  of Denmark is leading after shooting a 5-under
65 on the windy course in Sandwich,  England .  “I felt after the start that playing the last 15 in 1-
under was a pretty good effort,” McIlroy told reporters. “It
was a day where you just needed to grind out a score.  Anywhere
around even par was a good start.”  McIlroy was the favorite with U.K. bookmakers coming into
the tournament after his eight-shot win at last month’s U.S.
Open. Today’s round was his first since that victory at
Congressional Country Club near  Washington .  He bogeyed the first hole after teeing off in front of a
big crowd, three-putting from just off the back of the green
after playing partner  Rickie Fowler  holed out for birdie from
almost the same spot. After another bogey on the third, he said,
pars on the next two holes jumpstarted his round.  “I felt the par on four was big, but the up-and-down on
five from the left of the green was big for me, got me into it a
bit,” he said.  McIlroy made his first birdie at the eighth hole. After a
bogey at No. 13, he added his second birdie at 17 before
finishing with a par. He said he was disappointed in his efforts
on the course’s two longest holes, the 546-yard seventh and the
553-yard 14th.  Missed Opportunities  “I didn’t take advantage of the two par-5s,” he said.
“Put myself in good positions off the tee and only made two
pars.”  McIlroy said the expectations since the  U.S. Open  victory
haven’t put added pressure on him this week.  “I’ve put myself into this position and it’s what I’ve
always wanted to do,” he said. “I wanted to be under pressure
to win tournaments. If that’s the worst complaint that I have,
I’ll be doing it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 