-- 
Russian Billionaire Backs `Soviets’ at Manhattan’s New Museum

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/russian-billionaire-backs-soviets-at-manhattan-s-new-museum.html
Billionaire Leonid Mikhelson,
Russia’s 15th-richest man, has thrown his wealth behind a museum
show opening today in  New York  to mark the 20th anniversary of
the collapse of the  Soviet Union .  Mikhelson’s awkwardly named foundation, Victoria the Art of
Being Contemporary, is sponsoring an exhibition at  Manhattan ’s
 New Museum  that examines the disintegration of the Soviet bloc
through the work of 56 international artists, including 14
Russians. It is called “Ostalgia.”  “The title is an appropriation of a German word
‘Ostalgie,’ or nostalgia for the time before the fall of the
 Berlin Wall ,” said New Museum curator Massimiliano Gioni, the
show’s designer. “It’s about a moment in history and a state of
mind.”  Mikhelson, with a fortune estimated at $9.1 billion, has a
history of supporting the arts in  Russia  through his OAO
Novatek, the country’s second-largest gas producer. “Ostalgia”
is his first private philanthropic venture in the U.S.  Named after his teenage daughter Victoria, Mikhelson’s two-
year-old foundation promotes Russian contemporary art abroad and
supports it through grants and new commissions.  “Ostalgia was a perfect project to back,” said Teresa
Mavica, Italian-born, Russian-speaking director of the
 foundation , in an interview this week. “We want to take Russian
art outside of its ghetto and have the best Western curators
tackle it.”  Mikhelson didn’t come to New York for the opening,
dispatching Mavica and 18-year-old Victoria, who is listed as a
member of the advisory board on the foundation’s website.  ‘Building a Bridge’  “Our goal is to be recognized beyond Russia,” she said
over a yogurt-and-granola breakfast. “It’s about building a
bridge between Russian and Western art and smashing negative
stereotypes about contemporary art in Russia.”  Her father was one of the first people whose view on
contemporary art she needed to change. Born in 1955 in a town on
the  Caspian Sea  in the Republic of Dagestan, Leonid Mikhelson
graduated in 1977 from the Samara State University of
Architecture and Civil Engineering. Before helping to establish
Novatek in 1994, he spent most of his career building gas
pipelines. As an art collector he initially gravitated toward
works from the 19th and early 20th century.  These days, his office is decorated with blue-chip artists
 Gerhard Richter , Christopher Wool and Olafur Eliasson.  “He is a huge fan of Rudolf Stingel,” said Mavica. “He
owns many works,” including the artist’s 11-foot-tall black-
and-white self-portrait exhibited earlier this year at  Gagosian 
gallery in New York.  Personal Project  Although Novatek has funded various cultural activities,
including the Russian Pavilion at the Venice Biennale in 2009,
the Victoria foundation is Mikhelson’s personal project.  By placing the Russian artists alongside their counterparts
from  Romania ,  Poland ,  Hungary ,  Germany  and the  Czech Republic ,
Gioni highlighted their common preoccupations.  Boris Mikhailov’s snapshots of ordinary (often naked and
awkwardly framed) Soviet citizens in the 1960s and 1970s capture
the vulnerability and drabness of life.  German artist Helga Paris’s 1984 black-and-white
photographs of female factory workers, with their stern eyes,
pressed lips and drab garb, complete the picture of the
struggles behind the Iron Curtain.  Olga Chernysheva’s video looks at the new Russia by
juxtaposing young boys in crisp Soviet-era uniforms with
scantily clad cheerleaders. In British artist  Phil Collins ’s
film, a former Marxist-theory teacher talks about his shattered
identity after the Berlin Wall came down.  Gioni would not disclose the amount of Victoria
foundation’s sponsorship, but said it also helped with research,
access to the artists and many logistics.  “If you just need a check, don’t come to us,” said
Mavica. “We like to be involved in producing the shows we
support.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 