-- 
Sad Sack Rigoletto Lurches Into Mantua With Domingo: TV Review

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-07-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sad-sack-rigoletto-lurches-into-mantua-with-domingo-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Poor Mantua: a perfectly noble
Renaissance duchy forever associated with a licentious duke and
a homicidal hunchback.  The north-Italian town looks great in tonight’s airing on
PBS of Verdi’s “Rigoletto,” a music drama first heard in
 Venice  in 1851.  Especially the palazzo ducale makes a fine impression.
Built over many centuries, the sprawling complex ended up
containing 500 rooms, including a dreamy bridal chamber
decorated with cupids and a large bird looking down from the
heavens.  I would happily have lingered in the palazzo and skipped
some of the singing.  The esteemed tenor, Placido Domingo, for instance, who
glowers under that extravagantly folded funny hat ... What’s he
doing singing Rigoletto, anyway?  This is a role for a big-voiced baritone, not an aging if
admirable tenor, now officially 70, whose top has lost range and
luster.  When we wrote nicely two seasons ago of his Simone
Boccanegra, whose wistfulness he expressed in silvery tones at
the  Metropolitan Opera , it was not to encourage yet more
pillaging of the baritone repertoire.  Sad Sack  In the famous scene in which Rigoletto hurls invective at
the duke’s snide courtiers, Domingo sounds underpowered and
tired, though he rallies when he comes upon daughter Gilda dying
in a sack near the waterfront.  Her way there makes for wonderful viewing. The grand
camerawork of a huge and remarkably coordinated team, led by
Academy Award-winning Vittorio Storaro, takes us right into a
moodily lit Palazzo del Te. After that, as day turns to night,
we follow the hunchback into his rather fancy domicile.  That’s a real nice tondo on the wall, Rigo!  Not that Domingo has the acting range to suggest the
jester’s deformity. He seems to have slightly poor posture, and
not a career-defining hump.  As the duke, a role once sung by Domingo, Vittorio Grigolo
shows off a lively, light, slightly tight tenor and the swagger
of an appropriately handsome man. Julia Novikova seems destined
for bigger roles than Gilda. Ruggero Raimondi musters fading
powers for Sparafucile, the casual assassin.  Zubin Mehta sternly commands the orchestra, which plays in
the Teatro Scientifico Bibiena, far from the singers. In
mysterious ways that involve lots of monitors, assistant
directors and clever engineers, the show was filmed live by RAI
last year.  It’s an amazing achievement from the same producers who did
a live “Tosca” in  Rome  two decades ago. I can only assume that
Domingo is being wooed to sing bass Boris soon at the Kremlin.  “Rigoletto” airs on PBS at 9:30 p.m.  New York  time as
part of the Great Performances series. Information:
 http://www.pbs.org .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New
York at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 