-- 
Salazar Approves Four Clean Energy Projects in Oregon, California

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-07-14T19:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/salazar-approves-four-clean-energy-projects-in-oregon-california.html
The U.S. Interior Department
approved the construction of four renewable energy projects on
government-owned land in  Oregon  and California to fast-track the
development of wind and solar  power plants .  The approvals are the first from the agency’s  priority list 
for 2011, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said today during a
conference call, and are part of an  initiative  to streamline the
permitting of clean energy projects on public lands.  “We are focusing Interior’s resources so that we can cut
red tape without cutting corners,” Salazar said.  The agency approved  Abengoa SA (ABG) ’s 250-megawatt  Mojave Solar
Project  and CSolar Development LLC’s 200-megawatt  Imperial Solar
Energy Center , both in California, and West Butte Wind Power
LLC’s 104-megawatt  wind farm  in Oregon. CSolar is a unit of
Tenaska Inc.  It also authorized construction of Southern  California 
Edison Co.’s  Devers-Palo Verde No. 2 Transmission Line Project ,
which will link solar energy plants in the deserts of Southern
California and Nevada, including  nine facilities  with a total of
more than 3,600 megawatts of capacity that the Interior
Department approved last year.  The agency’s Bureau of Land Management today also initiated
environmental reviews for two additional wind farms and a solar
project in California that total more than 370 megawatts of
capacity, it said today in a statement.  “In 2010 we began to unlock the nation’s renewable energy
potential in unprecedented ways,” Salazar said. In addition to
the nine solar projects, the agency also approved wind and
geothermal plants with more than 400 megawatts of capacity and
transmission infrastructure.  Those projects are “making believers out of the skeptics
who a couple of years ago would say that we would never do it,”
Salazar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  