-- 
Contador Loses Time to Schlecks on Tour de France’s First Mountain Stage

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-14T22:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/samuel-sanchez-wins-tour-de-france-mountain-stage-as-voeckler-keeps-lead.html
Samuel Sanchez yesterday won the
first mountain stage of this year’s Tour de France as three-time
champion  Alberto Contador  lost time to Andy and Frank Schleck,
two of his main rivals.  Sanchez, a Spaniard with the Euskaltel team, accelerated to
beat  Belgium ’s Jelle Vanendert at the end of the 131-mile ride
from Cugnaux to the Pyrenees ski resort of Luz-Ardiden. Thomas Voeckler of France kept the race lead.  Frank Schleck of Luxembourg, Andy’s older brother, attacked
with 1.5 miles left to finish third in the stage, moving up to
second overall.  Cadel Evans  of  Australia  is third and  Andy Schleck  fourth, 2 minutes 17 seconds behind the leader.  Contador, who hurt his knee in falls in the first week,
defended attacks by the Schleck brothers with 2.5 miles left
before they managed to break away from him. The Spaniard
finished the stage eighth.  “I can tell Alberto wasn’t feeling good,” Levi Leipheimer, an American rider with the RadioShack team, told
Eurosport television. “You can’t crash four or times like
Alberto has and feel good. Unfortunately the crashes are
deciding the race, not the legs.”  Today’s stage travels 152.5 kilometers (95 miles) between
Pau and Lourdes, and climbs the 1,709-meter-high Col d’Aubisque.  Yesterday, Contador rose to seventh from 16th overall and
is 4 minutes behind Voeckler, who retained the lead on Bastille
Day,  France ’s national holiday.  Sanchez took the polka-dot jersey from Johnny Hoogerland.
The Dutch rider carried on racing even after he needed 33
stitches on July 10 when a car veered into cyclists and he was
catapulted into a barbed wire fence.  Emotion  “It’s very emotional for me” to win the stage, Sanchez
told Eurosport with tears in his eyes, adding the victory could
help keep the Basque team in business.  Scores of fans waving Basque and Spanish flags cheered on
Sanchez during the final climb.  Earlier, Voeckler skidded and crashed into a car by the
roadside on a preliminary climb, La Hourquette d’Ancizan. After
stopping to change bikes, he caught up with his Europcar
teammates and finished in ninth place.  Jeremy Roy of Francaise des Jeux was first over the Col du
Tourmalet, overtaking Geraint Thomas of Team Sky near the top.
With temperatures at 6 degrees Centigrade (42 degrees
Fahrenheit) at the peak, some riders put on extra clothing or
stuffed newspaper into their jerseys before the descent to
protect against the wind chill.  Sanchez and Vanendert passed the leading duo with five
miles left and the Spaniard pulled away for the win with a few
hundred meters remaining.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  