-- 
HSBC Client Pleads Not Guilty to Filing False Returns to Tax Authorities

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-07-14T18:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/hsbc-client-pleads-not-guilty-to-filing-false-returns-to-tax-authorities.html
A  Wisconsin  neurosurgeon pleaded not
guilty to U.S. charges accusing him of filing false tax returns
that failed to declare an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  account in India
once valued at $8.7 million.  Arvind Ahuja appeared today in federal court in  Milwaukee ,
where he was indicted June 28 as part of a U.S. crackdown on
offshore tax evasion. U.S. Magistrate Judge Nancy Joseph
released him on a $5,000 cash bond, saying he needs court
permission to travel in the U.S. outside of eastern Wisconsin.  Ahuja is accused of filing false tax returns from 2006 to
2009 and of failing to file Reports of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts, or FBARs, for the same period. Prosecutors
said he failed to report more than $1.2 million in interest
income and pay taxes on those earnings.  The case is based on a “tenuous factual basis,” Dan K.
Webb, Ahuja’s attorney, said in an interview after the hearing.
He said HSBC didn’t give his client 1099 forms about his
interest income. Ahuja has one of the most prosperous
neurosurgery practices in the Midwest and made full payments to
the  Internal Revenue Service  when he learned of his mistake,
Webb said.  If convicted, Ahuja, who lives in Greendale, Wisconsin,
faces as long as 10 years in prison on the FBAR charges and
three years on the false tax return charges.  Aspen Home  Assistant U.S. Attorney Tracy Johnson argued that Ahuja, a
native of India and a naturalized U.S. citizen, has the means
and the motive to flee with his family. She also said his
suburban Milwaukee home is valued at $1.2 million and his summer
home in Aspen, Colorado, is worth $8.5 million.  “There is not a lot known about the defendant’s financial
status,” Johnson said. “He could have tens of millions in
accounts abroad.”  Webb told the judge, “There is no more chance that he will
return to  India  than he would go to the moon.”  The U.S. filed a civil action in April against London-based
HSBC, the largest European bank by assets, seeking information
about U.S. citizens who may have banked in India to hide
accounts from the Internal Revenue Service.  In April, a New Jersey businessman pleaded guilty to
conspiring with five HSBC bankers to hide his Indian accounts
from the IRS.  Prosecutors also have charged at least two dozen clients of
 UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, four UBS bankers, and five
bankers at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest
bank.  The case is U.S. v. Ahuja, 11-cr-00135, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 