-- 
Sberbank to Use Volksbank as Springboard for Turkey, East Europe Expansion

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-15T18:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sberbank-buys-volksbanken-s-eastern-european-unit-in-first-eu-venture.html
OAO Sberbank will use the
acquisition of Volksbanken International AG as a springboard to
expand into the former communist part of  Europe  and Turkey as it
seeks to become a “global bank,” Chief Executive Officer
German Gref said.  Russia ’s largest bank yesterday agreed on the “major
terms” of its purchase of  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s
assets across central and eastern Europe. Sberbank plans to use
the business as a platform for further acquisitions, Gref told
reporters in Moscow today.  “This is our first step in transforming Sberbank into a
global bank,” Gref said. Sberbank sees 5 percent to 7 percent
of its revenue coming from foreign operations by 2014, he added.  Sberbank agreed to buy VBI from Austria’s Volksbanken,
 Germany ’s DZ Bank AG and WGZ Bank AG, and French Groupe BPCE. It
plans to sign a purchase agreement by the end of July and close
the deal this year, Gref said. He declined to give the purchase
price. Sberbank will pay as much as 700 million euros ($1
billion) for the business, two people familiar with the
transaction said today.  Interest in  Turkey   Moscow-based Sberbank, which is owned by the state and
controls about half of retail deposits in Russia, is planning to
boost its international presence to diversify its sources of
revenue. Gref said that apart from the former Soviet satellite
states, he was “especially” interested in Turkey, one of
Europe’s fastest-growing banking markets. Sberbank isn’t
planning to expand into western Europe, he said.  Outside Russia the 170-year-old lender so far only has
operations in Belarus, Kazakhstan and  Ukraine , accounting for
just 2.3 percent of its revenue in the first quarter.  “Eastern Europe is over-saturated with large banks present
in the region so in order to break into this market it makes
sense for Sberbank to buy an existing player,” Leonid Slipchenko, a banking analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said
in a telephone interview. “From the point of view of
diversification this is a very reasonable acquisition target.”  Sberbank shares rose 1.1 percent to 105.56 rubles at the
6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, valuing the lender at 2.28 trillion
rubles ($80 billion).  Romania  Sale  VBI’s Romania unit, the lenders biggest, won’t be sold in
the deal, according to the statements. Stripping off Romania,
the group had total assets of 8.9 billion euros and 311 branches
with about 4,000 staff in nine markets at the end of 2010.  Volksbanken plans to sell the Romanian business as it makes
“little sense” to keep one sole unit in the region, Chief
Executive Officer Gerald Wenzel told reporters in Vienna.  VBI’s assets without Romania account for about 4 percent of
Sberbank’s, suggesting that “the price tag is not spine
breaking and the size of the acquisition is not something
Sberbank will need to put in significant managerial resource to
digest,” Alex Kantarovich, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
in Moscow said in an e-mailed report today.  VBI is focused on the mortgage business and on small and
medium-sized companies. Its biggest unit after Romania is the
Czech business with total assets of 2 billion euros and 45
branches. VBI is also present in  Hungary , Croatia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Serbia, Ukraine and Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Raising Cash  It doesn’t rank among the top five banks in any of its
large markets. Its main competitors will be Austria’s  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS) , Belgium’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   VBI swung to a loss in 2010 as bad-debt provisions soared
in its Romanian unit and the company posted a writedown of its
Ukraine business. Its net loss was 22.4 million euros last year,
compared with net income of 33.3 million euros a year earlier,
according to its  annual report .  Volksbanken,  Austria ’s fourth-biggest lender, put its 51
percent stake in VBI up for sale in December to raise money to
help repay 1 billion euros of state capital it received in 2009
amid the global financial crisis. It has to start paying back
the state aid this year to avoid a possible nationalization. It
is also seeking to sell a 5 percent stake in Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG for about 500 million euros.  Volksbanken today announced that it had failed this year’s
round of European Union stress tests after regulators found it
had insufficient capital. It said July 13 that the test had come
“too early” for its restructuring measures to show.  While UniCredit,  France ’s  Societe Generale  SA or Austria’s
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  have strong presence in Russia,
local lenders have not been expanding outside the former  Soviet
Union  in the past decade because domestic market offered
“opportunities for fast growth not found anywhere else,”
Vladimir Savov, a banking analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp,
said by e-mail.  Sberbank is being advised by Societe Generale and JPMorgan.
Volksbanken, DZ and WGZ are being advised by Ithuba Capital,
BPCE by Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  