-- 
Shaquille O’Neal Joins Turner Sports as NBA Studio Analyst After Retiring

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-14T16:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/shaquille-o-neal-joins-turner-sports-as-nba-studio-analyst-after-retiring.html
Shaquille O’Neal joined  Turner
Sports  as an analyst on its National Basketball Association
studio show, a month after the 15-time All-Star and four-time
champion retired as a player.  O’Neal will join Ernie Johnson, Kenny Smith and Charles Barkley in the studio and be part of All-Star Weekend and
playoff coverage,  Turner  said in a statement. He’ll also be a
contributor to NBA TV and  NBA.com .  “The guys are very, very fun over there,” O’Neal, 39,
said during a conference call. “I know it’s going to work very
well. We’ll all have our own point of view. Charles has the
forward’s point of view, Kenny was the guard and I’ll have the
center’s perspective.”  The 7-foot-1 O’Neal won two NBA scoring titles and was the
league’s active leader in points (28,596) and rebounds (13,099)
before retiring last month. He was also one of the NBA’s biggest
personalities during his 19-year playing career, giving himself
nicknames such as “The Big Aristotle,” a joking reference to
his size and philosophical musings.  Financial details of the multiyear agreement weren’t
disclosed. O’Neal said he was also pursued by  Walt Disney ’s ABC
and ESPN networks, which have coverage of the NBA Finals.  Development Deal  O’Neal’s agreement extends beyond sports, including a
development deal with Turner’s entertainment and animation
networks. O’Neal released four rap albums and headlined a pair
of ABC reality television shows, “Shaq’s Big Challenge” and
“Shaq Vs.” He starred in movies, including “Blue Chips” and
“Kazaam,” and has been a reserve police officer in  Los Angeles 
and Miami.  O’Neal averaged 23.7 points and 10.9 rebounds during his
NBA career while playing for the Orlando Magic,  Los Angeles
Lakers ,  Miami Heat ,  Phoenix Suns , Cleveland Cavaliers and Boston
Celtics.  “Shaq knows the game and, on and off the floor, he has
always been entertaining; a guy who gets it,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at  