-- 
Singapore’s Economy Shrank 7.8% in Second Quarter as Manufacturing Slumped

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-14T02:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/singapore-s-economy-shrank-last-quarter.html
Singapore ’s economy shrank for the
first time in three quarters as manufacturing slumped, adding to
evidence the slowdowns in  Europe  and the U.S. are curbing growth
in  Asia . The island’s currency weakened from a record.  Gross domestic product fell an annualized 7.8 percent in
the second quarter from the previous three months, when it
climbed a revised 27.2 percent, the trade ministry said today,
citing preliminary data. The median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for no growth.  Europe’s debt crisis and rising U.S. joblessness have
threatened demand for exports from Asia and wiped more than $2
trillion off stocks worldwide since the beginning of May.
 China ’s economic expansion eased in the second quarter and
 India ’s industrial production unexpectedly slowed in May,
reducing the scope for monetary policy tightening as regional
growth cools.  “The ongoing debt crisis in Europe and the very slow
recovery in the U.S. are the risk factors for the Singapore
economy,” said Chow Penn Nee, an economist at United Overseas
Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “With the slowing growth and easing
inflation, we are not expecting the Monetary Authority of
Singapore to move at the upcoming policy meeting.”  The Singapore dollar, the best performing Asian currency
after the South Korean won in the past year, traded at S$1.2176
against its U.S. counterpart at 10 a.m. today, paring gains
after climbing to a record S$1.2156 before the report. The
currency has reached unprecedented levels since the central bank,
which uses the  exchange rate  to manage inflation, said in April
it would allow further appreciation to tame price gains.  Currency Policy  Central banks in Australia and  Malaysia  have kept  interest
rates  unchanged this month to assess growth risks, even as China
and  Thailand  boosted borrowing costs.  Singapore’s GDP increased 0.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 1
percent gain in the Bloomberg News survey. The government
forecasts an expansion of 5 percent to 7 percent this year after
a record 14.5 percent pace in 2010.  The central bank, which tightened monetary policy for the
third time in a year in April, guides the local dollar against a
basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. Consumer prices
rose 4.5 percent in May compared with a 5.5 percent gain in
January, an easing that may encourage policy makers to hold off
on allowing faster currency gains in the October review.  ‘Bullish’ View  “Given inflation is showing signs of peaking, there is for
now less pressure on the MAS to tighten, given past
hawkishness,” said Perry Kojodjojo, a currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . April’s policy statement
“suggested a greater sense of caution over the tail risks to
growth and a desire to avoid excessive strength in the  Singapore
dollar . This suggests the hurdle for further tightening is much
higher than previously,” he said.  HSBC remains “bullish” on the Singapore dollar, Kojodjojo
said.  The city state, home to the world’s second-busiest
container port, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts financial services and tourism to reduce its reliance on
exports. The island located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait is among the first countries in
the region to report second-quarter data.  Manufacturing Slump  China’s economy , Singapore’s biggest single export market
in the five months through May, expanded 9.5 percent from a year
earlier last quarter after a 9.7 percent gain the previous three
months. Exports by Singapore companies such as electronics
manufacturing services provider Venture Corp. are predicted by
the government to grow in 2011 at less than half of last year’s
pace, when overseas shipments jumped the most since 2003.  Manufacturing fell 5.5 percent from a year earlier in the
three months ended June 30, after gaining 16.4 percent in
previous period.  Singapore’s services industry grew 3.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, after climbing a revised 7.6 percent in the
previous three months. The  construction industry  grew 1.6
percent, compared with a 2.4 percent increase in the first
quarter.  Companies from  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  to hotel operator
Shangri-La Asia Ltd. are benefitting from gains in tourism as
visitors arrive in record numbers, lured by the city’s two
casinos run by  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  and Las Vegas Sands Corp.  Singapore expects as many as 13 million tourists to visit
this year compared with 11.6 million in 2010, S. Iswaran, second
minister for trade and industry, said this week. Tourism
receipts are forecast to rise to S$22 billion ($18 billion) to
S$23 billion this year from about S$18.9 billion in 2010, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  