-- 
Sneijder Agrees to Salary Terms With Manchester Utd., Mail Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-14T09:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sneijder-agrees-to-salary-terms-with-manchester-utd-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Sneijder to Sign  Manchester United  may sign  Wesley Sneijder  for 35 million
pounds ($56.4 million) after agreeing to wage terms of about
190,000 pounds a week with the Inter Milan midfielder, the  Daily
Mail  reported.  Sneijder compromised on his initial demands of a 250,000-
pounds week and the Glazer family, which owns United, has
approved the fee for the 27-year-old as a replacement for the
retired  Paul Scholes , the Mail added.  Inter Acceptance  David Gill , United’s chief executive officer, met Inter
officials yesterday at a European Club Association meeting in
Zurich, where he outlined the Red Devils’ willingness to pay 35
million pounds for Sneijder, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Inter has accepted it can’t turn down such a lucrative
offer and United may lodge an official bid by the weekend, the
Mirror said.  Transfer Request  Luka Modric submitted a transfer request to try to force
through a move from Tottenham to Chelsea, the  Daily Telegraph 
 reported , citing sources in Croatia it didn’t identify.  Modric, 25, made the request after Spurs rejected Chelsea’s
latest offer of 27 million pounds, the Telegraph said. Tottenham
Chairman Daniel Levy is adamant that midfielder Modric isn’t for
sale at any price, the newspaper added.  City Spotlight  European soccer’s governing body will examine Manchester
City’s 400 million-pound sponsorship deal with Etihad Airways to
ensure it conforms to its Financial Fair Play regulations, the
Independent  reported .  City may have to prove that its Abu Dhabi owner is not
influenced by his half-brother, who chairs the emirate’s
national airline, the Independent said. UEFA rules stipulate
that a team will fail the “related party” test if money comes
in from a “close member” of the owner’s family who “has
significant influence over the club,” the newspaper added.  Coates Pursuit  City is considering adding a third defender to its squad
this offseason by joining the pursuit of Uruguay international
Sebastian Coates, the Guardian  reported .  City is said to have made an approach during the Copa
America, where Coates, 20, made his third senior appearance in
the final group game against  Mexico , the Guardian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  