-- 
Soccer Rule Book, Jane Austen’s Papers Fetch $3 Million

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-14T12:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/soccer-rule-book-jane-austen-s-papers-fetch-3-million-in-sotheby-s-sale.html
A  Jane Austen  manuscript and the
earliest set of club-soccer rules today fetched a total of $3
million, the top lots of a Sotheby’s auction in  London .  The original draft of Austen’s unfinished novel “The
Watsons” fetched 993,250 pounds ($1.6 million) with fees, three
times its presale high estimate of 300,000 pounds at hammer
prices. It sold to an unidentified buyer in the room after a
battle between four bidders in the 159-lot sale of English
literature and history.  Sheffield FC , a northern  England  team founded in 1857, was
selling the only known surviving copy of its 1859 printed
“Rules, Regulations, & Laws of the Sheffield Foot-Ball Club,”
as well as the original handwritten draft, dating from the
previous year. These items fetched 881,250 pounds.  The Austen manuscript is described by literary scholars as
having been written in 1804. The incomplete, extensively revised
and corrected text was the last major Austen manuscript left in
private hands.  Estimated by  Sotheby’s (BID)  at 800,000 pounds to 1.2 million
pounds, the soccer works sold to a telephone bidder, said the
New York-based auction house. There were two bidders. The
amateur side, which plays seven divisions below England’s
Premier League, has been recognized by world governing body  FIFA 
as the oldest club. Its rules were formulated at a meeting at a
local hotel.  The Sheffield rules describe a game played with the feet,
and refer to current elements of the game such as free kicks,
throw-ins, goalkicks and the crossbar. They also list
restrictions on handling the ball and “hacking or tripping”
opponents.  Sheffield Rules  The sport played today in many ways resembles its earlier
form, though Sheffield rules that allow “pushing with the
hands” are among those that have changed over the years.  Sheffield FC, which runs 27 teams, plans to use money to
improve its facilities and secure its future.  The Austen manuscript, consisting of 68 pages of text, last
appeared at auction in 1988, when it was sold by the British
Rail Pension Fund for 90,000 pounds. It is lacking the initial
10 leaves. The first six were sold at a Red Cross benefit sale
in 1915 and are now in the Pierpoint Morgan Library,  New York .  The abandoned fictional fragment tells the story of the
four daughters of a clergyman and their hunt for husbands in the
market towns of southern England. Austen’s first published novel
was “Sense and Sensibility,” printed in 1811.  None of the manuscripts of Jane Austen’s published novels
survives, apart from two draft chapters of “Persuasion.” These
are now in the British Library.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 