-- 
Sony Preparing New E-Book Reader to Challenge Amazon

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-14T20:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sony-preparing-improved-e-book-readers-in-challenge-to-amazon-s-kindle.html
Sony Corp. (SNE) ,  Japan ’s largest exporter
of consumer electronics, plans to introduce a line of upgraded
digital book readers in the U.S. as early as next month to
challenge Kindle maker  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   The current Sony Reader, now priced from $180 to $300, will
probably be offered with hardware and software improvements in
August, Phil Lubell, vice president of digital reading at Sony
Electronics, said yesterday in an interview in San Francisco.  The new products will be introduced to U.S. consumers
before Sony’s first tablet-computer models, which are scheduled
to go on sale later this year. The Tokyo-based company, whose
readers trail behind the Kindle and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook,
plans to continue its push to sell dedicated digital readers
because they are cheaper than tablets, Lubell said.  “Sony appears to be struggling to expand its e-reader
business as fast as it had originally planned,” said  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in  Tokyo .
The digital-book operation may be pressured further with the
introduction of tablets later this year, he said. “There are
some overlaps between tablets and e-readers.”  Sony’s American depositary receipts fell 33 cents to $26.73
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have dropped 25 percent this year, compared with a 4.1 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The number of Americans who own an electronic reader such
as Kindle doubled in the six months to May as college graduates
and adults in the highest income category choose the devices
over tablet computers, according to a survey by the Pew Research
Center.  Less Expensive  Twelve percent of those surveyed owned an e-reader in May,
up from 6 percent in November 2010, while 8 percent owned
tablets in May, up from 5 percent six months earlier.  The reason for the faster adoption of e-readers may be that
they are often less expensive than tablets, with the Kindle
starting at $114, compared with the iPad 2’s $499.  “We think there will still be a market for dedicated
readers as long as tablets remain in the $500 price range,”
Lubell said.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s cheapest iPad is 67 percent more expensive
than Sony’s high-end reader.  Sony also plans to incorporate its online book store and
e-book technology into its two tablet-computer models, code-
named S1 and S2, later this year as part of a group of Sony
multimedia applications, Lubell said.  Tablet Latecomer  As a latecomer to the tablet market, Sony is betting on
Google Inc.’s Android operating system to help it compete in the
fastest-growing segment of the computer industry. The company
plans to differentiate its products from rival Android-equipped
devices made by Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. by adding the ability to download
PlayStation Suite games, movies and music from its subscription
services, Phil Molyneux, president of Sony Electronics, told
reporters yesterday in  San Francisco .  Sony may price its two tablets -- one clamshell-style with
dual 5.5-inch screens and the other with a 9.4-inch touchscreen
-- higher than some rival products, he said, without
elaborating.  Sony, which expects the global tablet-computer market to
reach annual sales of 50 million to 60 million units this year
and 70 million to 80 million in 2012, is also considering
developing a model with three-dimensional display, the company
said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  