-- 
South Africa Steel, Engineering Workers Mull Pay Offer as Strike Continues

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-14T11:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/south-africa-steel-engineering-workers-mull-pay-offer-as-strike-continues.html
Open-cast mines in  South Africa  may
run short of gasoline within a few days if a strike by fuel
workers that started on July 11 continues, the Chamber of Mines
said today.  Open-cast miners “usually keep a week’s worth of fuel in
stock, so most should be able to last that long,” Dick Kruger,
an assistant adviser at the Johannesburg-based chamber said by
phone today. “If the strike drags on, then problems can really
develop.”  South Africa’s annual round of wage talks threatens to
trigger a wave of strikes this year. The action by members of
the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Products
Union has led to fuel shortages at more than 150 gas stations in
Gauteng Province, the country’s most-populous, and 50 in
KwaZulu-Natal, the Fuel Retailers’ Association said today. The
union didn’t answer calls.  Workers in the steel and engineering industry will today
consider a revised pay offer from employers as a strike in the
industry enters its 11th day, a union official said.  “We can’t disclose what those proposals are because talks
are now at a sensitive stage,” Irvin Jim, the secretary general
of the National Union Metalworkers of South Africa, or  Numsa ,
said by phone today. The union will hold meetings with its
320,000 members to discuss the offer, he said.  Calls to the Steel and Engineering Industries Federation of
South Africa, which represents employers in the industry,
weren’t immediately answered.  The  National Union of Mineworkers  said in an e-mailed
statement that wage talks had deadlocked and it was “heading
for a strike,” while the state-owned South African Broadcasting
Corp. today said municipal workers may also take strike action
as soon as next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 