-- 
Spotify’s Ek Wins Over Music Pirates With Labels’ Approval

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-14T14:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/spotify-wins-over-music-pirates-with-labels-approval-correct-.html
“You have to find another job.”  Per Sundin’s concerned mother was on the phone. It was the
summer of 2006, and both Sundins were watching a debate between
Sweden’s two major party candidates for prime minister.  Earlier that year, police in  Stockholm  had confiscated
servers and questioned the founders of The Pirate Bay, a file
sharing site that had been ignoring increasingly piqued letters
from the American entertainment industry.  Media piracy had become a campaign issue in Sweden, which
according to Harvard University’s  Berkman Center  for Internet &
Society is second only to  Japan  in speed, price and availability
of broadband access. The moderator asked the candidates how they
felt about file sharing. Both agreed that piracy was too easy,
and that it didn’t make sense to criminalize an entire
generation of music lovers, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its July 18 issue.  It had been a bad couple of years for Sundin, who runs
 Universal Music Group  in  Sweden . Revenue consistently fell
10 percent a year. He was firing employees. He asked friends
whether they or their children downloaded; no one had a problem
with taking music for personal use. “But that,” he would say,
“is what we do!”  “We thought you’d always need a CD,” he says. Sundin, to
be sure, fought to punish music piracy; he’s almost sheepish
about that now. “We went through an evolution,” he says. “The
consumers went through a revolution.”  Worldwide revenue for the recording industry peaked in 1999
at $27 billion, according to the  International Federation of the
Phonographic Industry . By 2008 it had plummeted to $14 billion.  Spotify Is Born  That year,  Universal Music , EMI Group Ltd.,  Sony Music
Entertainment , Warner Music Group and Merlin, which represents
independent labels, each agreed to an experiment: They would
give their entire catalogs to a Swedish startup run by Daniel Ek, who was then 25 years old and had no experience in the  music
industry .  That company, Spotify Ltd., entered seven European markets
and began giving out invites to listen to 13 million songs, on
demand, for free. “We had to try everything,” Sundin says.  At the time, the industry was pressing European countries
to write laws in line with a European Union directive to stiffen
civil enforcement of intellectual-property rights. Record labels
had to win not only in court but also among the public.  Sundin saw a demo of Spotify and laid out the case to his
bosses in  London . “To get legislators on our side,” he
explained, “we need services for the kids.”  “This can’t be true,” he says he thought after the demo.
“It can’t be this good.”  Daniel Ek  Spotify’s Ek is 28 now, just old enough to have seen a
slide projector and just young enough that he feels he needs to
explain how a slide projector works. He is tall and akimbo-
limbed, built like someone who spent his youth in front of a
computer. Today’s polo shirt, worn above creatively stressed
jeans, is green. Tomorrow’s will be red. A felt hat with ear
flaps sits on his desk, a gift from a friend. He wore it once,
he says, in an internal meeting. To show he meant business.  While a glass-enclosed corner has been allotted to Ek, he
instead sits in an open-plan cluster with Spotify’s chief
technology officer, general manager for  Europe , vice president
for growth, and chief product officer, an arrangement he adopted
from Facebook Inc. He says “Mark” sometimes, as in
“Zuckerberg,” then blushes at the informality, and he’s quick
to point out that they aren’t particularly close.  Convenience Versus Piracy  Ek doesn’t invest in other companies, doesn’t like to go to
conferences and until now has avoided profiles. Startup stories
need megalomaniacs, and he’s wary of being trapped in that role.
He isn’t shy or insecure; he’s Swedish. The entire country
treats its accomplishments the way people who went to Harvard
University talk about college: faintly embarrassed that you
might see their pride.  Ek likes to say that to succeed, any music service needs to
be more convenient than piracy. Spotify is. You open an account.
You download a program. And you can listen to any one of
15 million tracks, the result of two years of negotiations with
the world’s music conglomerates that began, says Ek, rubbing the
wisp and stubble that covers his head, back when he had hair.  Spotify is slick, intuitive, and fast; it can instantly
serve “Graceland” to a phone resting in your shirt pocket on a
highway in  North Carolina  at 1 a.m. In Europe, if you want to
listen longer than 10 hours a month, avoid ads, or move offline
with a music player, you pay a subscription fee that comes to
about $15 a month. According to the company, 1.5 million
Europeans already do.  Spotify Comes to U.S.  Spotify, serving just seven countries, has become the
second-biggest digital retailer in Europe after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes, according to the IFPI. It arrives in America today,
after more than a year of negotiations with  record companies .
The streaming service will be available by invitation and
through subscription. People familiar with both companies say a
Spotify music sharing function on Facebook is in the works.  Spotify plans to repeat its European compromise between
cool and revenues. To seed the market, Spotify will invite a
beta crowd to stream for free, unlimited and with
advertisements, for six months. Everyone else can listen up to
10 hours per month free of charge, after which Spotify will
offer two tiers: $5 a month to listen without ads on your
desktop, $10 to go mobile.  In an e-mail, Irving Azoff, executive chairman of Beverly
Hills, California-based  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the
world’s largest entertainment company, writes: “Spotify is
going to be a great resource for artists and the music
industry.” Azoff also manages Christina Aguilera. “It’s
refreshing,” he writes, “to finally see emerging companies get
a chance to change a broken playing field.”  Spotify’s Financing  According to filings obtained by ComputerSweden, a
Stockholm-based magazine about the IT industry, Spotify was
created with 12 million euros ($17 million) in venture capital
from Creandum and from Northzone, both based in Stockholm. After
the European introduction in 2009, Wellington Partners, a
venture fund, contributed 7 million euros, and  Li Ka-shing , the
Hong Kong magnate and world’s 11th-richest man, kicked in
20 million euros. Based on Wellington’s stake, the round left
Spotify with a valuation of 170 million euros.  After the round closed, Ek received an unsolicited e-mail
from  Sean Parker , the co-founder of music service Napster Inc.,
telling him what was wrong with his service. The two began a
correspondence.  “For the first time,” says Ek, “someone had thought
about this more than I have.”  Access to Capital  Parker introduced him to  Peter Thiel , the co-founder of
PayPal Inc., and to money from Thiel’s Founders Fund. This June,
Spotify confirmed for Bloomberg Businessweek that it had taken
on capital from  Accel Partners , DST Global Solutions Ltd., and
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. At Davos this year, British
Prime Minister  David Cameron , describing how big ideas flourish
in free societies, offered two examples: Facebook and Spotify.  Rich men and prime ministers have been wrong before.
Spotify plays music from a large catalog on demand; in this
respect, it’s no different from the Rhapsody music service or
the relaunched Napster, two companies that have failed to
generate the same excitement. ITunes organizes what you already
own and lets you buy more. Cloud services from Apple,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  make it easier to take what you own
with you.  If Spotify is special, it’s because Ek is obsessed. He
wants to reduce continually the time between click and sound, to
erase the distinctions between what everyone else is doing.  Local Cache  Technically, Spotify combines a local cache, peer-to-peer
sharing, and traditional streaming; all consumers notice is that
it happens immediately, that it feels like you’ve got it all on
your hard drive.  Small improvements in convenience can make a huge
difference online. The market for podcasts didn’t take off until
Apple started accepting them in iTunes. Facebook Inc. did what
blogs were already doing -- just cleaner, faster, and with less
setup time. On a bus in Stockholm, Alexander and Stephanie, both
teenagers, stop kissing long enough to answer a question: How do
they listen to music? They share a Spotify account; she listens
on a Sony Ericsson handset, he on an iPhone.  “It’s easier,” says Alexander, “it doesn’t take any
time. There are no files, but it feels like I own it.”  ABBA Room  Ek’s 300-person company shows all the signs of a third
round of funding. In Stockholm, Spotify has abandoned its place
above a coffee shop for three floors of a gray modernist cube on
the Birger Jarlsgatan, some of the city’s most expensive retail
property. Glass-lined conference rooms have been named for
Swedish musicians: ABBA, of course; and Petter, one of the first
Swedish-language rap artists. Bean bags and a “Beatles: Rock
Band” kit rest unloved in a corner. (Two twentysomethings, at
least, are playing foosball.)  Spotify is growing, fast; Ek wandered into the canteen one
afternoon to discover that he had hired his own brother.  Spotify is entering a market that’s overdue for a change.
According to IFPI, America’s labels haven’t seen more than
2 percent growth in digital revenue since 2008. And digital
provides a much greater percentage of revenue in the U.S. than
in European markets, in most cases by a factor of two. The
company points to a Billboard analysis of the same IFPI data
that shows that digital revenue in the European countries with
Spotify last year was more than three times that in countries
without, a trend that began after the service was introduced.
But differences in the way Americans and Europeans pay for music
online point to a cultural hurdle.  Digital Sales  In 2010, close to 80 percent of the labels’ $2 billion in
digital revenue in the U.S. came from the sale of tracks and
albums, or, more simply put, iTunes. This is the same basic
transaction as with an Edison cylinder: Give us your money once
and you may have our sound forever.  In Sweden, album and track sales together provide only
20 percent of the country’s $38 million in digital revenue;
60 percent comes from streaming. Privately, industry executives
say the streaming is all Spotify. You can buy albums for keeps
from within the service. Even so, paid downloads increased
28 percent in Sweden the year Spotify was introduced.  The revenue isn’t catching up to on-demand streams. In
Stockholm, no one brings a laptop or a hard drive to a party
anymore. They just log in to Spotify. Americans own their music;
Swedes rent it. For 100 years, the recording industry has traded
one durable good for another, and the need to store it all has
defined habits, courting, and home design. In Sweden, this era
is slipping away.  Spotify Playlists  If Spotify gets what it wants, your records will no longer
define you. Your playlists will. To know whether Spotify will
make it in America, you need only ask yourself: Do you still
need your collection?  Ek, naturally, holds that you do not. “Spotify has
13 million songs,” he says. Nod. “By any measurement, that’s
huge.” Nod. “The problem is that this doesn’t mean anything to
you. You were saying, mmm hmm, like there’s nothing amazing
about it, and I agree.”  “But if I told you that we have your library, with all the
songs you love, that you put effort into, your playlists, your
honeymoon playlists, your friend’s wedding playlist, or 20, 30
years from now, this is my Sweden playlist from when I visited
this wacky Daniel character.”  “The promise is this,” he continues. “Once you’ve
invested in building that library, that’s value.”  It’s also, he says, what people ultimately are prepared to
pay for. Spotify has allowed other companies to build tools to
import playlists, including from iTunes, and export them as
well. To create the universal playlist standard, Spotify has to
overcome a problem: Any single song by the same artist can have
more than one product number  Keeping Track of Tracks  Ek offers the example of The Police’s “Roxanne,” which
can show up on a greatest hits album, a movie soundtrack, a
remaster, and the original album, “Outlandos D’Amour.” Ek
wants every song to have a universal resource indicator, or URI,
a way for any site or app to call up a unique item on the
Internet. “The URI,” he says, “becomes the new MP3. Or the
URL. I haven’t made up my mind yet.”  Ek always thought he’d be a musician. He grew up in
Ragsved, a cluster of three-story row houses on a hill 20 miles
south of Stockholm. He drummed with knitting needles on a
lampshade at two. He cried when Kurt Cobain died. When he was
five, his mother and stepfather bought him a Commodore Vic 20,
which was soon replaced by a Commodore 64. If you were born
after the Baby Boom and mess with computers, the C 64 carries
the fetish value of a first-press of “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely
Hearts Club Band.” One C 64 now sits in the Spotify office in
Stockholm, awaiting assembly.  Networking at 10  By the time Ek was 10, in 1993, his stepfather had
retrained as an electrical engineer, and the two strung a local
network at home with coaxial cable. Ek used the Internet, he
says, to cheat on games while playing against friends in other
rooms of the house.  When Ek was 14 he taught himself HTML, began undercutting
design firms to build websites for local companies, hired his
friends to code for him, then hired them to do his homework,
too. He kept the servers in his closet and would hang up wet
clothes to dry in the heat they gave off. Ek estimates he was
making about $5,000 a month.  Web Hosting Business  Ek studied computer science at the Royal Institute of
Technology in Stockholm until he found that he disliked math. He
sold his Web hosting business in 2002 and started new companies
until he ran out of money. In 2005, Index Ventures, a venture
capitalist, approached him with a Finnish website run by a woman
who drew paper dolls. She was unemployed and had attracted so
many viewers she couldn’t pay her bandwidth bills. He came on as
CTO, hired engineers from his failed ventures, took the site to
10 million users, and left. Now called Stardoll, it attracts an
audience of 100 million girls who assemble virtual outfits.  In 2006, Ek became CEO of uTorrent, now the most popular
client for BitTorrent Inc., which has the standard protocol for
sharing files. UTorrent and BitTorrent are perfectly legal; the
files shared through them aren’t always. Ludvig Strigeus, who
created uTorrent, served as chief architect of the Spotify beta.
Around the same time, Ek shared an idea with Martin Lorenzton,
who had bought one of Ek’s companies for 1 million euros.  Ek’s idea: Anyone should be able, legally, to listen
instantly to any song at any time. Lorenzton suggested the two
men start a company. According to the filing obtained by
ComputerSweden, they retain a controlling interest in Spotify.  ‘Not Possible’  Ek reached out to a contact in the music industry and asked
what he would need to do to make his idea legal. (That Spotify
asked first was an important selling point for the labels, which
had grown tired of the beg-forgiveness approach.) “What you’re
asking for,” his contact said, “is not possible.” Will it
take three weeks? “It will take six months.” It took two
years.  Ek can code, but it’s not his passion. His central skill
lies in talking other people into doing what he needs them to.
His stepfather, he says, pulled cable for Spotify’s first
office. Daniel Ek is a Tom Sawyer: He finds fences that need
painting, and he gets the world to pick up a brush.  Per Sundin, for one, is painting furiously. “I used to
wake up and go straight to the charts,” he says. “Now I go to
Spotify analytics.”  Major Labels Stakes  Spotify pays labels an undisclosed percentage on every
stream, and each of the four major labels has purchased a share
in the company; according to the ComputerSweden filing, the
stakes are between 2 percent and 6 percent each. Merlin, which
handles transactions for smaller labels, owns 1 percent.  In addition to subscription and ad revenue and a share of
the growth, the recording industry gets something from Spotify
it craves: data.  Without Spotify, labels know only when an album is sold. If
a CD is ripped for a friend or borrowed for a party, they know
nothing. Spotify gives them a record, by location, age and
gender, of every single time a track is played. Jay-Z used to
think he was big in London, based on U.K. album sales; it turns
out he’s big in Manchester.  Spotify has discovered that radio plays -- on real,
terrestrial, electromagnetic spectrum -- still drive interest in
artists, as do Sweden’s summer talk shows. Sundin has a Spotify
chart tracking Rihanna and Lady Gaga over seven weeks. Both show
a bump on Friday and a spike on Saturday. They are weekend
artists. Spotify knows when your party plays Gaga.  “We know now,” says Sundin, “that the ROI on TV
commercials doesn’t work.”  Outreach to 15- to 30-year-old female bloggers does. Hits
and stars are still important, he says. For albums -- both CDs
and MP3s -- revenue spikes with the release, then trails off,
then disappears.  Spotify Ratchets Sales  On Spotify, whenever an artist appears on a talk show or
releases a single, plays of her entire catalog increase on
Spotify, then plateau at a higher level. Albums follow a bell
curve. Spotify is a ratchet, a step function. “LOP,” Sundin
says, “life of product, it used to be six months. Now it’s 10
years.”  Spotify provides much more revenue for Universal in Sweden
than iTunes, and the kroner per stream is following a linear
path upward. In a meeting set up by Spotify, Mark Dennis,
Sundin’s counterpart at Sony, explains the same ratchet effect.  Dennis says the industry has had a hard time understanding
that, as streaming takes hold, the way it makes money will
change. Labels get an immediate payout when an album is
purchased by stores. Spotify provides only slow growth. “It’s
hard for people to grasp,” Dennis says. “Would you rather have
a million dollars now or over time?”  ‘It Was Working’  Like Sundin, Dennis says he trusted his business to Spotify
because “it was working.” This alone was significant; Dennis
had seen his share of streaming ventures. He, too, pleaded with
his bosses in London for a Spotify license.  “This is where we’re headed,” he told them. “It’s just
such a seamless experience, a gateway into a legal environment.
If the service is good enough, they’ll pay.”  Spotify does something strange to music executives: It
makes them preach like the converted. “You show Spotify to
anyone,” says Dennis, “they become a believer.”  While Sweden’s independent labels never needed to be
converted, they are now more guarded about Spotify.  “I was downloading myself to start with, of course,”
says Magnus Bjerkert, head of Adrian Recordings. “I wasn’t ever
mad. The listeners were there.”  Smaller companies found themselves at odds with the Big
Four. In 2007, Bjerkert’s label released work from the band
Familjen on The Pirate Bay; that year Familjen won a Swedish
Grammy. People in the recording industry told Bjerkert he was
cheating.  Not Black and White  “Sundin was like, we need to find and sue everyone who’s
downloading,” Bjerkert says of the Universal executive. “We
were saying maybe it’s not so black and white. Now he kind of
agrees that he was wrong.”  Bjerkert’s artists begged him to get on Spotify, and it’s
now such an essential part of his work that he finds it
difficult to communicate with countries that don’t have it; he
can’t just send them a link.  From his perspective, though, Spotify has maintained the
traditional power relationships between large and small labels.
And it lacks transparency. He and several other independent
labels suspect that their payouts per stream are lower than for
the Big Four; if true, this would put them at a disadvantage
when signing new artists.  Independent Labels  When asked about this discrepancy, Spotify doesn’t deny it.
Instead it points out independent labels are a “crucial” part
of its service and that it has them paid millions of euros.
Martin Thörnkvist, of the label Songs I Wish I Had Written,
suggests that the major labels’ back catalogs lend bargaining
power.  “There’s the long tail of more obscure music,” he says,
“but Elton John’s getting paid for ‘Yellow Brick Road,’ too.”
Spotify works only with a complete catalog.  The major labels have a bigger piece of pie to offer.
Daniel Ek hasn’t changed absolutely everything.  Malmo lies on Sweden’s West Coast, by train six hours of
gently stunning farmland away from Stockholm. Malmo is also home
of Peter Sunde, a co-founder of The Pirate Bay. He is currently
appealing a judgment of about $3.5 million, after a trial in
which Per Sundin, head of Universal, served as a witness for the
prosecution. Sunde suggests a meeting at a vegan restaurant. The
chef, a friend, has a tattoo of the logo of the Commodore 64 on
his forearm.  Pirate Bay  The Pirate Bay started as one of many file sharing sites,
then distinguished itself mostly by ignoring threatening cease-
and-desist letters from the American entertainment industry. As
other sites around the world buckled, traffic increased.  Each time a new site shut down, The Pirate Bay would see a
spike in downloads for Swedish language courses; meant at first
for a domestic audience, it was originally run in Swedish. The
2006 raid on its servers only provided a blast of public
relations; the site was back up in days, and traffic increased a
hundredfold. The trial made the founders into folk heroes.  “People were getting tattoos of pirate ships,” says
Sunde. “We were getting one or two e-mails a week with photos -
- ‘Look, I have a tattoo, can I get a T-shirt?’ People were
buying me drinks. And I don’t drink.”  Pirates and Laws  Leif Dahlberg, who teaches communications at the Royal
Institute of Technology, wrote a paper this year for the journal
Law and Literature looking at how pirates, real and
metaphorical, shape laws. The Greek origin of the word
“pirate,” he writes, means both a sea pirate and “one who
attempts.” Pirates patrol fluid spaces, where there are no
laws; the Romans turned the Mediterranean Sea into Mare Nostrum,
Our Sea, by ridding it of pirates. A nation establishes rule,
laws are codified, and disputes become legal, not political.  The distinction between what is public and private property
on the Internet is still fluid and undefined, according to
Dalhberg. It is both legal and political. The Pirate Bay turned
a legal process into a political movement; by refusing to give
in, it created space for public opinion to change, for laws to
bend. Per Sundin was open to Spotify only because an entire
country came to believe that downloading was just. He knew, and
argued to his bosses, that he had been forced into a compromise;
he couldn’t plead for stricter laws unless he gave something in
return. Mark Dennis at Sony spoke of bringing people “back into
legality.”  Pay for Convenience  An entire generation had rejected the idea of ownership;
Sony needed them to pay for something. If not files, maybe they
would pay for convenience. Without The Pirate Bay, there is no
Spotify.  “I want to replicate my first experience with piracy,”
says Daniel Ek. His time on Napster has informed many of the
decisions he’s made with Spotify.  As a teenager, Ek would find someone on Napster with
similar taste and copy an entire library. He discovered Ella Fitzgerald. “The world,” he says, “opened up.” Sharing
playlists is still the only real social function within Spotify.  “Napster, as a service, worked for the consumer,” he
says. “What eventually killed it was that it didn’t work for
the people participating with the content. The challenge here is
about solving both of those things.”  200 Milliseconds  Spotify owes a more direct technical debt to file sharing:
The very technology that makes it so fast is borrowed from
techniques honed while sharing pirated files. Both Ek and,
later, two of his engineers say that once you click a button,
anything that happens within 200 milliseconds seems directly
under your control. To beat 200 milliseconds, Spotify runs not
as a Web service but as an application on your computer.
(According to Ek, the local application allows the company to
supply labels with more granular data than other streaming
services as well.)  Songs you listen to often on Spotify sit, encrypted, on
your hard drive. The application looks first for these; if it
doesn’t find them, it pulls down 15 seconds of the song from the
closest server while it looks for copies of the rest of the song
on the hard drives of other users near you. This is file
sharing. It increases speed and lowers the demand on central
servers by spreading it among several connections. Spotify and
The Pirate Bay don’t just share a country; they share an
operating system.  In the late 1980s, Paul Goldstein was consulting for the
 Recording Industry Association of America  when an executive
began to wax about a “celestial jukebox”: a satellite in low-
earth orbit, packed with every version of every song ever
performed, ready to drop at the hour of need to the ears bent
skyward of anyone who asked. This, all for a very real nickel.  ‘Celestial Jukebox’  Goldstein included it in the title of a book about
copyright in 1994. It’s such a pleasant idea that it’s since
been attributed to several people, among them Edgar Bronfman Jr., now head of Warner Music Group, and David Bowie.  Goldstein can’t remember who said it. He has since asked
around, and no one can tell him who thought of it first. The
celestial jukebox sprang, evidently, from the fondest, innermost
wish of the recording industry.  In 2005, Siva Vaidhyanathan declared that the celestial
jukebox had arisen. Vaidhyanathan, a well-respected specialist
on Internet law who now teaches at the University of Virginia,
said that counter to Goldstein’s book, listeners would not have
to cede control entirely to the record labels.  The Internet, he said, is the celestial jukebox. If he was
right, Spotify has a problem: Something free is a perennial
threat to something paid for.  Online Theft  Yet theft, in life and online, carries a time cost. It
takes time to learn how to use file sharing programs such as
BitTorrent. Search results are inconsistent. The sites that
quasi-legally share music files regularly disappear. These costs
may seem minor, particularly for the young, for whom time is a
currency freely given, but time costs increase with age. And
even the young are sensitive to them.  For Universal in Sweden, Bon Jovi’s “Greatest Hits” sold
25 physical or digital albums for every album-length play on
Spotify. For Lady Gaga’s latest recording, that ratio drops to
three sales for every Spotify play. For Taio Cruz, the Bon Jovi
ratio has inverted: there are 4.5 Spotify album plays for every
album sold. (“I showed this to the manager of Taio,” says
Sundin. “He loved this.”)  Taio Cruz  If you don’t know who Taio Cruz is, that’s precisely the
point: It’s the kids, formerly the most likely to steal, who are
most likely to use Spotify. It brought them in from the cold.  Easy, legal, and comprehensive: Each of these would be
impossible without the labels’ cooperation. They dreamed up the
celestial jukebox, and it has now ascended to the heavens over
Sweden because they allowed it to. The Internet can make music
available; only the labels can make availability convenient.  Tucked in this year’s Recording Industry in Numbers from
IFPI is a hopeful full-page diagram labeled “The Evolution of
Music Services.” Step One: “Online Downloading, your music
library on your computer.” Step Two: “Online Streaming, from
ownership to access.”  Ek says that when he began shopping the Spotify beta around
to labels, he needed to fill it with something, so the staff
pooled its pirated music to fill the database. “We’re
Swedish,” he says, “so we’d already taken it.” Hearing this
anecdote, Sundin winces, places his hands over his ears, and
looks at his desk. “I don’t want to know this,” he says.  Flatbed Trucks  Stockholm in June smells like a bar. For two weeks
graduating high school students charter fleets of flatbed
trucks, load them up with sound systems, potted trees, pallets
of beer, and their half-naked selves. The trucks drive around
the city, and the grads lip-synch and fling booze at anyone who
stands too close. They sing and drink to fend off age and
winter, and the rest of Stockholm ignores them.  Gathered in front of a metro station on the Birger
Jarlsgatan are Alex, 18, and five of his friends. They are wet
from the ride. Do they use Spotify?  “Of course,” they say. Exclusively? Of course. “Well,”
says Alex, “we use Spotify to find music. Then we go download
it somewhere else for free.”  When Ek hears this story, he smiles. “Yeah,” he says,
“that happens too.”  Ek has time. The kids will pay, someday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  