-- 
Stress-Test Magic Makes Greece’s Bust Disappear: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/stress-test-magic-makes-greece-s-bust-disappear-jonathan-weil.html
Better disclosure is no substitute
for bad accounting. Europe’s lords of finance are going to give
it a try anyway.  Tomorrow, the European Banking Authority plans to release
its latest  stress-test  results for 91 banks in 21 countries. The
good news for investors who believe in transparency is that the
 reports  will disclose how much sovereign debt each lender held
on its books at the end of last year, by country and maturity.
The reports will also include detailed breakdowns of the banks’
sovereign-related derivative positions.  It’s a different story when it comes to measuring the
 capital cushion  each bank has on hand to protect against future
losses. The stress tests’ designers are letting the banks value
the vast majority of their sovereign-debt holdings based on what
they hope to be paid eventually, rather than those assets’
market values. That’s just like last year’s widely ridiculed
tests, regardless of the growing likelihood that  Greece , Ireland
or  Portugal  will default.  By coupling the presumably inflated stress-test scores with
the data dump of new disclosures, Europe’s banking regulators in
essence are telling the world’s investors: “Do it yourself.” A
confidential document prepared by European Union officials
offers a sneak preview of what the reaction might be.  “We expect the market will conduct its own calculations
very soon after publication of the results,” said the draft EU
report, obtained by Bloomberg News reporter Meera Louis. “There
is a general expectation that the EBA stress test results will
be challenged by market tests based on the additional
disclosures and addressing the perceived weaknesses in the
design of the test. The risks for financial stability,” it
said, “should not be underestimated.”  Making Jokes  One reason for the new disclosures is that last year’s
European stress tests were rightly perceived as a joke. Bank of
Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks Plc  passed  them, shortly
before they collapsed.  This time investors at least will have a chance to try to
figure out which institutions don’t have as much capital in real
life as  Europe ’s banking regulators are giving them credit for.
No doubt, this weekend will be a busy one for many professional
number crunchers.  The exam results will include a review of how well lenders’
capital cushions would withstand a 0.5 percent economic
contraction in the euro area this year, a 15 percent drop in
European equity markets, as well as possible losses on sovereign
debt classified as trading assets on banks’ balance sheets.  Truth in Labeling  The trick is that the bulk of the banks’ sovereign-debt
holdings aren’t labeled as trading assets. Instead they are part
of what the regulators call “ banking book ” assets, meaning
they are valued on the assumption that the bonds will be held
until they mature and the banks will be paid in full. Trading
assets, by contrast, must be marked to market values each
quarter with changes flowing through to profits and losses.  The European Banking Authority’s stress tests aren’t
requiring banks to take haircuts on their banking-book assets --
you know, things like Greek or Portuguese bonds, which no one
believes are worth anywhere near face value. Some banks surely
will be deemed healthier than they really are. Investors can
read the disclosures and judge for themselves.  Even this is more than some bankers can stomach. “Given
the tense situation which already exists in money and capital
markets, we believe publishing the results with the present
level of detail would exacerbate the sovereign-debt crisis,”
the ZKA Central Credit Committee, representing  Germany ’s banking
associations, wrote in a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “To avoid further capital market turmoil, which would fly
totally in the face of what the stress test was actually
intended to achieve, we believe the level of detail needs to be
significantly reduced.”  Start Wondering  To the German bankers’ point, you do have to wonder what
the banking authority is trying to accomplish here. When the
U.S. conducted its stress tests of large banks in 2009, the goal
was to restore investor confidence so they could raise capital
again. Although the U.S. tests were widely criticized at the
time as too soft, they did succeed in that crucial respect.  In Europe, the data in the sovereign-debt disclosures could
wind up undermining the credibility of the test results. Think
about it: How’s it going to look if a bank passes with flying
colors, even though the disclosures about its bond portfolio
make it obvious that the bank is insolvent? If the regulators
believe the information is important, shouldn’t they be
factoring all of it into their test results? And if they don’t
think it matters, why are they releasing it publicly?  This isn’t an argument against the additional disclosures.
Transparency for its own sake is a public good. The problem with
the stress tests is they don’t go far enough.  Relegating the rot on a lender’s balance sheet to the
equivalent of a footnote doesn’t make the bank stronger. Instead
the exercise demonstrates that Europe’s leaders still lack the
political will to fully address the region’s debt problems. The
sooner they come to grips with reality, the better.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 