-- 
Sudan Signs Peace Deal With Darfur Rebel Faction, Excluding Biggest Group

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-14T15:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sudan-signs-peace-deal-with-darfur-rebel-faction-excluding-biggest-group.html
The Sudanese government and a rebel
faction from Darfur signed a peace agreement that didn’t include
the biggest insurgent movement from the western region.  The agreement between President Umar al-Bashir’s government
and the Liberation and Justice Movement was signed today in
Doha, Qatar, in a ceremony broadcast by  Sudan  TV. The biggest
rebel faction in Darfur, the  Justice and Equality Movement ,
refused to sign the accord.  Al-Bashir has been indicted by the  International Criminal
Court  for responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur.
He denies the charges.  “This deal will not bring a final lasting peace in Darfur,
because it is not inclusive,”  Fouad Hikmat , the special adviser
on Sudan at the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , said
today by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. “The government
will view those who didn’t sign as spoilers, this means the
government’s military solution will continue.”  Insurgents in Darfur took up arms in 2003, accusing the
government of neglecting the region. The conflict has led to the
deaths of as many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness and
starvation, and forced about 2.7 million to flee their homes,
according to  United Nations  estimates. The Sudanese government
has put the death toll at about 10,000.  “This peace agreement today doesn’t deal with the real
grievances of Darfur’s population, doesn’t offer solutions for
the region’s problems and it gives a green light to al-Bashir’s
government to commit more war crimes and crimes against humanity
in Darfur,” Gibreel Adam Bilal, JEM’s spokesman, said today by
phone from Doha.  The accord doesn’t resolve how displaced populations will
be able to return to their homes or how they will be
compensated, Bilal said. It also doesn’t provide details on how
wealth and power will be shared in the country or provide
guarantees of people’s rights and freedoms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 