-- 
Sugar Falls Most in Eight Weeks on Brazil Crop Outlook; Coffee, Cocoa Drop

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-07-14T18:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sugar-falls-most-in-seven-weeks-as-brazil-crop-concerns-ease-coffee-drops.html
Sugar fell the most in eight weeks
on signs that production in  Brazil , the world’s biggest grower,
will be higher than some analysts expected. Coffee and cocoa
retreated.  The sugar industry group Unica cut its output forecast for
the Center South, Brazil’s largest producing region, by 2.2
million metric tons to 32.4 million. Analysts expected at least
a 3 million-ton reduction due, said  Jack Scoville , a vice
president for Price Futures Group Inc. Before today, prices rose
24 percent in the past month on supply concerns.  “The production estimates show the situation is not as bad
as people were expecting,” Scoville said in a telephone
interview from  Chicago . “Production in other parts of the world
seems strong. Bears keep pointing to increased supplies around
the world as a reason to see futures move lower.”  Raw sugar for October delivery dropped 1.22 cents, or 4
percent, to settle at 29.02 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest loss since May 19.
Yesterday, before Unica’s report, the price touched a five-month
high of 31.33 cents.  Unica’s numbers “fell within expectations,” Paul Deane,
an economist at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in a report e-mailed today.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery slid 5.6
cents, or 2.1 percent, to $2.5835 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa futures for September delivery dropped $14, or 0.4
percent, to $3,156 a metric ton in New York.  In  London , refined sugar, cocoa and robusta coffee declined
on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .
NI SOMKTS
NI CLM 