-- 
Sun Art Gains in Gray Market Ahead of Hong Kong Debut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-14T03:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sun-art-raises-1-1-billion-after-pricing-ipo-at-top-of-range.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd.,  China ’s
largest hypermarket operator, may gain when it starts trading in
Hong Kong tomorrow, as investors bet on consumer market growth
in less-developed cities.  Sun Art climbed 18 percent to HK$8.50 in over-the-counter
trading today, according to Christian Kielland, a managing
director at BTIG Hong Kong Ltd. The retailer that competes with
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  in China sold shares at
HK$7.20 each, raising HK$8.2 billion ($1.1 billion), according
to a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. The stock
starts trading tomorrow.  Shanghai-based Sun Art, backed by  France ’s Groupe Auchan
SA, overtook Carrefour in 2007 as the biggest operator of
hypermarkets in China, where the industry’s sales may double to
911 billion yuan ($141 billion) in 2015 from 447 billion yuan
last year, according to Euromonitor International. Its initial
public offering was the second of Hong Kong’s six IPOs raising
$1 billion or more this year to be priced at the top of a range
marketed to investors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company has a clear growth prospect, given the fact
that funds raised will be used for new store openings and its
main hypermarket business enjoys fatter margins from economic
scale,” Chang Dongliang, a Shanghai-based retailing analyst
with Everbright Securities Co. said in a telephone interview
today. “From a long term perspective, its current price-to-
earnings ratio doesn’t seem high,” said Chang, who said he
expects the shares to rise at tomorrow’s debut.  Profit Outlook  The retailer forecast profit of 1.4 billion yuan or an
earnings per share of 18  Hong Kong  cents, valuing it at 40 times
estimated earnings, according to data in its prospectus and
Bloomberg calculations. Rival Wumart Stores Inc. has a ratio of
30 while Lianhua Supermarket Holdings is at 21, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sun Art beat a slump in demand for new equity that caused
at least seven companies to cancel or postpone IPOs in Hong Kong
in the past three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Prada SpA, which completed the city’s biggest initial
offering this year, priced near the low end of a targeted range.  “In this market environment, I prefer to pick the leaders
for their IPOs,” said Nelson Yan, an investment manager who
helps oversee $90 million at Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in
Hong Kong. “Hypermarkets will be a trend in China because they
have synergy in sourcing and offer competitive prices.”  Store Openings  Net proceeds from the IPO will be about HK$8 billion, Sun
Art said today. About half of that will be used to open stores
in China, where it has 196 hypermarkets using both the
“Auchan” and “RT-Mart” brands.  Sun Art will focus its expansion in “populous second-and
lower-tier cities” where wealth is growing, it said in a July 4
filing. “Our expansion plans have evolved from focusing on
first-tier key cities such as  Shanghai  and Beijing to expanding
in lower tier cities,” the company said, referring to cities
such as Wuhan and Lanzhou.  “We wish to be the early movers in each region which we
expand into and take advantage of the opportunities that these
under-penetrated regions can offer,” Sun Art said. The company
has identified and obtained 122 sites in China for hypermarket
complex openings as of June 15, and 52 hypermarkets are under
development.  Market Share  Sun Art last year had a 12 percent market share in China
among operators of hypermarkets, retail outlets with selling
space of more than 2,500 square meters (27,000 square feet) and
primarily sell groceries, according to data from London-based
researcher Euromonitor.  Auchan and founder Gerard Mulliez and his family will hold
62 percent of Sun Art after the IPO, before the exercise of an
overallotment option, according to the filing. The remaining
shares that won’t be traded will be held by the Ruentex group,
which includes Taiwanese companies Ruentex Development Co. and
Ruentex Industries Ltd.  Wal-Mart ranked second with an 11.2 percent market share in
2010, while China Resources Enterprises Co. had 9.8 percent and
Carrefour 8.1 percent, according to Euromonitor.  China’s hypermarket industry may grow at a 15 percent
compounded annual rate in the next five years, Bruno Mercier,
chief executive officer of Sun Art, said at a July 3 briefing.
It expanded at a 19 percent rate in the previous five years, Sun
Art said in a July 3 statement.  Where’s Wal-Mart?  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest listed company by sales,
expects China to be the world’s largest grocery market by 2014.
The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has annual revenue of
$7.5 billion in China,  Scott Price , chief executive officer for
 Asia , said in March.  Sun Art opened its first store in Shanghai in 1998 while
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour opened China’s
first supermarket in December 1995. Wal-Mart and Dusseldorf-
based Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, arrived in 1996,
according to their websites. Auchan of Croix, France arrived in
1999 and Cheshunt, England-based Tesco in 2004, according to the
companies’ websites.  Sun Art sales climbed 24 percent to 56 billion yuan, or
about $8.6 billion, in 2010.  --Darren Boey and Michael Wei. With Assistance from Michelle Yun in Hong Kong and Zijing Wu in  London . Editors: Frank 
Longid, Dave McCombs  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Michael Wei  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  