-- 
Sun Art Delays Debut in Hong Kong on Prospectus Error After $1 Billion IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/sun-art-retail-said-to-delay-hong-kong-trading-start-on-prospectus-error.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd.,  China ’s
largest hypermarket operator, delayed its trading debut in  Hong
Kong  because of an error in its share-sale prospectus.  The retailer, which raised HK$8.2 billion ($1.1 billion)
in an initial public offering this month, plans to list July 27
instead of today as scheduled, according to a statement to the
city’s stock exchange today. Historical earnings-per-share
figures in the prospectus failed to reflect a stock split that
took place before the IPO, it said.  Sun Art, backed by  France ’s Groupe Auchan SA, dropped to
HK$7.60 in over-the-counter gray market trading at 5:15 p.m. in
Hong Kong yesterday, from as high as HK$8.28 earlier, according
to the  website  of Phillip Securities Group. An “accident”
caused trading to be suspended, according to a statement on the
website. Sun Art sold shares at HK$7.20 apiece in the IPO, the
top end of a range marketed to investors.  “The uncertainty is still around, so it makes sense that
the gray market price dropped,” Nelson Yan, an investment
manager at Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in Hong Kong, said
yesterday.  Due Diligence  Ruentex Industries Ltd. (2915)  and Ruentex Development Co., part
owners of Sun Art, fell in Taipei trading. Ruentex Development
dropped as much as 3.8 percent to NT$40.20 before trading at
NT$41.2 as of 11:44 a.m. local time while Ruentex Industries
Ltd. lost as much as 5.1 percent to NT$64.70 before trading at
NT$66.1.  Hong Kong’s markets regulator plans to review how banks
underwrite IPOs, after its former head, Martin Wheatley, said
due diligence in offerings had at times been “inadequate.”
The Securities and Futures Commission said June 8 that it may
begin consultation on making sponsors legally liable for
statements in their clients’ prospectuses in the third quarter.  Sun Art received orders for more than 40 times the stock
available to retail investors, according to a statement from
the company yesterday. Net proceeds from the share sale will be
about HK$8 billion ($1 billion) the company said yesterday.
About half of that will be used to open stores in China, where
it has 196 hypermarkets using both the Auchan and RT-Mart
brands.  Technical Errors  Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are managing
the offering as global coordinators, and BNP Paribas SA, China
International Capital Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley are joint bookrunners, according to the
prospectus. KPMG was the auditor for the IPO.  Sun Art isn’t the first company this year to get tripped
up by a technical error. Dragon Crown Co Holdings Ltd., which
started trading on June 10, misprinted an earnings-per-share
number in its IPO prospectus, according to a May 31 filing to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  Milan Station Holdings Ltd., which debuted on May 23,
misstated a condition for measuring the company’s share capital
in its IPO prospectus, a May 18 filing to the stock exchange
showed.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in April it would buy
back at a premium warrants that were suspended from trading in
Hong Kong because of a misprinted settlement formula.  Sun Art last year had a 12 percent market share in China’s
hypermarket industry, according to data from London-based
researcher Euromonitor International. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
ranked second with 11.2 percent, China Resources Enterprises Co.
had 9.8 percent and Carrefour SA 8.1 percent, according to
Euromonitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  