-- 
Swap Spread at Five-Month High as Europe Crisis Boosts JGBs: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i
-- 
2011-07-14T03:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/swap-spread-at-five-month-high-as-europe-crisis-boosts-jgbs-japan-credit.html
Swaps are signaling that  Europe ’s
debt crisis is causing Japan’s credit markets to tighten,
driving a barometer of risk to the highest level in five months.  The difference between two-year interest-rate swaps and
yields on similar maturity government notes this week reached 23
basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, the most since February.
Ireland’s credit rating was cut to below investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service on July 12, following downgrades to
Portugal and  Greece  to so-called junk status.  Europe’s debt woes have also boosted demand for the yen as
a refuge, sending it to the highest in almost four months
against the dollar and euro. A stronger yen threatens to derail
Japan’s export-driven recovery from a record earthquake and adds
to deflationary pressures that support government bonds.  “We are seeing a flight to quality, and the two-year swap
spread reflects credit risk,” said Reiko Tokukatsu, a senior
fixed-income strategist at Barclays Capital  Japan  Ltd.
“Europe’s debt crisis is causing  risk aversion  and making it
easier for short-term government debt to be bought.”  The two-year Japanese swap rate was at 0.38 percent on July
12, while the yield on the straight bond reached as low as 0.147
percent, close to this year’s low. The gap was 22 basis points
today.  Swaps are susceptible to credit risk because their payments
are affected by changes in the London Interbank Offered Rate, a
global benchmark for lending. The two-year euro swap spread on
July 11 widened to about 73 basis points, the highest since
January. The dollar swap spread has gained to about 28 basis
points from 25 basis points on July 8.  Libor Rates  The Libor rate for six-month loans in yen stood at 0.340
percent yesterday, according to British Bankers’ Association.
The dollar Libor rate was 0.413 percent, while the euro rate was
1.792 percent.  “Rates on interest-rate swaps are unlikely to fall, as
people see a risk that Libor may climb, while it’s easier to buy
JGBs as a refuge,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist
at the brokerage unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Tokyo.
“Investors need to consider what will happen if the crisis
spreads to Italy and  Spain .”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on July
10 said Europe is at the “epicenter” of a debt crisis that
concerns the entire developed world. Yields on 10-year Italian
debt climbed to the highest since 1997 this week amid concern a
crisis that started in Greece is spreading to Europe’s largest
borrower.  Rating Downgrades  Ten-year government bonds yield 1.085 percent in Japan,
matching an eighth-month low. That compares with 16.98 percent
in Greece, 14 percent in Ireland and 5.55 percent in  Italy .  Downgrades by Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  have driven
yields higher in Europe, while credit warnings in Japan have had
comparatively little impact in Japan, where 95 percent of the
government’s debt is held domestically.  Moody’s and Fitch Ratings said in May they may cut Japan’s
credit rating, after Standard & Poor’s reduced the nation’s debt
ranking in January for the first time in almost nine years.
Tokyo-based Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. has maintained its
top AAA credit for the nation.  “We believe that Japan still has financial flexibility,
its current account surplus, massive household assets and room
to raise taxes,” said Toshihiko Naito, a senior analyst at JCR.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments increased 66 basis points this month to 283 as of
July 12. An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of  credit
quality . Five-year contracts to insure Japan’s  government bonds 
against default rose 2.5 basis points to 93.4 basis points on July
12, its highest level since April 1, according to data provider
CMA prices in  New York . The rate was 90.6 basis points
yesterday.  Yen, Intervention  The yen reached 78.47 per dollar today, the strongest since
March 17, when it surged to a postwar record of 76.25 per
dollar. Group of Seven nations jointly intervened in the markets
the next day to halt the currency’s gain. Japan’s currency
touched 109.58 per euro on July 12, the highest since March 17.  One-month implied volatility for the dollar-yen  exchange
rate  rose to 10.5, up from the more than three-year low of 8.1
on July 8. That’s still lower than the 16.9 level on March 17
that preceded the G-7’s coordinated intervention to combat what
they called in a statement “excess volatility and disorderly
movements in exchange rates.”  “The hurdle for joint intervention is high, which is
supporting the yen,” said  Tetsuya Miura , chief market analyst
in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest banking group, wrote in a note yesterday. “People are
feeling comfortable to buy the yen even after it rose past 80.
It’s hard to sell JGBs under such circumstances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Saburo Funabiki in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  