-- 
Swiss Banks Said to Be Close to Settlement in German Tax Evasion Dispute

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-07-15T13:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/swiss-banks-said-to-be-close-to-settlement-in-german-tax-evasion-dispute.html
Swiss banks may initially pay at
least 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.9 billion) to settle a dispute
over  tax evasion  by wealthy German clients, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The payment would be part of a larger sum covering the
failure by customers to disclose undeclared money over the past
10 years, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations between Switzerland and Germany are private and
no final agreement has been reached.  “German tax authorities are certainly not going for
peanuts,” said Stefan Bach, a tax analyst at the DIW economic
research institute in Berlin. In total, Swiss banks may pay as
much as 15 billion francs to resolve the issue of so-called
legacy assets, he said.  The outlay for the past is part of Swiss talks with  Germany 
and the U.K. over a proposed withholding tax on clients with
offshore bank accounts. While part, or all, of the amount would
later be “reimbursed” to the banks from taxes paid by their
clients, according to the Swiss finance ministry, the settlement
may trigger outflows by Europeans who question the value of
cross-border accounts as secrecy crumbles.  “I expect major withdrawals by clients from Germany and
the U.K. as they are disgruntled by the retroactive effect of
the agreement,” said Daniel Fischer, the founder of Zurich-
based AFP Fischer & Partner, which specializes in banking law.
“Clients are so angry that Swiss banks may not be able to
recoup the full upfront payment.”  Blocking Accounts  Some Swiss banks have started blocking clients from gaining
full access to offshore accounts in preparation for the tax
treaties, said Swiss banking ombudsman Hanspeter Haeni, who last
week reported an increase in complaints from customers. He
didn’t say which banks are affected.  “The answer to the question of whether banks are allowed
to do that isn’t at all clear,” he said.  While the size of the initial payment and the formula used
to determine back taxes owed by German and British clients
haven’t been disclosed,  Switzerland  has reached a solution on a
“political level,” Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf
told NZZ am Sonntag on July 3.  “Now the question is whether the banks are willing to make
such a payment,” she told the Zurich-based newspaper. “Some of
the banks are signaling their consent, others say “that’s out
of the question.’”  ‘Legal Certainty’  The initial payment will be 4 billion to 8 billion francs,
the people familiar said. Germany originally asked for an amount
closer to 10 billion francs, one of the people said.  The agreement may be announced after the Swiss government’s
summer recess, said Mario Tuor, a spokesman for Switzerland’s
State Secretariat for International Financial Matters. Germany’s
finance ministry declined to comment because the negotiations
are still continuing.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, will analyze the treaty
when it’s announced, said spokesman Dominique Gerster.  “The de-criminalization of bank employees and legal
certainty about the past are the minimum preconditions, without
which a  tax treaty  doesn’t make sense,”  Juerg Zeltner , co-head
of UBS’s wealth management and Swiss bank unit, told Finanz und
Wirtschaft in an interview on July 6.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , which agreed in April to pay German
authorities 50 million euros ($71 million) to end a separate
investigation over undeclared client assets, declined to
comment.  Marc Dosch , spokesman for  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, also declined to comment.  German Assets  The banks are currently discussing how to divide the
upfront payment to German and U.K. tax authorities, according to
Rebeca Garcia, a spokeswoman at the Basel-based Swiss Bankers
Association.  The total sum could be at least 20 billion euros, based on
undeclared assets held by Germans in Swiss banks, said Thomas
Eigenthaler, head of the Berlin-based German tax union.  About 69 percent of the 280.6 billion francs of offshore
assets held by German clients in Swiss banks was undeclared,
according to estimates by Helvea SA two years ago. That share
may have dropped to 50 percent, said  Peter Thorne , a London-
based analyst with Helvea who hasn’t updated the figures.  Switzerland’s commitment to regulatory and tax compliance
will put pressure on the country’s banks as western European
clients repatriate their wealth,  Boston Consulting Group  said in
a May 31 report.  Outflows  Europeans and North Americans accounted for about 48
percent of the 1.96 trillion francs held in offshore Swiss bank
accounts last year, down from 63 percent in 2007, according to
Boston Consulting. That share may slump to 37 percent by 2015 as
those clients flee a crackdown on tax evasion, the firm said.  “We think banks will lose around 50 percent of their
undeclared cross-border assets after repatriation and tax
settlement effects,” said Matt Spick, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in  London , who expects Switzerland to negotiate similar
treaties with  France , and possibly  Italy , by late 2012 or 2013.  Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to meet international
standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. UBS
agreed to pay a fine of $780 million and turn over data to the
U.S. on previously secret accounts to avoid prosecution for
helping Americans evade taxes.  The country’s commitment to attracting only taxed assets
will increase the legal security and competitiveness of its
financial center, Michael Ambuehl, state secretary to the
 finance ministry , said last month.  More Competition  “The banking landscape in Switzerland may become more
competitive, and the banks will have to market the stability of
the country, their first-rate services and their global market
knowledge,” said Annemarie Ruegger-Vonrueti, a tax expert at
Deloitte AG in Zurich. “The money just won’t flow in as it
might have in the past.”  Switzerland is also negotiating better access for the
country’s banks and insurers to markets in Germany and the U.K.
as part of the withholding tax deal.  Under the proposed tax on interest, dividends, capital
gains and investment income, revenue generated would go to
treasuries in the U.K. and Germany while client identities would
remain secret.  “These bilateral agreements are going to allow clients to
stay secret for a bit longer, but they’re going to have to pay”
that new tax, said Ray Soudah, head of MilleniumAssociates AG, a
Zug, Switzerland-based advisory firm for banking mergers.  Even that element of secrecy is threatened by a proposed
clause that would allow Germany, in a limited number of cases
each year, to ask for information on clients without knowing
their full details, said Peter V. Kunz, head of the business law
department at the University of Bern.  “That would be the nail in the coffin of banking
secrecy,” said Kunz. “Clients can’t be sure whether
information about them will be requested.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  