-- 
U.K.’s  Daily Mail Tabloid Raises Cover Price as Advertising Sales Decline

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-07-14T16:12:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-k-newspaper-daily-mail-raises-cover-price-as-advertising-sales-decline.html
Daily Mail  and General Trust Plc is
increasing the weekday cover price of the Daily Mail newspaper
for the first time in more than three years to counter declining
advertising revenue.  The price for the Monday to Friday edition will rise to 55
pence from 50 pence starting next week, the London-based company
said in a statement today on PR Newswire. Prices for the
Saturday edition and the Mail on Sunday will remain unchanged.  Ad revenue for the 13 weeks to July 3 is 7 percent lower
than a year earlier at Associated Newspapers, the national media
arm of DMGT, the company said. Print publishers have struggled
with declining circulations and falling ad sales as  consumer
spending  is crimped by rising inflation and advertisers focus on
the Internet.  The Daily Mail is the second-most popular title in the U.K.
with an average net circulation of 2,068,632 copies as of the
end of May, according to Audit Bureau of Circulation figures.  The Mail on Sunday was the second-biggest Sunday title,
behind  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World, which closed last week in
the wake of phone-hacking allegations. Advertisers had boycotted
the title after allegations that reporters had tapped the
voicemails of murder victims and their families and paid police
officers for stories.  DMGT shares fell 4.1 percent to 421.3 pence at the 4:30
p.m. close in London trading. The stock has dropped 27 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 1.6 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion).  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , which publishes the
Daily Mirror and Sunday Mirror titles, finished 1.2 percent
higher at 41 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  