-- 
U.K. to License Gambling Companies to Halt Duty Slide

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-07-14T15:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-k-to-license-gambling-companies-to-halt-duty-slide-1-.html
The U.K. government is seeking to
license offshore gambling companies, a move that may help stop a
slide in betting duty.  All betting companies would need to get a license from the
Gambling Commission, under plans announced today by John Penrose, the culture minister responsible for gambling policy
and regulation. The plans mean rules will apply where gambling
takes place, rather than where Internet servers are located.  Offshore companies get an “unfair advantage” over U.K.-
based, and British online gamblers lack protection, Penrose said
in an e-mailed statement. British gambling levy fell to 335
million pounds ($540 million) in the year ended March, from 424
million pounds in the year ended March 2008, Matthew Hancock, a
Conservative law maker and a former chief of staff to Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne , said in an interview yesterday.  “We will create a level playing field, so all overseas
operators will be subject to the same standards and requirements
as those based in Britain, as well as being required to inform
the Gambling Commission about suspicious betting patterns to
help fight illegal activity and corruption in betting,” Penrose
said in today’s statement.  Tax Rate  Though taxes weren’t mentioned directly in the minister’s
statement, they are probably coming, wrote James Hollins, an
analyst with Evolution Securities. He predicts a 15 percent tax
on gross profit, the same as for land-based gambling.  Such a rate could cost  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and William Hill Plc
as much as 30 million pounds per year, according to Hollins. Yet
they would probably gain in the long run, because “smaller,
weaker branded operators will end up with unworkable financial
models,” he wrote.  A plan to tax offshore bets by U.K. customers would be an
“obvious potential negative” for companies including  Paddy
Power Plc (PAP) , William Hill, Ladbrokes and  Betfair Group Plc (BET) , wrote
Gavin Kelleher, an analyst with Goodbody Ireland today before
the announcement.  “We welcome the government’s progress in this area and it
is our intention to continue to work constructively with them to
ensure that the regulated online gambling market in the U.K. is
competitive, viable and sustainable for all parties,” Betfair
Group’s chief legal and regulatory affairs officer, Martin Cruddace, said in a statement.  888 Holdings Plc (888) , based in Gibraltar, fell 8.9 percent to
close at 33.25 pence at 4:30 p.m. in London trading, while
Betfair decreased 3.4 percent to 682 pence. Ladbrokes fell 1.7
percent to 144.1 pence, while  William Hill Plc (WMH)  declined 3.7
percent to 215.9 pence.  The European Internet gambling market will be worth 12.3
billion euros ($17.5 billion) by next year, according to the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  