-- 
Treasury Bond Auction Demand Defies Warning

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-14T21:03:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-30-year-bonds-pare-losses-as-demand-increases-at-13-billion-auction.html
The Treasury attracted higher-than
average-demand for a third consecutive sale at today’s auction
of 30-year bonds as investors downplayed Moody’s Investors
Service’s warning that the nation’s rating may be downgraded.  The bid-to-cover ratio on the $13 billion in bonds, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount offered,
was 2.80, versus a 2.64 average at the past 10 sales. The
auction followed three- and 10-year note sales that were the
first since the  Federal Reserve  ended its bond purchases under
quantitative easing on June 30.  “The market seems to believe that the debt-limit situation
will be resolved satisfactorily,” said Jeffrey Caughron, a
partner at Baker Group LP in  Oklahoma City  who advises community
banks on investments of more than $30 billion. “Most market
participants see it unthinkable that the president and the
Congress would allow a default, even a partial default on U.S.
obligations.”  The bonds were sold at a high yield of 4.198 percent, lower
than the 4.209 percent forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 10
of the Fed’s 20 primary dealers before the auction.  The 30-year security fell on concern any agreement on the
debt ceiling may not address long-term budget deficits. The
yield rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.25
percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  ‘Great Auction’  “It’s a great auction,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-
debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The
market is saying that regardless of what happens, there is money
to be put to work in all the ultra high-grade sovereigns.”  The bid-to cover ratio at the sale of $32 billion in three-
year notes on July 12 was 3.22, versus an average of 3.14 at the
previous 10 offerings. The ratio at the $21 billion sale of 10 -
year notes yesterday was 3.17, versus a 3.11 average at the past
10 auctions.  Treasuries still were headed for a weekly increase as
investors sought safety amid speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis will worsen.  Greece  had its long-term foreign and local
currency issuer default ratings cut to CCC from B+ yesterday by
 Fitch Ratings , which cited the lack of a credible support
program for the debt-laden country. The 30-year yield was poised
to fall three basis points on the week.  Rates on one- and three-year Treasury bills reached below
zero for a second day.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s put the U.S. Aaa credit rating on review for a
downgrade for the first time since 1996 yesterday on concern
officials won’t raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit in
time to prevent a missed payment. The rating would probably be
reduced to the Aa range, Moody’s said in a statement yesterday.  Investors expect U.S. leaders will reach a deal on raising
the ceiling by Aug. 2, according to a survey by Citigroup Inc.’s
Citigroup Global Markets unit. More than 85 percent of
respondents said they expect an agreement, the firm’s July
survey showed. It didn’t disclose the number of respondents.  President  Barack Obama  may summon congressional leaders to
a Camp David summit this weekend after the latest round of White
House negotiations on the  budget deficit  and debt limit ended on
a tense note. The president walked out of yesterday’s White
House meeting with legislative leaders on the deficit, House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  told reporters.  The Treasury has said it has until Aug. 2 before its
ability to pay the debt expires.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Senate Banking
Committee today a loss of investor confidence could complicate
the rollover of the U.S. government’s debt.  ‘Loss of Confidence’  “It is entirely possible that loss of confidence or
political risk could raise  interest rates  and make it more
difficult or expensive to roll over the debt,” Bernanke said in
comments to the Senate Banking Committee.  Bernanke said he’s not prepared to take immediate action to
stimulate the economy. He said inflation now is “higher” and
“closer” to the central bank’s informal target than was the
case in August 2010, and that’s one reason why the Fed won’t
immediately embark on a third round of bond purchases. Its
second round of quantitative easing, $600 billion of Treasury
acquisitions, ended on scheduled June 30.  The central bank must “keep all options on the table” to
stimulate the economy if necessary, Bernanke told the House
Financial Services Committee yesterday.  U.S. one-month bill rates reached negative 0.0101 percent
today before trading at 0.0051 percent. Three-month rates fell
to negative 0.0051 percent before trading at 0.0051 percent.  ‘Bill Supply First’  “The concern with the debt ceiling is that if the Treasury
needs to cut back issuance, they would cut bill supply first,”
said Christopher Bury, co-head of fixed-income rates at
Jefferies & Co., a primary dealer. “The bigger story in the
front end is the money fund community is starved for yield and
there’s been essentially more demand than supply.”  The gap between yields on 10-year notes and comparable
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the break-even rate, decreased to 2.26 percentage points
today, the narrowest on a closing basis since June 27.  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, which the
Fed uses to help determine interest-rate targets, reached 2.98
percent on July 11, the lowest since June 27. The gauge fell to
2.18 percent on Aug. 24, 2010, below the 2.79 percent average
for the past five years. It touched 3.28 percent in December,
the highest level since February 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  