-- 
U.S. Has Opportunity to Reset Its Relationship With Karzai: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-has-opportunity-to-reset-its-relationship-with-karzai-view.html
For the U.S. and its  NATO  allies,
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  has been a frustrating friend. His
calling for the withdrawal of the foreign troops that are
fighting to preserve his government and saying on one occasion
that he might join the Taliban are indefensible.  Karzai’s tendency to believe that he faces unseen enemies
has probably been exacerbated by the death this week of his
half-brother Ahmad Wali Karzai. Yet, with President  Barack Obama 
committed to reducing the U.S. presence in Afghanistan, finding
a way to work with Karzai is critical to preventing Afghanistan
from again becoming a sanctuary for al-Qaeda and other terrorist
groups. The arrival of a new American team in Kabul provides an
opportunity for Obama to reset his relationship with Karzai. We
encourage him to do so.  The new team is led by people with excellent reputations:
 Ryan Crocker , who won accolades for his work as ambassador to
 Iraq ; Lieutenant General John Allen, who will command of NATO’s
military forces; and  Marc Grossman , who succeeds the late
 Richard Holbrooke  as Obama’s top Washington-based diplomat on
Afghanistan. They are likely to find that working with Karzai
tests their interpersonal skills.  A Personal Hit  The assassination of Karzai’s half-brother will probably
have a profound personal effect on the Afghan president. The two
men were personally close, and Hamid Karzai relied on Ahmad Wali
Karzai to manage the complicated tribal politics of the volatile
Kandahar region. Although members of the Taliban have claimed
that one of their sleeper agents killed him, it appears more
likely that a trusted associate turned against him for personal
reasons. This will probably confirm Hamid Karzai’s view that he
is besieged by enemies on all sides and can’t rely on anyone,
including his American partners.  Karzai’s distrust of the Obama administration is
exacerbated by his conviction, right or wrong, that Obama has
sought to undermine him or even remove him from office. Crocker,
Allen and Grossman will have to go out of their way to reassure
Karzai of U.S. support. In doing so they should emulate  Zalmay
Khalilizad , the former U.S. ambassador to  Afghanistan , and
General Stanley McChrystal, the former NATO commander there, who
enjoyed excellent relationships with Karzai. Both Khalilizad and
McChrystal went out of their way to publically praise him and
treat him as a head of state, even while delivering tougher
messages in private.  Echoes of History  Ahmad Wali Karzai’s killing comes on the heels of  Obama’s
decision  to begin a substantial withdrawal of U.S. forces this
year, and to remove all combat forces by the end of 2014. Hamid
Karzai undoubtedly views this decision as a sign that the
Americans plan to abandon Afghanistan to its fate, now that the
threat from al-Qaeda seems so diminished. Like most Afghans,
Karzai remembers how, after a decade of supporting the anti-
Soviet insurgents in the 1980s, the Americans lost interest as
soon as the Soviets withdrew, condemning Afghanistan to years of
chaos and the rise of the Taliban.  The perception that  Washington  is about to wash its hands
of Afghanistan might tempt Karzai to try to cut the best deal he
can with the Taliban and  Pakistan  or, failing that, to turn to
 Iran  for support. It would be disastrous if America’s more than
10-year commitment to Afghanistan ends with Tehran or Islamabad
as Kabul’s most influential foreign partner.  To boost Karzai’s confidence and strengthen his negotiating
hand with the Taliban, Obama should reiterate his interest in a
long-term strategic partnership with Afghanistan, including a
commitment to keep trainers and other support troops there after
2014. The Americans will leave behind the largest and best
trained military in Afghanistan’s history, but for the
foreseeable future the Afghan economy will be too weak to
finance it. Obama can resolve this problem by committing the
U.S. and its allies to pay for the Afghan security forces until
the government is no longer threatened by extremists.  Obama should also try to develop a personal rapport with
Karzai, as President  George W. Bush  did. If Obama wants to
salvage success from his Afghan policy he will have to work the
Karzai account hard, and should initiate a regular series of
personal contact.  Karzai is an exasperating and often infuriating ally. But
we are passing through a delicate moment, and it would be better
for the  United States  and the world if Obama had Karzai working
with him rather than at cross-purposes.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 