-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Rose Last Week on Boost in Finances

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-14T15:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-consumer-confidence-rises-on-boost-in-finances-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose
last week as households became more upbeat about the state of
their finances and optimism climbed among wealthier Americans.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index increased to minus
43.9 for the period ended July 10 from minus 45.5 the prior
week. Even with the gain, which is within the survey’s 3-point
margin of error, the gauge is lower than it was at the start of
the year.  While cheaper gasoline prices since May helped stabilize
optimism, Americans’ assessment of the  U.S. economy  soured to a
15-week low. The pessimism likely reflects employment gains in
June that were the smallest in nine months, a possible risk to
 consumer spending  that accounts for about 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy.  “Consumers are feeling a little bit better about the fact
that gasoline prices have come down materially over the last
several weeks,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Services Inc. in  Detroit . “But on the
other side of the coin, the lack of any real traction in job
growth” is also weighing on consumers.  An index of consumers’ views of the economy dropped to
minus 83.3, the lowest level since the end of March, from minus
80.9 the prior week. Eight percent of consumers, the fewest
since March, rate the economy positively, according to today’s
report.  Fed’s Bernanke  “Households report that they have little confidence in the
durability of the recovery and about their own income
prospects,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress yesterday.  Central bankers are prepared to use policy measures to
address economic weakness that could “prove more persistent
than expected,” Bernanke said.  A report today showed the recent weakness in the labor
market may be starting to abate. Initial jobless claims fell by
22,000 to 405,000 last week, the lowest level since April, the
Labor Department said in Washington. The data included fewer
layoffs in the  auto industry  than typical this time of year,
according to an agency spokesman.  On July 8 that showed U.S. employers added 18,000 jobs in
June, while the  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.2 percent.  Sales Stagnate  Sales at U.S. retailers stagnated in June as rising
unemployment held consumers back, another report showed today.
The 0.1 percent increase reported by the Commerce Department in
Washington today compared with the median forecast of a 0.1
percent drop in the Bloomberg News survey of 80 economists.
Excluding auto sales, purchases were little changed, the weakest
performance since July 2010.  Stocks rose for a second day after the reports. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 1,319.14 at
11:10 a.m. in New York.  Even as consumers’ sentiment about the economy waned, they
became more optimistic about their own finances. The gauge of
personal finances increased to minus 1.6, the highest level in
12 weeks, from minus 8.4. The buying climate measure rose to
minus 46.7, the highest level since the end of January, from
minus 47.1 the prior week.  The index also showed “faint signs of life” among higher-
income Americans, “underscoring the economic divide in consumer
views,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in  New York , which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement.  Confidence among Americans making more than $100,000
climbed to minus 1.4, the highest level since May 8, while
optimism fell among households making less than $25,000.  Education Level  Sentiment among college graduates improved to minus 27.8,
while confidence among high school graduates fell to minus 58.4.  Confidence among consumers with a full-time job rose
slightly to minus 32.3 from minus 32.6 the week before, while
optimism among consumers working part time decreased to minus
45.6 from minus 40.6 the prior week.  The struggling labor market may be prompting households to
cut back. Consumer spending stagnated in May, the Commerce
Department reported on June 27.  Patrick Lavelle, chief executive officer of  Audiovox Corp. (VOXX) ,
which makes automotive and consumer electronics, said lagging
consumer confidence is keeping retailers cautious.  “We see a lack of confidence with the consumer and that
obviously is something that we have taken into consideration,”
Lavelle said on a July 12 conference call with analysts. “With
unemployment still north of 9 percent, we don’t see that
changing much.”  Audiovox, a Hauppauge, New York-based manufacturer,
reported a first-quarter decline in sales in its consumer
accessories group.  This Year  The Bloomberg consumer comfort index has averaged minus
44.7 this year, compared with minus 45.7 for all of 2010 and
minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the last recession ended, the
report showed.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 U.S.
residents age 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked
for their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate. Results are combined with data from the previous three
weeks, and the percentage of negative responses is subtracted
from the share of positive views on each question, with the
results then averaged.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  Field work for the index is done by Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  