-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Fell 0.4% in June

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-14T13:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-wholesale-prices-fell-0-4-in-june-led-by-cheaper-energy.html
U.S. wholesale costs dropped more
than forecast in June, restrained by the biggest decrease in
energy prices in two years.  The 0.4 percent decline in the producer-price index
followed a 0.2 percent gain in May, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 0.2 percent drop in June. The so-called
core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
increased 0.3 percent, more than projected.  The rise in commodities prices this year, which prompted
some U.S. companies to pass them along to customers, is starting
to ease. Gains earlier this year in raw materials have created
tension among Federal Reserve policy makers between those who
view the gains as temporary and those who project it will lead
to faster inflation.  “Monetary policy makers will need to take rising core
inflation into account even if growth should come below their
modest expectations,” said  Dana Saporta , a U.S. economist at
Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in  New York .  Other reports today showed that first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell more than forecast last week to the
lowest level since April, and retail sales stagnated in June.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,320.72 at 9:39 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  fell,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.92
percent from 2.88 percent late yesterday.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates for producer prices were based on forecasts from
75 economists. Projections ranged from declines of 0.2 percent
to increases of 0.3 percent.  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. The so-called core index rose 0.2
percent in May. Almost half the increase in the June core index
from a month earlier was linked to the biggest gain in prices
for light motor trucks since November 2009, the Labor Department
said.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 7 percent more
for goods last month after a 7.3 percent rise in May.  Core wholesale prices climbed 2.4 percent in the 12 months
ended in June, the biggest gain since July 2009.  Fuel Costs  Fuel costs dropped 2.8 percent, the most since July 2009,
as gasoline prices fell 4.7 percent, today’s report showed.
Residential electric prices fell by a record 2 percent in June.  Companies were charged 1.6 percent more for light motor
trucks and 1.7 percent more for plastics, the most since July
2009. Prices for passenger cars rose 0.2 percent.  The cost of food increased 0.6 percent, led by a 12 percent
gain in fruits and melons, after a 1.4 percent drop in May.  Producer prices are calculated based on costs on the
Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month, which may
influence month-to-month changes.  Expenses for intermediate goods were unchanged percent from
the prior month, while prices of crude goods decreased 0.6
percent. Crude goods were up 26 percent from a year earlier.  “We’re operating under the assumption that prices are
going to continue to go up next season, and they’re going to go
up the next season after that,” Blake Krueger, chief executive
officer of shoemaker  Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW)  said on a July 12
call with analysts. “We’re in an environment now of almost
continual price increases season on season, year on year.”  Beating Estimates  The Rockford, Michigan-based-company, whose brands include
Hush Puppies and Merrell, reported second-quarter profit that
beat the average analyst estimate by the smallest percentage
since the fourth quarter of 2009.  Higher-priced cotton will “work its way through the supply
chain,” according to Richard Noll, chairman and chief executive
officer of Hanesbrands Inc., maker of Hanes underwear and the
Wonder Bra. “I don’t see this big spike up and this drop
down,” he said during a June 21 conference call.  Central bankers were divided on whether the economy needed
additional stimulus last month, minutes of the central bank’s
June 21-22 meeting showed yesterday. Some members said a further
slowdown in growth would signal a need for additional support,
while others said the growing risk of inflation would require
withdrawing stimulus sooner than currently anticipated.  Oil Stabilizes  A day after the minutes were released, Fed Chair Bernanke
told Congress stabilization of  oil prices  and other commodities
along with slack in the labor market indicate inflation will
moderate.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.2 percent in May from a year earlier. Fed policy
makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2
percent, according to their June forecast.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. dropped in June for the first time in a year, data
showed this week. Costs advanced 13.6 percent from June 2010,
the biggest 12-month increase since August 2008.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, fell
0.1 percent in June and the core index advanced 0.2 percent,
according to the median forecasts of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before a Labor Department report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  