-- 
U.S. June Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-07-14T12:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-june-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
producer price report for June released by the Labor Department.  The Producer Price Index for finished goods decreased 0.4
percent in June, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  reported today. This decline followed increases of
0.2 percent in May and 0.8 percent in April. At the earlier
stages of processing, prices received by manufacturers of
intermediate goods were unchanged in June, and the crude goods
index moved down 0.6 percent. On an unadjusted basis, prices
for finished goods climbed 7.0 percent for the 12 months ended
June 2011.  Stage-of-Processing Analysis  Finished goods  In June, the decline in finished goods prices can be
attributed to the index for finished energy goods, which
decreased 2.8 percent. By contrast, prices for finished goods
less foods and energy and for finished consumer foods moved up
0.3 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively.  Finished energy:  The index for finished energy goods fell 2.8 percent in
June, the largest drop since a 4.7-percent decrease in July
2009. In June, prices for gasoline moved down 4.7 percent and
accounted for two-thirds of the monthly decline. Decreases in
the indexes for residential electric power and liquefied
petroleum gas also contributed to lower finished energy goods
prices.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and energy moved
up 0.3 percent in June, the seventh consecutive monthly
advance. Almost half of the June rise can be traced to prices
for light motor trucks, which increased 1.6 percent. An
advance in the index for plastic products also was a factor in
higher finished core prices.  Finished foods:  The index for finished consumer foods rose 0.6 percent in
June after falling 1.4 percent in the previous month.
Accounting for almost sixty percent of this advance, prices
for fresh fruits and melons increased 11.8 percent.  Intermediate goods  The  Producer Price Index  for intermediate materials,
supplies, and components was unchanged in June following ten
straight monthly increases. Price advances of 0.3 percent for
intermediate goods less foods and energy and 0.4 percent for
intermediate foods and feeds offset a 0.8-percent decline in
the index for intermediate energy goods. On a 12-month basis,
prices for intermediate goods climbed 11.0 percent, the
largest increase since a 15.3-percent rise in September 2008.  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods less foods and energy moved
up 0.3 percent in June, the eleventh consecutive monthly
advance. About two-thirds of the June increase can be traced
to the index for basic organic chemicals, which rose 2.4
percent. Higher prices for plastic products and for
agricultural chemicals and chemical products also contributed
to the advance in intermediate core prices.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and feeds turned up 0.4
percent in June following a 0.4-percent decline in May. Nearly
three-quarters of this rise can be traced to prices for
natural cheese (except cottage cheese), which climbed 6.0
percent. Higher prices for soybean cake and meal also were a
factor in the advance in the intermediate foods index.  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods fell 0.8 percent in
June, the first decline since July 2010. A major factor in the
June decrease was the index for electric power, which fell 2.2
percent. Lower gasoline prices also contributed significantly
to the decline in the intermediate energy goods index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing fell 0.6 percent in June. For the 3 months ended in
June, prices for crude materials declined 0.9 percent after
rising 5.6 percent for the 3 months ended in March. In June,
the monthly decrease in the crude goods index is attributable
to prices for crude energy materials, which moved down 4.1
percent. By contrast, the indexes for crude foodstuffs and
feedstuffs and for crude nonfood materials less energy
increased 2.1 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials declined 4.1 percent
in June. From March to June, prices for crude energy materials
fell 4.8 percent following a 0.9-percent advance from December
to March. The monthly decrease in June was the result of an
8.0-percent drop in the crude petroleum index.  Crude foods:  Prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs moved up 2.1
percent in June. For the 3 months ended in June, the increase
in the index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs slowed to 1.5
percent after climbing 11.7 percent in the prior 3-month
period. In June, about half of the monthly advance is
attributable to a 19.6-percent jump in the fresh and dry
vegetables index. Higher prices for fluid milk also were a
major contributor to the rise in the crude foods index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy moved
up 1.1 percent in June. From March to June, crude core prices
advanced 2.8 percent following a 4.2-percent rise in the prior
3-month period. More than half of the monthly increase in June
can be traced to the index for carbon steel scrap, which
climbed 2.5 percent. Higher prices for corn also were a
significant factor in the advance in the crude core index.  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
trade industries was unchanged in June following four
consecutive increases. (Trade indexes measure changes in
margins received by wholesalers and retailers.) In June,
higher margins received by merchant wholesalers of durable
goods and by food and beverage stores were offset by lower
margins received by family clothing stores and merchant
wholesalers of nondurable goods.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of
transportation and warehousing industries moved up 0.4 percent
in June, the ninth straight advance. One-quarter of the June
increase can be traced to the index for couriers, which rose
1.0 percent. Higher prices received by line-haul railroads and
by the long-distance general freight trucking industry group
also contributed to the advance in the transportation and
warehousing industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
traditional service industries rose 0.5 percent in June after
moving down 0.2 percent in May. Accounting for about seventy
percent of this advance, prices received by the depository
credit intermediation industry group moved up 3.7 percent.
Higher prices received by the industries for passenger car
rental and for investment banking and securities dealing also
were factors in the advance in the total traditional service
industries index.  The Producer Price Index for July 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Wednesday, August 17, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  