-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Bernanke Damps Speculation on More Stimulus

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-14T21:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-yum-brands-climbs-on-increased-profit.html
U.S. stocks fell, driving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the lowest level of the month, as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s not prepared
to take immediate action to stimulate the economy.  Raw-material producers, technology and industrial companies
lost the most among the 10 main industries in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) ,
which erased a gain of as much as 0.7 percent. Marriott
International Inc. dropped 6.6 percent on a lower-than-estimated
earnings forecast.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rallied 1.8 percent
after investment banking profit surged and more customers paid
their credit-card bills on time.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.7 percent to 1,308.87 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its lowest level since June 29, as a stalemate
continued in Washington on negotiations over the U.S. debt
ceiling. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 54.49 points,
or 0.4 percent, to 12,437.12 after surging 90 points following
JPMorgan’s report.  “The market is going to be volatile until we get the
situation in Washington resolved,” said  Don Wordell , a  fund
manager  for Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital Management, which
oversees about $48 billion. “Earnings have been coming in
pretty good and corporate balance sheets are in great shape,”
he said in a telephone interview. “The economic data reports
were positive.”  Bernanke Testifies  Bernanke testified for a second day before lawmakers after
saying yesterday he’s prepared to provide more stimulus if
needed. Bernanke said today that inflation now is “higher” and
“closer” to the central bank’s informal target than was the
case in August and that’s one reason why the Fed won’t
immediately embark on a third round of bond-buying.  “We’re not prepared at this point to take further
action,” he told the Senate Banking Committee.  The  S&P 500  has rallied 93 percent since March 2009 as the
Fed used large-scale asset purchases to buoy the economy and
companies posted earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. The
index has still fallen 4 percent since April 29 this year on
concern the economic recovery is at risk and as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis grows.  Stocks were also pressured today after Moody’s Investors
Service said late yesterday the U.S. government may lose the Aaa
credit rating it’s held since 1917 on concern the country’s debt
limit will not be raised in time to prevent a missed payment of
interest or principal. President Barack Obama is considering
summoning congressional leaders to Camp David this weekend to
work on a plan to raise the debt ceiling after yesterday’s
negotiations on a deficit-cutting plan of at least $2 trillion
stalled, two people familiar with the matter said.  ‘Game of Chicken’  “Rating agencies don’t tell us anything we don’t know, but
Moody’s warning underlines the seriousness of the situation and
the game of chicken at  Capitol Hill ,” said  Philip Marey , senior
U.S. economist at Rabobank in Utrecht, the Netherlands.  Equities gained early in the day as government data showed
retail sales unexpectedly increased and jobless claims fell more
than economists estimated. The 0.1 percent increase in retail
sales reported by the Commerce Department compared with the
median forecast of a 0.1 percent drop in the Bloomberg News
survey of 80 economists. Excluding auto sales, purchases were
little changed, the weakest performance since July 2010.
Separate data showed initial jobless claims fell by 22,000 to
405,000 last week.  Industrial and technology companies retreated 1 percent
each, while materials producers lost 0.9 percent.  Attention on Earnings  Earnings are gaining attention as more companies post
second-quarter results. S&P 500 profits are forecast to have
grown 13 percent in the quarter, the smallest increase in two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  jumped 11 percent to $585.97 at 4:58 p.m. in
after-market trading in New York. The owner of the world’s
largest Internet search engine reported sales and profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, a sign the company is benefiting
from an effort to expand into mobile and display advertising.  “The market is being driven by macro events such as the
U.S. and European debt crises,”  Giri Cherukuri , who helps
manage $2.6 billion as  money manager  and head trader at Oakbrook
Investments in Lisle, Illinois, said in a telephone interview.
“But we’re heading into the heart of earnings season, and
people are getting ready for a change towards a market that’ll
be focused on the earnings reports of major companies.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank, and  Mattel
Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest toy maker, are among companies
reporting earnings tomorrow.  JPMorgan Earnings  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank, advanced 1.8
percent to $40.35 after the New York-based bank reported its
highest half-year profit ever, at almost $11 billion. Second-
quarter net income climbed 13 percent from a year earlier, to
$5.43 billion, or $1.27 a share, six cents higher than the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  jumped 9.2 percent to $10.02. Bank of America
Corp., the biggest U.S. bank, has made a preliminary offer to
the bond insurer aimed at settling a legal dispute tied to
defective mortgages, according to two people briefed on the
discussions.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  jumped 1.6 percent to $75.61. The Houston,
Texas-based  oil company  said it will separate its refining and
marketing and exploration and production businesses.  Yum! Brands Inc. climbed 1.4 percent to $56.37 as the owner
of the KFC and Pizza Hut restaurant chains boosted its earnings
forecast for the year on increasing customer traffic at
restaurants in  China .  Hartford, Marriott  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  declined 2.8 percent
to $24.88. The seller of life insurance and property-casualty
coverage said second-quarter net income plunged on catastrophe
claims and the cost of asbestos liabilities.  Marriott International Inc. declined 6.6 percent to $34.69
after forecasting earnings that fell short of estimates. The
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain said third-quarter
earnings won’t be higher than 29 cents a share, missing the 30-
cent average analyst projection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  