-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Climbs to Record on Fed Concern

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-14T12:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-climbs-to-record-on-fed-concern.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Advances to Record on Fed Stimulus Signal, Debt Concerns  Gold advanced to records in London and  New York  as concern
about more U.S. economic stimulus and debt woes in the country
and Europe boosted demand for the metal as a protection of
wealth.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Bumper Wheat Harvest in  Australia  May Cool World Food Costs (1)  Australia, the fourth-biggest wheat exporter, is set for
its second straight bumper harvest as rains in the west boost
crops, helping curb global food costs.  Copper to Rally as China’s Demand Expands 8%, Wanxiang Says (2)  Copper demand in China, the world’s biggest user, may gain
at least 8 percent this year, depleting global supplies and
boosting prices, according to the metals trader that’s owned by
the country’s largest auto-parts maker.  Tianhe Chemicals Said to Aim for FTSE 100 With IPO Valuation  Tianhe Chemicals, the Chinese lubricant maker planning a
U.K. initial public offering, is seeking a valuation high enough
to qualify for the benchmark FTSE 100 Index, said two people
with knowledge of the listing.  Egypt Revolt Halts U.S. Bid to Spur Mideast Peace With Trade (1)  Sinai gunmen, Egypt’s revolt and a retired diplomat
threaten to derail U.S.-backed efforts to spur the peaceful
integration of  Israel  and the Arab world through trade and
investments.  Naphtha to Rebound on Qatar, Saudi-Led Glut: Energy Markets  The profit from turning crude oil into naphtha is poised to
rebound from a more than two-year low as chemical makers in Asia
increase purchases, absorbing surplus production from the  Middle
East .  Joy Global Said to Be in Talks to Buy International Mining (2)  Joy Global Inc. is in talks to buy International Mining
Machinery Holdings Ltd., a Chinese maker of coal-mining
equipment, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Fed’s QE3 Is Recipe for Gold Rally to $2,000: Chart of the Day  Gold may surge to a record $2,000 an ounce next year if the
 Federal Reserve  starts a third round of  U.S. debt  purchases to
boost the economy, said Michael Pento, the senior economist at
Euro Pacific Capital Inc.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Climb as Rio’s Production Drop Fans Supply Concern  Copper may rise in  London  for a second day this week on
renewed concern about supply after Rio Tinto Group’s production
of the metal fell 24 percent.  Rio Tinto’s  Iron Ore  Output Gains 12%, Recovers From Floods (3)  Rio Tinto Group, the second-largest mining company, said
iron ore and coking coal production rose in the second quarter,
recovering from Australian floods that disrupted operations in
the previous three months.  Nickel, Aluminum, Copper 2011 Price Forecasts Cut at Citigroup  Citigroup Inc. cut its 2011 price forecasts for nickel,
aluminum and copper.  Mumbai  Blasts Meant to Jeopardize  India ’s Diamond Trade (2)  The bomb blasts near Mumbai’s main diamond and jewelry
markets were aimed at jeopardizing the trade in diamonds in
India, the world’s largest processor, an industry group said.  MINING:  South African Mine Output Rose 9.6% in May, Agency Says  South African mine production rose 9.6 percent in May from
a year earlier, Statistics South Africa spokesman Jean-Pierre
Terblanche said by phone from  Pretoria  today.  South African Gold Output Fell 5.8% in May From Year Ago  South African gold production fell 5.8 percent in May from
a year earlier, Jean-Pierre Terblanche, a spokesman for
Statistics South Africa, said by phone from Pretoria today.  Fresnillo Second-Quarter Silver Output Rises 7.2% on Saucito (2)  Fresnillo Plc, the world’s largest primary silver producer,
said second-quarter output rose 7.2 percent to a record after
its Saucito mine began operating.  Peabody, ArcelorMittal to Study Macarthur After Sweetening Bid  ArcelorMittal and Peabody Energy Corp. reached an accord to
study the finances of Macarthur Coal Ltd. after sweetening a
takeover proposal valuing the world’s biggest maker of
pulverized coal at A$4.7 billion ($5.1 billion).  PRECIOUS METALS:  Mumbai Bullion Market Will Be Nervous After Blasts, Group Says  Mumbai’s main gold and jewelry market will be open today
and business may be slow after three blasts rocked the city
yesterday, said Harmesh Arora, director of the Bombay Bullion
Association.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Gain for Ninth Session on Heat in U.S.; Rice Advances  Soybeans rose for a ninth session in  Chicago , the longest
streak since August, on speculation hot weather in the U.S. will
reduce yields and curb global stockpiles. Rice reached the
highest price since Oct. 9, 2008.  Palm Oil Advances to Three-Week High as Spread Lures Buyers  Palm oil advanced to its highest level in almost three
weeks as its cheapness to soybean oil attracted buyers and on
signs that  China  may sustain a strong pace of economic growth
this year, boosting demand.  Sugar Falls in London on Bets Rally Was Overdone; Coffee Rises  Sugar fell in London on speculation a 12 percent advance in
five days was overdone with forecasts for global supplies to
exceed demand. Coffee rose in London.  Tanzanian Coffee Output May Fall 20% in 2011-12 on Drought (1)  Coffee production in Tanzania, Africa’s fourth-largest
producer, may fall 20 percent in the year through June 2012
after a drought stunted growth, the country’s Coffee Board said.  SHIPPING:  Record Somali Pirate Incidents Increase Ship Attacks by 36% (1)  Pirate attacks climbed 36 percent in the first half of the
year as the number of attempts off  Somalia  in East Africa rose
to a record.  Brazil  Sugar Ship Line-Up Falls By 7 Vessels, Williams Data Show  As many as 68 ships were waiting to load sugar at Brazil’s
ports in the Center South, the country’s main producing region,
7 fewer than a week earlier, according to data from shipping
agency Williams Servicos Maritimos Ltda.  ECONOMIES:  Trader Doubt Builds That China’s Yuan to Rise: BGOV Barometer  Currency traders are more skeptical than they’ve been in a
year that President Barack Obama will persuade China to let the
yuan rise faster, which would help narrow the trade gap with the
U.S.  China Must Seriously Assess Risks of U.S. Treasury Debt, Yu Says  China needs to “seriously assess the risks” of its
holdings of U.S. Treasuries, Yu Bin, director of the
macroeconomic research department of the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said today.  China May Sustain 9% Growth as Investment Shifts Inland (1)  China may maintain growth of about 9 percent this year,
avoiding a “hard landing,” as spending on low-cost homes and
developing inland provinces counters the impact of  Europe ’s debt
crisis and monetary tightening.  Credit Suisse Says Buy Stocks as Global Risks ‘Fade Out’ (1)  Credit Suisse Group AG is buying stocks after  Greece ’s debt
crisis made equities a bargain, said Stefan Keitel, who is
responsible for about $200 billion as chief investment officer
at the Zurich-based company.  U.S. Stocks Advance on China Growth; Google, Amazon.com Climb  U.S. stocks rose, snapping a three-day slide for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as Chinese growth topped forecasts
and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke prepared to testify
on the economy.  Treasury’s Miller Warns Against Efforts to Change Dodd-Frank Act  Marking next week’s first anniversary of the Dodd-Frank
Act, Mary Miller, the U.S. Treasury Department’s assistant
secretary for financial markets, warned today against curtailing
the law.  Moody’s Downgrade Warning Adds Pressure on U.S. Debt Deal (2)  Moody’s Investors Service raised the pressure on U.S.
lawmakers to increase the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
by placing the nation’s credit rating under review for a
downgrade.  Italy  Yields Jump at Auction Before Senate Confidence Vote (1)  Italy sold five-year bonds at the highest yield in three
years and the government was forced to call a confidence vote on
an austerity package that aimed to show the nation can tame
Europe’s second-largest debt burden.  China Cities Value Land at Winnetka Prices With Bonds Seen Toxic  Workers toil by night lights with hoes, carving out the
signs for Olympic rings in front of an unfinished 30,000-seat
stadium, bulb-shaped gymnasium and swimming complex in a little-
known Chinese city.  Italy Too Big as Crisis Enters ‘New Phase’: Chart of the Day  The euro’s fate may lie in the hands of Italian bondholders
as the region’s debt crisis threatens to envelop the
Mediterranean nation, according to Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank.  OTHER MARKETS:  Treasuries, Dollar Weaken on Moody’s Warning as Gold Advances  Treasuries and the dollar weakened, while the cost of
insuring U.S. debt against losses rose to the highest level in
more than a year after Moody’s Investors Service said America
may lose its Aaa rating. European stocks fell, U.S. index
futures were little changed and gold advanced.  Asia Currencies Strengthen as Fed Signals Further U.S. Stimulus  Asian currencies rose for a second day after the Federal
Reserve said it may add more funds to support the U.S. economic
recovery, supporting demand for the region’s higher-yielding
assets.  European Stocks Drop as Moody’s Puts U.S. on Review; Accor Falls  European stocks fell for the fourth day in five after Italy
auctioned bonds and Moody’s Investors Service said the American
government may lose the Aaa credit rating it’s held since 1917.
Asian shares dropped, while U.S. index futures were little
changed.  Asian Stocks Drop as Concern Over U.S. Debt Threatens Exporters  Asian stocks fell for the third day this week after Moody’s
Investors Service put the U.S. under review for a credit-rating
downgrade, hurting the outlook for exporters reliant on a global
economic recovery.  Crude Oil  Falls in London on European Debt, U.S. Credit Review  Oil fell in London on speculation the U.S. may face a
credit-rating downgrade and that European leaders won’t be able
to contain the region’s financial crisis.  Moody’s Will Cut 7,000 Municipal Ratings If U.S. Debt Downgraded  At least 7,000 top-rated municipal credits would have their
ratings cut if the U.S. government loses its Aaa grade, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  SPORTS:  British Open Championship First-Round Leaderboard  Following is the first-round leaderboard from golf’s
British Open at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,  England . Par for
the course is 70.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  