-- 
Vitro May Get Ruling from U.S. Judge by Next Week on Bankruptcy Protection

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-07-14T19:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-judge-may-rule-next-week-on-vitro-s-request-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Vitro SAB, the Mexican glassmaker
that defaulted on $1.2 billion in bonds, may get a ruling as
early as next week on a petition for U.S. bankruptcy protection
to apply to its restructuring proceedings in Mexican court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Harlin D. Hale said during a hearing
today in  Dallas  that he’ll make a decision in the “next few
days” after receiving complete documentation supporting both
parties’ arguments.  Lawyers for bondholders argued today against granting the
Chapter 15 petition, saying Alejandro Sanchez Mujica, Vitro’s
legal director, doesn’t meet requirements to be the company’s
foreign representative. Vitro’s lawyers said the judge would be
rewriting Mexican law by ruling Sanchez ineligible. They urged
Hale to accept the petition and put the focus of the bankruptcy
case back in  Mexico .  Vitro defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt, including the U.S.
bonds, in February 2009 after a recession cut into glass demand
for autos and construction and the company piled up more than
$300 million of derivative losses.  Bondholders have balked at Vitro using $1.9 billion of
intercompany debt to gain majority approval of a debt
restructuring plan that was rejected by 68 percent of creditors
in December.  The debt proposal, under consideration in a Mexican
 bankruptcy court , offers $850 million of new bonds and $100
million of debt convertible to shares in exchange for $1.5
billion of total debt in default.  Intercompany Debt  Lawyers for bondholders have asked Judge Hale to reject
U.S. bankruptcy protection for the outcome of the Mexican
proceedings in part because the use of intercompany debt gives
Vitro the ability to dictate terms to creditors. The Mexican
case is still proceeding.  In today’s hearing in Dallas, the arguments centered on the
eligibility of Sanchez as the foreign representative in the
Chapter 15 petition.  Sanchez was appointed by Vitro’s board and the foreign
representative should be chosen by the Mexican bankruptcy court,
said Benjamin E. Rosenberg, a noteholders’ lawyer with the
Philadelphia-based law firm Dechert LLP. Sanchez helped set up
the transaction that created intercompany debt, Rosenberg said.  “He’s a representative of the debtor and not the
proceedings,” Rosenberg said. “He’s simply not impartial.”  Shockwaves  Andrew M. Leblanc, a lawyer for Vitro from the New York-
based law firm Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP, argued that
there have been at least seven cases since 2005 in which U.S.
judges accepted Mexican foreign representatives who had been
appointed by the boards of the debtor company. A ruling against
Sanchez as foreign representative would send international
“shockwaves” because it would be contrary to rulings in
previous cases, Leblanc said.  “You would be effectively rewriting the law in Mexico,”
Leblanc said.  In June, Hale denied Vitro’s request to use the parent’s
Chapter 15 case to halt creditor actions against subsidiaries
not in bankruptcy.  The case is In re Vitro SAB, 11-33335,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  