-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending July 12 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-14T12:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-july-12-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
U.S. Drought Monitor as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/./   Weekly Weather Summary: With the main storm track continuing
over the northern half of the lower 48 States, high pressure
over the southern Plains exacerbated the drought, keeping this
area precipitation free and unseasonably hot (highs exceeding
110 deg F).  Weak fronts stalled out across the Southeast,
generating hit and miss showers and thunderstorms, with some
locally heavy. Some Southeastern areas (southeastern  Virginia 
and much of the Carolinas) received substantial rainfall.
Heavy, widespread convective thundershowers inundated most of
Florida while monsoonal showers continued and intensified over
parts of the Southwest.  Most of the Nation recorded near to
above-normal temperatures, including parts of the West (notably
 California ) which had observed a cold and wet spring and early
summer.  The Upper Midwest, Northeast, and Mid-Atlantic:  A series of
frontal passages sparked showers and thunderstorms that dropped
moderate to heavy rains (more than 2 inches) across southern
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, the Delmarva Peninsula, and southern
Virginia. 3 to 4 inches of rain soaked parts of southern New
Jersey, while 4 to 8 inches inundated southeastern Virginia.
Accordingly, a 1-category improvement was made where the
greatest totals occurred, with D0 removed from southern  New
Jersey  and south-central Virginia, D1 trimmed to D0 in the
Delmarva Peninsula, and the D2 in the Delmarva Peninsula
diminished. D2(AH) was kept where long-term deficits remained
(90-days: 5-10 inches; 6-Months: 8-12 inches; 12-Months: 12-16
inches), even with this week?s beneficial rains. A 2-category
improvement was made in southeastern Virginia (D1 to nothing)
due to the excessive rainfall, and similar conditions extended
southward into northern  North Carolina  (see Southeast text).
The dam at Lake Chesdin which supplies water for the southwest
suburbs of Richmond, VA, reached full capacity with water
spilling over the top, effectively ending all water restrictions
there.  In contrast, lesser amounts (0.5 to 1.5 inches) were recorded in
 Maryland  and northern Virginia, maintaining conditions there.
Farther north, short-term precipitation deficiencies (2 to 4
inches) have accumulated in northwestern  Pennsylvania  the past
30 days as only 25 to 50 percent of normal rain has fallen. With
average 1-, 7-, and 14-day USGS stream flow levels in this
region dropping into the lower tenth percentile, D0 was added.  Southeast:  Scattered showers and thunderstorms pelted the
Southeast, with substantial rains (more than 2 inches) falling
on parts of the Carolinas, southern  Georgia , most of Florida,
and on portions of southeastern  Louisiana  and southern sections
of Mississippi and  Alabama . In contrast, dry and warm weather
aggravated conditions in the lower Mississippi Valley (northern
Louisiana, southern Arkansas, western Mississippi), slightly
expanding the D0-D3 there. In North Carolina, 2 to 4 inches of
rain pushed the western D0 edge eastward, while the western D1
border in northern North Carolina was edged eastward. Similarly,
the western D2 boundary in eastern North Carolina was pushed
eastward, while the D3 was removed from Dare County where 3 to 5
inches of rain fell. Additional rains will be needed, however,
to further improve drought as any future prolonged periods of
summer dryness and warmth could quickly deteriorate conditions.
In southeastern North Carolina, however, D3 remained where
totals were inadequate (less than an inch). In South Carolina,
heavy rains (2 to 4 inches) in the west and east-central
improved D0 and D1 conditions, but elsewhere the rains were too
scattered in nature for improvement. In Georgia, 1-category
relief was limited to extreme southern portions where 2.5 to 3.5
inches trimmed away the southern D4 edge. In  Florida ,
widespread, heavy summer rains brought large improvements to the
state, especially in the southern half. In Florida’s Big Bend,
East-Central, and South, widespread 10 plus inches of rain the
past 30 days (3 to 6 inch surpluses), and over 8 inch excesses
the past 60 days, have greatly eased drought conditions,
including river flows. D4(H) conditions in southern Florida were
limited to metro Broward County as long-term indicators,
including the very low Lake Okeechobee levels, well levels in
Palm Beach and Broward counties, and substantial precipitation
deficits since January 1, 2011, and October 1, 2010. Farther
west, some slight improvements were made in southern Alabama and
Mississippi along the D2 border where more than 2 inches of rain
fell, and in north-central Alabama where D0 was alleviated. In
northern and eastern Arkansas, 1.5 to 2.5 inches of rain erased
D0; however, farther south, little or no rain and highs topping
100 deg F expanded D0 to D2 into western Mississippi and
southern Arkansas. The Impact Type line was modified to H-only
across the northern drought border as recent rains have eased or
erased short-term deficits from northern Alabama to northern
North Carolina.  The Southern and Central Plains:  Widespread heavy showers and
thunderstorms dumped heavy rains (2 to 5 inches) on the northern
and central Plains, but completely missed the southern third of
the Plains (from southern Kansas southward to the Texas-Mexico
border). To make matters worse, excessive heat accompanied the
dryness as highs hit triple-digits. Maximums even topped 110 deg
F in southern Kansas, central  Oklahoma , and north-central  Texas ,
and weekly temperatures averaged 7 to 10 deg F above normal
there. In Texas, based upon the updated SPI blends at 12 GMT
July 12, conditions deteriorated a category in northeastern
Texas, while adjustments for additional slight improvements were
made in extreme southern Texas (due to rains from Tropical Storm
Arlene 2 weeks ago). Across the state, huge deficits have
accumulated. In Beaumont, TX, 2011 rainfall has been 8.80 inches
versus a normal of 30.93 inches (26 percent of normal). This
total (8.80 inches) is closer to what Midland, TX, normal
receives. Unfortunately, Midland is in an arid climate regime,
and Beaumont is not. From October to June, many locations have
recorded one of the driest such periods on record (e.g. San
Antonio, Del Rio, Austin), and this dryness has been accompanied
by near-record warmth this summer. In contrast, a deluge late in
the week in north-central Texas (Hall, Childress, Briscoe, and
Motley counties) brought this area back into D3. Farther north,
however, no rain and plenty of heat quickly deteriorated
conditions in western and central Oklahoma and south-central
Kansas, and the D2-D4 area expanded eastward and northward by a
category. From the USDA/NASS, percent of pasture and range lands
rated poor or very poor were: Texas 86; Oklahoma 69; Kansas 40.
Similarly, summer crops have taken a beating. 78 and 58 percent
of cotton was rated poor or very poor in Oklahoma and Texas,
while the sorghum crop in  New Mexico , Texas, and Oklahoma was
rated 50, 51, and 44 percent poor or very poor. 62 percent of
the Texas corn was categorized poor or very poor.  In sharp contrast, heavy rains across the north-central Plains
alleviated abnormal dryness in southern  Nebraska , and improved
conditions by a category across the northern half of Kansas (and
into central Colorado, see Southwest text). There was a sharp
cut off from the ample rains to no rain across central Kansas,
which also marked the northern extent of this week?s triple
digit heat.  The Southwest: The summer monsoon continued across  Arizona ,
southern  Nevada ,  Utah , and into Colorado, but bypassed New
Mexico and western parts of Texas and Oklahoma. 1 to 2 inches of
rain fell on southern and central Arizona, extreme southern
Nevada, south-central Utah, and across most of Colorado except
southeastern sections. The moisture also tempered the heat in
this region, with average temperatures only slightly above
normal. Accordingly, where an inch or more fell near any drought
border, some slight improvement was made. This included parts of
the D1 through D4 edges in southern and central Arizona, and
elimination of the D0 in parts of western Arizona.
Interestingly, Douglas, AZ, received more rain in 9 MINUTES
(0.30 inches on July 6 starting at 4:51pm) than in the past 9
MONTHS (only 0.27 inches since October 1, 2010).  In Colorado,
another wet week, especially in the north-central and eastern
sections, called for a 1-category improvement in central
portions of the state. Farther south, however, rainfall was much
less (0.1 to 0.5 inches), and conditions deteriorated (D3 and
D4) in eastern Conejos, western Costilla, and western Rio Grande
Counties. Elsewhere, enough rain fell to maintain conditions,
but not enough to warrant improvement. Even with the rains,
Arizona pasture and range conditions were rated 63 percent poor
or very poor, while New Mexico stood at a horrendous 91 percent
as of July 11 according to USDA/NASS.  Puerto Rico,  Hawaii , and  Alaska : In Puerto Rico, the newly added
D0 area in the northwest was quickly eradicated as 3 to 4 inches
of rain fell this week, effectively raising average stream flow
levels to near-normal flows the past 1-, 7-, 14-, and 28-days.
Reports from the island indicate all vegetation is green and
lush as above-normal spring and summer rains have fallen on much
of the island.  In Hawaii, light to moderate showers fell on Kauai and Oahu, and
on the windward sides of Maui and the Big Island. The effects of
surplus spring rainfall produced improvements over leeward
portions of the Big Island and Maui, but this trend is expected
to end as drier and warmer conditions take hold during the
summer dry season. No changes were made this week, but if the
drying trend continues next week on parts of the leeward Big
Island, some degradation may occur.  In south-central Alaska, light precipitation (0.5 inches or
less) fell while the southeastern Panhandle received 0.5 to 1.5
inches. The greatest rains fell on the non-drought regions of
southwestern (1.5 to 2.5 inches), western (0.5 to 1.5 inches),
and eastern (0.5 to 1 inch) Alaska, while temperatures statewide
averaged close to normal. Accordingly, conditions were left
unchanged; however, with USGS average stream flows percentiles
running low in the Kenai Peninsula, this area will be watched
closely.  Looking Ahead: For the ensuing 5 days (July 14-18), a swath of
heavy rain (more than 2 inches) is expected in the Southeast,
from eastern Louisiana to South Carolina, over areas with D2 to
D4 conditions. Moderate to heavy rains should also fall from the
northern Rockies to the upper Midwest. Unfortunately, the
southwest monsoon is forecast to diminish across the Four
Corners Region, and the southern Plains will remain dry. Showers
should continue in Florida, although the heaviest rains should
be in the north, with lower totals in the south. Temperatures
are expected to average below normal in the West, above normal
from the Rockies to the Appalachians, and seasonable along the
East Coast.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook (July 19-23) indicates above-normal
monsoon rainfall in Arizona and Utah, but continued subnormal
precipitation to the east (eastern New Mexico, western Texas,
and into the central Plains and lower Missouri Valley). Above
normal rainfall should occur in the upper Midwest southeastward
into the Carolinas and southward to the Gulf Coast. New England
should also experience subnormal precipitation, as should
southwestern Alaska. Abnormal warmth should encompass most of
the Nation, especially the Great Lakes region and Midwest, and
southwestern Alaska, while subnormal temperatures will be
limited to the Far West, southern Florida, and eastern Alaska.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  