-- 
UBS to Get Review of Madoff Trustee’s $2.6 Billion Suit by District Judge

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-14T17:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ubs-to-get-review-of-madoff-trustee-suit-by-district-judge.html
A U.S. district judge said she will
review lawsuits against UBS AG by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, at least the fourth time a bank in the Madoff
case gained access to a higher court.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice in  bankruptcy court ,
demanding $2.6 billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided
Madoff’s fraud by setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing
“to look the other way” at irregularities. U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in  Manhattan , who is handling Picard’s $19
billion suit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the UBS case
raises similar issues of whether Picard has a right to sue for
damages.  Her acceptance of the case, noted on a court docket today,
is another challenge to Picard, who has filed 1,000 lawsuits
seeking $100 billion for the Ponzi scheme’s investors. HSBC
Holdings Plc has asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to dismiss
a $9 billion suit against the U.K. bank and so-called feeder
funds, arguing that Picard went far beyond his role as
liquidator of the Madoff firm.  Rakoff also is considering whether the trustee had a right
to use U.S. racketeering law in a $59 billion suit against
UniCredit SpA, Bank Medici AG, its founder Sonja Kohn and dozens
of Italian and Austrian parties.  While suits to recoup money taken out of a bankrupt firm
are common, Picard is mostly suing for damages, using laws that
banks say are open to question.  ‘Threshold Issues’  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, may not have got all it
wanted, according to a July 12 letter to the judge from lawyer
Marshall King. The bank challenged Picard’s use of common law,
as well as issues such as the trustee’s standing to mount a type
of class action on behalf of Madoff investors, he wrote.  “I am only interested in dealing with the threshold issues
now -- SLUSA preemption and standing,” McMahon wrote on the
front of the letter, filed in court. “I don’t want to deal with
other issues.”  SLUSA is the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act,
which governs class actions.  JPMorgan accused Picard of mounting a “back door” class
action, and said he has no standing to sue on behalf of Madoff
customers, because he was hired to liquidate the Madoff firm.  McMahon said in May that a bankruptcy judge isn’t empowered
to decide whether Picard has the right to sue New York-based
JPMorgan on behalf of the con man’s customers, and she would
handle that case.  The case is Picard v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 11-cv-04213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  