-- 
UBS, Credit Suisse May Fire More Workers as Profits Slip on Stronger Franc

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-14T15:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/ubs-credit-suisse-may-fire-more-workers-as-profits-slip-on-stronger-franc.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s biggest banks, may be poised for further job cuts
as sluggish client activity and the appreciation of the Swiss
franc weigh on earnings.  “You’d certainty expect cost management to remain
active,” said  Matthew Clark , a London-based analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Ltd. “All these investment banks have
positioned themselves last year in anticipation of a global
recovery. They invested or maintained headcount at high levels,
and that recovery hasn’t come through yet.”  Credit Suisse increased staffing by 2,500 last year to
50,100, while UBS added more than 6,000 people worldwide between
the end of 2009 and March 31. The banks’ earnings may be hurt as
a sputtering economic recovery and  Europe ’s sovereign debt woes
curb client trading, while the franc’s rise to a record against
the euro and dollar cuts revenue. Clark at KBW estimates UBS’s
second-quarter net income will fall to 1.14 billion francs ($1.4
billion) from 2.01 billion francs in the year-earlier period.
Profit at Credit Suisse may drop to 1.22 billion francs from
1.59 billion francs, according to his estimates.  UBS trimmed headcount by about 6 percent in the first
quarter at the investment bank, where it employed 17,628 people
at the end of March, and said last month it would cut about 500
information-technology jobs across regions and divisions to
lower annual costs by a “double-digit million-franc” figure.
Swiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger, citing unidentified
“insiders,” said today that UBS may cut 5,000 jobs to help
save 1 billion francs in annual costs.  Private Bank   Credit Suisse plans to eliminate about 500 jobs at its
private-banking division, a person with knowledge of the matter
said today. The bank told staff last month at its investment
bank, which employed 20,800 at the end of March, that it would
start consultations about job reductions. The company plans to
shed more than 600 jobs at that unit, including more than 100 in
the U.K., a person briefed on the matter said at the time. In
all, the company may trim as many as 1,500 jobs, Dow Jones said
today, citing a person familiar with the matter.  Spokespeople at the banks declined to comment on the
numbers of job cuts. UBS and Credit Suisse are due to report
second-quarter earnings on July 26 and July 28, respectively.  “The outlook for growth remains subdued,” UBS Chairman
Kaspar Villiger told SonntagsZeitung in an interview published
July 3. “It is clever to prepare for such a case instead of
deluding yourself. Cost cuts are inevitable. I cannot rule out
further job cuts.”  Walking ‘Tightrope’  Global investment banking revenue may fall by about 16
percent in the second quarter, mainly because of a slowdown in
fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading, JPMorgan
Cazenove said in a note to clients on June 7.  “They have a bit of a tightrope to walk between trying to
protect short-term profits and at the same time not putting
themselves at a disadvantage if and when growth does return,”
KBW’s Clark said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is cutting about 200 posts
at its securities division in the U.K. and Europe, a person
familiar with the plan said last month. Barclays Plc eliminated
about 100 jobs at its investment bank, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 