-- 
Hungary Bolsters Utilities to Expand

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-15T09:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/hungary-bolsters-utilities-to-expand-in-central-europe-energy.html
While  Greece , Ireland and  Poland  are
selling assets to cut debt, Hungary will expand state-run power
wholesaler MVM Zrt. to boost the nation’s influence in central
European energy markets, according to a ruling party official.  “We want to establish a competitive state player in the
energy sector,” Janos Lazar, head of the parliamentary group of
the Fidesz party, said in an interview. “I see great potential
in MVM, in building it up, on the national and regional level.
There’s a lot of money to be made here, a lot of money.”  The government gained a “competitive edge” when it became
the biggest shareholder in Mol Nyrt., controlling refineries in
Italy,  Croatia , Slovakia and Hungary, and MVM will expand that
influence and compete with international companies, Lazar said
in his office in Budapest. The state bought 21.2 percent of Mol
from  Russia ’s fourth-biggest oil producer in May.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government has said
acquiring the Mol stake from OAO Surgutneftegas was the first
step in boosting holdings in strategic industries. The approach,
which contrasts with the trend among other European countries of
selling off state assets, may undermine Hungary’s own efforts to
cut its debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “Evidence is accumulating suggesting that the public debt
reduction plan will prove much less than forecast, leaving
Hungary more exposed to external vulnerability and failing to
safely anchor the sovereign  credit rating  in investment grade
territory,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note on July 12.  Highest Debt  The country’s debt ratio is the highest in the eastern
European Union at 77 percent of gross domestic product, while
the country is rated at the lowest investment grade by  Standard
& Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  For the government, the opportunity of expanding influence
over the region’s energy industry mustn’t be neglected.  “The energy sector is an area where the Hungarian state
can definitely be competitive,” Lazar said. “Mol and MVM are
opportunities for us in central  Europe . We have a competitive
edge in the region and we shouldn’t miss out.”  The government plans to help MVM, which had  assets  of 876
billion forint ($4.6 billion) and net income of 22 billion
forint in 2010, to expand in the market for natural gas,
Development Minister Tamas Fellegi said on June 14.  “The opportunities determine whether we reach these strong
positions through acquisitions or through agreements, but
certainly we have to act as market players,” Lazar said.  E.ON Offer?  MVM, owner of  Hungary ’s only nuclear plant, may acquire
E.ON AG’s domestic gas unit in “a short period of time,”
 Vilaggazdasag  reported today, without citing anyone. The
companies are negotiating new contracts or severance packages
for executives at the German company, the newspaper said.  MVM previously offered 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) for
the unit, the newspaper said, while  Germany ’s biggest utility
had demanded 1.2 billion euros for the operation, which includes
gas wholesale, import contracts and underground storage.  E.ON, owner of three of Hungary’s six electricity retailers
and two gas suppliers, last year agreed to give the Hungarian
government priority rights to buy the company’s domestic
natural-gas wholesale unit should it be put up for sale.  MVM supports Hungary’s goal of reducing energy dependency
and improving security, according to a statement from Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Csaba Baji on the company’s website.  Greek Tragedy  Concern about a possible Greek sovereign default triggered
a surge in 10-year borrowing costs for  Italy  and  Spain  this week
to the highest since the euro’s introduction in 1999 as Europe’s
debt crisis spread. Fitch cut Greece three levels to the lowest
rating for any country, saying default is a “real possibility.”  Moody’s slashed  Portugal ’s rating four levels to a junk
grade of Ba2 from Baa1 on July 5, citing the risk the country
will need a second bailout. The New York-based firm also cut
Ireland a grade to Ba1 for the same reason a week later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  