-- 
Union Bank Must Face Group Lawsuit on Overdrafts, Judge Says

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-07-14T20:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/union-bank-must-face-group-lawsuit-in-overdraft-fee-case-u-s-judge-says.html
UnionBanCal Corp. customers may sue
as a group over the bank’s overdraft-fee policy, a judge ruled
in certifying the first class-action case in litigation against
dozens of banks, according to lawyers in the case.  The courtroom ruling by U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King yesterday in Miami may affect hundreds of thousands of
customers of the San Francisco-based bank. He also said
customers can’t pursue a racketeering claim against the bank,
which does business as Union Bank NA and is a unit of  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)   Customers are suing 30 banks, claiming they illegally
charged excessive overdraft fees, said Aaron Podhurst, the lead
plaintiffs’ attorney. The cases were consolidated before King
for the pretrial collection of evidence.  “In many respects, these banks are similarly situated and
the classes are similarly situated,” Podhurst said in an
interview. “This indicates he’s going to certify for these other
banks.”  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. bank, in February
agreed to pay $410 million without admitting liability to settle
allegations against it. Institutions including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are defendants in
related lawsuits.  John Sullivan, lead attorney for Union Bank, confirmed that
King said in court that he would certify class-action case. He
referred other questions to the bank. A bank spokesperson didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-cv-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 