-- 
Rupert, James Murdoch Agree to Appear Before Parliament Amid Hacking Probe

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-14T16:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/murdochs-ordered-to-testify-or-be-in-contempt.html
Rupert Murdoch  and his son James
bowed to threats to find them in contempt of Parliament and
agreed to testify about the phone-hacking scandal to lawmakers
on July 19.  “We’re in the process of writing to the select committee
with the intent that  James Murdoch  and Rupert Murdoch will
attend Tuesday’s meeting,” said Miranda Higham, a  News Corp. (NWSA) 
spokeswoman.  Both executives had earlier today written to Culture, Media
and Sport Committee Chairman John Whittingdale to say they
wouldn’t come to next week’s hearing. Whittingdale responded by
asking Parliament’s sergeant at arms, Jill Pay, to issue both
executives with summons to appear.  “We meet on Tuesday at 2:30,” Whittingdale told reporters
just before noon in  London  today after his committee had met in
private. “Either they attend or we report their failure to
attend to the House. Then we are in uncharted territory.”  As constitutional experts doubted Parliament still had the
power to jail the Murdochs for declining to attend, News Corp.
confirmed the reversal. They will appear alongside Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive officer of News International, the
publisher of News Corp. newspapers in the U.K., who had today
said she would attend.  Since the July 4 report that the News of the World tabloid
had hacked into the voicemails of a murdered schoolgirl, public
and political anger has forced News Corp. to close down the
paper. The company’s decision yesterday to drop its bid to gain
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  has done
nothing to abate lawmaker fury.  Appearances  James Murdoch had offered instead to appear before the
cross-party panel on either Aug. 10 or Aug. 11. Rupert Murdoch
had said he was prepared to give evidence instead to the judge-
led inquiry being set up by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government.  Whittingdale said his committee wanted to ask James Murdoch
about his July 7 statement that News International executives
hadn’t told Parliament the truth during previous evidence
sessions on phone-hacking.  “James Murdoch has got a lot to amplify,” said committee
member Paul Farrelly, an opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker.  According to the  House of Commons Information Office , if
the Murdochs hadn’t attended, the culture committee would have
made a report to the House of Commons, Parliament’s lower
chamber. It could have ordered the sergeant at arms to serve a
warrant ordering their attendance. Until the end of the 17th
century, he would take the golden mace of Parliament with him,
as a symbol of his authority. These days, the official, whose
job is to maintain law and order in the Commons, can call in the
police to assist in serving the warrant.  Maxwells Summoned  The last time a warrant was used to summon witnesses was in
1992, for Kevin and Ian Maxwell, sons of Robert Maxwell. While
they attended, they refused to answer questions. Their father
plundered Mirror Group Plc pension funds without authority and
died in November 1991 after falling into the sea from his yacht.  The last non-member of Parliament to be found in contempt
was the journalist John Junor. He was summoned in 1957 to
apologize for an article that questioned the honor and integrity
of politicians. The last non-member of the Commons to be
imprisoned was Charles Grissell in 1880, for failing to attend a
committee.  “It’s not clear whether Parliament has the power to punish
someone who’s not a member of Parliament,” said Vernon Bogdanor, professor of politics and government at Oxford
University and author of “The New British Constitution.” “The
power hasn’t been used for so long it’s probably fallen into
desuetude. In practice there’s no real sanction.”  Reputational Risk  Tony Child, consultant at Beachcroft public law group, said
it could hurt News Corp.’s case to the Ofcom media regulator
that it was a fit and proper company to own a major stake in
BSkyB. “If you are found to be in contempt of parliament it
doesn’t do your reputation a lot of good,” he said.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  earlier today questioned
whether it would be possible to “frogmarch” the Murdochs and
Brooks to Parliament.  “My message to Rebekah Brooks and the Murdochs is just do
the decent thing,” Clegg said, answering questions after a
speech in London. “You can’t hide away from this level of
public anguish and anger and indeed interest. If you feel you’ve
been wronged, if you feel you’ve been maligned” then “come out
and set the record straight.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London on 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 