-- 
Murdoch Tells WSJ He Will Form Committee to Examine Phone-Hacking Charges

-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 
2011-07-14T20:59:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/murdoch-says-independent-committee-will-probe-phone-hacking-wsj-reports.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
said the company will establish an independent committee to
investigate allegations of wrongdoing by employees and that it
had handled the crisis “extremely well,” the Wall Street
Journal reported.  The committee will “investigate every charge of improper
conduct,” Murdoch said in an interview with the Journal, which
is owned by News Corp. The committee will be led by a
“distinguished non-employee,” he said. He also said the
company has made “minor mistakes” in dealing with the crisis.  Employees of News Corp.’s News of the World are accused of
hacking hundreds of voicemails, including those of murder and
terrorism victims, and bribing police for confidential
information. The scandal led New York-based News Corp. to close
the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6
billion) proposed bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is examining whether
News Corp. employees also tried to hack into the phones of Sept.
11 victims, according to a person familiar with the matter who
wasn’t authorized to publicly discuss it.  In the Journal interview, Murdoch said the company isn’t
separating its newspaper assets, which also include the U.K.
tabloid Sun, the Times of  London  and the New York Post. The
company will establish a “protocol for behavior” for reporters
across the company, he said.  Defending James  Murdoch, 80, also defended his son James, who is News
Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer and non-executive
chairman of BSkyB. James dealt with the crisis “as fast as he
could” and his position at News Corp. is unchanged, Murdoch
said.  News Corp. declined 50 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $15.44 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have dropped 15 percent since the first reports on July 4 that
News of the World employees in 2002 hacked the voice-mail
messages of a missing teen who was later found murdered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Louisa Fahy in Washington at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  