-- 
Volcker Says Bank-Reform Pace Has Slowed to ‘Ineffectiveness’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-14T18:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/volcker-says-bank-reform-pace-has-slowed-to-ineffectiveness-.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said the pace of financial-regulatory reform has slowed
“to the point of ineffectiveness” because of the complex work
needed and resistance of lobby groups.  After the crisis, “public opinion and official thinking
coalesced around the need for urgent and thorough reform,” he
said in a speech at Cass Business School in  London  today. “That
was never going to be satisfied by quick and easily agreed-upon
approaches. Conceptual uncertainties, technical complexities,
the need for international consistency, and not least
politically powerful industry interests resistant to change have
all slowed responses.”  European regulators are scheduled to publish the results of
stress tests on banks tomorrow that will determine how much
capital banks need under scenarios such as a drop in equity
markets or a spike in financing costs. Volcker said improving
capital standards is just one step in the reforms needed.  “I am among those who accept that the new proposed Basel
III standards for banks do represent progress,” Volcker said.
“I do not, however, believe that bank capital standards, and
extending those standards to other ‘systemically significant’
financial institutions, can carry almost single-handedly the
full load of reform as some have argued.”  He said that “true reform” will require “structural
change, change that requires altering business practices,
management incentives, and institutional responsibilities.”  Culture Change  While tougher rules on capital and leverage are important,
“none of it can be really effective, really count for much, if
the culture of institutions and of the market place is wrong-
headed” and focuses on short-term profit and “really
exorbitant compensation practices,” Volcker said.  Volcker was named last month to a Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. panel that will help the agency map strategy for unwinding
too-big-to-fail financial firms when they collapse. He said
today that the “enormous fortunes” earned in financial centers
in  New York  and London have not been properly matched by gains
in productivity or average incomes for workers.  “National  income distribution  in the U.S. and elsewhere
has been skewed to a socially questionable extent,” he said.
“When we count in the enormous economic losses consequent to
the collapse of the financial system, the case for pressing
forward with thorough reform should be uncontested.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  