-- 
Wal-Mart Names Canada Finance Chief Clarke as China COO

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-14T08:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/wal-mart-appoints-sean-clarke-as-china-chief-operating-officer.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  appointed
Sean Clarke, its Canada finance head, as chief operating officer
in  China  to help oversee expansion two months after the
company’s COO and chief financial officer in the country left.  Clarke will be joined by Steve Smith, named chief
marketing officer in China, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
chain said in an e-mailed statement today. Smith was formerly
a senior vice president at Delhaize Group.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, is rebuilding
its China leadership and raising its investment in the
country, which it expects to overtake the U.S. as the world’s
largest grocery market by 2014. The company has also set up
an e-commerce headquarters in Shanghai and acquired an
unspecified minority stake in Chinese online supermarket
operator Yihaodian.  In May, former Chief Financial Officer Roland Lawrence
and Chief Operating Officer Rob Cissell left the retailer,
China’s biggest hypermarket chain after Sun Art Retail Group
Ltd., to “seek new development opportunities,” the company
said at the time. Mario-Jose Medina was named CFO in China,
after working in that role in  Chile , the company said.  Cissell has joined India’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  as
chief executive officer for its Reliance Retail Ltd. division,
according to a company official who declined to be identified
before a public announcement.  Shawn Gray, who resigned from Wal-Mart’s China unit in
June as vice president of operations, will also join Reliance
Retail, a business owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, as
chief operating officer, according to the official.  David Tiang, former vice president and general counsel
for the company in  Asia , will take over as senior vice
president, legal and asset protection in China.  --Michael Wei, Editors: Subramaniam Sharma, Dave McCombs  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  