-- 
What Debt Talks Teach Us About Obama and Republicans: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-07-14T00:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/what-debt-talks-teach-us-about-obama-and-republicans-ezra-klein.html
       July 14 (Bloomberg)-- We have learned a lot about
American politics in recent days. We learned, for example, that
Republicans are more committed to keeping taxes low than to
reducing the deficit.  We learned that the party is led more by House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  than by his nominal boss, Speaker  John Boehner . We learned that its current composition renders it
seemingly incapable of making concessions to close a bipartisan
deal, even if the concessions are minor and the benefits to the
Republican policy agenda -- $3 trillion in spending cuts -- are
massive.  But we’ve also learned a lot about President  Barack Obama . Take taxes. The prevailing theory has been that the Obama
administration would seek the largest tax increases it could
plausibly pass. Liberals are now dismayed to learn that that
notion is false. Instead, the Obama administration wants to take
the tax issue off the table as soon as possible; the president
is willing to take much less in revenue in exchange for spending
less time arguing about taxes.  There have been signs of this disposition all along. In
the 2008 campaign, Obama swore never to raise taxes on families
making less than $250,000 (a pledge that he has technically
broken several times -- the excise tax on high-value health
insurance plans is one instance -- while continuing to repeat
it). Then there was the  December 2010 tax deal , when the White
House extended all the Bush tax cuts in return for additional
fiscal stimulus. The economy was weak, White House aides said,
so stimulus was more important than revenue. Besides, they
argued, it was only a two-year extension. In 2012, the economy
would be stronger, and they’d be in a better position to let
some of the cuts expire.  Wanting a Deal  But the debt deal that the president just offered the
Republicans showed that’s not a fight he wants. That deal would
have preempted the expiration of the Bush tax cuts next year,
eliminating the White House’s leverage on that issue while
raising less than half the revenue that the Simpson-Bowles
report recommended -- and about one-fifth as much as letting the
tax cuts expire in full.  To the White House, that was part of the deal’s appeal.
If he wins a second term, Obama doesn’t want to begin it with a
bruising partisan fight over Bush’s tax cuts. He would prefer to
focus on infrastructure, education, trade. Rather than exploit
his political leverage to raise taxes, Obama is eager to give it
away, if only the Republicans would let him.  Boosting Economy  Another mistaken view of Obama is that he considered a
deficit-reduction deal good politics, and perhaps inevitable
policy, but that it’s a discussion he’d prefer not to be having.
In recent weeks, it’s become clear that key members of the White
House seem to believe a deficit-reduction deal would improve the
economy.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said as much at a
recent congressional hearing on small-business lending. “If
Congress can find a way to reach a bipartisan, comprehensive,
balanced agreement to bring down long-term deficits, that would
help,” he said. “It would be a sign that Washington works, is
able to come together to solve some problems. That would improve
overall confidence across the country.”  His boss made much the same argument in his July 2 radio
address. “Government has to start living within its means, just
like families do,” Obama said. “We have to cut the spending we
can’t afford so we can put the economy on sounder footing, and
give our businesses the confidence they need to grow and create
jobs.”  Political Interest  White House aides also think they might be able to add a
bit of stimulus -- mainly  unemployment insurance  and an
extension of the payroll-tax cut -- to the deal, and that a
grand bargain would open up more political space for further
efforts on  job creation . Without a deal, there’s no more
stimulus: not now, and not later, either.  So yes, part of the administration's interest in a deal
is political. They see a  grand bargain  on the deficit as a way
to resuscitate Obama’s battered brand as a post-partisan change
candidate who can break out of stale partisan categories and
transcend gridlock. But the White House could’ve made that point
with theatrics and a few mostly symbolic concessions.  Instead, Obama offered Republicans a two-year increase in
the Medicare eligibility age, to 67, along with tens of billions
in cuts to food stamps and hundreds of billions in cuts to
Social Security. They don’t just want credit for being willing
to make a deal. They want the deal, too.  No Compromise  In this, we’ve learned Republicans and Democrats are polar
opposites, at least right now. Republicans are dead set against
any deal that includes compromise with Democrats, no matter its
effect on the deficit. Obama is interested in almost any deal
that proves he can compromise with the Republicans, in large
part because it will cut the deficit. And so the negotiations
come down to this: The Republicans are willing to resist the
most seductive policy details in order to avoid a deal, while
the president is willing to extend those enticements precisely
because he wants one so badly.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein at  wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 