-- 
Wheat Drops as Russian, Ukraine Supplies May Cut U.S. Exports

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-07-14T20:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/wheat-futures-drop-as-russian-competition-may-cut-u-s-exports.html
Wheat fell for the first time in
three days on speculation that demand for shipments from the
U.S., the world’s leading exporter, will shrink as supplies
increase from  Russia  and Eastern Europe.  Russia, which lifted a ban on exports July 1, may harvest
90 million metric tons of grain this year, more than projected
by the government last month, First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor
Zubkov said. Ukraine’s wheat output may total 19.3 million tons,
topping U.S. government  estimates , APK-Inform, a research
company, said.  The U.S. has “intense competition from Russia and
Ukraine,” Louise Gartner, the owner of Spectrum Commodities in
Beavercreek,  Ohio , said in a telephone interview. “Domestic
demand is absorbing available supplies, but if export sales
start to struggle, there are going to be some pretty serious
headwinds for wheat.”  Wheat futures for September delivery fell 7.5 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $7.07 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The price jumped 12 percent in the previous two
days after a government report projected lower U.S. inventories.  Russia, once the world’s second-biggest exporter, may ship
1.5 million tons of grain this month, Zubkov said. Last year,
exports were 4 million tons before a ban was imposed because of
the most-severe drought in 50 years.  In Ukraine, milling wheat probably will make up 30 percent
of all output, Anastasia Ivasenko, an analyst at APK-Inform,
said at a forum in Kiev, the nation’s capital.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  APK-Inform is based in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  New York  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 