-- 
Why Obama Has Already Won the Debt-Limit Fight: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-07-14T21:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/why-obama-has-already-won-the-debt-limit-fight-jonathan-alter.html
I get the feeling that it’s all over
but the shouting. We may look back and say that Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell ’s convoluted parliamentary “backup plan”
marked the effective end of the 2011 debt-ceiling crisis. The
winner? President  Barack Obama .  Sure, an agreement this month on reducing the deficit would
be preferable for restoring confidence in the economy and for
the president’s legacy. Obama has told lawmakers they need to
decide by Friday if a bargain is possible. But even if the
parties miraculously strike a deal in the Cabinet Room, the
votes aren’t there on  Capitol Hill  to pass it.  The plan offered by McConnell this week does what Obama and
the Republicans claimed they want to avoid: It kicks the can
down the road again. Republicans in both houses -- not to
mention online and on the airwaves -- were furious about his
proposal, and McConnell even backpedaled from it a bit. But they
have nothing else to fall back on.  If you went into the congressional kitchen to cook up the
perfect  Washington  fudge, this is what you’d get. Instead of
“doing something big” about the deficit, McConnell is proposing
to do nothing -- then blame the other side.  It’s a sign of how ungovernable the country has become that
something resembling this scheme is now the most practical way
forward.  Best Political Outcome  Yet politically, an elaborate fudge is the best possible
outcome both for Republicans who talked themselves onto a ledge
and for a president facing an imminent disaster and recalcitrant
opposition that spits on the word “compromise.”  McConnell concluded that his party needed cover for a
strategic retreat. Under his Rube Goldberg meets Robert’s Rules
of Order scenario, Congress would give the president the
authority to raise the debt ceiling in three increments, then
disapprove of his action, then sustain his veto of the
disapproval with few if any Republican votes. (McConnell
acknowledged that Republicans wouldn’t have the two-thirds
required to override Obama’s veto.)  His little maneuver -- hard for even wonks to follow in
detail -- wouldn’t make Obama “own” the deficit, as McConnell
hopes. But it would allow Republicans to say they voted against
an increase in the debt ceiling while sparing them blame for
causing a catastrophic default.  You can see why the idea might also appeal to the
president, though he will accept only one vote, not the
prolonged torture of three that McConnell proposes. It’s not a
bad way out for him. The “Big Fudge” would let him frost his
cake and eat it, too.  Generous Offers Rejected  Over the past few days, Obama has shown that he’s willing
to sacrifice Democratic sacred cows. He hasn’t released a
detailed official plan; he’s too cagey for that. But sketchy
reports of possible cuts have leaked. Among them: a switch to
using chained CPI for Social Security (which would adjust the
calculation of the  Consumer Price Index  in a way that cuts
benefits); an increase in the age for Medicare eligibility from
65 to 67; cuts in  student loans  and reimbursements for
hospitals; and the elimination of the cherished last-in, first-
out accounting methods, which enable businesses to reduce their
taxable income.  Even if those huge items weren’t on his list, he’s offering
about $3 trillion in spending cuts over 10 years, with an
additional $1 trillion in revenue increases, mostly in the form
of greatly reducing the myriad favors for corporations embedded
in the  tax code .  Thus the 3:1 ratio that some liberals view as overly
solicitous to the opposition and that right-wingers (I can’t
bear to call them conservatives because they’re not, in any
traditional sense) see as a violation of their religious
conviction that no taxes of any kind must ever be raised on
anyone by anyone for any purpose, even if the future of the
country is at stake.  A Winning Message  The good news for Obama is that the more liberals,
lobbyists and apologists for the rich squawk, the more fiscally
responsible he looks to the independent voters who will
determine the election.  Better yet, under McConnell’s plan Obama would get credit
for good budgetary intentions without blame for the pain, which
will remain theoretical for now. At the risk of mixing dessert
and vegetables, the “Big Fudge” lets him pose as a responsible
pea eater without actually ingesting any of the wrinkled little
suckers.  You can hear the centrist 2012 message now. “We wanted to
slash the debt by $4 trillion and protect our children’s
future,” the Democrats will say, conveniently forgetting how
loud they’re bellyaching this week about their own president’s
proposed cuts. “But the Republicans killed responsible deficit
reduction to protect corporate jet owners.”  Republican Miscalculations  Republicans are under the mistaken impression the public
shares their conviction that tax increases are universally
unacceptable, no matter how necessary. With  polls showing  public
support for tax increases on the wealthy, the fallout from
Republicans rejecting a deal could help ease the pressure on
Obama of 9 percent unemployment. And by avoiding the painful
Medicare and Medicaid cuts he was prepared to make part of the
deal, Obama can resume campaigning against Representative  Paul Ryan ’s unpopular  Medicare privatization plan .  Hope for a last minute grand bargain isn’t entirely gone,
but it’s close. Even if your average Tea Party voter would take
$4 trillion in deficit reduction over tax favors for the rich
any day, the  Republican Party  continues to make its bottom line
clear: Tax cuts uber alles.  They thought Obama would budge. They were wrong, now it’s
fudge.  So the president will probably win this bitter round. Then,
look for him to begin de-emphasizing the deficit and move at
last toward a jobs agenda that shows he’s in touch with the
country’s biggest concern. It’s about time.  (Jonathan Alter, the author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s
Hundred Days and the Triumph of Hope,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
 Jonathan Alter  at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 