-- 
Worried About Debt Limit? The Bond Market Isn’t: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-07-14T23:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/worried-about-debt-limit-the-bond-market-isn-t-caroline-baum.html
Failure to raise the U.S.’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling by Aug. 2 “could plunge the world economy
back in recession,” President  Barack Obama  said. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  called it “unthinkably damaging,” and
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said congressional
inaction could result in “a huge financial calamity.”  Everyone from  Warren Buffett  to  Bill Gross  to  Robert Rubin 
is weighing in, calling it totally irresponsible.  This week, as negotiations between the president and
leaders of Congress hit an impasse, Moody’s Investors Service
placed the U.S.’s Aaa rating, in place since 1917, on review for
a possible downgrade. Yet the one entity that stands to feel the
direct impact of any such action by Moody’s, or inaction by
Congress on the debt ceiling, is taking the whole thing in
stride. That entity is the  bond market .  With 18 days left before Aug. 2, the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note is comfortably below 3. The 10-year rallied 45
basis points in the days after the July 7 release of the
employment report for June, which offered no good news on the
labor market.  Policy makers keep warning that failure to act would mean
an immediate surge in borrowing costs, leading to higher
interest payments on the federal debt and a bigger fiscal hole
for government. So why is the bond market trading like a passive
observer?  Comparative Advantage  One popular explanation I’ll call the “least bad
alternative.” As inept as Washington may be, the U.S. “still
looks pretty good compared to the risks associated with European
debt,” says Ward McCarthy, chief financial economist at Jeffries
& Co.  Traders, subscribing to a version of the least-bad theory,
said they think stocks would get hammered on any debt-limit
breach, sparking a flight-to-quality into Treasuries. What’s
more, the disruption in government transfer payments could have
a temporary restraining effect on the economy, increasing demand
for  government bonds .  Another possibility is that investors know the  U.S.
Treasury  can prioritize payments. There is adequate revenue
coming in to make interest payments on the debt, thereby
averting a technical default, and to cover Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid benefits.  An alternative explanation is that the bond market has seen
this movie before and can write the script. It goes something
like this:  1. Democrats and Republicans play chicken with the debt
limit, fanning worst-possible fears to gain maximum concessions
from the other party.  2. The president scares seniors by telling  CBS News  he
can’t guarantee that Social Security checks will go out as
planned on Aug. 3 without congressional action on the debt
ceiling.  3. Congressional phone lines light up with seniors asking
how Representative What’s-His-Name can be so irresponsible as to
deprive old folks of their monthly checks, putting them in a
position of choosing between eating dog food or starving.  4. The president and Congress, invoking the “235-year
history of this great nation,” announce they have come together
to save the American people from an unimagined fate. The debt
ceiling is raised, what started as a grand bargain on deficit
reduction and  tax reform  is a measly bunch of spending cuts and
loophole fixes on paper that don’t amount to much in reality.
The big decisions on the U.S.’s unsustainable fiscal imbalance
are kicked down the road.  5. Treasuries sell off, and everyone wonders why.  The denouement may take awhile to unfold. In the short run,
the ebb and flow of the economic data -- mostly ebbing right now
-- are the major determinant of the direction and level of
Treasury yields. That’s why bond yields fall during recession,
even as the deficit balloons.  Deficits don’t matter -- until they do. Interest rates
seldom provide an advance warning of a debt crisis, according to
a July 13 Bloomberg View op-ed article by economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff , authors of “This Time Is Different:
Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.”  The bond market, in its infinite wisdom, may realize the
issue is the federal debt itself, not the debt limit. Not much
point wasting a lot of time and energy on the dress rehearsal.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 