-- 
Yankee Fan Who Returned Jeter’s Milestone Ball Gets His Own Baseball Card

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-14T15:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/yankee-fan-who-returned-jeter-s-milestone-ball-gets-his-own-baseball-card.html
Christian Lopez, the  New York
Yankees ’ fan who returned the home-run ball that gave  Derek Jeter  his 3,000th hit, will soon have a familiar face in his
baseball card collection -- his own.  Lopez, 23, will have his photograph on a card issued by
Topps Co., the official trading-card partner of Major League
Baseball, company spokesman Matt Altman said in a telephone
interview.  “He’s a big card collector,” Altman said last night.
“That’s why we wanted to do it with Christian. It was a big day
and he should have his own card.”  Topps isn’t compensating Lopez for the project.  Lopez caught Jeter’s home-run ball at Yankee Stadium on
July 9. He returned the ball to the shortstop rather than
cashing in on the memorabilia, estimated to bring as much as
$250,000 by Doug Allen, president of Chicago-based  Legendary
Auctions .  “Topps is proud to be able to help support this young man
and place his rookie card right next to all of today’s
legends,” Topps Vice President Mark Sapir said in a statement.  Lopez will visit the New York offices of Topps next week to
be outfitted in a Yankees’ jersey for his photo shoot. The card,
complete with his own statistics and information about his day
at Yankee Stadium, will be distributed within packs of six to
eight  Major League Baseball  cards sold for about $2.99 each
before the end of 2011, Altman said.  Jeter Links  Limited-edition cards will be autographed by Lopez, Altman
said. The numbers of these special cards will be tied to Jeter,
such as 3,000 to represent his hits.  Lopez also will review 150 to 200 images of Jeter,
selecting the one that will be used for the player’s 2012 Topps
Series I card to be issued in February.  “Right now, literally, we want to give him a piece of
history,” Altman said. “We’re focusing on the card.”  Altman said he couldn’t predict if the card will become a
valuable collectors’ item to anyone other than the members of
Lopez’s family.  “With the secondary markets such as EBay and other
auctions, it’s hard to say what it might be worth,” Altman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  