-- 
Yell Falls Most Since 2008 as Profit Growth to Take Four Years

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-14T16:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/yell-falls-most-since-2003-as-profit-growth-to-take-four-years.html
Yell Group Plc (YELL) , the publisher of the
U.K.’s yellow pages directories, fell the most since 2008 in
London trading after saying it will take four years to return to
profit and revenue growth.  Improved sales and earnings will come in 2015 as Yell
implements a new strategy focusing on digital media linking
consumers with small- and medium-sized businesses, the Reading,
England-based company said in a statement today.  “We need to increase dramatically the size of the market
that we are focused on,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Pocock
said in a telephone interview. “We only need 1 percent market
share in digital to achieve top-line growth.”  Demand for printed directories is declining, prompting Yell
to look for new markets. This week it announced strategic
partnerships with Microsoft Corp. and Bazaarvoice as well as the
purchase of Znode.  The shares slumped as much as 27 percent, the biggest
intraday fall since they were first traded in July 2003 and
closed down 24 percent at 8.40 pence at 4:30 p.m. The shares
have slumped 42 percent this year, cutting the company’s market
value to 198.9 million pounds ($321 million).  Yell will cut costs by 100 million pounds over the next two
years as it integrates its four operating units. It operates in
the U.S., Spain and Latin America as well as the U.K.  The company also named Bob Gregerson to the new role of
chief consumer officer and Chris Landry as group head of brand
and design.  Trading is in line with company forecasts and the guidance
on financial results for the current fiscal year is unchanged,
Yell said. It will announce first-quarter results on July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 