-- 
Yen Set for Second Weekly Advance Before June U.S. Consumer Price Report

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-07-15T06:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/yen-set-for-second-weekly-advance-before-june-u-s-consumer-price-report.html
The dollar headed for its biggest
weekly drop against the yen in three months after  Standard &
Poor’s  became the second ratings company this week to say it may
cut the U.S.’s top credit grade.  The euro strengthened for a third day against the yen as
Italian lawmakers prepared for a confidence vote on an austerity
package and before the release of stress tests on European
banks. The greenback headed for a second weekly loss against the
Swiss franc as S&P said there’s at least a 50 percent chance
it will cut the AAA rating within 90 days on risks a stalemate
will endure beyond any near-term deal to raise the debt limit.  “Uncertainty about the credit rating and debt-ceiling talk
will continue weighing on the dollar,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a
senior currency analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which
provides foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “The market
has a negative view for the dollar.”  The dollar traded at 79.20 yen as of 7:10 a.m. in  London 
from 79.14 yen yesterday in  New York , headed for a 1.8 percent
drop this week, the biggest since the period ended April 15.
It was at $1.4159 per euro from $1.4143. The U.S. currency
bought 81.58 Swiss centimes, having declined 2.5 percent this
week. The euro climbed 0.2 percent to 112.13 yen.  S&P may lower the U.S.’s long-term rating by one or more
notches into the AA category if it concludes Congress and
President Barack Obama’s administration haven’t achieved a
credible solution to the rising government debt burden and
aren’t likely to achieve one in the near future, the company
said in a statement dated yesterday.  ‘No Way’  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. Aaa  credit rating  on
review for a downgrade on July 13, citing concern officials
won’t raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit in time to
prevent a missed payment.  There’s “no way to give Congress more time” on lifting
the debt limit, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
after meeting with Democratic lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  in
 Washington . He has repeatedly said the U.S.’s borrowing
authority will end on Aug. 2 without congressional action.  Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 2.95
percent, after falling to this year’s low of 2.81 percent
earlier this week. The 10-year average is 4.06 percent.  The dollar weakened against 10 of its 16 most-traded peers
before a U.S. report that economists said will show the cost of
living fell in June for the first time in a year, allowing the
 Federal Reserve  to maintain record stimulus without worrying
about inflation.  The consumer-price index decreased 0.1 percent, after a 0.2
percent gain in May, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.2 percent, the
survey showed.  Additional Action  The Fed is prepared to take additional action, including
buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears to be in
danger of stalling, central bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
July 13. The central bank ended its $600 billion bond-buying
program, also called quantitative easing, last month.  “I don’t think QE3 is off the table, and certainly, if
there is any opportunity for Bernanke to print money he would do
it,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd.
in Sydney. “If we see a softer CPI number over the next couple
of months, that would be a catalyst” for dollar weakness.  Confidence Vote  The euro pared this week’s decline against the yen to 2.5
percent before Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi today
faces a final confidence vote on an austerity package that aims
to balance the budget in 2014 and shield the nation from the
region’s debt crisis. The Chamber of Deputies holds a vote at
about 7 p.m. local time to secure final passage of the measure.  The European Banking Authority will release the results of
the stress tests for 91 banks as part of an effort to reassure
investors the region’s banks have sufficient capital. The
assessments are the first by the EBA since it was set up earlier
this year. The results will be published from 5 p.m. U.K. time.  “Berlusconi will likely pass the final confidence vote on
the austerity plan and that will ease market fears that Italy
will be another  Greece ,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior
strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. “We’ll get
the results of stress tests too, which are likely to reduce
uncertainty over the region’s banking system. Those may be
reasons for buying-back of the euro.”  The European Banking Authority can’t force banks to take
part, and can’t test for a sovereign default, which policy
makers are struggling to avoid.  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he’s watching
markets carefully because the yen's moves have been “one-sided”
in the last few days, fueling concern authorities will intervene
to sell Japan’s currency to support exporters. Policy makers
need to be mindful of the yen’s impact on the economy including
corporate sentiment, Noda told reporters today in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  