-- 
Yen Gets Boost as Yields to Treasuries Shrink on Fed Outlook: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-07-15T02:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/yen-gets-boost-as-yields-to-treasuries-shrink-on-fed-outlook-japan-credit.html
The yen is getting a boost as the
prospect of further monetary easing by the  Federal Reserve 
pushes the difference in yields between Japanese  government
bonds  and Treasuries to the least in almost 2 1/2 years.  The extra yield offered by two-year Treasuries over
similar-maturity Japanese debt was 21.3 basis points yesterday,
approaching the least since December 2008, after Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers the central bank has more tools
to spur growth. Demand increased at a sale yesterday of Japanese
five-year notes to the most in three months, and the yen rose to
78.47 per dollar, its strongest since March 17.  While the  Bank of Japan  raised its economic assessment this
week, an appreciating yen is threatening to derail the nation’s
export-led recovery from a record earthquake in March. Concern
some European countries will fail to meet their debt obligations
boosts demand for the yen as a haven and pressures the BOJ to
take steps to support the economy.  “Because the dollar is seen to stay below 80 yen for a
longer time, expectations are increasing for the BOJ’s
additional easing, and thus bond buying,” said Makoto Noji, a
senior bond and currency strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government debt sales. The two-year spread between the U.S. and
 Japan  “won’t widen,” he said.  Japan’s bonds climbed yesterday, with five-year yields
declining 3.5 basis points, or 0.035 percentage point, to 0.37
percent, the lowest level since November. The rate was unchanged
at 0.37 percent today. The auction of five-year debt drew bids
for 3.52 times the amount offered, the most since April.  Lack of Jobs  Two-year Treasuries surged after a Labor Department report
on July 8 showed U.S. employers added the fewest jobs in nine
months in June as the  U.S. economy  struggles to recover.  The dollar-yen exchange rate had a correlation of 0.88 with
the two-year yield spread between the U.S. and Japan for the
past two years. A rate of 1 would mean the assets move in
tandem.  Japanese investors sold 203 billion yen ($2.57 billion)
more in overseas bonds than they bought in the week ended July
8, the first net sale since June 3, data from the Ministry of
Finance showed yesterday.  The Fed completed a second round of so-called quantitative
easing last month, in which the central bank bought $600 billion
of Treasuries to lower borrowing costs and stimulate the
economy.  Weakness ‘More Persistent’  “The possibility remains that the recent economic weakness
may prove more persistent than expected and that deflationary
risks might reemerge, implying a need for additional policy
support,” Bernanke told Congress on July 13. One option for
additional stimulus would be to pledge to hold rates at record
lows and keep the Fed’s balance sheet assets at a record high of
almost $3 trillion for a longer period of time, he said.  The central bank isn’t currently ready to embark on a third
round of government bond-buying to stimulate the economy,
Bernanke told Congress yesterday.  The yen climbed yesterday to the highest level since March
17, the day before the Group of Seven countries jointly
intervened in  currency markets  to combat what the G-7 called
“excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange
rates.” The yen’s advance will become “problematic” if it
remains strong, Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters
yesterday.  Yen Seen Strengthening  SMBC Nikko forecasts the yen will strengthen to as high as
78 per dollar between July and September, raising its projection
from 80, Keiji Matsumoto, a currency strategist at the
brokerage, wrote in a report on July 13.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has held above 9,800 this
month after declining to 8,227.63 on March 15, the lowest since
April 2009. Japan’s economic activity is “picking up” as the
after-effects of the March 11 earthquake ease, the BOJ said on
July 12 after a policy meeting.  “As long as the Nikkei holds around 10,000, you can’t
really say you need to stop currency volatility” to prevent the
economic outlook from deteriorating, said  Daisaku Ueno , Tokyo-
based president of Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit
of Japan’s largest online currency broker. “We are seeing
persistent dollar-negative pressure made in the U.S. rather than
yen-positive pressure made in Japan.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  rose 0.2 percent to 9,955.57 as of the 11
a.m. trading break in Tokyo today, while the yen was at 79.12
per dollar from 79.14 yesterday in  New York .  Asset-Purchase Fund  The BOJ currently buys assets, including government and
corporate debt as well as stock funds, through a 10 trillion-yen
fund. The central bank separately purchases 1.8 trillion yen of
government bonds every month.  Europe  is at the “epicenter” of a debt crisis that
concerns the entire developed world, European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said July 10. Yields on 10-year
Italian debt climbed to the highest since 1997 this week,
stoking concern the region’s debt crisis is spreading to
Europe’s largest borrower.  Five-year contracts to insure Japan’s bonds against default
rose 0.9 basis points to 91.50 basis points yesterday. The
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments rose 64 basis points this month to 283 as of July
13. An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of  credit
quality .  “Worries about  Italy  won’t dissipate easily,” Nikko’s
Noji said. “The prolonged appreciation of the yen is
inevitable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  