-- 
Mystery Ship Was Britain’s Lethal Gift to South: Lewis Lapham

-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-14/mystery-ship-was-britain-s-lethal-gift-to-confederate-cause-lewis-lapham.html
The USS Hatteras was blockading the
port of Galveston,  Texas , during the Civil War, when a mystery
ship appeared.  Giving chase, the Union captain hailed the vessel and
attempted to board. The ship opened fire, and, after an intense
45-minute battle, the Hatteras sank.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  The raider was the  CSS Alabama , commissioned by Confederate
agent James Dunwoody Bulloch for the fledgling navy, and built
in secret by British shipwrights.  Launched on July 29, 1862, and captained by the brilliant
Raphael Semmes, the Alabama quickly became the most famous ship
in the world.  She was a 230-foot beauty, with 3 masts, 2 engines and 8
big guns, and she served as a raider, attacking Union ships. By
the time the  Alabama  herself was sunk in a battle with the USS
Kearsarge in 1864, she had inflicted significant damage on the
Union, sinking 65 vessels with a value of $6 million.  The U.S. government filed claims against Britain for
assistance given to the Confederate cause, including the
Alabama, and in 1872 collected $15.5 million in damages.  I spoke with Amanda Foreman, author of “A World on Fire:
Britain’s Crucial Role in the American Civil War,” on the
following topics:  1. Cotton Trade vs. Slavery  2. Britain’s Canada Fears  3. Southern Propagandists  4. CSS Alabama Damage  5. Postwar Reconciliation  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Lewis Lapham is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Lewis Lapham  in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 