-- 
‘Tales of the City’ From Maupin Offers Disco, Sex: S.F. Stage

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/-tales-of-the-city-now-a-musical-revels-in-sex-disco-pot-s-f-stage.html
“Tales of the City” began life as
a serial in the  San Francisco  Chronicle, was collected into a
series of novels, became a TV miniseries and now is a supremely
self-loving yet often entertaining musical comedy.  Armistead Maupin’s story revolves around the residents of a
San Francisco apartment building in 1976, after the hippie era
and before the AIDS crisis. The group is like one of those Army
squads in World War II movies featuring one character for each
personality and ethnic type.  Instead of the farm boy from  Kansas , the sharpshooter from
 Tennessee  and the cynic from  Brooklyn , we have naive Mary Ann
Singleton, just arrived in San Francisco from her hometown of
 Cleveland ; the volatile hipster Mona Ramsey and her roommate,
the shy gay boy, Michael “Mouse” Tolliver; the sympathetic
straight guy, Brian, and the more sinister one, Norman.  Presiding over it all at 28 Barbary Lane is Anna Madrigal,
the pot-growing bohemian landlady who considers her Russian Hill
tenants to be her children. She hosts parties where she passes
out joints and enhanced brownies as freely as cheap wine.  The characters’ lives reach out into the city, so we also
meet Edgar Halcyon, the aging boss of the  advertising agency 
where Mona and Mary Ann work, who falls for Anna. There also are
Edgar’s horny daughter DeDe and smarmy, bisexual son-in-law
Beauchamp Day, who has a one-night stand with Mary Ann, and a
clique of snobbish gay men with trust funds and color-
coordinated wardrobes that rely heavily on shades of pink. A
gang of partially clad men (and sometimes women) shows up at the
disco and the baths and the roller-skating rink, functioning as
the chorus line of the show.  Big Voices  The cast is fully up to the job in this world premiere at
San Francisco’s  American Conservatory Theater . Judy Kaye as
Anna, Betsy Wolfe as Mary Ann and Mary Birdsong as Mona all
display big, Broadway-caliber singing voices. They bring their
roles alive as much as the episodic plot and relatively one-
dimensional characters allow. The men, including Wesley Taylor
as Mouse and Richard Poe as Edgar, also acquit themselves well.  Still, this is a show that really just wants to have fun.
While Mona may be anguished about her parents, and Mary Ann has
a knack for attracting jerks, and Edgar and Anna have their own
weighty problems, none of this dramatic conflict tops a brassy
production number at the disco. It’s a musical, after all.  The music and lyrics by Jake Shears and John Garden (of the
band Scissor Sisters) never rise above the level of competent
generic pop, with echoes of rock, blues, gospel and  Andrew Lloyd
Webber . It’s hard to recall a hummable tune when you’re back on
the sidewalk.  1970s Costumes  Directed by Jason Moore and with a libretto by Jeff Whitty
(both of “Avenue Q”), the physical production is skillfully
handled. The multilevel set by Douglas W. Schmidt changes
quickly from apartment building to ad agency to nightclub. Some
of the 1970s costumes by Beaver Bauer are worth a chortle all by
themselves.  The show is so San Francisco-centric, so full of inside
jokes, that it may not travel effectively. There’s little doubt
Broadway is in its sights, yet before it arrives in Times Square
it needs sharper songs and dialogue and could lose half an hour
of its almost three-hour running time.  Through July 24 at 415 Geary St., San Francisco.
Information: +1-415-749-2228;  http://www.act-sf.org  Rating: ***  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 