-- 
Acea Says Water Vote Endangers Plan to Double Italy Investment

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-06-10T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/acea-says-water-vote-endangers-plan-to-double-italy-investment.html
Acea SpA (ACE) ’s plans to double
investment in water services in Italy are threatened by a
referendum asking Italians to stop the privatization of locally
controlled utilities.  The vote set for June 12-13 asks Italians to abolish
legislation that forces municipalities to sell stakes in water
services to attract the investment needed to upgrade the
nations’ decaying water network. Voters will also be asked to
overturn a law guaranteeing a 7 percent return for the companies
that invest in water concessions.  “We currently invest 450 million euros ($653 million) a
year in water and are ready to double that number if they allow
us to go ahead,” Andrea Bossola, who heads Acea’s water
division, said in an interview. The company is also interested
in expanding abroad, “particularly in the Mediterranean
basin,” and in Central and  South America , he said.  Acea, an electricity and services company 51-percent owned
by the  Rome  municipality, has grown beyond the Italian capital,
acquiring stakes in water utilities in the central Italian
regions of Lazio, Tuscany, Umbria and Campania. Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s new law would force the opening of the rest
of the country’s water markets to companies such as Acea and
Hera SpA if the referendum doesn’t succeed.  “Although Acea is partly public, it has taken full
advantage of new legislation and a vote against privatization
would slow the company’s development,” said Edoardo Liuni an
analyst for IlNuovoMercato.it in Rome. “It will all depend on
whether the quorum is reached.”  Reaching Quorum  For any of the referendum points to carry, 51 percent of
registered voters must participate. Although no referendum has
reached a quorum since 1995, Acea shares have fallen more than
14 percent in the past month on expectations that the backers of
the referendum may have enough support to win.  Italians are also being asked to vote on whether to
permanently ban nuclear power and whether Berlusconi should be
allowed to cite professional commitments as a reason for
skipping hearings in corruption trials. The vote will test the
country’s support for the government less than a month after a
defeat in regional elections, prompting Berlusconi supporters to
encourage people not to vote.  Local utilities like Acea, Hera and Iren SpA “would be
penalized by the success of the referendum,” Banca Leonardo
analyst Claudia Introvigne wrote in a June 8 note, pointing to
the current share decline as a sign of investor unease.  Credit Ratings  Fitch Ratings Agency said on June 3 the vote threatens
“the remuneration of capital investments” for companies like
Acea, though it was too early to assess the impact the
referendum could have on credit ratings.  Acea, which has a market value of 1.58 billion euros, says
stakes in other water companies have turned it into  Italy ’s
biggest water utility with 8.5 million direct and indirect
clients.  Bossola said Acea hopes to be allowed to keep growing, and
that the company is also looking for partnerships with foreign
players to expand outside of Italy. “We’re thinking of
partnerships with Suez or others to better face the European and
global markets,” he said.  French utility GDF Suez SA has an 11.5 percent stake in
Acea, according to the website of Italy’s market regulator.
While the two companies disbanded their Italian power joint
venture in March, they continue to work together in the water
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  