-- 
Hackers Fight Rivals, FBI to Control Hijacked-Computer Networks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/hackers-grapple-with-rivals-fbi-to-control-armies-of-hijacked-computers.html
Just after 3 a.m. on May 26, Karim
Hijazi, the chief executive of  Unveillance , a cyber-security
firm, received an e-mail from hackers calling themselves
LulzSec. They demanded he help them take over some networks of
hijacked computers that other criminals were operating.  Unveillance had information on the so-called botnets
because it was tracking them for potential corporate targets,
Hijazi said in an interview. LulzSec had leverage to make Hijazi
comply because it had hacked his Wilmington, Delaware-based
company’s e-mail system and threatened to post captured
confidential documents online if he didn’t help the group.  “If they did get a hold of these, they could potentially
do way more damage than what’s already being done to these
corporate targets,” said Hijazi, who rejected the demands.
“The harm could be monumental.”  Botnets, which secretly control almost one-fifth of all
home computers, have become a hotly contested terrain in the
cyber-underground, according to Alex Cox, a security researcher
at Reston, Virginia-based  NetWitness Corp.  Criminals who run
them or rivals who want to are facing off against each other and
against  law enforcement  and intelligence agencies that seek to
render the rogue networks harmless or use them for their own
devices, according to cyber-security experts.  Botnets are created through programs secretly downloaded on
computers in homes, offices and schools across the globe. The
programs have grown more powerful each year, and cyber-criminals
have learned to create networks far larger than any corporation
using other peoples’ computers.  Internet Threat  The enslaved “bots,” as the infected computers are known,
have become so pervasive they now threaten the security of the
Internet, said Gunter Ollmann, head of research at Atlanta-based
Damballa Inc., which tracks botnet activity. At least 18 percent
of home computers are now under remote command of cyber-thieves
without their owners’ knowledge, according to Damballa’s
research.  For corporate computers, which are usually protected by
expensive security measures, around seven percent are controlled
by such malware, which is hidden from the user and controlled
via the Internet, Ollmann said.  The FBI dismantled the so-called Coreflood botnet in April.
Operated by a gang of Russian cyber-thieves who siphoned
financial information off their hosts, agents estimated that the
software that controlled it had infected more than 1.8 million
computers in the U.S. alone.  Botnet Victims  The stolen information was used to make bank transfers in
some cases of hundreds of thousands of dollars, the  Justice
Department  said. Thieves attempted to transfer more than
$934,000 from an unnamed defense contracting company in
 Tennessee  in one case. They removed $78,421 from the bank
account of an unidentified  law firm  in  South Carolina  and
$115,771 from an unidentified real estate company in  Michigan ,
according to court papers.  “Botnets are one of the most common ways of making money
in the cyber-underground,” said Cox, the NetWitness security
researcher. “When I have control of a botnet, regardless of
what family of malware it is, I have a tremendous amount of
power.”  Botnets do have a weakness. The infected computers feed
confidential information to command-and-control servers, which
can themselves be hijacked. Though technically demanding, the
move allows the takeover of a valuable criminal asset by a rival
or the dismantling of it if law enforcement does the seizing.  Unveillance had access to data that could make such
hijacking easier, and Hijazi said that’s what LulzSec wanted.  The Threat  “I’m sure we can settle on control of bots,” a LulzSec
hacker called Ninetales told Hijazi, according to a computer log
of their interaction provided to Bloomberg News by Hijazi.  When Hijazi said he didn’t want to face extortion, another
hacker named hamster_nipples replied: “Unfortunately, you have
little choice at this point.”  Hijazi, who declined to identify his corporate clients,
refused to comply with LulzSec’s demands and rejected a separate
request for money. The hackers posted the company’s e-mails on
the Internet June 3.  Botnets can be used to launch so-called denial-of-service
attacks, which can bring down websites by inundating them with
thousands of service requests a second.  “Imagine a crank phone call,” said E.J. Hilbert, a former
FBI cyber-crime investigator. “Now imagine 10,000 people
calling your house all at the same time. That’s basically what a
botnet can do to a website.”  More sophisticated malicious software or “malware” can
scrape company computers for login passwords and financial
information, automatically siphoning terabytes of data into
servers located in Ukraine or Belarus or  China , where law
enforcement is lax, according to Cox.  Zeus for Sale  Malware sold under the name Zeus lets cyber-thieves hijack
online banking sessions in progress, transferring money to
illicit accounts without the computer owner realizing it, said
Don Jackson, who tracks malware for  Dell SecureWorks Inc. , a
cyber-security firm based in Atlanta.  Jackson estimated that Zeus has been used to steal more
than $1 billion from bank accounts over the past several years.  Hijazi said the LulzSec experience made him realize how his
company’s research on botnets had turned his small firm into a
target not just for LulzSec, but potentially much more powerful
criminal enterprises.  ‘Fraud Machines’  “We’re taking away their fraud machines, their DDOS
tools,” Hijazi said, referring to denial-of-service programs.
“It’s something that is going to make these people mad.”  So would a takeover of a botnet by a government agency.  “From an intelligence standpoint, getting control of a
botnet in a country an intelligence officer is interested in
would be a pretty good spying opportunity,” Cox said. He said
he didn’t have personal knowledge that U.S. intelligence
employees were using botnets.  Documents leaked when hackers posted the e-mails of another
security firm,  Sacramento , California-based HBGary Inc.,
detailed how botnets were being used for spying by U.S. military
and intelligence agencies.  The FBI’s seizure of Coreflood’s command-and-control
systems was the first time that U.S. law enforcement officials
were known to have hijacked a botnet, a technique pioneered by
researchers years before, according to Wenke Lee, a botnet
researcher at the  Georgia Institute of Technology .  Decapitating Network  After obtaining a court order, FBI agents took control and
ordered the malware in infected machines to shut down. The move
was praised by many cyber-security experts for decapitating a
massive criminal network that had been operating for almost ten
years.  The FBI briefly had control over millions of individual
computers in the same way the hackers did in what was previously
considered a violation of federal hacking statutes, Hilbert
said.  “Whenever we tried to do it before, we were always told it
was illegal,” Hilbert said of earlier efforts by some in the
FBI to try the takeover strategy.  “Shades of gray or not, the bottom line is you’re going
into a computer without the owner’s permission and killing the
program.”  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant in Hartford,
 Connecticut , ruled that the U.S. could set up a substitute
server to replace the seized ones. The ruling allowed the server
to be operated, under law enforcement supervision, by the
Internet Systems Consortium, a nonprofit group based in  Redwood
City ,  California .  Gordon Snow, FBI assistant director for the cyber-division,
said the Coreflood operation would be followed by others like
it.  “I expect we’ll see more of it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  