-- 
Mets Owners Win Review of Madoff Trustee’s $1 Billion Lawsuit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/madoff-fraud-case-against-new-york-mets-owners-gets-july-1-court-hearing.html
New York  Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and
Saul Katz won the right to a federal judge’s review of a
$1 billion lawsuit against them by the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  The owners of the Major League Baseball team asked U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  last month to decide
whether trustee  Irving Picard , hired to liquidate Madoff’s firm,
has a right to sue them on behalf of Madoff’s clients. Rakoff
set a hearing on the case for July 1, according to a June 6
court filing.  Picard sued the Mets owners in bankruptcy court in
December, demanding return of $300 million in what he called
“fictitious” profit and $700 million in principal taken out of
the Madoff firm by Sterling Equities Inc. and its partners. An
amended suit in March was “rife with false allegations,” and
raises “significant questions” about Picard’s interpretation
of federal legislation, the Sterling partners said in their
request to Rakoff.  A higher court’s ruling on the case might affect many of
Picard’s lawsuits, according to Wilpon and Katz. The trustee has
filed more than 1,000 suits seeking $90 billion for Madoff
investors.  “Resolution of these issues will directly affect the
resolution of this case and likely will affect all of the cases
brought by the trustee against BLMIS customers,” they said in
their May filing, referring to Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Right to Sue  The Mets owners’ move to take their case out of bankruptcy
court is another challenge to Picard, who with his firm has
charged more than $175 million for work since Madoff’s 2008
arrest.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan has said
she will decide whether the trustee has the right to sue
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $6.4 billion on behalf of Madoff
customers, as Picard claimed he did.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has asked
Rakoff to dismiss a $9 billion lawsuit against it and so-called
feeder funds, saying Picard doesn’t have legal authority to
bring such suits on behalf of Madoff customers.  Rakoff also is reviewing whether Picard has the right to
use U.S. racketeering law against  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, didn’t immediately
respond yesterday to an e-mail seeking comment.  Wilpon and Katz contend Picard is seeking to recover money
that Sterling took out from Madoff’s firm as far back as 25
years ago, wrongly deeming the withdrawals to be fraudulent.
Under federal regulations, brokerages must issue customer
statements and trade confirmations that are “legally
enforceable evidence” of a broker’s obligation to customers,
entitling customers to take out money, they said.  Valid Debt  “By definition, a transfer to a creditor that discharges a
valid debt -- such as BLMIS’ transfers to customers -- cannot be
avoided as fraudulent,” they said.  The Sterling partners also challenged Picard’s assertion
that they should have investigated Madoff instead of ignoring
warnings that he may have been a fraud. The assertion was key to
Picard’s demand that Sterling should return all money taken from
their brokerage accounts.  “The trustee’s legal conclusions are unprecedented,”
Sterling said. “The Sterling defendants were customers of a
registered broker. No federal securities law imposes upon a
brokerage customer a duty to investigate his broker to ensure
that the broker is not engaging in fraud,” they said.  The  bankruptcy court  case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The review is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Linda Sandler} in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  