-- 
Lagarde Seeks to Win Backing From Africa in Campaign to Head IMF

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-10T10:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/lagarde-seeks-to-win-backing-from-africa-in-campaign-to-head-imf.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  arrived at the  African Development Bank ’s annual meeting
to rally support for her campaign to head the  International
Monetary Fund .  “I’m going to meet our African colleagues,” she told
reporters in Lisbon today before heading into closed talks.  Lagarde is due to meet Moroccan Finance Minister
Salaheddine Mezouar, Mauritian Finance Minister Pravind Jugnauth, Guinea-Bissau Finance Minister Helena Embalo and
Burundi Finance Minister Clotilde Nizigama. A press conference
has been scheduled for 2 p.m. local time.  Asked about the outcome of a French court ruling on whether
to investigate her for abuse of power, Lagarde said: “I’m
always confident.”  The court is considering whether to examine if Lagarde
abused her position in 2007 when she sent a case involving a
supporter of French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to arbitration.
Her action resulted in a 385 million-euro ($558 million) award
to businessman Bernard Tapie, who was once a minister in a
Socialist French government. Lagarde has denied wrongdoing.  The court will probably delay until next month a decision
on whether to proceed with an investigation or close the file,
Le Monde newspaper reported in yesterday’s edition.  Some emerging-market countries have urged an end to the
convention of naming World Bank presidents from the U.S. and the
head of the IMF from  Europe . The 187-member IMF aims to pick a
successor to  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  by the end of June, after he
resigned last month following his arrest in  New York  on charges
of attempted rape and sexual assault.  Concern is “not about the candidature; it’s mainly about
the process and the criteria” for selecting the candidate,
South African Deputy Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said in an
interview in Lisbon. “It’s a process that should be dealt with
under calmer conditions. While we are trying to discuss
processes, we have an urgent situation here where the position
needs to be filled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  