-- 
Lagarde Says IMF Needs ‘Flexibility’ in Setting Aid Terms

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-10T16:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/lagarde-says-imf-needs-flexibility-in-setting-aid-terms-1-.html
Christine Lagarde , France’s finance
minister and a candidate to become managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , said the lender needs to show
“flexibility” when setting aid terms for developing nations.  “We must adapt to the diversity of economies, to the
diversity of the levels of development,” she told reporters in
Lisbon today, where she met with African finance ministers
gathering for the annual meeting of the  African Development
Bank . “I’m very open-minded as to the exact size, nature,
scope, length and interest rates that be allowed in certain
circumstances. We can’t apply standard rules.”  Some emerging-market countries have called for an end to
the convention of naming World Bank presidents from the U.S. and
the head of the IMF from  Europe . The 187-member IMF aims to pick
a successor to Dominique Strauss-Kahn by the end of June, after
he resigned last month following his arrest in New York on
charges of attempted rape and sexual assault.  IMF aid should help create jobs and sustainable growth, and
not exclusively focus on fiscal consolidation, Lagarde said. The
fund “must serve its entire membership,” she said. “It is not
the property of anybody.”  Lagarde’s assurances that the IMF would cater to the needs
of developing nations may soften opposition to her bid from
Africa.  “You are a friend of Africa,” Donald Kaberuka, the
president of the African Development Bank, said at a lunch that
the Tunis-based lender hosted for Lagarde. “You know  Africa .
Whatever you do in the future, you will always think about the
continent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Lisbon at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Lisbon at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  