-- 
Christine Lagarde Leads Agustin Carstens in IMF Race as Nominations Close

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-06-10T22:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/lagarde-favored-over-carstens-for-imf-s-top-post-as-nomination-period-ends.html
Christine Lagarde , who has taken her
campaign to head the  International Monetary Fund  to India and
China while keeping her fans posted on Twitter, may be poised to
defeat her main rival, Agustin Carstens.  With hours before the deadline to submit nominees, the
French finance minister has the backing of European Union
countries, and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has voiced
his support. Carstens,  Mexico ’s central bank governor, says he’s
backed by 12 Latin American nations while he hasn’t garnered
endorsements from  Argentina  and Brazil.  Lagarde has benefited from the failure of emerging markets
to coalesce around a candidate from their own ranks after vowing
to end a six-decade European lock on the position. She has tried
to turn attention away from her nationality by focusing on her
gender and her role in European efforts to head off a Greek
sovereign-debt default.  “There’s a wide perception that Lagarde is the front-
runner,” said Domenico Lombardi, a former IMF board official
and a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.
“She’s seen by many of her political interlocutors as the best
chance to contain the turmoil in the euro area and avoid that it
could escalate to a full flow-blown systemic crisis.”  The next IMF chief will preside over an institution reeling
from last month’s arrest of its former managing director,
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, on charges of attempted rape. The former
French finance minister pleaded not guilty.  Biggest Shareholder  The U.S., the IMF’s single largest shareholder with almost
17 percent of the votes, hasn’t announced support for a
candidate, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has said
both Lagarde and Carstens are qualified.  Backing a non-European for the IMF could mean relinquishing
U.S. control of the  World Bank  -- an outcome members of Congress
who decide on funding for development banks are not ready to
contemplate. Under an informal agreement, an American has always
headed the World Bank, while a European has led the IMF.  Lagarde, 55, who was a partner in Chicago-based law firm
Baker & McKenzie LLP, still may face a legal setback of her own.
A French court is considering whether to investigate if Lagarde
abused her power in 2007 when she sent a case involving a
supporter of French President Nicolas Sarkozy to arbitration.
Her action resulted in a 385 million-euro ($559 million) award
to businessman Bernard Tapie, who was once a minister in a
Socialist French government. Lagarde has denied wrongdoing.  After meeting today, the court said it will decide on July
8 whether to proceed with an investigation or close the file.  Emergency Loans  The IMF approved a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and provides a third of bailout packages in  Europe .  “The IMF job is one of the most important in the whole
world economy,” said C. Fred Bergsten, who heads the
Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics.
“Managing directors do make a difference.”  Grigori Marchenko, the chairman of the central bank of
 Kazakhstan , told the Daily Telegraph newspaper yesterday that
Lagarde’s victory was a “done deal.”  Marchenko said in a  CNN  interview that he is not running
for the job. Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said on May
26 that his country supported Marchenko though it would
“study” other candidates.  “I think it’s better to withdraw and not to put some of
the countries into embarrassing positions,” Marchenko told CNN.
The deadline for nominations is midnight in  Washington  today.  IMF spokeswoman Conny Lotze said the fund would not make
any announcement on the candidacies until June 13 or June
14 “at the earliest.”  ‘Not Available’  South Africa ’s former finance minister Trevor Manuel said
today he won’t seek the job. “I’m not available” for the
position, Manuel told reporters in Johannesburg. “I haven’t
thrown my hat in the ring.”  Lagarde and Carstens have embarked on world tours to lobby
governments for support.  Carstens, 53, who served as IMF deputy managing director
from 2003 to 2006, met Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee
and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in  New Delhi  today and will be
in Washington next week, before flying to China and  Japan . He’s
already been to  Brazil , Argentina and  Canada .  “They at this stage say that they were going to evaluate
the candidates and once they finish their evaluation, they will
make up their mind to see which direction will be their vote,”
Carstens told reporters in New Delhi. “They were completely
neutral. They were very attentive, but they were responsible and
they said they needed to evaluate the candidates,” he said.  Trip to Brazil  Lagarde went to Brazil last week and is headed to  Saudi
Arabia  and  Egypt . She has sought to reassure officials in these
countries that she will give them a bigger voice at the agency,
which lends to nations in financial distress.  “The IMF does not belong to anybody, it belongs to the 187
members of the fund,” she told reporters yesterday in Beijing.
“Management of the fund does not belong to any particular”
nation or region. She also said she was “very positive” about
her trip to  China , while adding that China’s position on her
candidacy belongs to that country’s leaders.  Yesterday she answered questions from  Twitter  users,
describing her strengths as “my ability to include, to build
consensus, to mediate when needed, to give confidence, and to
reach out to governments.” Today in Lisbon Lagarde said the IMF
needs to show “flexibility” when setting terms of support
packages by adapting them to the situation of specific
countries.  Carstens, a former finance minister, has said he expects
emerging markets to support his candidacy once there is a final
list of nominees. The IMF board aims to pick a candidate by June
30.  Emerging Markets  He says emerging markets should have a greater voice in the
management of the IMF and supports the use of measures such as
 capital controls  and accumulation of foreign reserves to fight
excessive capital inflows to developing nations. He has
criticized European nations for publicly backing Lagarde before
all the candidates are known.  “I find it strange that they are advocating in some forums
for an open, transparent, merit-based candidate and they have
made up their minds before the candidates are on the table,”
Carstens said in a June 2 interview in  Sao Paulo . “All the
other countries are playing by the book.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  