-- 
AIG Is a ‘Classic Value Idea’ That May Gain 32%, BofA Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-10T20:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/aig-stock-is-classic-value-idea-that-may-gain-32-bank-of-america-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer majority owned by the U.S., may advance more than 30
percent in the next year in New York trading as results
stabilize,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said.  AIG trades at about 60 percent of book value, a measure of
assets minus liabilities, after charges tied to its government
rescue and reserve shortfalls drained earnings. Rivals including
Travelers Cos. and Prudential Financial Inc. trade close to full
book value, according to Bank of America analysts led by Jay Cohen, who initiated coverage with a “buy” rating.  “We see AIG as a classic value idea, given a sizeable
discounted valuation, relative to peers,” the analysts said in
a note dated yesterday. “A lack of any material bad news may be
enough to allow for healthy stock appreciation.”  AIG may climb to $37 in 12 months, a 32 percent gain from
yesterday’s close of $28.10 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Cohen said.  Bruce Berkowitz , who has has been building a stake
in AIG through his Fairholme Capital Management LLC, said
yesterday that investors will look more favorably at the insurer
as the government reduces its holdings.  “People want to stay away until the United States Treasury
is out,”  Berkowitz said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Erik Schatzker. “If I had enough cash, it wouldn’t
take long at all” for Treasury to cut its stake below 50
percent, he said.  AIG jumped 86 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $28.96 at 4 p.m. in
composite trading. The company plunged 40 percent since Dec. 31.  Client Confidence  The Treasury Department, led by  Timothy F. Geithner ,
lowered its stake in AIG to 77 percent in a share offering last
month. The government’s plan to dispose of its holding may
restore the confidence of commercial insurance buyers who
shunned AIG in 2008 and 2009 as it was forced to take bailouts
that totaled $182.3 billion, Cohen said.  “We did hear about commercial clients that scaled back the
amount of insurance they purchased from the company,” Cohen
said. “We believe that clients and brokers no longer have
security concerns” about AIG’s Chartis unit.  Firms including Bank of America, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG are initiating analyst coverage after
helping the Treasury sell shares. Goldman Sachs has a
“neutral” rating and Deutsche Bank advises investors buy AIG
shares.  Bank of America said AIG may benefit from deferred tax
assets accumulated after the company posted net losses of more
than $100 billion in 2008 and 2009. The company had about $25.6
billion of the assets available as of Dec. 31 to help reduce
future tax payments.  Cohen said the asset has a value of about $6 a share for
the insurer. His calculation assumed that AIG may not make
enough money to take full advantage before it expires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  