-- 
Sulzer’s Buechner to Become New Chief as Akzo Nobel’s Wijers to Step Down

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   M o r w e n n a   C o n i a m
-- 
2011-06-10T10:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/akzo-nobel-chief-wijers-to-quit-after-creating-world-s-biggest-paint-maker.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  said Chief Executive
Officer Hans Wijers will step down from the Dutch company next
year after spending almost a decade creating the world’s biggest
paintmaker.  The former Dutch economy minister plans to leave at the
annual  shareholders’ meeting  in April, Amsterdam-based Akzo
said. He will be replaced by Ton Buechner, who heads Swiss
pumpmaker  Sulzer AG. (SUN)  Sulzer stock fell the most in 12 weeks and
Chairman Juergen Dormann said he regrets Buechner’s move.  While Sulzer is left without a clear successor, Buechner’s
task at Akzo will be to meet a target of lifting sales to 20
billion euros ($28 billion) over five years. Wijers sold a drug
unit and orchestrated the $16.5 billion purchase of Imperial
Chemical Industries. With the integration of ICI done, Buechner
will likely focus on emerging market expansion, utilizing his
experience in  Asia , analysts said.  “Akzo is extremely well positioned and financially
strong,” said Paul Satchell, an analyst at Collin Stewart.
“It’s a question of just running the machine.”  Akzo shares have added 4.3 percent this year for a market
value of 11.3 billion euros. U.S. rivals  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) 
and  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  are little changed. The Dutch company
rose 0.3 percent to 48.63 euros in Amsterdam today, while Sulzer
slipped 5.2 percent to 138.5 francs as of 11:16 a.m.  More Acquisitions  Buechner, a civil engineer, has been CEO of Sulzer since
2007 and is known to have a hands-on approach to management,
according to SNS analyst Michel Veul. Akzo today highlighted the
45-year-old Dutchman’s “proven track record” for strategically
developing a company.  Buechner will likely need to make further acquisitions to
meet growth targets, analysts and investors including Edwin Slaghekke of Delta Lloyd Asset Management said at the time
Akzo’s new targets were unveiled on Sept. 28.  “We understand Buechner has shown a strong operational
performance at Sulzer, which is exactly what Akzo needs,” Mutlu
Gundogan, an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland , said in a note.  Buechner, a former Aker Kvaerner engineer in  Singapore ,
joined Sulzer in 1994 and became CEO in 2007, leading the Swiss
company through several acquisitions and focusing on growth in
emerging markets. In April, it bought the waste-water pump
business of  Assa Abloy AB (ASSAB)  for $1 billion.  Sulzer gets about one-quarter of its 3.18 billion francs in
annual sales from Asia and  Australia , while Akzo generates 20
percent of its 15 billion euros in turnover in Asia.  Blow to Sulzer  Buechner is leaving Sulzer after the company reported two
straight years of falling revenue. Demand is now rebounding from
the financial crisis, with first-quarter orders up 16 percent to
917.8 million francs.  Sulzer said it’s starting the search for a replacement for
Buechner, who will depart for Akzo in the fourth quarter. His
departure comes a year after former Chief Financial Officer
Peter Meier said he’d leave to pursue a career elsewhere.  “We’re badly surprised by this announcement,” said
Patrick Laager, an analyst at Credit Suisse. “It will be very
challenging for Sulzer to adequately replace the CEO position”
by the fourth quarter, he said in a note. “His successor will
have to demonstrate extraordinary skills in managing a four-
division structured company exposed to different industrial
cycles.”  Dormann said the company will announce its plans for a
replacement in due course. Juergen Brandt was named Chief
Financial Officer in September.  Buechner’s departure “is a loss but we always had seen this
as a risk, given his great experience, excellent track record
and reputation in the market,” Bank Vontobel analyst Fabian Haecki said today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  