-- 
Talbots Aging Ungracefully Prompts Cheapest Apparel Bid With LBO: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-06-10T14:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/talbots-ages-badly-amid-cheapest-lbo-bid.html
Talbots Inc. (TLB)  is so cheap that the
apparel retailer may now lure private-equity firms even after
losing $763 million in the past four years.  The clothing chain is valued at 2.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the least
expensive of any U.S. apparel seller worth more than $100
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hingham,
Massachusetts-based company plummeted 43 percent in two days
after saying this week that sales will drop “significantly” in
the quarter, pushing Talbots below the value of its net assets.  Talbots’s bargain price may help buyout firms overcome the
risks of owning a cash-strapped retailer mired in the worst
sales slump in two decades. The company lost more than 90
percent of its market value in the past 10 years as profit
margins shrank and its acquisition of J. Jill failed. Talbots,
which targets women older than 35, needs “new blood” in
management and money to spend on a brand turnaround that may be
easier out of the public eye, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “If I were a private-equity investor, I would certainly be
looking at Talbots because it’s so cheap,” said  David Abella , a
 money manager  at Rochdale Investment Management LLC in New York,
which oversees about $4 billion. “It’s really about as cheap as
retail gets. This price could make sense for a private-equity
buyer to come in with some sort of bid if there was turnaround
potential in the brand.”  Talbots doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation, said Julie Lorigan, the company’s vice president of  investor relations .  Cheapest Clothing Retailer  The retailer sparked a two-day stock slide when it said on
June 7 that fiscal second-quarter sales will fall from a year
ago and discounts to lure back shoppers will eat into profit
margins after trendier styles confused its core clientele of
older women. The value of Talbots’s debt and equity minus cash
was sliced to 2.7 times Ebitda as of yesterday from 3.9 times,
making it the cheapest U.S. clothing retailer with a market
value higher than $100 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “At these levels, you’re at some valuations that start to
make sense for somebody who could come in and reorganize, wring
out some costs and put some profits back in there,” said James Dunigan, chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth
Management, which oversees $110 billion. “It’s a tough
business.”  ‘Very Bite-Size’  Talbots rebounded 7.5 percent yesterday to $2.72, giving it
a market value of $192 million. The company has shrunk from a
peak of $3.38 billion in February 2001 as debt topped $500
million in 2006 and profits turned to losses in the year ended
in January 2008. Revenue has fallen for four straight years, the
worst stretch in two decades, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At the current price, Talbots would be the least expensive
takeover in U.S. apparel history, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The low was set when Designs Inc. bought Casual Male Corp.
out of bankruptcy in 2002 for 3.9 times Ebitda, or $170 million,
the data show. At that multiple, Talbots’s equity would cost
about $314 million in a takeover, or a 63 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price.  Today, shares of Talbots declined 1.1 percent to $2.69 as
of 10:49 a.m. in  New York .  “It’s very bite size. It’s certainly cheap, and I think
that’s what might entice private equity at some point,” said
Paul Lejuez, an analyst with Nomura in New York. Still, “it’s
not a slam dunk,” he said.  The women’s  retailer  founded in 1947 is known for its
traditional basics such as blazers, ballet flats and pearls.
After spending dropped off during the U.S. recession, Talbots
started targeting younger customers with trendier fashions. To
clear out the racks after inventory per square foot reached the
highest level in more than two years, Talbots says it’s now
offering discounts that will cut into margins.  ‘Kind of Schizophrenic’  “It’s been kind of schizophrenic,” said Jennifer Davis,
an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets LLC in New York, who says
Talbots should be focused on women aged 40 to 45. “They need to
be consistent and pick a customer and stick with that.”  The shares closed as low as $2.53 this week, valuing the
company on June 8 at a 4 percent discount to its book value, or
assets minus liabilities, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
implies the company would be worth more if it fired management
and sold all of its assets.  Talbots, which has tapped $86.8 million of a $200 million
revolving  bank loan , had only $8.6 million in cash and
equivalents as of April.  J. Jill Purchase  Talbots purchased J. Jill Group Inc. in 2006 for about $517
million, saddling the company with $400 million in debt. It then
sold most of J. Jill’s assets in 2009 to Golden Gate Capital
Corp. for about $75 million.  “Strategic usually doesn’t work in retail” acquisitions,
said Nomura’s Lejuez. “If there’s anyone who taught us that in
this universe, it’s Talbots.”  While Talbots’s valuation is attractive, the balance sheet
may deter a financial buyer, said Adrienne Tennant, an analyst
with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, who has a “sell” rating on
the stock. A private-equity firm would need to lever up the
balance sheet to reach requisite internal rates of return.  An acquirer must invest money in a new marketing campaign
and may also need to bring in new management, Lejuez said.  “We need a new playbook,” he said. “If someone bought it
they’d have to invest a lot of money. Their balance sheet is not
strong enough for them to keep making mistakes as they try to
implement this shift.”  Instead, Talbots should keep its management team, close
some stores and market specifically to 40-year-olds, Janney’s
Tennant said. The company could also consider selling its credit
card business for cash to reinvest in marketing and store
makeovers, said Betty Chen, an analyst with Wedbush Securities
Inc. in  San Francisco . Nomura estimates the credit-card
receivables could fetch $160 million in a sale.  “The question is, is there a potential turnaround in the
name and in the story?” Rochdale’s Abella said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at +1-212-617-7261 or  rajello@bloomberg.net . 