-- 
Amarin May Not Reach Deal With Partner Until 2012, Chief Executive Says

-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 
2011-06-10T20:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/amarin-may-not-reach-deal-with-partner-until-2012-chief-executive-says.html
Amarin Corp., the biotechnology
company developing a cholesterol drug, may not reach an
agreement with a suitor until 2012, Chief Executive Officer Joe Zakrzewski said. The company fell in New York trading.  Amarin, based in Dublin and Mystic,  Connecticut , expects to
file for U.S. regulatory approval of the cholesterol medicine
AMR101 in the next quarter and is in talks about potential
licenses or a buyout, Zakrzewski said today.  As for a possible agreement, “we could do that today” or
when the regulatory filing occurs, Zakrzewski said in a phone
interview. “We could do it through the middle of next year”
when the drug’s potential is clearer, he said.  “If you offer me $15 a share, I am waiting,” Zakrzewski
said in a phone interview today. “If you offer $30, $40, $100
it’s a different story. There is a lot that can happen and the
situation is very fluid.”  Amarin, with no products on the market, almost doubled in
value to $17.10 per American depositary receipt on April 18
after saying AMR101 met the goal of reducing levels of fatty
chemicals in the blood in a late-stage study. The stock has
declined since then as investors tire of waiting for a
partnership or acquisition, said Duane Nash, an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in  San Francisco .  “I think it’s going to happen further off late this year
or early next year as we are not seeing a tremendous amount of
partnership and M&A activity that we saw a few years ago,” Nash
said in telephone interview.  Almost a Year  Amarin has said it has been talking with companies for
almost a year, Nash said. Drugmakers that sell treatments to
lower cholesterol and fats in the bloodstream would be potential
buyers or partners, he said.  Amarin’s ADRs, each representing one ordinary share,
declined 68 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $15.63 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. Since April 18 the shares have fallen 8.6
percent.  Zakrzewski confirmed Amarin has retained a financial
adviser, although he would not discuss whether the firm was
Lazard Ltd, reported by the Sunday Times in April.  It may be more appropriate to wait until after filing for
regulatory approval to seal a deal or to even postpone a
decision to next year when the chances of the drug being
approved are better known, Zakrzewski said. Amarin would only
consider a licensing agreement for sales outside the U.S. while
keeping the American market for itself, he said.  AMR101 once approved would compete with  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc. (GSK) ’s Lovaza in the U.S. Lovaza generated sales of 530 million
pounds ($861 million) last year for the London-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 