-- 
Manchester Utd. to Bid for Arsenal’s Nasri, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-10T08:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/manchester-utd-to-bid-for-arsenal-s-nasri-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Nasri Offer  Manchester United  is planning a 10 million-pound bid ($16.2
million) for Arsenal midfielder Samir Nasri, whose contract ends
after next season, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Arsenal has offered Nasri a five-year deal worth 90,000
pounds-a-week, which he’s yet to agree to, the Mirror added.  Liverpool bid 5 million pounds for Arsenal left-back  Gael Clichy ,  the Guardian  said.  Clichy, who has 12 months left on his Gunners contract, has
rejected an extension, according to the Guardian.  Arsenal Gets Saint  Arsenal agreed to sign Southampton winger Alex Oxlade-
Chamberlain for a 12 million-pound fee based on appearances and
achievements, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The son of former England international Mark Chamberlain
will be confirmed as an Arsenal player on July 1, the Mirror
said. He turns 18 in August, the newspaper added.  Barcelona Talks  Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas’s agent will go to Barcelona
tomorrow to hold transfer talks, with the midfielder following
two days later,  Marca reported .  Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  has promised Fabregas he can
leave in the offseason, and Barca believes it will be able to
agree to a fee of “a bit more” than 30 million euros ($43
million) with the Gunners, according to Marca.  United Signing  Manchester United is closing in on the 15 million-pound
signing of Aston Villa’s Ashley Young, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 25-year-old England winger is keen to complete the move
before this weekend when he is getting married so as not to
disrupt his honeymoon, the Mail said.  Jol Moves  Martin Jol  could make Newcastle midfielder Kevin Nolan his
first signing as Fulham coach,  the Sun  reported.  The Dutchman has 15 million pounds to spend on signings in
the offseason, according to the Sun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 