-- 
Andrew Bird, Top Pitmasters, Brian Wilson, Bard: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/andrew-bird-pitmaster-bbq-brian-wilson-bard-in-the-park-n-y-weekend.html
A free performance by Andrew Bird is
the highlight of Celebrate Brooklyn’s opening night gala on
Friday. The hand-clapping, whistling violin virtuoso sold out
 Carnegie Hall  on his last major tour.  Onstage, Bird is mesmerizing as he constructs a song by
recording a variety of short plucks and pulls along his
strings. Once all the loops play together and he sings his
catchy lyrics over the resulting tune, you’ll be transported.  Afterwards, party with CHERYL, a Brooklyn cat-masked artist
collective.  At the Prospect Park Band Shell; enter at 9th St. and
Prospect Park West. Information: +1-718-683-5633;
 http://www.bricartsmedia.org .  Also Friday Night  For something different, go back to the era of zoot suits,
the jitterbug and big bands. And the big war with its big tunes
like “Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammunition!”  William Bolcom, singers Joan Morris and Robert White, with
narrator Hazen Schumacher, present a witty program of songs and
memories from the 1940s in “Someone Talked!”  Maybe White will tell his story about getting a gold watch
from  Frank Sinatra .  At 7:00 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium,  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd St. Information: +1-212-570-
3949;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Saturday  Explore your own creative powers on  Governors Island , where
the fifth annual Figment is now in full swing.  Become a choreographer, choosing dancers, props and
costumes. Star in a play, morph into a graffiti artist, or join
the improv open music circle.  See yourself as you really are in the True Mirror Palace,
where your image is not reflected backwards, and wait for the
ElectricBubbleBus to throw an impromptu party.  Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Take the free ferry
service from the Battery Maritime Building at 10 South St.
Information:  http://newyork.figmentproject.org .  Saturday Afternoon  Head over to the High Line’s new swath stretching from W.
18th St. to W. 30th St. where there are lots of viewing
platforms, a wildflower field and a luscious green lawn for
relaxing and people-watching.  Go to the southern end, near the 14th St. passage, at 5
p.m., when the Trisha Brown Dance Company recreates “Roof
Piece” on the buildings surrounding the High Line.  You’ll see dancers on rooftops mimic one another in a
series of improvised movements. It happens again at 7 p.m.  Information: +1-212-500-6035;  http://www.thehighline.org .  Saturday Night  Before  Brian Wilson  started penning tunes about beach life,
he fell in love with George Gershwin’s music.  “‘Rhapsody in Blue’ was the very first song I learned and
played on the piano when I was 8,” Wilson said by phone during
a rehearsal break last week.  He released a CD of Gershwin’s music last year, and is now
performing it at Highline Ballroom. Expect a gorgeous acapella
rendition of “Blue,” a jazzy version of “Summertime,” and a
mash-up of “I Got Rhythm.”  It’s part of the Blue Note’s month-long jazz festival
celebrating the club’s 30th anniversary.  At 431 W. 16th Street through Sunday. Information: +1-212-
414-5994;  http://bluenotejazzfestival.com .  Sunday  Get yourself some authentic grill.  It’s the 9th Annual Big Apple Barbecue Block Party, and top
pitmasters from  Texas  and the South are descending on  Manhattan 
to cook up their regional recipes.  Musicians Doug Wamble, Those Darlins and Black Joe Lewis &
the Honeybears will entertain as you savor the pulled pork,
brisket and ribs.  From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Madison Square Park, between 23rd
and 26th streets. and Fifth and Madison avenues. Information:
+1-646-747-0584;  http://www.bigapplebbq.org .  Sunday Evening  Shakespeare in the Park is previewing Daniel Sullivan’s
production of “All’s Well that Ends Well.”  Annie Parisse is Helena, whose snooty husband Bertram,
played by Andre Holland, abandons her right after their wedding.
Using her wits plus a “bed trick,” the clever heroine finds
the way to bring him round.  What could be better than listening to the Bard, as you
enjoy views of Belvedere Castle and Turtle Pond on a soft summer
night?  At the  Delacorte Theater  in Central Park, opening June 26.
Enter at 81st St. and Central Park West or 79th St. and Fifth
Ave. Information: +1-212-539-8750;
 http://shakespeareinthepark.org .  (With assistance from Daniel Billy, Patrick Cole and A. M. Erika. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 