-- 
Tanzania Lawmakers to Debate ‘Super-Profit’ Mine Tax in Discussion on Plan

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-10T14:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/tanzania-lawmakers-to-debate-super-profit-mine-tax-in-discussion-on-plan.html
Tanzania ’s parliament will debate
proposals for a so-called super-profit tax on the mining
industry as part of talks on a five-year development plan.  A report by the country’s Planning Commission “will be
discussed in the plenary session” on June 13, Stephen Wassira,
minister of state in the president’s office, said in a phone
interview today from Dodoma, the capital. He referred further
questions on the proposed tax to Finance Minister Mustafa Mkulo,
who said in a separate phone interview that he couldn’t comment
because the suggested levy wasn’t included in his annual budget
announced on June 8.  The commission this week published a document that said it
may be “optimal” to introduce a super-profit tax in the  mining
industry  as a way to fund a proposed 42.9 trillion-shilling ($27
billion) development plan. It said the levy may be appropriate
“considering the increasing trend in mineral prices.”  Tanzania vies with  Mali  to be  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer. Gold exports from Tanzania have increased to $1.5
billion, or 7 percent of gross domestic product, from $500
million over the past five years, the commission said. At the
same time, annual government revenue from sales of the metal has
remained at $100 million, or 0.5 percent of GDP, it said.  David Jairo, permanent secretary in Tanzania’s  Energy and
Minerals Ministry , said in a phone interview today that while he
had seen the proposal, he was skeptical about any further
taxation being introduced in the industry in addition to
existing corporate taxes. There were a number of other ways in
which the government might boost revenue from mining, Jairo said
from  Dar es Salaam .  Balance Realities  “We will aim to strike a balance between the realities of
the industry and the need for the government to raise revenue,”
Jairo said. “We’re not sure how feasible this proposal would be.
Mining companies may have windfall revenue, but there may be
periods of poor revenue, so we are cautious about any windfall
tax.”  Tanzania’s government wants its investment policy in the
mining industry to meet “internationally acceptable standards,”
Jairo said. “We wouldn’t want to jeopardize our relationship
with international investors. The government of Tanzania would
like to assure the investment community that this should not be
an impediment to companies coming to invest in Tanzania.”  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , the biggest producer of the
metal in Tanzania, operates four mines in the country that
account for all of its production. The company said on June 8
its mines in Tanzania are subject to Mineral Development
Agreements that guarantee tax and “fiscal stabilization” for
projects. The accords can’t be amended without the company’s
approval, it said in a statement.  Existing Arrangement  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
miner, said its Geita mine in Tanzania won’t be affected because
an existing arrangement is valid for the life of the mine.  The planning commission’s report, entitled Tanzania Five
Year Development Plan 2011/2012-2015/2016, was signed by
President Jakaya Kikwete. Salva Rweyemamu, a spokesman for
Kikwete, asked to be called back when reached on his mobile
phone today. He didn’t answer two calls seeking comment later in
the day.  Philip Mpango, executive director of the commission, said
in an interview yesterday that he couldn’t immediately comment
on the report because he was heading to a meeting. Calls to
Mpango’s mobile phone today didn’t connect and he didn’t respond
to  text messages  seeking comment.  The planning function was moved from Tanzania’s  Finance
Ministry  in 2008 to form a commission chaired by Kikwete. The
body, also described as a think tank on its  website , is
responsible for monitoring and advising on Tanzanian economic
policy.  The five-year plan proposed by the commission targets an
annual average economic growth rate of 8 percent from 2011-12 to
2015-16, the commission said. The expansion is expected to
accelerate to 10 percent by 2025, it said.  Tanzania’s gold output ranked behind  South Africa  and
Ghana, and alongside Mali’s 44.6 metric tons in 2010, according
to London-based research company  GFMS Ltd.   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 