-- 
Stocks Fall in Longest Dow Slump Since 2002

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-06-10T20:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/asia-stocks-rise-paring-weekly-decline-korean-won-gains-on-rate-increase.html
U.S. stocks extended a sixth weekly
drop, the longest slump for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
since 2002, and oil slid while Treasuries, the dollar and yen
rose amid concern the global economy is slowing. Crude extended
losses as OPEC said Saudi Arabia pumped the most since 2008.  The Dow lost 172.45 points, or 1.4 percent, to 11,951.91 at
4 p.m. in New York, its first dip below 12,000 since March, and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.4 percent to 1,270.98.
Ten-year Treasury yields lost three basis points to 2.97
percent, the Dollar Index rose for a third day and the yen
strengthened against all 16 major peers. The cost of insuring
Greek and Portuguese debt rose to records amid lingering concern
over  Europe ’s debt crisis. Oil sank below $100 a barrel.  U.S. equity benchmark indexes are threatening to erase
gains for the year amid concern the economic recovery is
weakening. The S&P 500 trimmed its 2011 advance to 1.1 percent
today and the MSCI World Index is up 0.6 percent. The Russell
2000 Index of small U.S. stocks and the Nasdaq Composite Index
both erased their gains for 2011 today.  “The big question mark for investors is -- is this simply
a transitory soft patch?” said Mark Luschini, chief investment
strategist at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
which manages $54 billion. “Or, if not, will this begin to
weigh on corporate profits in a slow economic growth
environment, and therefore equity valuations will have to be
adjusted? Right now the market is saying the latter.”  Leading Declines  The  S&P 500  lost more than 2.2 percent this week and is
down 6.8 percent from a three-year high at the end of April,
while Treasury yields linger near their 2011 lows. The slump
left the equity index trading at about 12.1 times the forecast
earnings of its companies, near the cheapest level since last
summer, as analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast profit growth
of 20.1 percent this year.  The drivers of the retreat have been an inventory
correction in manufacturing because of overproduction, a
slowdown in demand because of high  oil prices , “spiced up with
a flareup of sovereign debt pressures in the European Monetary
Union periphery, plus worries about Chinese tightening,”
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  strategists led by Jan Loeys.
It also comes as investors await the end of the  Federal
Reserve ’s $600 billion bond-purchase program, the central bank’s
third round of so-called quantitative easing that investors
nicknamed “QE2.”  ‘Bearish Drivers’  “How much further markets correct depends on how these
bearish drivers worsen and how much investors really believe it
was QE2 rather than better data that turned markets around last
year,” Loeys’ team wrote in a note to clients today. “Economic
data are still on net weaker though supportive of a rebound
into” the third quarter.  Travelers Cos. led losses in the Dow today, sliding 3.1
percent, after the insurer said it’s scaling back share
repurchases as about $1 billion in catastrophe costs will
probably wipe out second-quarter operating profit.  Financial shares pared losses as CNBC reported that
international regulators are considering a maximum surcharge on
capital requirements for the biggest banks that may be 2 to 2.5
percentage points, not the 3 percent widely reported. CNBC cited
unidentified officials. Central bankers and supervisors meeting
in  Basel ,  Switzerland , have decided that banks need to hold more
capital to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts.  Banking Scrutiny  The group of S&P 500 financial shares closed down 0.7
percent after sliding as much as 2.1 percent earlier as the
Federal Reserve announced wider scrutiny of the balance sheets
of banks. The Fed said it will expand a capital-planning program
to the 35 largest U.S. lenders. Banks with at least $50 billion
in assets will be required to conduct annual exams to ensure
“robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that
account for their unique risks and that permit continued
operations during times of economic and financial stress,” the
Fed said today.  Financial shares have performed the worst among 10 groups
in the S&P 500 this year, down 7.3 percent.  “We’re going to go through a period of over-regulation of
the large banks,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield
Asset Management, which oversees $1 billion in  New York . “It’s
going to lead to significantly less profitability. Whether or
not it makes the world a safe place or not, I’d be very
agnostic.”  Energy Shares  Oil companies led losses, with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
Chevron Corp. pacing declines all 41 energy companies in the S&P
500, as crude slid.  July oil futures lost 2.6 percent to $99.29 a barrel in New
York, the biggest drop in four weeks. Silver, lead and live
cattle also fell more than 1.9 percent to lead a 1.2 percent
slump in the S&P GSCI Index of commodities, which snapped a
three-day advance.  OPEC crude production rose in May as Saudi Arabia, the
group’s biggest exporter, pumped the most since 2008, according
to the group’s Vienna-based secretariat.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait ,
Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  proposed a 1.5 million
barrel-a-day increase in output targets at the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries June 8 meeting in Vienna. The
group failed to reach an accord after the plan was opposed by
Libya, Angola, Ecuador, Algeria, Iran and Venezuela, Saudi
Arabian oil minister Ali al-Naimi said.  Today’s decline in global equities followed data showing
 China  reported a smaller-than-estimated trade surplus today as
export growth slowed, while U.K. manufacturing growth fell more
than economists forecast.  Sulzer, Hermes  Almost 10 stocks fell for each that gained in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which tumbled 1.3 percent. The gauge has
dropped 2 percent this week, its sixth straight weekly decline
for its longest slump since July 2008. Sulzer AG sank 5 percent
today after the Swiss pumpmaker said Chief Executive Officer Ton Buechner will leave to join Akzo Nobel NV. Hermes International
SCA slipped 4.8 percent as LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
said it doesn’t intend to make a takeover bid.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.3 percent to
the lowest level in two weeks, with the MSCI China Index
dropping 0.8 percent. Investors withdrew $222 million from
emerging-market equity funds in the week ended June 8, Citigroup
Inc. said in a report.  South Korea’s Kospi Index sank 1.2 percent and the won
climbed against all but one of its most-traded counterparts
after the central bank raised  interest rates  for a third time
this year.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
declined 0.6 percent as a report showed factory production
slowed in April. Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 1.8 percent, led by
HTC Corp., after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut shares of the
handset maker from its “conviction buy” list.  Mobius Optimistic  Thailand’s SET Index climbed 0.4 percent.  Mark Mobius , who
oversees about $50 billion as the executive chairman of
Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said he’s optimistic on Thai
shares even after the SET index sank this month on concern
July’s elections will spur political turmoil.  The yen advanced 0.1 percent against the dollar and gained
1.2 percent versus the euro. The Dollar Index, which tracks the
U.S. currency against those of six trading partners, rose 0.9
percent, climbing for the third consecutive day, the longest run
since February.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds climbed to 747 basis
points, a euro-era all-time high. The Greek-German spread
widened 13 basis points to 13.76 percentage points, with the
Spanish-bund gap increasing 10 basis points. The Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on 15 governments was up
10.7 basis points to 212.15.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said bondholders
should assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid, a day after
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet rejected any
direct ECB participation in a second Greek bailout. Jan. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  