-- 
Asian Currencies Halt Three-Week Rally on Slower Economic Growth in U.S.

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-06-11T01:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/asia-currencies-drop-halting-three-week-rally-on-slowing-economic-growth.html
Asian currencies halted a three-week
rally as signs the world’s biggest economy is slowing tempered
demand for emerging-market assets and raised concern about the
outlook for exports.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the
U.S. economic recovery was “frustratingly slow” and offered no
hints on a new stimulus program. The Fed has pumped cash into
the banking system and kept  interest rates  near zero, prompting
investors to search for higher yields in developing markets. The
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped 0.4 percent this
week as overseas investors were net sellers of $1.6 billion of
equities in Thailand,  South Korea  and Taiwan.  “On balance, the global economic data has been on the
weaker side as reflected in manufacturing indicators,” said
Choong Yin Pheng, manager for economic and fixed-income research
at Hong Leong Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The risk has tilted
to growth and Asian currencies will be affected in a risk-averse
environment.”  The South Korean won fell 0.2 percent this week to 1,082.65
per dollar as of 3 p.m. yesterday in  Seoul , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent to
NT$28.835, Thailand’s baht lost 0.2 percent to 30.40 and
Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.3 percent to 3.0210. The
Philippine peso declined 0.2 percent to 43.302 per dollar.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks posted a
sixth weekly loss after a June 3 government report showed U.S.
employers hired the least workers in May in eight months.
 China ’s customs bureau reported yesterday a $13.1 billion trade
surplus for May, compared with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of $19.3 billion, as export growth slowed to 19
percent from 30 percent.  ‘ Risk Aversion ’  Global funds sold $672 million more Thai equities than they
bought this month, exchange data showed. Risk aversion and
concerns about the nation’s political scene have triggered fund
outflows, Bank of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
June 9. The country will hold national elections on July 3.  “Amid risk aversion caused by concern about the U.S.
recovery and uncertainty surrounding the Thai polls, foreign
investors have been selling local stocks,” said Kozo Hasegawa,
a currency trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.
“That is putting downward pressure on the baht.”  South Korea’s central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo boosted
the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate to 3.25 percent from 3
percent yesterday, the third increase this year. Eight of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the decision,
with the rest having forecast no change.  Monetary Tightening  Borrowing costs in Malaysia will rise at least another 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Malaysia ’s central bank raised the overnight policy
rate to 3 percent on May 5.  “The ringgit will likely remain firm and may rise beyond 3
against the dollar as expectations of a domestic rate hike are
still there,” said Zulkiflee Nidzam, head of foreign-exchange
trading in Kuala Lumpur at Asian Finance Bank Bhd.  Elsewhere this week, Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed
at 8,523.  Singapore ’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to S$1.2316 and
 India ’s rupee climbed 0.2 percent to 44.7225. China’s yuan was
little changed at 6.4802.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  