-- 
Asian Stocks Set for Sixth Week of Decline Amid Interest-Rate Rise Concern

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-06-10T11:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/asian-stocks-advance-as-u-s-confidence-climbs-bhp-climbs-on-oil-metals.html
Asian stocks dropped, dragging the
regional benchmark index to its longest streak of weekly losses
since October 2008, on concern the region’s central banks will
keep raising  interest rates  to tame inflation even amid signs
the global economic recovery may be faltering.  Lotte Shopping Co., South Korea’s biggest department-store
owner by market value, slipped 1.5 percent in Seoul after the
nation’s central bank raised interest rates for the third time
this year. SAIC Motor Corp., a Chinese automaker, dropped 1.7
percent after passenger car sales fell for the first time in two
years.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  led declines among Hong Kong
developers on speculation the real estate market will weaken.  “We’re still risk averse,” said John Woods, Hong Kong-
based chief Asian strategist at Citigroup Inc.’s private bank.
“A global slowdown is underway. Monetary policy in developed
markets will remain loose and Asian central banks will only
switch to a neutral bias once inflationary pressures are seen to
ease.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index dropped 0.3 percent 132.29 as
of 8:08 p.m. in  Tokyo , erasing earlier gains of as much as 0.7
percent. About three stocks fell for every two that rose in the
gauge, which is set for a 1.3 percent drop this week. Through
yesterday, the measure has lost about $407 in market value since
this year’s peak on May 2, amid disappointing economic data,
capped by a jobs report last week that showed U.S. companies
hired fewer workers than estimated.  Monetary Tightening  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 1.2 percent, erasing gains
of as much as 1.1 percent, after the country’s central bank
raised interest rates for a third time this year to rein in
inflation that exceeds its target range.  Lotte Shopping dropped 1.5 percent to 516,000 won in Seoul.
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest carmaker by market
value, slipped 1.6 percent to 223,000 won. Samsung Electronics
Co., the world’s largest maker of televisions and flat-screen
display panels by sales, lost 1.6 percent to 851,000 won.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.8 percent after
Market News International quoted an adviser to the People’s Bank
of  China , as saying China should stick to its monetary
tightening bias. A government report due next week is expected
to show the country’s inflation accelerated in May. China’s
 Shanghai  Composite Index added 0.1 percent, after falling as
much as 1.2 percent earlier.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average advanced 0.5 percent,
while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.3 percent.  Key Concern  “Investors will remain cautious until we see a clearer
picture regarding  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and the U.S.
economic slowdown,” said Hong Kong-based Yoji Takeda, who helps
manage $1.1 billion at RBC Investment Management (Asia) Ltd.
“Inflation in Asia also remains a key concern.”  China should raise interest rates to stabilize inflation
expectations and further curb speculation in the property market,
Market News quoted Xia Bin, an adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, as saying. The nation’s consumer prices are forecast to
rise 5.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest pace
since July 2008, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The central bank is very likely to raise interest rates
this month, which will worsen the liquidity situation,” said
Pang Aihua, a bond analyst in Beijing at China Citic Bank Co.  Passenger-car Sales  SAIC Motor declined 1.7 percent to 17.07 yuan in Shanghai.
Jiangling Motors Corp., the Chinese commercial vehicle partner
with Ford Motor Co., slumped 0.6 percent to 18.74 yuan.
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co., a partner of Honda Motor Co.,
slid 2.2 percent to HK$8.05 in  Hong Kong .  Passenger-car sales fell 0.1 percent from a year earlier to
1.04 million units in May, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said yesterday after the market closed. The last
time sales declined was in January 2009, when car purchases
dropped 7.8 percent. Total vehicle sales decreased 4 percent in
May, according to the statement.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent
today. In  New York  yesterday, the index gained 0.7 percent,
snapping a six-day streak of declines, after  consumer confidence 
rose for a third consecutive week and record exports and lower
oil purchases unexpectedly helped narrow the country’s trade
deficit.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 45.9
in the period to June 5, the best showing since the end of April,
from the prior week’s minus 47.1. A reading of minus 100
indicates every respondent held a negative view and a reading of
zero means sentiment is evenly split.  The U.S. trade deficit shrank 6.7 percent to $43.7 billion
in April, the lowest since December, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. The gap was projected to widen to $48.8
billion, according to the median forecast of 75 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Bargain Hunting’  “The  U.S. economy  isn’t strong, but it’s improving,” said
Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings
Inc. “Investors are trying to resist the urge to stay clear of
risk assets so you’ll probably see some bargain hunting.”  Hong Kong developers declined after a property near the
city center sold at a discount to pre-auction estimates. Cheung
Kong (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by billionaire Li Ka-shing,
paid HK$11.65 billion ($1.5 billion), 10 percent less than the
HK$13 billion median of five estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey, for a site about a 10-minute drive from the Central
business district.  Cheung Kong fell 1.5 percent to HK$115.20.  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer by market value,
slipped 2.1 percent to HK$114. Hang Lung, Hong Kong’s fourth-
largest real estate company by sales, sank 2.3 percent to
HK$30.15.  Techs Slump  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 3.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.5 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.4 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the
S&P 500 and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  A gauge of information technology companies had the biggest
decline among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index. All but four of the gauge’s sub-indexes dropped. roups in
the MSCI gauge.  HTC Corp. (2498)  tumbled 6.8 percent to NT$1,165 in Taipei after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. removed the maker of smartphones from
its so-called conviction buy list, saying the company could face
“mild headwinds.”  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. slumped 7 percent to 26,700 won in
Seoul even after the chipmaker rejected speculation it plans to
sell new shares. Creditors of the company plan to ask Hynix to
consider selling new stock, in addition to part of their
combined 15 percent stake in the world’s second-largest maker of
computer memory chips, Ryu Jae Han, Chief Executive Officer of
Korea Finance Corp., said in a phone interview after market
close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 