-- 
Asian Stocks Drop, Equaling Six-Week Fall After Lehman Collapse

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-10T22:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/asian-stocks-drop-equaling-post-lehman-decline-on-u-s-growth-concerns.html
Asian stocks dropped, matching the
six-week losing streak in the aftermath of the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, amid concern a slowing
U.S. economic recovery will stifle global growth.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the world’s biggest supplier of toys to
retailers, tumbled 9.5 percent in Hong Kong.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,
 South Korea ’s biggest automaker, slumped 7.7 percent in Seoul.
Nintendo Co. lost 10 percent in Tokyo after UBS AG lowered its
investment rating. Tokyo Electric Power Co. sank 34 percent
after the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s president was quoted saying the
operator of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant should
be put under  bankruptcy protection .  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index declined 1.4 percent to 132.08
this week after the U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly climbed and
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no hint of a new
round of economic stimulus even as the nation’s recovery slows.
The gauge fell 0.3 percent last week as reports showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded at the weakest pace in more than a year
and employers hired fewer workers than forecast.  “Bernanke’s somber outlook combined with no hint of
further quantitative easing being used as a policy response
near-term have led to a negative tone in markets,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion in global equities
at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “In a glass-half-empty
environment, investors globally are adopting a much more
cautious stance.”  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.5 percent this week.
South Korea’s Kospi index slumped 3.2 percent, while Hong Kong’s
 Hang Seng index (HSI)  fell 2.3 percent.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average gained 0.2 percent.  Financial Crisis  The decline over the past five days completes the Asia-
Pacific gauge’s biggest run of weekly losses since dropping for
six straight weeks beginning September 2008, the month that
Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy helped spark a global financial
crisis.  The streak of weekly declines has also been driven by
reports showing that manufacturing growth in  China , the U.S. and
 Europe  slowed in May, and amid speculation that accelerating
inflation may prompt Chinese authorities to raise  interest rates .  Concern that global growth is poised to slow led Li & Fung
to a 9.5 percent slide this week to HK$16.02 in Hong Kong, while
Japanese carmaker  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  retreated 2.5 percent to 194
yen. Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s biggest automaker by
market value, sank 7.7 percent to 223,000 won in Seoul. Samsung
Electronics Co., which gets about 22 percent of sales from
America, slid 3.8 percent to 851,000 won.  U.S. Economy  Government reports showed that the U.S. jobless rate
unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent in May, the highest level
this year, while payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months, signaling employers are losing confidence as the economy
slows. The string of disappointing economic data is raising
doubts about the durability of a U.S. recovery and concern over
its possible global impact.  “The U.S. job situation is deteriorating,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in  Tokyo . “The slowdown in the U.S. economy shows that
there’s a lack of liquidity in the market.”  The Fed Chairman said on June 7 that the central bank
should maintain record monetary stimulus to boost an “uneven”
and “frustratingly slow” recovery. The recent data showing
weakness in the U.S. economy has raised the odds that the Fed
will hold the benchmark interest rate near zero into next year.  ‘Monetary Easing’  The Federal Reserve also said this week that the economy
expanded at a “steady pace” in most of the U.S., while
weakening in four of 12 regions where consumers are contending
with higher food and fuel prices, and shortages of auto parts
after Japan’s March 11 earthquake disrupted factory output.  “Some people had expected further monetary easing, but
Chairman Bernanke didn’t mention it,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an
equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “There
are concerns about a slowdown in the global economy, including
the U.S.”  In Tokyo, Nintendo, the maker of Wii video-game consoles,
slumped 10 percent to 16,310 yen. UBS AG cut its rating on the
stock to “neutral” from “buy,” saying it will be difficult
to lure customers to its new Wii model amid competition from
smartphones and other gadgets.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s No. 1 gold producer,
declined 3.1 percent to A$37.45 in Sydney after the company cut
its full-year gold output forecast for the third time this year
following a power failure that interrupted production at its
Lihir Island mine in Papua New Guinea.  Tokyo Electric  Tokyo Electric slumped 34 percent to 190 yen in Tokyo after
the Asahi Shimbun newspaper quoted TSE President Atsushi Saito
as saying the company needs to be restructured and follow the
same route as Japan Airlines Co., which filed for bankruptcy
protection in 2010. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
later said that liquidating the utility would cause huge
problems and must be avoided.  A separate report by the Tokyo Shimbun said Tepco will post
a full-year net loss of 570 billion yen ($7.1 billion). Tepco,
as the utility is called, said it wasn’t the source of the story.  Tepco also fell after the Nikkei newspaper reported that
all of Japan’s 54 nuclear reactors could be idled by next spring
if those shut for scheduled maintenance don’t receive the
required local approval to restart.  Kansai Electric Power Co. dropped 11 percent to 1,180 yen
and Chubu Electric Power Co. slid 7.3 percent to 1,149 yen.  Greenheart Group Ltd., a unit of timber producer Sino-
Forest Corp., tumbled 44 percent to HK$1.57 in  Hong Kong  as
regulators and investors increased scrutiny of Chinese companies
traded overseas amid allegations of fraud.  Greenheart’s parent asked Canadian regulators to probe
short selling by Muddy Waters Research, founded by short seller
Carson Block, after the company released a report saying that
Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest’s
disclosed land holdings didn’t match Chinese city records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 