-- 
U.S. May Budget Deficit Narrows to $57.6 Billion on Increasing Tax Revenue

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-06-10T20:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/may-budget-deficit-in-u-s-narrows-to-57-6-billion-on-higher-tax-revenue.html
The U.S. government posted a  budget
deficit  of $57.6 billion in May, narrower than a year earlier,
reflecting increasing tax revenue and a reduction in the
estimated cost of the government’s financial industry bailout.  In May 2010, the shortfall was $135.9 billion, according to
the Treasury Department’s monthly budget statement, released
today in Washington.  The economy has been adding jobs since October and
corporate profits have climbed, leading to higher personal
income and business tax collections. At the same time, the
annual shortfall is projected to tie a record as spending also
increases, based on data from the  Congressional Budget Office .  “It would be misleading to look at the headline number and
think things are drastically improved,” said  Joshua Shapiro ,
chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York .  Stocks fell amid concern the global economy is slowing. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.4 percent to 1,270.98 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities  rose, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.97 percent
from 3 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the budget deficit would shrink to $59
billion in May. Forecasts ranged from $59 billion to $65
billion.  CBO Projection  The CBO also projected a smaller monthly shortfall of $59
billion for May. About $43 billion of the reduction from the
same month last year “resulted from shifts in the timing of
certain payments and revisions to the estimated costs of certain
credit programs, mostly the Troubled Asset Relief Program,” the
CBO said in a budget estimate released this week.  This year’s federal budget gap is projected to reach $1.4
trillion, according to the CBO, matching the previous record in
fiscal 2009. In fiscal year 2010, the annual budget deficit
totaled $1.3 trillion, the second largest.  The CBO’s estimate for the fiscal 2012 deficit under the
Obama administration’s proposed budget is $1.2 trillion,
according to the non-partisan agency.  Congress is under pressure to find agreement on raising the
$14.3 trillion debt limit before Aug. 2, the date on which the
Treasury said it will have exhausted all its borrowing
authority.  Budget Brinkmanship  “We are afraid the failure to agree is going to bring the
markets once again to the brink in early August as they struggle
to pass the debt ceiling legislation,”  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York, said before today’s report. “We have spent beyond our
means as a nation, partly to deal with the Great Recession, and
now to fix the long-term deficit problem we may need to live
with less.”  For the fiscal year to date, the budget deficit totaled
$927.4 billion compared with $935.6 billion the prior fiscal
year to date, according to the Treasury’s data.  In May, revenue and other fees increased 19 percent to
$174.9 billion, according to the Treasury’s statistics.  Year to date, individual income tax payments rose 28
percent to $701.8 billion, while corporate tax receipts
increased 5 percent.  Spending by the government fell 18 percent in May from the
same month last year to $232.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  