-- 
Taylor Bean Ex-President Bowman Gets 30-Month Fraud Sentence

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-10T18:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/taylor-bean-ex-president-bowman-gets-30-month-fraud-sentence-1-.html
Raymond Bowman, former president of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., was sentenced to 2 1/2
years in prison for his part in a $3 billion  mortgage fraud .  Desiree Brown, the lender’s former treasurer, received a
six-year term. Both were sentenced today in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia , for their roles in a scheme that duped
some of the largest U.S. financial institutions, targeted the
federal bank bailout and contributed to the failures of
Montgomery, Alabama-based Colonial Bank and its parent,  Colonial
BancGroup Inc. (CBCGQ)   “We need to send a message,” U.S. District Leonie Brinkema said. Bowman’s “high corporate title” factored into
her decision, the judge said. Others in the mortgage industry
will be looking at this case “and thinking about their own
conduct,” she said.  Prosecutors sought a five-year term for Bowman and eight
for Brown. Brinkema said she wouldn’t ban the two from seeking
jobs in the mortgage industry after serving their time. Both
will be required to pay restitution to victims, though the
amount hasn’t been determined.  “I can’t imagine anyone would want to go through this,”
Bowman told Brinkema. “The past two years of my life have been
very rough.”  Bowman, 45, who lives in Atlanta, faced a maximum sentence
of 10 years in prison after pleading guilty in March to one
count of conspiracy to commit  wire fraud , bank fraud and
 securities fraud  and one count of lying to investigators.  Possible Witness  Assistant U.S. attorney Charles Connolly told Brinkema that
the government’s investigation is continuing and Bowman may “be
called in the future for testimony on that.”  Brown, also 45, faced a maximum sentence of 30 years in
prison after pleading guilty to a more serious fraud conspiracy
count. Brown, who was the first of six cooperators to be
sentenced, cried as she told Brinkema “it was always my intent
to try and fix the problems so TBW would be healthy again.”  Prosecutors said both should receive shorter terms than the
maximums because they admitted their crimes and helped the
government in its case against  Lee Farkas , Taylor Bean’s former
chairman.  A jury in Alexandria found Farkas guilty April 19 of 14
counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud after a
two-week trial. Farkas was taken into custody after the verdict.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on June 27.  ‘Control and Manipulate’  “They allowed Lee Farkas to control and manipulate them
into doing what they knew was wrong, and now they will pay for
their crimes,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride in Alexandria said
in an e-mailed statement. “At the same time, these defendants
agreed to cooperate with the government and that cooperation was
clearly taken into account in the sentences imposed today.”  Brown, who started at  Taylor Bean  as a receptionist, was
the second person involved in the conspiracy who agreed to
cooperate, prosecutors said. She gave the government documents
and recordings of Farkas and also helped explain how the scheme
worked, said Patrick Stokes, deputy chief of the  Justice
Department ’s fraud section.  Bowman’s decision to cooperate helped the government secure
a guilty plea and cooperation from  Paul Allen , Taylor Bean’s
former chief executive officer, said Connolly. Allen is
scheduled to be sentenced on June 21.  70 Letters  Brinkema received more than 70 letters of support for
Bowman, which she said “paint a tragic and glowing picture” of
Taylor Bean’s former president.  “Many of the people involved in this case are basically
decent human beings who got wrapped up in what at first looked
like a runaway business but turned into a significant criminal
operation,” Brinkema said.  Prosecutors allege the fraud began in 2002 when Farkas had
trouble meeting operating expenses, such as payroll and
mortgage-loan servicing payments owed to the government-
sponsored  Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae.  With assistance from officials at  Colonial Bank , at one
time among the country’s 50 biggest, Farkas and other
conspirators sent mortgage data to the bank for loans that
didn’t exist or that Taylor Bean had already sold to other
investors, the government said.  The Bowman case is U.S. v. Bowman, 11-cr-00118, the Brown
case is USA v. Brown, 11-cr-00084, and the Farkas case is USA v.
Farkas, 1:10-cr-00200, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  