-- 
Baht Posts Weekly Loss After Global Funds Cut Stock Holdings

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-10T09:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/baht-posts-weekly-loss-after-global-funds-cut-stock-holdings.html
Thailand ’s baht completed a weekly
loss after international investors reduced holdings of the
nation’s shares for a sixth day yesterday ahead of elections due
on July 3.  Global funds sold $602 million more local equities than
they bought this month through yesterday, exchange data showed.
 Risk aversion  and concerns about the nation’s political scene
have triggered fund outflows, Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said yesterday. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
regional stocks had its sixth weekly loss after Federal Reserve
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday the U.S. housing
market will witness a “long drawn-out recovery.”  “Amid risk aversion caused by concern about the U.S.
recovery and uncertainty surrounding the Thai polls, foreign
investors have been selling local stocks,” said Kozo Hasegawa,
a currency trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.
“That is putting downward pressure on the baht.”  The baht dropped 0.2 percent this week to 30.40 per dollar
as of 3:41 p.m. in Bangkok after touching 30.49 yesterday, the
weakest level since May 25, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It advanced 0.1 percent today. The currency may trade
in a range from 30.30 to 30.50 next week, Hasegawa said.  About 100 people were killed following disputes over the
last election in 2007, which was won by allies of fugitive
former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . Next month’s vote will pit
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party against the
Pheu Thai party, led by Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister.  Capital outflows are likely to be “short term,” Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh, who oversees
financial markets, told reporters in Bangkok today.
International investors may increase their investments in
Thailand if political stability is maintained after the July 3
election, Pongpen said.  Swaps, Bonds  The onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, climbed 7.5 basis points
this week and 1.5 basis points today to 3.285 percent. The rate
touched 3.295 percent yesterday, the highest level since
November 2008. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yield on the 3.125 percent bond due December 2015 rose
two basis points this week to 3.46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  