-- 
Banks May Gain Most From Russell Shift Affecting $3.9 Trillion

-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-06-10T17:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/banks-may-increase-most-from-russell-index-changes-affecting-3-9-trillion.html
Russell Investments’ annual index
revisions may help financial companies the most, thanks to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and BankUnited Inc., according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co., BlackRock Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG.  The preliminary list of adjustments to measures such as the
Russell 1000 Index and Russell 2000 Index will be announced
following the close of U.S. trading today. The changes will take
effect after 4 p.m. New York time on June 24.  Banks, brokerages and insurers have posted the biggest
losses in benchmark indexes in 2011, falling 4.4 percent through
yesterday in the Russell 1000 Index of U.S. shares with a median
market value of about $5.8 billion. JPMorgan’s Min Moon said
$1.17 billion of financial shares may be bought to account for
the industry’s increase in Russell gauges, with Citigroup
representing half the gain in the  Russell 1000  after the  U.S.
Treasury  sold stock, boosting shares available for trading.  Financials will “get a natural index tailwind,” said  Dave
Lutz , head of exchange-traded fund trading and strategy at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. “Many fund managers will
need to react to the rebalancing.”  Russell Investments, a Seattle-based company owned by
Northwestern Mutual, says about $3.9 trillion is benchmarked to
its global stock-market measures. It uses the market value of
each stock on the last trading day in May to determine how to
allocate them in indexes.  Busy Session  The annual changes usually spur one of the busiest trading
sessions of the year as money managers shift holdings to match
Russell’s adjustments. Last year, 13.9 billion shares changed
hands on U.S. exchanges on June 25, the fifth-highest total in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In four of the
previous five years, rebalancing day was in the top 10.  Including migrations from the Russell 2000, whose companies
have a median market value of about $530 million, about five
financial companies, including BankUnited and  American Capital
Ltd. (ACAS) , may shift into the Russell 1000, JPMorgan’s Moon said.  The group known as consumer staples will see its weighting
drop the most in the Russell 1000, according to JPMorgan and
Citigroup. BlackRock disagrees, saying it expects the biggest
decrease to come from energy because  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
world’s largest company by market value, spent $5 billion to buy
back shares in first three months of the year and plans to spend
that amount on repurchases this quarter.  In the Russell 2000, computer and software stocks, as well
as raw-materials producers, will get the biggest reductions,
JPMorgan and Credit Suisse forecast.  GM, LinkedIn  General Motors Co. (GM) , the automaker that emerged from a 2009
bankruptcy, will enter the  Russell 1000 Index (RIY) , according to
JPMorgan, Investment Technology Group Inc., BlackRock and
Macquarie Group Ltd. LinkedIn Corp. is also likely to join the
measure after the social-media company completed the hottest
initial public offering in the U.S. since at least 2006,
JPMorgan and Macquarie said.  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , an oilfield-services
provider,  Seagate Technology Plc (STX) , the world’s largest maker of
computer disk drives, and insurer  XL Group Plc (XL)  will likely be
deleted from the Russell 1000 after moving their incorporations
to Europe, according to JPMorgan and ITG.  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the chemical maker that
emerged from bankruptcy last year, will join the Russell 1000,
BlackRock forecast.  ‘Lower Than Average’  Greg Savage, who manages exchange-traded funds based on
Russell indexes in  San Francisco  for BlackRock, said he expects
a lower-than-average number of changes this year, with GM,
LyondellBasell and Weatherford dominating. BlackRock, the
world’s largest asset manager, runs 16 Russell-based ETFs with
combined assets of $70 billion.  Besides adding and subtracting companies from its indexes,
Russell also reclassifies companies as growth stocks, value
stocks or blends of the two based on changes in their valuation
over the past year. In February, Russell said it will stop using
analysts’ long-term estimate for per-share-earnings growth to
define a company’s style.  Last year, Exxon Mobil had its growth allocation boosted by
Russell. The change may have helped the oil producer lag behind
Chevron Corp. and ConocoPhillips, which had most of their market
capitalization assigned to Russell’s value gauge. Analysts’
estimates for Exxon lacked a consensus as some analysts used
2009 earnings, when the company earned $3.98 a share, as the
base year. Others used 2010, when Exxon’s profit was lifted by a
rebound in crude-oil prices from their December 2008 low.  Growth vs. Value  Now, in addition to book-to-price ratios, a company’s style
will be determined by the growth rate of both its two-year
estimated earnings and its five-year historic revenue.  Twenty-nine of the 50 biggest U.S. companies will undergo
shifts in their style classification, according to Credit
Suisse.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , currently in
growth indexes, will probably be treated as value stocks, while
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , now represented in both value
and growth indexes, will probably be treated as growth stocks,
Credit Suisse said.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
currently blend stocks, may become purely value.  “The style rule changes have been difficult to enact, and
the new process isn’t transparent,” Lori Calvasina, an analyst
with Credit Suisse, wrote in a note dated June 6. “We wouldn’t
be surprised to see differences between our forecasts and actual
changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  