-- 
Thailand Suspends Deutsche Bank Primary Dealer Repo Permit

-- B y   J a m e s   R e g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-10T06:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/bank-of-thailand-axes-deutsche-bank-primary-dealer-repo-permit.html
Thailand ’s central bank dropped
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  from its list of primary dealers for repurchase
agreements in May, limiting the lender’s scope to trade
 government bonds  in Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy.  Germany ’s biggest lender had its permit suspended in the
latest annual review owing to a regulatory infringement,
according to a Bank of Thailand official, who asked not to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak on the matter.
 Michael West , Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong-based spokesman, said
the bank ceased to take part in bilateral repos with the Bank of
Thailand from April and declined to give a reason for the change.  “Other than the bank’s ability to repo specifically with
the BOT, the bank’s government bond trading and other extensive
business activities in Thailand, are unaffected,” he wrote today
in an e-mail. “Deutsche Bank continues to be a primary dealer
in bond trading with the BOT.”  Siam City Bank Pcl, which was acquired by Thanachart
Capital Pcl in December, was also removed from the central
bank’s list of primary dealers for bilateral repos in the latest
review, according to statements on the Bank of Thailand’s
 website . The Thai unit of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.
was among three lenders added to the list, which now totals 12
and includes local subsidiaries of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   Korean Court  Deutsche Bank has had to rein in its business activities in
South Korea this year after being punished by that country’s
regulators. Korean prosecutors are investigating allegations
that the Frankfurt-based lender’s staff made unfair profit from
a plunge in the benchmark Kospi stock index on Nov. 11.  The country’s financial regulators banned Deutsche Bank
from trading shares and derivatives for its own account for six
months from the start of April after saying that the lender’s
employees had conspired to manipulate the market. Deutsche
Bank’s West said yesterday that a South Korean court ordered a
freeze on some of its assets in connection with the matter.  “The bank continues to cooperate with the prosecutors’
ongoing investigation,” Deutsche Bank’s West said yesterday in
an e-mail. “No charges have been laid against Deutsche Bank,
its Korean subsidiaries or staff.”  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank has operated in Thailand
since 1978 and has more than 150 employees in the nation,
according to its  website . It’s been in  South Korea  for a similar
length of time and has some 300 staff there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 