-- 
BlackRock’s Fink Says U.S. Will Trail Global Economic Growth for a Decade

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-06-10T17:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/blackrock-s-fink-says-u-s-will-trail-global-economic-growth-for-a-decade.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
chief executive officer of the world’s biggest asset manager,
said the U.S. will trail the global economy for much of the next
decade.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2 percent to 3 percent for the
next five to 10 years, lagging behind global growth of 3 percent
to 5 percent, Fink said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Erik Schatzker from the Morningstar conference in
 Chicago .  “We will have modest growth for five to 10 years,” Fink,
who heads the world’s largest asset manager, said in the
interview. “If we cut our deficits, I may be wrong, and they
might be lower,” he said, referring to the U.S. growth numbers.  A series of reports suggests the world’s largest economy is
decelerating. Manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in more
than a year in May,  consumer spending  rose less than forecast in
April, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.1
percent in May. Fink said as recently as January that he didn’t
believe the U.S. would enter a prolonged period of below-average
growth.  “We were always talking about a U.S. economy growing 3
plus percent,” he said on a Jan. 25 conference call. “We never
believed in the ‘new normal,’” he said then, referring to a
term used by rival asset manager Pacific Investment Management
Co. to describe the declining role of the U.S. in the global
economy following the 2008 credit crunch.  ‘Still Unsettled’  Fink, one of the co-founders of New York-based BlackRock in
1988, is less optimistic than he was earlier this year.  Oil
prices  have surged, putting consumers under pressure, and the
earthquake in  Japan  will hurt growth, he said.  “The economy has weakened, I think,” Fink said in a
separate briefing with reporters in Chicago. “Worldwide, we are
still unsettled.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the U.S. to grow
2.6 percent this year and 3 percent in each of the next two
years. Growth decelerated to 1.8 percent in the first quarter
from 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Fink has built the firm through acquisitions including the
purchase in December 2009 of  Barclays Global Investors . The
$15.2 billion deal, the largest for BlackRock, added passive
 index funds  such as exchange-traded products to BlackRock’s
active stock and bond strategies.  $3.65 Trillion  BlackRock manages about $3.65 trillion in assets in its
stock, bond and  hedge funds , as well as its iShares ETFs. The
firm’s BlackRock Solutions unit advises financial institutions
and governments around the world on hard-to-value assets.
BlackRock, which advised the U.S. Federal Reserve on illiquid
debt portfolios after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. helped freeze global credit markets, this year was picked
by the  Central Bank  of Ireland to advise on the assets held by
six of the nation’s largest banks.  BlackRock began as a fixed-income firm. In 2005, it bought
State Street Research & Management to add more stock, real
estate and hedge funds. In 2006, it expanded its equity business
with the purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s money-management
unit. In 2008, BlackRock acquired a division of Quellos Group
LLC to add hedge-fund assets. The purchase of BGI, the biggest
seller of index-tracking ETFs, was the industry’s largest to
bring together active and passive funds.  Slower growth in coming years means investors should own
more stocks, Fink said today. Dividend-paying stocks will return
about 7 percent to 8 percent per year, far higher than what
investors can earn in bonds, he said.  “I’m not bearish on bonds,” Fink said. “I’m not saying
bonds are a bad investment. I’m saying that with the liabilities
that people have, they need to earn more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  