-- 
Boeing Faces 787 Labor Case Amid Pressure Over Next New Jet

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-06-10T18:03:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/boeing-faces-787-labor-case-amid-pressure-over-next-jet-s-home.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , facing a federal labor
complaint hearing next week over its new  787 Dreamliner  assembly
line, is already being pressured by politicians and unions
interested in work on a subsequent generation of airliners.  While the planemaker held a ribbon-cutting ceremony today
for the 787 plant in South Carolina,  Washington  state has begun
working to secure production for Boeing’s upcoming single-aisle
jet. The South Carolina plant at the center of the National
Labor Relations Board complaint is the first commercial factory
Boeing has built outside Seattle, where it was founded in 1916.  Washington Governor Chris Gregoire named an adviser this
week to help ensure her state wins production of the successor
to the 737, Boeing’s most popular model. The planemaker plans to
decide on the timing of that jet this year, after the composite-
plastic Dreamliner and the new 747-8 jumbo are in service.  “The biggest risks to our aerospace competitiveness are
complacency and taking our lead for granted,” Gregoire said
yesterday. She’s promising “significant” investments in
aerospace-focused high schools and training along with reforms
to keep the state’s 650 aviation-related manufacturers
competitive.  Boeing cited a need for production stability in choosing
 South Carolina  for a non-union plant that will replicate the 787
work already begun in Everett, Washington, where the company has
built all its wide-body aircraft. The decision came after the
Machinists union’s 26,000 members stopped work for two months in
2008, their fourth strike since 1989.  Four-Year Legal Process  After the union’s complaints, the NLRB investigated and
accused Boeing in April of violating workers’ right to strike
with actions and comments meant to chill walkouts. Boeing said
today that a settlement offer from the International Association
of Machinists and Aerospace Workers was unreasonable, and the
case goes before an administrative law judge June 14 in Seattle.  Michael Luttig, the Chicago-based company’s general
counsel, said he expects to lose initially and will appeal the
case all the way to the  Supreme Court  if needed, which may take
four years.  A settlement is the most likely outcome, Kenneth Herbert, a
San Francisco-based analyst with Wedbush Securities, said in a
note to clients today. He has an “outperform” rating on the
shares.  ‘Positive Sign’  “We view the fact that there is at least a dialog as a
positive sign,” he wrote. “We do not believe that either
Boeing or the union want to see the NLRB case proceed through
the legal channels.”  The NLRB’s general counsel, Lafe Solomon, has said he tried
to reach a settlement for six months before issuing the
complaint against Boeing.  Boeing fell $1.13, or 1.5 percent, to $73.05 at 2:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the
shares gained 1.4 percent since the labor relations board’s
action April 20.  Solomon wants Boeing to add three 787s a month -- the
amount planned in South Carolina -- to Washington’s output,
which is two a month now and is being ramped up to seven by
2013. That leaves Boeing free to operate the southern facility,
as long as it increases production plans -- which the company
has discussed.  Boeing is building a so-called temporary surge line in the
old 767 bay in Everett, to use until the South Carolina workers
are up to speed.  “In theory, with the Charleston facility and the final
assembly facility here and the surge line, we could get up to 15
airplanes a month,” Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim
Albaugh  told reporters Feb. 2 in Everett.  Project Pegasus  By the time the labor issue is settled, Boeing will have a
clearer idea of when and where it will build its new narrow-body
plane. Boeing is weighing a redesign with an improved, larger
engine in the middle of the decade to compete with a similar
move by Airbus SAS for its A320. Executives have said they
prefer developing an all-new plane, if it can be ready by 2020.  The 737 wouldn’t be retired until the next decade, and the
replacement may use a composite-plastic fuselage, rather than a
traditional aluminum body, so the new plane would need a new
assembly plant.  When the 787 was launched in 2003, about half of the 50
U.S. states bid for the work. Washington, where Boeing is the
biggest private employer, was chosen after it offered an
incentive package valued at about $3 billion over 20 years.  Gregoire is planning a similarly vigorous fight for the 737
successor, appointing Tayloe Washburn, a  Seattle  attorney, to
organize a statewide team and lead the  Project Pegasus campaign .  “Neither the NLRB case nor the plant opening in Charleston
is distracting us from our focus of landing the next jet here,”
said Tom Wroblewski, the president of the Machinists’ District
751 in Seattle, who said he’s working closely with Gregoire on
Project Pegasus. “Every advantage is still here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  