-- 
Borders to Seek Fewer Liquidations as Six Store Landlords Grant Extensions

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-06-10T19:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/borders-to-seek-fewer-liquidations-as-six-store-landlords-grant-extensions.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bankrupt
bookstore chain, won more time from landlords of six stores to
decide whether to cancel leases and will move ahead with plans
to close 45 others.  Since yesterday’s announcement of its original plan to
close 51 stores, Borders won concessions from landlords at Logan
International Airport in  Boston , Detroit Metro Airport in
Romulus and four other locations, it said today in papers filed
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York.  The 51-store list “was a preliminary list and subject to
change,” Borders said. It will ask permission to find a
liquidator to sell books and fixtures at the 45 stores while
continuing to negotiate for more extensions, it said.  The company said yesterday that closing the stores,
including those at  New York ’s JFK International Airport and  Penn
Station , would result in a “significant loss of jobs” and
might not give the best returns to creditors. Meanwhile, its
bankruptcy loan requires it to prepare for closing all 51 stores
under certain deadlines or risk a default.  Borders said closing the stores means it won’t be able to
sell them. Najafi Cos., a private-equity firm, is considering
buying many Borders stores, a person familiar with the matter
said June 8. Gores Group LLC, a Los Angeles-based private-equity
firm, is bidding for at least half of Borders’s stores, another
person familiar with the matter said June 1.  40 Years Old  Borders was founded 40 years ago as a single used-book
store. The company, the second-largest book chain after  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS) , had 642 stores in February when it filed for court
protection. It closed 237 of them, leaving 405 still operating.  When Borders filed for bankruptcy, it borrowed $505 million
from lenders led by General Electric Co.’s GE Capital unit,
saying it needed the money to cover immediate expenses if it was
to keep operating and reorganize.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  