-- 
Brazil Interest-Rate Futures Fall on Retail Sales Decline, Growth Outlook

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-06-10T21:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/brazilian-interest-rate-futures-fall-on-retail-sales-decline-real-drops.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell and the real posted its first weekly drop
in four as an unexpected decline in retail sales added to
speculation economic growth is slowing.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 retreated two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.47 percent at 5:04
p.m. New York time, capping a third straight weekly fall. The
real weakened 0.9 percent today to 1.5970 per dollar, from
1.5832 yesterday, and is down 1.3 percent since June 3.  Sales fell 0.2 percent in April from March, from a revised
1 percent increase the previous month, the national statistics
agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The median forecast from 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for sales to increase 0.4
percent. The data indicate the central bank’s four interest rate
increases this year are stemming inflation, said  Andre Perfeito ,
chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual Investimentos.  “Inflation is showing all signs that it’s a lot softer
than we used to believe two weeks ago, three weeks ago,”
Perfeito said by phone. “The real economic data like retail
sales and industrial production are showing that we’re not
growing as fast as a few months ago.”  Industrial production slumped 2.1 percent in April from
March, the biggest contraction since 2008, and  consumer
confidence  fell in May to its lowest level in more than a year.
Retail sales rose 10 percent in April from the same month a year
earlier, the statistics agency said.  Benchmark Rate  Central bankers raised the benchmark lending rate 25 basis
points this week to 12.25 percent, keeping a pledge to raise
borrowing costs for a “sufficiently long period” to bring
inflation back to its target in 2012, according to a statement
accompanying its June 8 decision.  Policy makers also put so-called macro-prudential measures
in place in December to curb credit growth and help tame
inflation. President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is also trying
to prevent  Latin America ’s biggest economy from overheating by
reducing spending.  Annual inflation through May accelerated to 6.55 percent,
according to national statistics agency. The central bank
targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage
points.  The retail sales data suggest policy makers will rely more
on macro-prudential measures to curb credit and not increase
rates any more this year, Perfeito said.  Traders anticipate Tombini may stop raising the benchmark
interest rate as soon as August, after increasing it 25 basis
points in July, yields on the futures contracts show.  Currency Drop  The real weakened as investors shunned higher-yielding
assets a growing concern the global economy is slowing after
 China  reported a small-than-estimated  trade surplus  today and
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday the
U.S. housing market will undergo a “long, drawn-out recovery.”  Eighteen of 25 major emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg declined against the U.S. currency. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the international value of the greenback, gained
0.9 percent.  “Today is clearly a risk off trading environment,”
Mauricio Junqueira, who helps manage $300 million at Squanto
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said bondholders
should assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid, a day after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  rejected any
direct ECB participation in a second Greek bailout.  ‘Uncertainties’  The European debt crisis along with concern that global
growth is slowing drove the real’s decline for the week, Deives Ribeiro, a currency manager at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  “The uncertainties are still out there,” Ribeiro said.
“ Greece  has returned to the scene with uncertainty over the
help plan.”  Policy makers said they bought U.S. dollars in the  spot
market  today at 1.5971 reais each. The central bank uses the
tactic to try to curb appreciation in the real, which has
strengthened 22 percent in the past two years, the most in
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  