-- 
Brazil Retail Sales Fall First Time in a Year as GDP Shows Slowing Signs

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-06-10T13:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/brazil-retail-sales-fell-0-2-in-april-from-previous-month.html
Brazil ’s retail sales unexpectedly
fell in April for the first time in a year, after higher fuel
and food prices prompted consumers to buy less and  Latin
America ’s biggest economy showed more signs of slowing.  Retail sales fell 0.2 percent in April from March, after
expanding a revised 1 percent in March, the national statistics
agency said today. The contraction surprised 26 of 30 economists
in a Bloomberg survey who expected sales to expand from the
previous month and whose median estimate was for a 0.4 percent
growth. Sales rose 10 percent from a year ago, the agency said.  “The slowdown in sales came after inflation, namely fuel
and food, quickened,” said  Luciano Rostagno , the chief
strategist at Sao Paulo-based CM Capital Markets. “These prices
are coming back down and unemployment is at record lows so sales
are likely to rebound.”  Brazil’s policy makers are trying to cool consumer demand
by increasing borrowing costs and implementing tighter liquidity
requirements for banks to curb consumer lending growth.
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is also trying to prevent
Latin America’s biggest economy from overheating by reducing
spending.  Yields on interest-rate futures fell for contracts due more
than a year from now. The yield on the contract due January 2013
dropped two basis points to 12.47 percent at 9:00 a.m. New York
time. Yields for contracts due January 2012 were unchanged. The
real fell 0.1 percent to 1.5852 per  U.S. dollar .  Rate Expectations  Concern the global recovery may falter is the main reason
for the decline in Brazilian interest rate expectations, rather
than the slowdown in  consumer spending , said Rostagno.  Retail sales in April declined on a monthly basis for the
first time since April 2010, when the volume of goods sold fell
0.1 percent. Higher fuel costs led car owners to drive less, as
gasoline sales declined 1.6 percent. A 13.6 percent plunge in
office and communications equipment sales led six of 10
categories that posted declines.  The broader retail index, which includes car sales, rose
1.1 percent from March.  The central bank on June 8 raised its benchmark lending
rate for a fourth straight time, increasing the Selic target
rate by a quarter-point to 12.25 percent. Policy makers, in
their statement accompanying the decision, kept a pledge to
raise borrowing costs for a “sufficiently long period” to
bring inflation back to target in 2012.  Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini on March 22 told
lawmakers that growth in consumer credit of more than 15 percent
needs to be monitored “very carefully.” Total outstanding
credit rose 21 percent from a year earlier in April, according
to the central bank.  Economy Slowing  After gaining speed in the first quarter, when gross
domestic product expanded 1.3 percent from the previous three-
month period, Brazil’s economy has shown signs of slowing.  Industrial production slumped 2.1 percent in April from
March, the biggest contraction since 2008, and  consumer
confidence  fell in May to its lowest level in more than a year.
Average real wages fell 1.8 percent in April from March.  Tombini may stop raising the benchmark interest rate as
soon as August, after a quarter-point increase in July,
according to calculations by Bloomberg based on interest-rate
future contracts.  Monthly inflation slowed to 0.47 percent in May, from 0.77
percent in April, as fuel prices slumped and 5 percent gains by
the currency over the past three months cut costs for imports.
The real’s gains since March 1 make it the second-best
performing currency among seven in Latin America tracked by
Bloomberg, after  Colombia ’s peso.  Bolster Demand  Slowing inflation will bolster consumer demand, said Jorge
M. Ricca, head of stock funds at BB DTVM, the asset-management
unit of Banco do Brasil SA and the nation’s biggest asset
manager.  Ricca said in a May 27 interview that he is buying
homebuilders and retailers on speculation inflation pressures
will ease even as lower unemployment means Brazil’s “robust”
demand will keep expanding.  To be sure, near-full employment levels continue to be a
concern for policy makers. Nationwide, workers are demanding
bigger wage increases as Brazil’s unemployment rate fell in
April to 6.4 percent, the lowest level on record for the month.
Firemen in  Rio de Janeiro , assembly line workers for  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  in Parana state and transportation workers in Brasilia are
all currently on strike, demanding raises above inflation.  Brazil jumped to first place, from fifth in 2010, in a
study of top global markets for retail expansion in a study
published June 6 by management consulting firm  A.T. Kearney .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  