-- 
California Cities Carry Out Pension Changes While Brown Still Negotiating

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/california-cities-carry-out-pension-changes-while-brown-still-negotiating.html
With little public comment and about
15 people in attendance, the City Council of Brea,  California ,
voted unanimously last month to slash pensions for future hires
and require current employees to pay as much as 4.5 percent of
their salary toward retirement, up from zero.  The city of 40,000, about 30 miles (48 kilometers)
southeast of Los Angeles, had negotiated the changes with its
unions, so there wasn’t any objection from them. By next year,
according to a city report, employees will be contributing $1
million more annually to their pension benefits.  Brea is among about 90 cities in the most populous state
that have made changes to their pension plans, according to an
informal list kept by the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , while Governor  Jerry Brown  and lawmakers
wrestle over ways to lower costs. Calpers and the California
State Teachers´ Retirement System listed unfunded liabilities of
almost $113 billion at the end of fiscal 2009. Brea employees
participate in Calpers.  “This is really a pretty momentous achievement,” Brea
Councilman Brett Murdock said at the May 17 meeting. “If
there’s any other city council members out there watching, I
just want to say it can be done. Brea did it. I hope other city
councils see this and carry the flag.”  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  proposed changes June 8 to
his state’s system that would end early retirements, increase
contributions and eliminate unused vacation payouts for
employees hired in the future. The same day,  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  reached agreement with his Senate’s Democratic leader
to increase workers’ contributions.  Emergency ‘Right Now’  Taxpayers who have seen local government services cut are
demanding that elected officials take action on the rising costs
of public-worker benefits, said Lacy Kelly, chief executive
officer of the Association of California Cities-Orange County.  “For cities, the emergency is right now,” Kelly said in a
telephone interview.  San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee and Supervisor Sean Elsbernd on
May 24  proposed  a November ballot measure that would cap pension
benefits, raise retirement ages and require greater
contributions from workers. San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed has
proposed similar  changes .  Los Angeles and  San Diego  negotiated agreements this year
that will add employee contributions to their retirement health-
care for the first time. The cities have also lowered benefits
for future workers.  Financial Problem  Brown has said that retirement costs, at 5.5 percent of
general-fund spending, aren’t California’s biggest financial
problem. However, with many cities paying larger shares of their
budgets to employee costs, “pension reform at the local level
is needed now,” said Robert Ming, a city councilman in Laguna
Niguel and president of the Orange County group.  Brea contributed $8.3 million. or 8.9 percent, of its
general-fund spending to retiree health-care and pensions last
year, according to the city’s annual report.  Los Angeles  put in
$710 million or 16 percent of its budget, according to a City
Council presentation by City Administrative Officer Miguel Santana last year.  In a  survey  by the  League of California Cities , two-thirds
of the 296 localities that responded said they’re negotiating
changes in their plans. Thirty-eight percent had increased
pension payments from current employees, and 20 percent had
created a new tier of benefits for future hires.  Some believe the changes at the local level, particularly
lower benefits for future workers, don’t go far enough.  “It deals with new hires, and right now we’re not
hiring,” said John Moorlach, a supervisor in Orange County.
“The only real change you can have is to go back to bargaining
units” and negotiate increases from existing members, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  