-- 
California Senate Republicans Block Brown $10 Billion Deficit-Closing Plan

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-10T23:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/california-senate-republicans-block-brown-s-10-billion-gap-closing-plan.html
California’s Senate Republicans
blocked Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to erase a $10 billion
deficit as closed-door talks remain snagged on his demand for
higher taxes as a deadline to pass a budget looms.  Republicans oppose the governor’s proposal because it would
extend tax and fee increases set to end June 30. The so-called
bridge tax would preserve the revenue measures pending the
outcome of a voter referendum, planned for September or later,
to keep them for five years. Republicans said the extensions
would harm California’s economy. Brown said he doesn’t want to
raise taxes without voter support.  “The Democrats have moved the goal post,” Senator Bob Huff, the Budget Committee’s Republican vice chairman, said in a
telephone interview. “Now they are saying they need the taxes
and then they will let the voters decide. But if the voters say
‘no,’ they still get stuck with another nine months of taxes.”  While the defeat didn’t surprise party leaders,  California 
faces a cash shortage next month if a workable budget isn’t
passed by the July 1 start of fiscal 2012. The key to getting a
spending plan through the Legislature, where Democrats lack the
two-thirds majority needed to raise taxes, may hinge on finding
a compromise agreement that enough Republicans will support.  “There are no Republican votes for the taxes,” Huff said.
The lawmaker from suburban Diamond Bar near  Los Angeles  said
that Brown’s bridge tax wouldn’t pass muster with voters.  Narrower Deficit  Brown, 73, took office in January on a pledge to fix the
fiscal malfunctions that have left California with an A-  credit
rating  from  Standard & Poor’s , its lowest for any state. He
began the year facing a $26 billion deficit through June 2012.
Since then, spending cuts passed in March and better-than-
projected revenue have narrowed the gap to $10 billion.  Also weighing on negotiations is a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling last month requiring the state to ease prison
overcrowding. Brown says his plan is the best way to avoid
putting thousands of inmates on the street.  Democrats are four votes short of the two-thirds margin
needed under California law to raise taxes, lacking two votes in
the Senate and two in the Assembly.  While Democrats were able to pass 10 of the 16 bills that
are part of the budget package, the linchpin of the plan, the
tax extension, was defeated in a 22-15 vote. They left that
measure open for reconsideration. That means they could vote
again on the bill, possibly as soon as tomorrow.  Difficult Choices  “If there was a pain-free choice to balance the budget, we
would have made it months ago,” Senate President Pro Tem
Darrell Steinberg, a Sacramento Democrat, said today.  In response to the defeat, Senate Democrats took up and
passed a bill that would let local governments ask voters to
increase taxes on goods and services currently taxed only by the
state. Those items include income, retail sales, vehicle
registrations, cigarettes and alcohol.  “If this bill is implemented, you better buy some U-Haul
stock because businesses are going to be packing up and leaving
this state en masse,” said Republican Senator Tony Strickland
of Moorpark.  Controller John Chiang, a Democrat, has repeatedly warned
Brown and lawmakers that California may run out of money if
there’s no  budget  in place by July 1, forcing the state to issue
IOUs, as it did in 2009. That’s because the state likely won’t
be able to go to  Wall Street  for short-term cash borrowing until
it has a spending plan that accounts for how it will be repaid.  Turning to IOUs  “Without some link of the tax extension to an election, we
have deep concerns about our ability to go out to the private
market” to cover short-term needs, said  Michael Cohen , Brown’s
deputy budget director. “Without that ability, then you end up
back in the situation with payment deferrals and IOUs.”  The governor’s plan relies on retaining a 1 percentage-
point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5
percentage-point increase in vehicle registration fees to 1.15
percent of value. It also seeks to extend a reduction of the
annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309. All were put in place
temporarily in 2009 and are set to expire by July 1.  Republicans, who initially opposed a statewide referendum
on the taxes, have indicated they would be willing to allow a
vote after polls showed voters would reject the extensions. The
Legislature’s minority party wants lawmakers to pass a balanced
budget now, without prolonging the revenue measures, and give
voters the chance to reinstate the tax increases later.  Weak Voter Support  “There’s no polling that shows this is going to pass,”
Huff said. “That’s why they want this bridge tax for a year.”  “That’s not a bridge, that’s a budget year,” he said.  A poll released June 2 said more than two-thirds of voters
surveyed want a chance to cast a ballot on Brown’s plan, though
most would reject the tax extensions. The  Public Policy
Institute of California  said only 46 percent supported
prolonging the levies and fees. The poll had a margin of error
of plus or minus 4.3 percentage points.  In November, voters narrowed the legislative margin needed
to pass a budget to a simple majority from two-thirds. The same
measure also strips lawmakers of salary and per-diem pay for
every day they’re late with the spending plan.  Under the new rules, if a deal isn’t reached, a simple
majority of lawmakers may approve a budget that doesn’t raise
taxes even if it cuts spending and provides for accounting
maneuvers and internal borrowing.  No ‘Gimmicks’  Brown has said he doesn’t want lawmakers to send him a plan
that relies on such “gimmicks,” as he calls them. If such a
budget is sent to him and he rejects it, lawmakers would still
get paid because the new law just requires them to send a budget
to the governor.  Republicans have jockeyed for concessions on spending
levels, pensions and business and environmental regulations.  Party leaders are negotiating a 10-year cap on annual state
spending, using any surplus revenue to repay about $25 billion
of debt, Huff said. That includes money siphoned from school
districts, local governments and bonds sold to cover previous
deficits.  Republican lawmakers have sought a ballot measure that
would dismantle the existing state pension system that
guarantees benefit levels regardless of investment returns. They
have proposed replacing it with a hybrid that includes elements
of a traditional defined-benefit plan and a 401(k) savings
account, where recipients bear more of the  investment risk .  Democrats instead want to offer the hybrid plan as an
option for state and local municipal employees, with some
incentives to encourage workers to move away from defined-
benefit pensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  