-- 
Winds Reduce Blackout Threat From Arizona Wildfire

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-06-10T22:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/calming-winds-reduce-threat-of-blackouts-from-arizona-wildfire.html
El Paso Electric Co. (EE)  said calming
winds have reduced the threat of power blackouts from an Arizona
wildfire that has burned an area twice the size of  New York
City .  The Wallow fire remained about 15 miles (24 kilometers)
from a high-voltage transmission line that delivers 40 percent
of the power used by El Paso Electric’s customers, according to
a  statement  posted late today on the company’s website. The line
delivers power from Palo Verde, the largest U.S. nuclear plant,
to 371,000 homes and businesses in western Texas and
southeastern  New Mexico .  “We are still monitoring the situation and preparing in
the event that we lose transmission,” Teresa Souza, a company
spokeswoman, said today in a phone interview. The company, based
in El Paso,  Texas , is working with other utilities to route
power on alternative paths to limit potential blackouts, she
said.  Firefighters had been able to contain about 5 percent of
the 408,887-acre (165,471-hectare) blaze on its northeast side
as of 1:42 p.m. local time today, according to a government
 incident report . Officials have ordered seven Arizona towns to
be evacuated.  The fire, east of Phoenix, has so far destroyed 29 homes,
according to the report. Officials earlier said 67 homes had
been destroyed, which was a reporting error, said Susan Zornek,
a spokeswoman for the state and federal government incident
command center.  Wind-Fed Flames  High winds earlier this week fed the fire and pushed it
faster across the state, hindering efforts to halt its progress.
On June 8, winds were gusting up to 35 miles per hour in the
vicinity of the fire at Greer,  Arizona , according to the
 National Weather Service .  Winds began to ease yesterday, and gusts were limited to 13
miles per hour as of 1:35 p.m. local time today at Greer,
located about 225 miles east of Phoenix, the weather service
said.  “The lower winds have slowed the spread of the fire,"
Zornek said in a telephone interview. With the fire advancing
more slowly, firefighters are able to get ahead of the flames to
build a containment line to hold the fire in check, she said.  Power Prices Rise  Power prices at Palo Verde, a benchmark for the region,
rose $4.68, or 13 percent, to $40.94 a megawatt-hour on the
 Intercontinental Exchange , the highest price since May 4.  The leading edge of the fire was about 8 miles from
transmission lines connecting Tucson, Arizona, to two power
plants,  UniSource Energy Corp. (UNS) , owner of the city’s electric
utility, said in a  statement  today on its website.  The section of the wildfire closest to its high-voltage
wires has not advanced in several days, the utility said.
Another part of the blaze further south has moved several miles
closer, coming within 10 miles of lines that deliver about half
of Tucson’s power needs, according to the utility.  UniSource is bringing backup power supplies online,
starting local natural gas-fueled plants that don’t always run
because it costs more to produce power from those units than it
does to get electricity over the threatened transmission lines,
Joe Salkowski, a Tucson Electric Power Co. spokesman, said today
in a telephone interview. Tucson Electric also is coordinating
with other utilities to provide additional sources of
electricity if needed, he said.  The fire is not expected to result in financial losses that
would affect the credit ratings of El Paso Electric or Tucson
Electric, Standard and Poor’s said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  