-- 
Canada First Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-10T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/canada-first-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's business sector labor productivity report for
the first quarter released by Statistics Canada.  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses
increased for the third consecutive quarter, rising 0.4%
in the first quarter following a 0.3% advance in the
previous quarter.  Businesses boosted production in the first quarter
while further increasing hours worked.  The real gross domestic product (GDP) of businesses
increased 1.2% in the first quarter, its largest advance
in a year. Both goods-producing businesses and services-
producing businesses contributed to the increase in GDP.
The biggest gain was in manufacturing.  Hours worked in the business sector were up 0.7%,
following a 0.5% increase the previous quarter. Employment
growth accelerated, rising by 0.9%, after holding steady
in the fourth quarter, while hours worked per job edged
down 0.2%.  The overall gain in business productivity in the first
quarter was attributable to goods-producing businesses
(+1.2%), following a 0.1% decline in the fourth quarter.
Construction (+2.2%) and manufacturing (+0.8%) were the
main contributor to this increase, while mining and oil
and gas extraction posted a sharp decline (-3.2%).  In services-producing businesses, productivity was
unchanged. Productivity gains in retail trade,
transportation and warehousing, and administrative
services were offset by declines in wholesale trade and
professional services.  In the United States, productivity in the business
sector edged up 0.2% in the first quarter, a slower rate
of growth than in the previous quarter (+0.7%).  In Canadian businesses, labour costs per unit of
production increased 0.6% in the first quarter, similar to
the rate observed in each of the previous three quarters.  Average compensation per hour worked again increased
faster than productivity, growing 1.0% in the first
quarter, echoing the results of the previous two quarters.  The value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the US
dollar rose at roughly the same pace in the first quarter
compared with the previous quarter (+2.7%). That was
reflected in a 3.3% increase in the unit labour costs of
Canadian businesses in American dollars, the same growth
rate as in the previous quarter.  By comparison, American business unit labour costs grew
by 0.4% in the first quarter, after falling 0.7% in the
fourth quarter.  A historical revision (see note) was performed on the
labour variables that contribute to the productivity
measures released today. The combined result of those
revisions was an average 0.1 percentage point increase in
the annual growth rate of business labour productivity
between 1981 and 2010.  Note: The term "productivity" in this release refers to
labour productivity. For the purposes of this analysis,
labour productivity and related variables cover the
business sector only. Labour productivity is a measure of
real gross domestic product (GDP) per hour worked. Unit
labour cost is defined as the cost of workers' wages and
benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are
rounded to one decimal place. They are calculated with
index numbers rounded to three decimal places, which are
now available on CANSIM.  This release incorporates several revisions of the
source data: the annual three-year revision of the
National Income and Expenditure Accounts released on May
30, and revisions of the Labour Force Survey estimates
released on January 28, 2011, and January 29, 2010. These
resulted in revisions of the quarterly series for labour
productivity and related variables from the first quarter
of 1981 at the aggregate level.  In addition, the seasonally adjusted estimates of hours
worked and employment were revised using the X-12-ARIMA
seasonal adjustment method. All aggregate-level variables
also incorporate a new benchmarking and reconciliation
method developed by  Statistics Canada 's methodology units.  The annual three year revisions of national accounts'
data to gross domestic product (GDP) by industry will not
be published until the end of September 2011 (the usual
revision release date for GDP by industry) and therefore
will not be incorporated in the productivity data until
the release of the third quarter data in December 2011.
The labour variables by industry will be revised back at
the same time.  The CANSIM tables associated with all the quarterly
data on productivity and related variables now contain
index numbers rounded to three decimal places to harmonize
the level of precision with that of annual productivity
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  