-- 
Investment Bankers’ Pay in Canada to Rise 15%, Vlaad Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-10T12:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/canada-investment-bankers-compensation-may-rise-15-vladd-says.html
Canadian investment bankers’ average
compensation may increase as much as 15 percent from 2010 as
more takeovers, stock sales and debt financings fuel bonuses,
according to a survey by Vlaad & Co.  “The last few years have had choppy waters, but 2011 looks
like it’ll be clearer sailing,” said Bill Vlaad, president of
the Toronto-based recruiting company for financial firms.  Compensation is rising on the strength of  Canada ’s capital
markets. Announced mergers in Canada surged to $50 billion this
year, about 50 percent more than the same five-month period a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Equity
financings jumped 34 percent to $14.7 billion, according to the
Bloomberg data, while debt financings also rose.  “Early indications show that the markets will remain
strong throughout the year, resulting in compensation being up
10 percent, maybe even 15 percent,” Vlaad said in a June 8
interview. “That would be a pretty solid year.”  Vlaad surveyed about 700 investment bankers, research
associates, analysts, salespeople and traders between January
and April to measure pay at Canadian banks, foreign lenders and
non-bank owned brokerages. The survey included professionals in
Toronto, Vancouver and Calgary.  Financial firms cut bonuses by an average of 5 percent to
10 percent in 2010, a decline that was partly offset by higher
base salaries, Vlaad said.  ‘Healthy Year’  “The Canadian capital markets had a healthy year, but
failed to demonstrate significant compensation improvements
year-over-year,” Vlaad said of 2010.  Compensation for junior investment bankers at Canada’s
largest banks rose between 5 percent and 10 percent last year
from 2009, while senior bankers saw a reduction by 5 percent to
10 percent, Vlaad said. Analysts and traders also had lower
compensation last year.  That follows the trend set by Canada’s six-biggest banks,
which awarded their top investment-banking heads an average of
8.6 percent less in compensation than in 2009 as trading revenue
declined, according to regulatory filings. Total direct
compensation for the top eight investment bankers was an average
of C$7.67 million ($7.88 million) in 2010, down from C$8.39
million a year earlier.  Canada’s six-biggest banks set aside C$5.37 billion for
bonuses including stock awards in the first half of this fiscal
year, according to company filings, an increase of 7.6 percent
from C$4.99 billion for the year-earlier period. The total
reflects the amount reserved, not paid out, and doesn’t include
base salaries and other compensation.  Mining, Oil-Gas Industries  This year’s compensation outlook favors junior investment
bankers and analysts specializing in the mining and oil-and-gas
industries, according to Vlaad. Analysts’ pay packages may be
increased as much as 40 percent from last year because of their
coverage of Canada’s most-active industries, he said.  Equity-research analysts face a continued slide in pay
packages, with average reductions of as much as 15 percent to 25
percent, according to Vlaad. The analysts were down 5 percent to
10 percent in 2010, from the year earlier, he said.  “Firms find it increasingly more challenging to understand
how to pay analysts for the value that research contributes to
the capital markets business,” Vlaad said.  Independent Firms  Independents and foreign-owned firms continue to have the
biggest difference in total compensation. Bankers at non-bank
owned firms may earn much more -- or potentially much less --
than their bank counterparts, Vlaad said.  Aside from a few “superstars” at senior levels,
independent firms generally continue to pay less in total
compensation, while the cash part is a larger percentage of
total payout than at the banks or foreign-owned firms, the
survey showed.  Multinational firms that have entered or re-entered the
Canadian market have had difficulty attracting talent, Vlaad
said. Firms that have gone through significant “events” have
had difficulty recruiting and retaining people, he said.  Sales and trading will be “increasingly more challenging”
as electronic trading gains prominence at brokerages, squeezing
commission fees for traders, according to Vlaad.  “The numbers are significantly lower than last year, and
expect to be lower next year,” said Vlaad, whose survey
includes this category for the first time. “The years where
sales people make multimillions, those days no longer exist.”  ‘Moderate Increases’  In the U.S., the financial-services industry may have
“moderate increases” in compensation incentives, though in
most cases it will remain well below 2007 highs, according to
Johnson Associates Inc., a New York-based compensation-
consulting firm.  Mergers-and-acquisition bankers may receive a 5 percent to
15 percent increase in bonuses, while investment bankers in
advisory are expected to have gains of 5 percent to 10 percent,
the company said in a May 11  report .  Wall Street bankers in equities and prime brokerage may get
a 5 percent to 10 percent increase in bonuses this year compared
with last year, while bankers in fixed-income units at
investment and commercial banks may see an increase of 10
percent to 15 percent, according to Johnson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  