-- 
Cape to Cairo Trade Bloc Plans to Forge Market of Half a Billion Consumers

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-10T08:34:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/cape-to-cairo-bloc-to-forge-market-of-half-a-billion-consumers.html
African leaders meet this weekend to
push forward proposals to bring more than half a billion
consumers from Cape Town to Cairo into a single free trade zone.  Heads of state from the  Southern African Development
Community , the  Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa ,
and the  East African Community  trade blocs will meet on June 12
in Johannesburg,  South Africa  for only their second meeting
after an initial summit in October 2008.  South  Africa , the continent’s largest economy, is driving
regional integration as it seeks to create a larger market for
companies such as  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s biggest
retailer. Africa’s economy has grown an average of 5.7 percent
over the past decade according to the  International Monetary
Fund , fueling the expansion of a new middle class.  Strong growth and “intensifying global competition for
Africa’s resources and markets” make it “imperative that South
Africa accelerates efforts to promote regional integration to
ensure that we trade on terms at least as favorable as other
competitors,” Trade Minister Rob Davies said.  Africa now has more families earning in excess of $20,000 a
year than  India , according to a McKinsey & Co. Inc study
published in June last year.  While there are at least eight overlapping African economic
blocs, poorly maintained transport routes and lengthy border-
crossings have undermined internal trade.  Grand Area  The so-called Grand Free Trade Area, which encompasses 26
countries and 590 million people, would initially be limited to
the trade of goods, Davies said in a June 8 opinion piece
published in Johannesburg’s Business Report newspaper.  The growth of Africa’s consumer market saw  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  bid last year for a controlling stake in  Massmart Holdings
Ltd. (MSM) , the continent’s third-largest retailer. Eliminating trade
tariffs may aid U.S. companies such as Wal-Mart, which are
looking for opportunities on the continent, said Jose Fernandez,
U.S. assistant secretary of state for economic, energy and
business affairs.  “It’s beneficial, it just opens up the market, it
increases the customer base, it makes it cheaper to transport
products from one place to another,” Fernandez said in a June 6
interview in Johannesburg. “It’s something we believe will help
companies and customers will have access to cheaper products.”  Shift to Asia  Africa’s overseas trade has shifted from traditional
partners such as the European Union and U.S. to emerging
economies including  South Korea , India and  China , which is now
the continent’s largest trading partner, according to a June 6
report by the  African Development Bank , the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, the  United Nations
Development Programme  and the UN Economic Commission for Africa.  Trade among African countries has been stymied by political
instability, a lack of diversification in their economies and
poor implementation of trade agreements, the report said.  The uneven pace of regional integration in Africa in which
customs unions aren’t fully implemented, indicate that it will
take years for the planned trade zone to take effect, said Paul
Kruger, a trade analyst at the Trade Law Centre for Southern
Africa based in Stellenbosch near  Cape Town .  “We are going to run into a few problems,” Kruger said in
an interview. “If you want to do this thing on a grandiose
scale, how are you going to do that if you’ve never done it on
the smaller scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 