-- 
Caruana Says Regulation Can’t Replace Monetary, Fiscal Policy

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-06-10T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/caruana-says-regulation-can-t-replace-monetary-fiscal-policy.html
Bank of International Settlements
General Manager Jaime Caruana said that tougher macro-prudential
regulation cannot replace sound monetary and fiscal policies in
protecting economic stability.  “Macro-prudential policy should not be considered a tool
for the management of aggregate demand,” Caruana said in a
speech delivered today in Kerala,  India . “At a minimum, both
fiscal and monetary policies need to play a more active role”
in protecting stability “than they have in the past,” he said,
according to the text.  The remarks reflect concern that governments around the
world may be relying too heavily on regulation to prevent future
financial crises, rather than tackling budget deficits and
raising borrowing costs to counter threats of asset bubbles.
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis shows how managing national
budgets is vital to preserving financial stability, he said.  “The plight of the euro area is a telling example of how
sovereign solvency is a prerequisite for financial stability,”
Caruana said. “For fiscal policy, we need to apply the same
principles that apply to a macro-prudential framework: namely,
build up buffers in good times so that they can be drawn down in
bad times. This means running prudent budget surpluses in good
times,” he said.  Central banks at the same time need to broaden their
perspectives beyond targeting inflation to consider longer-term
financial developments including possible asset bubbles, he
said.  Financial Imbalances  The crisis “reminded us that financial imbalances can
build up even without inflation,” Caruana said. “Monetary
policy makers will also need to keep an eye on longer-term
trends if they are to take into account the gradual build-up and
unwinding of financial imbalances and their economic and
inflationary effects.”  As for macro-prudential regulation itself, authorities
should aim to increase the resilience of the financial system
and tackle bubbles as they develop, he said.  “A narrow aim would be to increase the resilience of the
financial system,” he said. “A broader, more ambitious one
would seek to constrain the upswing of the financial cycle
itself. To achieve the narrow aim, all we need to do is to build
up buffers during the boom so that they can be used as risk
materialize during the bust,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  