-- 
Chile Volcanic Ash Cloud Worsens Airline Routes After 150 Flights Canceled

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-10T19:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/chile-volcanic-ash-cloud-worsens-airline-routes-after-150-flights-canceled.html
Flights from Argentina’s capital
will start to return to normal this afternoon after ash spewing
from a volcano in Chile prompted cancellations this week.  Flights to the U.S. by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines will
depart on time tonight, according to the airport information
service.  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) ,  Latin America ’s biggest carrier by
market value, said it will resume flights in and out of Buenos
Aires’s two international airports this afternoon and restore
full service by tomorrow. Montevideo flights will restart
tomorrow, Lan said in an e-mailed statement.  Aerolineas Argentinas SA, the country’s biggest carrier,
and its sister company Austral, will resume operations after 5
p.m. New York time, according to a statement on the government’s
website.  The ash cloud created by an eruption that started on June 4
in the Andes Mountains in southern Chile yesterday prompted
airlines to cancel about 320 flights in and out of the two
airports, according to the terminals’ operator,  Aeropuertos
Argentina 2000 SA .  Ashes, which can damage airplane engines, were spread
through the first 6,000 meters (19,700 feet) of the atmosphere
earlier today, Argentina’s Transport Secretariat said in an e-
mailed statement.  Meeting Canceled  A gathering today of economy ministers and central bank
chiefs from  South America  was canceled after  Buenos Aires  was
powdered with a light coating of wind-carried ash from the
Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex. Airspace across
Argentina’s southern Patagonia region remains closed.  Runways at the two Buenos Aires airports were cleaned last
night. In the southern ski resort town of Bariloche, waves of
the dusty debris washed up along the shoreline of Lake Nahuel
Huapi, part of the country’s oldest national park that stretches
to the mountainous border with Chile.  The ashes also disrupted flights in southern  Brazil .
Arrivals and departures from the city of Porto Alegre were
canceled at 10:40 a.m. local time, the government’s airport
operator Infraero said. Sao Paulo-based  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  said in an e-mail that its flights to Porto
Alegre, Caxias do Sul, Chapeco, Buenos Aires and Montevideo
remained canceled today.  American Airlines has placed several aircraft in Santiago
to make extra flights to move people out of the area later today
if flights are possible, said spokesman Tim Smith by e-mail from
Forth Worth,  Texas .  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s flight to Atlanta
tonight will depart on time, according to the airport
information.  Salmon Farms  In Chile, some salmon farmers along the Pacific coast moved
stocks to safer areas, industry association SalmonChile said
yesterday. The eruption should have a “limited” impact on
stocks, the association said.  The Chilean government’s emergency service, known as Onemi,
maintained an alert for communities in the Los Rios and Los
Lagos regions as volcanic and seismic activity continued. The
volcano could erupt for an additional 10 days, Chilean Mining
and Energy Minister  Laurence Golborne  said June 8.  The Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex previously had
major eruptions in 1921-22 and 1960, according to the
Washington-based Smithsonian Institution.  Lan slid 1.9 percent to 12,755 pesos in Santiago at 3:09
p.m. New York time, the lowest in almost two months.  Tam SA (TAMM4) 
declined 2.8 percent to 32.5 reais in Sao Paulo trading. Gol
fell for a third day, losing 1.3 percent to 18.9 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  