-- 
China Has Less-Than-Estimated $13 Billion Trade Surplus as Imports Surge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-10T09:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/china-reports-less-than-estimated-13-05-billion-trade-surplus-for-may.html
China  reported a less-than-estimated
$13.1 billion trade surplus in May, as surging imports signaled
the nation’s demand may support global growth while adding
pressure for higher  interest rates .  Inbound shipments climbed 28 percent from a year earlier
and exports rose 19 percent, the customs bureau said on its
website. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23
economists was for a $19.3 billion surplus.  Today’s data may alleviate “fears of a sharp slowdown and
thus marginally increase the chance of further rate hike,” said
 Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist at Standard Chartered Bank.
Investors “should prepare for a possible interest-rate hike
over the weekend,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that China
can sustain economic growth of about 9.5 percent this year and
next even as the government cools the real-estate market and
reins in bank lending to counter inflation. Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said today that an increase in banks’
reserve requirements may be imminent, describing this weekend
and the coming week as “a sensitive period.”  Reserve requirements for the biggest banks stand at a
record 21 percent, while the key one-year lending rate is 6.31
percent after four increases since September.  The Shanghai Composite Index swung between gains and losses
before closing up 0.1 percent. Chinese stocks traded in  Hong
Kong  are the world’s worst performers this month as allegations
of fraud at some smaller companies add to slowdown concerns.  Betting on Yuan  Non-deliverable yuan forwards traded at 6.3920 per dollar
as of 16:29 p.m. in Hong Kong, indicating the currency may gain
about 1.4 percent in 12 months. The contracts fell the most in
three weeks yesterday on signs that global growth may falter as
rising unemployment and falling home prices hamper the expansion
in the U.S., the world’s biggest economy.  Median forecasts were for a 20 percent gain in exports and
a 22 percent increase in imports. In April, exports rose 30
percent and imports gained 22 percent. In May, the value of
exports was $157 billion and imports were $144 billion.  Chinese officials can point to a 35 percent decline in the
trade surplus over the first five months from a year earlier as
evidence of progress in redressing global economic imbalances.  Exports “look solid for now, and this should embolden
Beijing to allow further gains in yuan against the dollar as
part of broader efforts to contain inflation,” said  Brian Jackson , an economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. He
sees the yuan at 6.20 per dollar by year-end, from about 6.48.  ‘Substantially Undervalued’  The U.S. is pressing for bigger gains in the currency,
described as “substantially undervalued” by the Treasury
Department in a May 27 report.  The IMF said yesterday that a stronger currency would help
to prevent a rebounding surplus in China’s current account, the
broadest measure of trade. The  World Bank , meanwhile, said June
8 that gains in the yuan would help to tame inflation.  China is set to release May inflation data on June 14, with
analysts’ median forecast indicating consumer prices rose 5.5
percent, the biggest gain in almost three years.  Ahead of today’s data, Industrial Bank Co. and Societe
Generale SA said that a decline in commodity prices and
destocking by companies could limit import growth. In a preview
of the trade numbers, London-based  Capital Economics  Ltd. said
that world demand is “apparently slowing,” suggesting weaker
growth in China’s exports “in the months ahead.”  Commodity Demand  “The overall strength in imports suggests that China’s
domestic demand has not slowed as much as the market may have
feared,” said  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based economist for UBS AG.
“This is very much in line with our forecast of a modest
slowdown in overall growth this year,” she said, predicting an
economic expansion of 9.3 percent.  Capital Economics said that commodity imports “remain much
weaker than a few months ago but they have recovered slightly.”
China imported more crude oil,  iron ore  and soy beans in May
than in April and less copper.  Signs are mixed on the trade outlook. While U.S.
unemployment and  Europe ’s debt crisis fuel concerns, the IMF
said yesterday that it hadn’t revised a 4.4 percent forecast for
global growth this year.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the biggest air-cargo
carrier, and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. predict a pickup in
freight demand in the second half.  --Zheng Lifei in Beijing, with assistance from Huang Zhe,
Victoria Ruan, Marco Lui, Billy Chan, Regina Tan, and  Michael Munoz . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Lily Nonomiya.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  