-- 
China Soybean Imports Rise, May Worsen Domestic Supply Glut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-10T08:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/china-may-soybean-imports-were-4-56-million-tons-customs-says.html
Soybean imports by  China , the
biggest buyer, rose for a third month, raising concerns that
domestic supply may outpace demand from the livestock industry
after hog diseases and a drought cut livestock herds.  Inbound shipments were 4.56 million metric tons in May,
gaining from 3.88 million tons in April, the Beijing-based
customs office said today on its website. When crushers booked
shipments last year to manage inventories and profit from
hedging, they overestimated demand, according to analyst Monica
Tu at  Shanghai  JC Intelligence Co.  Drought along the  Yangtze River  destroyed fish farms and
slowed a recovery in soybean meal demand, Citic Futures
Brokerage Co. said June 1. China’s surging inventories may limit
new purchases, reducing support for soybeans, which have dropped
1.6 percent this year compared with a 25 percent gain by corn.  “There are still a lot of soybeans around,” Cao Huimin,
analyst at Beijing-based China Cereals & Oils Business Net, said
in an e-mail. “Crushers are hurting and demand isn’t good,”
she said. Rising imports may further swell record-level
inventories of 6 million tons in major ports, she said.  Profits Plunge  China’s soybean imports fell 1 percent in the first five
months from a year ago to 19.41 million tons, the customs
Plunging profits have forced Chinese crushers to cancel or
postpone preordered shipments this year. In October-December,
the first three months of the 2010-2011 marketing year, China’s
purchases jumped 40 percent, according to customs data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  yesterday cut its
forecast for China’s soybean imports in the year through Sept.
30 by 500,000 tons from an estimate a month ago to 54 million
tons. That represents growth of 7.4 percent, compared with 22
percent a year earlier.  Soybeans for November delivery dropped 0.4 percent to
$13.7875 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn declined
0.3 percent to $7.8375 per bushel.  In April, about 17.6 million hogs were slaughtered in
China, 8.9 percent less than a year ago, while the number of
breeding sows in inventory declined by 2.7 percent, the Ministry
of Agriculture said  May 13 . Diseases killed herds from the end
of last year to January, Tu of  Shanghai  JC said.  China also ordered large cooking oil suppliers, including
 Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , to cap prices, limiting profits
earned by soybean crushing plants, according to the company.  China’s soybean imports in June may be 5 million tons, less
than the 6.2 million tons received a year ago, the China
National Grain & Oils Information Center said yesterday, while
forecasting May shipments at 4.8 million tons.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  