-- 
China Money Rate Completes Biggest Weekly Increase Since April

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-10T08:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/china-money-rate-set-for-biggest-weekly-increase-in-four-months.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
completed its biggest weekly increase since the end of April on
speculation quickening inflation will prompt the central bank to
raise  interest rates  to contain inflation.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed even as the People’s Bank of China
added 87 billion yuan ($13.4 billion) of capital, a fourth
weekly net injection. Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May
from a year earlier, the most since July 2008, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
a government report due on June 14.  “The central bank is very likely to raise interest rates
this month, which will worsen the liquidity situation,” said
Pang Aihua, a bond analyst in Beijing at China Citic Bank Co., a
unit of China’s biggest state-investment company. “Also, banks
are reluctant to lend one another cash because they should meet
capital-adequacy ratio requirements as the quarter-end
approaches.”  The repo rate surged 114 basis points this week, the most
since the five days through April 24, to 4.61 percent as of the
4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate
rose 47 basis points today.  Lin Chaohui, a bond analyst at Huatai Lianhe Securities
Co., said maturing central bank bills and capital inflows will
help ease the cash crunch within two weeks.  Foreign Exchange  “A total of more than 600 billion yuan of central bank
bills and  repurchase agreements  will mature this month,” said
Shanghai-based Lin. “Also, the central bank’s purchases of
foreign exchange from the nation’s banks may be around 300
billion yuan.”  The central bank buys foreign currency entering the country
to limit gains in the yuan. Purchases of foreign exchange from
lenders totaled 1.43 trillion yuan in the first four months of
2011, 38 percent more than a year earlier, People’s Bank of
China data show.  One-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at
3.49 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contract rose six basis points in the week.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bond due January
2021 gained two basis points to 3.89 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. It climbed five basis points in the
week, the biggest weekly increase in more than one month. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editor: Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 