-- 
U.S. Banks Rise as CNBC Says Capital Surcharge May Be 2%

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-10T21:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/citigroup-u-s-banks-rise-as-cnbc-says-capital-surchage-may-be-2-to-2-5-.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  were among banks that climbed in New York trading after
CNBC said the biggest lenders are more likely to face a 2 to
2.5 percentage-point surcharge on  capital requirements  rather
than 3 percentage points.  Shares of Bank of America, which dropped as much as
2.3 percent earlier today, gained 1.4 percent to $10.80 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Citigroup,
which had fallen 2.5 percent, advanced 0.4 percent to $37.92.  International central bankers and supervisors have decided
banks need to hold more capital to avoid future taxpayer-funded
bailouts. A proposed surcharge, previously reported to be
3 percent, may be lowered amid resistance from European nations,
especially  France , CNBC said without saying where it got the
information. The amount may be set at a meeting in two weeks.  “The smaller the buffer, the better it’s going to be for
bank shareholders,” said  Jason Goldberg , senior analyst at
Barclays Capital in New York. Amid a regulatory overhaul, banks
are facing “a lot of headwinds out there. The industry hasn’t
gotten a break in a while.”  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the  Federal Reserve 
in Washington, declined to comment.  There’s a “good chance” that regulators will agree on a
3 percent buffer for the largest systemically important
financial institutions, or SIFIs, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair said yesterday.  Surcharges for other SIFIs “will likely be tiered” below
that amount, she said in a New York interview.  Shouldn’t ‘Overdo It’  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley today said regulators shouldn’t “overdo it” on bank
rules and Fed examiners shouldn’t be “too tough” on banks.  Jamie Dimon ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief executive
officer, pressed Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in a
public forum June 7 on whether overzealous regulation of the
U.S. banking system may be endangering economic growth.
Regulators worldwide are devising new capital requirements
following unprecedented government bailouts of financial firms
during 2008’s credit crisis.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon told the Fed chairman during a conference
of bankers in Atlanta.  Most SIFIs are better prepared to hold 2 percent of extra
capital on top of the 7 percent minimum -- for a total of
9 percent -- than they are to hold 3 percent, according to a
May 6 research note by Bank of America’s Guy Moszkowski.  “U.S. SIFIs appear to be managing towards 8-9 percent” of
core tier-1 capital under Basel III rules, Moszkowski wrote in
the May note. “Some investors fear the U.S. may also implement
tougher capital targets of 10 percent or higher. We believe this
scenario is unlikely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 