-- 
Citigroup Blames Uncounted $800 Billion for Unstable Market: Muni Credit

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-10T17:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/citigroup-blames-uncounted-800-billion-for-unstable-market-muni-credit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  analysts say there’s
something missing from the Federal Reserve’s tally of the
municipal-bond market’s size: more than $700 billion of the
securities were bought directly by individual investors.  The Fed’s quarterly figures, released yesterday, put the
market at $2.9 trillion, 37 percent of which the central bank
says is owned by households. Citigroup’s analysts  George Friedlander ,  Mikhail Foux  and Vikram Rai say individuals play an
even larger role, holding half of a $3.7 trillion market that
has been whipsawed by speculation about municipal defaults that
is now starting to ebb.  “The instability in the muni market in late 2010 was
exacerbated by individual investors becoming overly concerned
about the fiscal strength of state and local governments,” Rai
said in an e-mail after Citigroup’s report on the market was
published on June 3. “Unsurprisingly, as credit fears abated,
it resulted in lower volatility and a rally in the tax-exempt
and taxable market.”  The municipal-bond market has been rebounding after
tumbling 4.5 percent during the last three months of 2010 in its
worst quarter since 1994.  The supply of new securities has dropped as debt-wary
officials reduce borrowing and as rising tax collections are
improving the outlook for the finances of states that have been
wrestling with budget deficits for the past three years.  Looming Defaults  While banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  has garnered
attention for warning about looming municipal defaults, the
actual amount was only $605 million through April, down from
$1.7 billion a year earlier, according to Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter. State revenue jumped 7.9 percent from
September to December compared with a year earlier, the fastest
pace since before  home prices  peaked in 2006,  Census figures
show.   “There’s some recognition that Armageddon isn’t just
around the corner,” said  Richard Ciccarone , managing director
and chief research officer at McDonnell Investment Management
LLC, where he helps oversee $7 billion in municipal bonds.  “The consequence of not having an avalanche of defaults
during the first five months of 2011 and the fact that the
economy has at least moved forward” has helped bring buyers
back into the market, he said.  Borrowing Costs  The Bond Buyer 20 Index, a measure of borrowing costs on
20-year general-obligation debt, dropped for an eighth straight
week, slipping 0.02 percentage points to 4.49 percent, down from
as much as 5.4 percent on Jan. 20. The yields slid even as new
bond sales surpassed $6 billion this week for the first time
this year, a result of issuers, including  New York City , taking
advantage of lower borrowing costs.  Investors added about $274 million to U.S. municipal-bond
mutual funds in the week through June 8 -- the first inflow
since November -- Lipper US Fund Flows said yesterday.  The last net addition was the week ended Nov. 10. The yield
on 10-year tax-exempts, at 2.57 percent, is the lowest since
November, after reaching 3.48 percent in January, the highest
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The departure of money from mutual funds that invest in
municipal securities had been spurred in part by questions about
the safety of the debt. Analysts, credit-rating companies and
investors said the concerns were misplaced, given the steps that
municipalities will take to avoid a default that would lock them
out of the markets they rely on for public-works projects and
short-term loans.  Cities and counties may face fresh questions from investors
as property-tax revenue slides and states cut back on aid
payments, Joshua Zeitz, an analyst with MF Global Inc., said
yesterday in a note to clients.  Underestimating Individuals  Citigroup’s analysts didn’t challenge the  Federal Reserve ’s
data on holdings by institutional investors such as mutual funds
and insurance companies, which can be gleaned from corporate
filings and other outside data sources. Without similar
information on households, the analysts say, the Fed had to
guess.  By underestimating the market, they’ve also diminished the
extent to which individuals dominate it, they said. Citigroup
estimates individuals they held $1.8 trillion, or half, of the
municipal bonds outstanding at the end of 2010, compared with
about $1.1 trillion estimated by the Federal Reserve.  “We always believed that the influence of retail investors
in the municipal market was understated,” Rai said.  The Federal Reserve said it’s looking into the discrepancy,
said Susan Stawick, a spokeswoman.  Bigger Market  Based on a compilation of all the individual bonds that
have been issued, Bloomberg data shows the size of the market at
about $3.8 trillion.  Researchers at the  Securities for Industry and Financial
Markets Association,  the Wall Street trade group, agree that the
Fed’s figures underestimate the size of the market, said Michael Decker, co-head of its munis division.  Municipal Market Advisors Inc. analyst Matt Fabian said he
has no reason to challenge Citigroup’s estimate and is unsure
what the consequence of the revised size would be, except that
it may give bondholders the leverage to block any attempt by
Congress to strip the securities of their federal tax-exempt
status.  “The muni market has a long history of working with data
that carries caveats,” he said. “We’re used to data that is
somehow not just what we’d like. So the Fed data is more of
that.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY, which oversees 570 miles
of roads, is set to sell $408.8 million of revenue bonds as soon
as next week. The securities are backed by payments from the
agency’s highway and bridge trust fund. Underwriting of the
offer is being led by Citigroup and Ramirez & Co. (Added June
10)  PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, the third-richest U.S. college, plans
to invite bids on the sale of $275 million of bonds on June 15,
using proceeds to finance capital projects at its main campus in
Princeton,  New Jersey , as well as at a satellite campus and
administrative building. The bonds will be sold through the New
Jersey Educational Facilities Authority. The college is rated
Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and AAA by  Standard & Poor’s .
(Added June 10)  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  