-- 
Clinton, on Zambia Trade Trip, Bops Along With Entrepreneurs

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-11T01:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/clinton-bops-with-african-entrepreneurs-in-trade-trip-to-zambia.html
Hillary Clinton  switched her
attention from  Libya  to improving trade with sub-Saharan Africa
as she bopped to music by Zambian businesswomen during the first
visit by a U.S. secretary of state to the former British colony
in more than three decades.  Departing  Abu Dhabi , where she attended an international
conference on Libya, Clinton landed in 41-degree-Celsius (105
Fahrenheit) Lusaka yesterday after a seven-hour flight for the
first leg of a five-day tour in Africa. She will also stop in
 Tanzania , where she plans to visit a women’s health center, and
 Ethiopia , where her attention will shift back to Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  in talks with the Addis Ababa-based African
Union.  Meeting in Lusaka with female entrepreneurs, Clinton moved
and clapped to the rhythms of songs they performed as she viewed
items they hope to export. She also attended a conference to
discuss the failings of the  African Growth and Opportunity Act ,
which gives 37 African countries trade preferences with the U.S.
for an array of goods such as textiles. It is primarily used for
oil, doing little to diminish  Africa ’s reliance on crude to prop
up growth.  “We cannot ignore the signs that we have not made the most
of AGOA,” Clinton said. “African countries export only a
handful of the 6,500 products that are eligible for duty-free
shipping. The most common is still a barrel of oil.”  At stake is whether Congress will vote to renew the law,
which was signed in May 2000 and is set to expire in 2015.  Acknowledging that China, the world’s biggest energy user,
has extended its influence across Africa, Clinton said she
recognized that while its size accounted for its presence in the
continent, she had reservations about its reach.  China ’s Reach  The U.S. is “concerned that China’s foreign assistance and
investment practices in Africa have not always been consistent
with generally accepted international norms of transparency and
good governance,” she said at a news conference in Lusaka after
meeting Zambian President Rupiah Banda.  The last time a U.S. secretary of state was in Zambia was
in 1976, when  Henry Kissinger  came to outline U.S. policy in
southern Africa, calling the colonial era a “thing of the
past” and announcing U.S. intentions to “triple our support
for development programs.”  Still, China’s involvement in the region predates that
speech by more than a decade.  “Our country has been with a close relationship with China
as early as before our independence” in 1964, Banda told
reporters. “We work closely with the Chinese, as with any other
country that supported our desire to be independent.”  U.S. Trade  U.S. trade with sub-Saharan Africa still accounts for about
3 percent of total U.S. imports and 1 percent of U.S. exports, a
sign that the agreement hasn’t been as successful in fostering
more business as the U.S. had hoped. Oil makes up more than 90
percent of the $44 billion generated by U.S. imports from the
 AGOA countries .  Scores of women -- members of the African Women’s
Entrepreneurship Program and dressed in traditional garments
emblazoned with the group’s logo -- sang and danced as Clinton
entered a room where their wares were on display. She clapped
and bopped to the music, saying that hearing African women sing
always puts her in “a great mood.” Clinton then took a peek at
the range of goods for which the female entrepreneurs are
seeking a U.S. market. “I love peanut butter,” she said when a
jar was pointed out.  “I think she is great, very inspiring, and she has made us
know we can actually do it,” said Linda Moono, an executive
director at the Young Entrepreneurs Organization, which was
founded five years ago and has helped set up the only Mexican
restaurant in Lusaka. “Even if there are no jobs, you can still
be self-employed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Lusaka, Zambia at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  