-- 
Colombia Says Move to ‘Less Expansive Policy Must Continue’

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-06-10T20:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/colombia-says-move-to-less-expansive-policy-must-continue-1-.html
Colombia ’s central bank said
“record-low” interest rates and the likelihood that  South
America ’s fourth-biggest economy is operating near its potential
means that policy makers will push borrowing costs up higher in
the months ahead.  Citing the delayed effect of interest rate increases on
consumer spending and prices, “the Board of Directors felt the
move towards a less expansive monetary policy must continue,”
the seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe, said
at their May 30 meeting, according to the  minutes  posted on the
bank’s website today.  At last month’s meeting, Banco de la Republica raised its
benchmark rate by a quarter point to 4 percent as policy makers
seek to keep inflation expectations anchored to their target of
2 percent to 4 percent. The increase matched the expectations of
all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers last month noted that “extremely low”
borrowing costs over a prolonged period could generate risks to
financial stability, sustainable economic growth and future
inflation. After pausing at a record-low 3 percent for nine
months, officials have raised the rate by a quarter point at
each of their last four meetings.  Policy Balance  Two days after the bank’s last meeting, Colombia President
 Juan Manuel Santos  said the central bank risks stifling economic
expansion if it doesn’t hold the nation’s benchmark rate at 4
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Alberto Ramos , in a
research note e-mailed to investors today, said that while a
pause can’t be ruled out, “we expect the central bank to
deliver another 25 basis-point rate hike at the June 17 meeting
and to drive the policy rate to around 4.50 percent to  5
percent by year-end.”  While economic growth will likely be affected by torrential
rains and flooding over the last several months, gross domestic
product will likely expand close to 5 percent in 2011, Uribe
said last month.  The current benchmark rate will continue to support
economic growth and job creation, policy makers said at the May
meeting. The economy likely grew in the first quarter in the
upper half of the forecast range of 3.9 percent to 5.5 percent,
policy makers said.  Annual inflation quickened to 3.02 percent in May, from an
2.84 percent the previous month, and up from a decade-low of
1.84 percent a year earlier. Colombia’s real interest rate after
inflation, at 0.98 percent, is lowest in  Latin America  among
nations that target inflation.  Economists are optimistic policy makers can keep inflation
under control this year even as economic growth strengthens.  Prices are expected to rise 3.10 percent this year,
according to a central bank survey of 39 economists published
May 11. That’s less than the 3.31 percent forecast in an April
survey and down from 3.61 percent in February.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent today to close at 1777.45 per
dollar from 1770.95 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  