-- 
Copper Falls, Caps Biggest Weekly Loss in a Month, as China Imports Drop

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-10T18:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/copper-declines-on-reduced-imports-into-china-world-s-biggest-consumer.html
Copper fell, capping the biggest
weekly loss in a month, on a decline in imports of the metal by
 China , the world’s largest consumer.  Inbound shipments slipped 3 percent in May from the prior
month, customs figures show, as users drew down inventories and
higher  London  prices made imports more expensive. The metal also
retreated as copper inventories tracked by the London Metal
Exchange posted a weekly increase for the ninth time in 10
weeks.  “There is a lot of uncertainty in the market and people
just don’t know what position to take, so there is no volume,”
said Magmura Kamanova, a broker at Sucden Financial Ltd. in
London.  Copper futures for July delivery dropped 5.15 cents, or 1.3
percent, to close at $4.056 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York . The price fell 1.9 percent this week, the most since
May 6.  The metal declined for three months, from March through
May, as China raised  interest rates  and took other steps to curb
above-target inflation. Manufacturing advanced in May at the
slowest pace in nine months, a report showed June 1.  Copper inventories tracked by the LME rose for a fifth day
to the highest level since May 2010. Stockpiles monitored by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange declined to near a 21-month low.  In London, copper for three-month delivery fell $117, or
1.3 percent, to $8,938 a metric ton ($4.05 a pound).  The metal is poised for a drop to $8,670 in one to two
weeks if it completes a so-called bear-flag pattern by closing
below $9,072 on June 13, Lynnden Branigan, a technical
strategist at  Barclays Capital , said today in an interview from
New York.  Nickel, aluminum, lead, tin and zinc also dropped in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  