-- 
Credit Insurers Eye ‘Exceptionally Good’ 2011, Association Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-06-10T13:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/credit-insurers-eye-exceptionally-good-2011-association-says.html
Trade-credit insurers such as  Euler
Hermes SA (ELE) , Coface SA and Atradius NV are expecting 2011 to be
another “exceptionally good year,” the  International Credit
Insurance & Surety Association  said.  “2011 will be -- similar to 2010 -- another year with
exceptionally good results, assuming there is not a big change
in the economic background,” ICISA Vice-President Jim Davidson
said in an interview today. “We might have seen the peak, but
we could as well see further improvement in 2012, depending on
how prices develop.”  Trade-credit insurers, which cover the payment of more than
$2 trillion in trade receivables for vendors when a buyer is not
able to pay, are recovering from a rise in claims during the
economic slowdown and subsequent corporate insolvencies. Euler
Hermes SA, the world’s largest trade-credit insurer, Amsterdam-
based Atradius NV, and Coface SA, a unit of French bank  Natixis (KN) 
SA, account for the majority of trade-credit insurance premiums,
which stood at the 5.2 billion euros ($7.5 billion) in 2009
globally, according to data from ICISA.  Paris-based Euler Hermes, majority-owned by  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
last month reported a 58 percent surge in first-quarter profit
to 75.3 million euros. Its combined ratio, or claims and costs
as percentage of premiums, improved to 75 percent from 90
percent a year ago. A combined ratio below 100 percent indicates
an insurer’s underwriting is profitable.  “A combined ratio below 80 percent is considered very
exceptional for our business,” Davidson said. “Claims are now
below average and we expect pricing pressure as that’s an
inevitable part of the cycle.” Trade credit insurers already
saw “some moderation of prices” in the contract renewals of
2011 as the risk of claims has decreased along with the economic
recovery, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  