-- 
Czech Transportation Workers Call Strike for June 13

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-06-10T09:31:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/czech-transportation-workers-call-strike-for-june-13-1-.html
Czech transportation unions called a
one-day strike for June 13 to protest against government plans
to overhaul public finances with measures including a value-
added tax increase, union leaders said.  The nationwide work stoppage will begin at 3 a.m. in  Prague 
and will be “the biggest ever” in the  Czech Republic , Lubos
Pomajbik, the head of the Transportation Trade Unions, said.
Some roads leading into the Czech capital will be blocked, added
Bohumir Dufek, one of the transportation union leaders. Air
travel won’t be affected by the action.  “It was the government who forced us to call the strike,”
Jindrich Hlas, leader of the railway engine union, told
reporters. The government doesn’t want to explain to the public
why reforms need to be only cuts and restriction.”  The unions also oppose a plan to allow people to redirect
part of their compulsory pension payments into personal accounts
as the Cabinet tries to boost private savings for retirement and
are against a plan to raise the  retirement age , union
representatives have said.  The Czech Republic is the last of the four largest post-
communist economies in the European Union to boost private
savings for retirement as the government expects an ageing
population to reduce the number of workers paying for pensions
of the retired. The Cabinet wants to avoid the difficulties
suffered by Hungary and  Poland , where pension changes widened
budget gaps, forcing a reversal of their overhauls.  The  Finance Ministry  estimated the VAT changes may boost
inflation by 1.2 percentage points next year. The central bank
forecast the impact at 1.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  