-- 
Dallas Mavericks Defeat Miami Heat 112-103 to Take 3-2 Lead in NBA Finals

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-06-10T05:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/dallas-mavericks-defeat-miami-heat-112-103-to-take-3-2-lead-in-nba-finals.html
The  Dallas Mavericks  defeated
the Miami Heat 112-103 to move within one win of their
first National Basketball Association championship.  Dirk Nowitzki  scored 29 points and Dallas went 13-of-
19 on 3-pointers to lead the best-of-seven NBA Finals by
three games to two.  Jason Terry added 21 points and hit two key 3-pointers
in the closing minutes as the Mavericks ended last night’s
game at American Airlines Center in Dallas with a 17-4 run.
Two days earlier, the Mavericks finished with a 21-9 run to
win 86-83.  “It’s just like being out there on the playground
back home in  Seattle ,” Terry said in a news conference.
“Emulating your idols in the Finals situation, game on the
line. Raise up, knock it down.”  LeBron James  scored two points in the fourth quarter
for the Heat, continuing his late-game struggles in this
series. He scored five points in the final period of Game
1, two in each of the next two games and none in Game 4.  After scoring a career playoff low eight points in
Game 4, James had 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists
last night for his seventh career playoff triple-double and
first of this year’s postseason.  “A triple-double means absolutely nothing with a
loss,” James told reporters. “I could have made a couple
of more plays for my team.”  Dwyane Wade  overcame a hip injury to lead Miami with
23 points and  Chris Bosh  added 19.  The Mavericks went 20-for-32 on 3-pointers in a 122-86
victory on May 8 that completed a second-round sweep of the
reigning champion  Los Angeles Lakers . They were even more
accurate last night -- shooting 68 percent from beyond the
3-point arc.  3-Point Shooting  Terry, 33, and 38-year-old Jason Kidd both went 3-for-
5 on 3-pointers. J.J. Barea, at 6 feet (1.83 meters) the
smallest player on the court, went 4-for-5 and Nowitzki hit
his only 3-point attempt.  “He made big shots,” James said of Terry. “He made
some great 3-point shots tonight, with a hand contested in
his face, some of them was open. He’s just aggressive.
We’ve always said that when he plays well they’re very
tough to beat and that’s what he’s done the last two
games.”  It was the first game in the series in which either
team scored 100 or more points.  Return to Miami  Game 6 is set for Miami on June 12. If the Heat win,
they’ll host the decider two days later.  “We didn’t want go to Miami and give them two shots
to close this out,” Nowitzki said at a news conference.
“We’re going in there Sunday swinging, like we did
today.”  The Mavericks led almost the entire first quarter
before Mario Chalmers sank a shot from just inside half
court at the buzzer to give Miami a 31-30 advantage.  Wade bruised his hip with about four minutes left in
the first quarter in a collision with  Dallas  forward Brian Cardinal, who was trying to take a charge. Wade returned
early in the second quarter and limped for the rest of the
half.  He missed most of the third period and the Mavericks
led 84-79 entering the fourth quarter.  ‘No Problem’  “I’ll be good for Game 6,” Wade told reporters. “No
problem at all.”  Allowing the Mavericks to score easy baskets in the
first half gave them the confidence they needed to hit hard
ones late in the game, Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said.  “If you’re given good shots during the course of the
game, you can make tough shots down the stretch,” he said
at a news conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson at American Airlines Center in Dallas at
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  