-- 
Dollar Bear Rogers Say He’s Buying Greenback as Others Shun It: Tom Keene

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-10T13:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/dollar-bear-rogers-say-he-s-buying-greenback-as-others-shun-it-tom-keene.html
Investor  Jim Rogers , who last month
called the  U.S. dollar  a “total disaster” in the long term,
said he’s buying the greenback because markets are increasingly
pessimistic about the currency.  “I actually own the dollar right now,” Rogers said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and
Ken Prewitt. “I saw that 95 or 96 percent of people are bearish
on the dollar, so I stepped in and bought.”  Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings in  Singapore , said the
U.S. government needs to cut spending and get rid of the deficit
as foreign investors start to lose faith in government debt. He
said he will start shorting U.S. bonds soon as inflation
increases and the government issues more debt. A short is a bet
the price of an asset will fall.  Net dollar short positions against the euro, yen, pound,
Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc reached
101,398 in May, the least since January, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. The Dollar Index, which ranks the
currency against its six major trading partners, has dropped
about 5.8 percent this year.  U.S. government debt  is about 93 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with 60 percent before the 2008 financial
crisis and is set to rise further in the next few years.  “We need to cut spending, we need to get rid of the
deficit, we need to do something about the madness of those
people in  Washington ,” Rogers said.  Rogers said he is “short” emerging markets and U.S.
technology stocks and that prices will rise in agricultural
commodities as world shortages intensify.  He said in May that he expects currency turmoil this fall
and more by 2013 because of the country’s position as the
world’s largest debtor and policies being pursued by Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  