-- 
Duet Commodity Fund Extends 2011 Gain to 23% on Metals, Energy

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T15:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/duet-commodity-fund-extends-2011-gain-to-23-on-metals-energy.html
Duet Commodities Fund rose 2.9
percent in June, boosting this year’s return to 23 percent after
profitable trades in metals and oil.  “This month we have made the vast majority of returns in
the platinum group of metals and energy,” Duet Commodities’
Chief Investment Officer Tony Hall said today by e-mail. The
platinum group includes platinum, palladium and rhodium.  Duet’s return through May was 20 percent, compared with the
average hedge fund return of 4.8 percent in the same period,
even after commodities had their biggest decline in a year on
concern that global growth will slow amid accelerating inflation
in  China  and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The fund, which started in July, has assets of less than
$100 million, remains open and is seeking capital, said Hall,
the former head of distillates trading at the alliance of Credit
Suisse AG and Glencore International AG.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 6.8 percent in May, the first decline since August and
the biggest drop since May 2010. Crude, the world’s biggest
traded commodity, slid 10 percent last month on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , also the biggest decline in 12 months.  “We were not so much surprised by the price correction,
but more so by the velocity and uniformity across every
commodity,” Hall said in a monthly letter to investors e-mailed
yesterday.  “With prices now more in line with near-term fundamentals
and price targets, we believe that the risk-reward increasingly
favors being long commodities,” said Hall, who also was the
Global Head of Middle Distillate Oil Trading at Deutsche Bank AG
in  London .  Hedge funds  are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profits from money invested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  