-- 
The Big Foreclosure Mess, Made Worse by Politics: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-06-10T16:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/the-big-foreclosure-mess-made-worse-by-politics-jonathan-alter.html
In a sweet form of payback, a couple
in Collier County,  Florida , this week foreclosed on a local
branch of Bank of America. Sheriff’s deputies and lawyers
appeared at the bank and told the branch manager that if he
didn’t pay the couple’s legal fees -- as ordered months ago by a
court in a wrongful-foreclosure case -- they would seize the
branch’s furniture and other assets. With TV cameras on the
scene, the bank finally paid.  That was the ultimate man-bites-dog story. The financial
services industry typically doesn’t have to worry much about
anyone interrupting its foreclosure binge. We can expect roughly
a million foreclosures a year for the next few years. That’s a
lot of furniture on the sidewalk.  Yet for two years, the foreclosure mess has been on the
back burner for President  Barack Obama . Now, with sinking  house
prices  threatening the recovery and thus his re-election, Obama
needs to find the middle ground between prudence with taxpayer
money and empathy for victims of the recession. The challenge is
less philosophical than logistical.  Let’s stipulate: According to the Treasury Department, the
majority of foreclosures are on second homes and vacant
properties, which borrowers often fraudulently claimed were
their primary residences. These folks deserve nothing.
Homeowners who bought houses they couldn’t possibly afford
deserve our sympathy, perhaps, but not our help.  Victimized Borrowers  But there’s a third group, often victimized by predatory
lenders, who may have lost a job or had a setback that left them
just shy of affording the mortgage. They either think they can’t
fight foreclosure or don’t have the money for a lawyer. The
government should do all it can to help this group, which mostly
means getting tough with the private mortgage servicers who have
been bollixing up the process.  The Obama administration’s answer to the mortgage mess is
supposed to be the  Home Affordable Modification Program , or
HAMP. So far it’s underwhelming. Only 700,000 permanent loan
modifications have been completed out of several million
troubled mortgages. Of the $45 billion set aside by the Troubled
Asset Relief Program to help banks help homeowners, only $1.9
billion has been spent. (Although under current contracts,
plenty more will be paid out over time).  With the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau still in
development, the government doesn’t yet have the tools to rein
in industry abuses.  Neil Barofsky , the outgoing inspector
general for TARP, issued a stinging report last fall saying that
strapped homeowners “often end up unnecessarily depleting their
dwindling savings” in an “ultimately futile effort” to avoid
foreclosure. “Perhaps worst of all,” the report notes, “even in
circumstances where they never missed a payment, they may face
back payments, penalties, and even late fees that suddenly
become due on their ‘modified’ mortgages and that they are
unable to pay, thus resulting in the very loss of their homes
that HAMP is meant to prevent.”  Ramp to HAMP  I gave Timothy Massad, the new assistant Treasury secretary
for financial stability, a chance to explain how things got so
bad. Massad began by noting that the  Bush administration  had no
foreclosure program for Obama to build on, which meant the ramp
to HAMP was steep over the last two years. That excuse didn’t
impress me.  He had a point, though, about the shackles placed on the
hands of regulators. In order to win passage of the Dodd-Frank
financial reform bill last year, Democrats had to include a
provision that barred any changes to HAMP after October 2010. In
other words, don’t even think about making it easier for
homeowners to “avoid the inevitable,” as Representative  Darrell Issa  calls foreclosure.  Counselors Verboten  Thanks to Republicans, it’s also verboten to devote even a
tiny fraction of the billions in already-allocated TARP funds to
hire mortgage counselors to help homeowners puzzle through the
complexities. It’s the principle, you see. No one -- from
 Elizabeth Warren  to the lowliest local lawyer -- can be allowed
to side with regular people against the banks.  The broader problem, Massad says, is that mortgage
servicers -- the companies hired by the government to handle the
modifications -- were “not equipped to deal with this. They
didn’t have the people, systems or procedures in place.” Neither
did the state agencies assigned to help unemployed homeowners
under the government’s “Hardest Hit” program, which provides
extra money to the areas suffering most from the foreclosure
crisis.  Reluctant Banks  Financial institutions have shown a reluctance to devote
time and money to processing HAMP applications. The rules for
obtaining government-backed refinancing -- that homeowners be
either delinquent or nearly so, that they actually live in their
homes, that they have some income, that more than 30 percent of
their income goes to mortgage payments, and that their mortgage
be less than $730,000 -- require real human beings to pay real
attention.  Instead, the industry has adopted what’s known as “robo-
signing” -- low-level bank employees rubberstamping thousands of
foreclosure documents. The aim, allegedly, is to speed
foreclosures by covering up the fact that the documentation of
the daisy-chain ownership of the underlying mortgage is often
incomplete if not fraudulent. Several state attorneys general
have filed lawsuits claiming the latter.  To fix the program, the Treasury Department is paying
mortgage servicers $1,000 for every mortgage they modify. The
hope is that the servicers and the investors caught holding the
original mortgages will now have more of an incentive to
complete permanent modifications, rather than the temporary ones
that have mostly failed.  Even that may not work. “It’s very tough to contact people
and get them to apply” for modifications, Massad says. “It’s
scary for them. When they get a call, ‘This is Bank of America,
and we’re asking about your mortgage,’ they hang up.”  Obama and his team need to ride herd on the mortgage-
modification program and make sure it really works this time.
Changing the incentive structure that has hampered HAMP will
take time -- time that homeowners don’t have when the sheriff’s
deputies are at the door.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  