-- 
East German Painter Heisig, Portrayer of War and Fascism, Dies

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-10T13:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/east-german-artist-bernhard-heisig-painter-of-war-and-fascism-dies-at-86.html
Bernhard Heisig, one of East
Germany’s best-known and most contentious artists, died today at
his home in Strodehne an der Havel, near Berlin, according to
his dealer,  Galerie Berlin . He was 86.  Heisig was a member of the Waffen-SS during World War II
and later joined East Germany’s ruling communist party, which
awarded him official commissions. Both were decisions he was
forced to defend in the latter part of his life. His art
nonetheless gained recognition in West Germany long before
reunification.  Influenced by Max Beckmann, Oskar Kokoschka and Otto Dix,
Heisig broke with the accepted Socialist Realism genre by
focusing on pain, suffering and destruction. Known for painting
over his pictures repeatedly, he addressed the nightmares of war
and fascism, themes that found favor in East Germany.  “His artistic achievement lies in his lifelong struggle to
come to terms with the traumas of a biography that passed from
war and dictatorship to another dictatorship and the  Cold War ,”
wrote the curators of a  solo exhibition  of his work at Berlin’s
Martin Gropius Bau in 2005.  Heisig was born in 1925 in Wroclaw, then called Breslau. He
was injured several times in World War II and the trauma of the
three-month Siege of Breslau resurfaced in many paintings.
Heisig was forced to stay in the city’s fortress in a pointless
bid to defend it against Soviet troops until the end of the war.  Leipzig Doctorate  After the war, he studied in Leipzig and began teaching at
the College of Graphic Art and Book Art from 1954. He was
awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Leipzig in
1987. His first solo exhibition in  West Germany  was held in
Bremen and  Frankfurt  in 1980. He portrayed Chancellor Helmut Schmidt in 1986.  In 1989, as the opposition movement against the communist
regime gained momentum, Heisig left Erich Honecker’s SED party
and returned prizes he had been awarded in protest against
“abuse of power and corruption” by the regime.  Bitter arguments erupted in 1998 and 1999, after Heisig was
invited to contribute an artwork to the Bundestag, the lower
house of parliament, as it relocated from Bonn to the former
Reichstag in Berlin. Some lawmakers questioned whether the art
of a “collaborator” with the criminal East German regime
should be featured in the new building. Despite the
recriminations, his painting “Zeit und Leben” (Time and Life)
has hung in the cafeteria there since 1999.  His exhibition “Bernhard Heisig -- die Wut der Bilder”
(“The Anger of Images”) was shown in Dusseldorf, Leipzig,
Berlin and Wroclaw in 2005 and 2006. That exhibition also
exposed Heisig’s compromises by featuring his portraits of Lenin
and commissions from the ruling SED.  Heisig lived in Strodehne with his wife, Gudrun Bruene,
also a painter. His two sons from his first marriage, Johannes
and Walter, are both painters.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 