-- 
EasyJet Pilots Say ‘Brave’ CEO McCall Brokered Agreement on Pay, Schedules

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-10T15:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/easyjet-pilots-say-brave-ceo-mccall-brokered-agreement-on-pay-schedules.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  pilots voted to accept a
pay deal and revised working roster following the intervention
of Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall to tackle an issue
that caused punctuality to plummet last year, their union said.  Some 85 percent of pilots who responded agreed to accept a
deal granting a 4 percent increase in their basic salaries and
establishing an independent forum for talks on rosters and
scheduling, British Airline Pilots Association said today.  “The relationship between EasyJet and its pilots has not
been a good one over recent years,” Balpa General Secretary Jim McAuslan said in a statement. “But the CEO’s intervention that
recognized the poor state of relations with this professional
staff group and promised a new, refreshed, constructive
partnership was game-changing and brave on her part.”  McCall, CEO since July, wrote to all of EasyJet’s pilots
last month pledging to repair relations with management. Crew
shortages at  Europe ’s second-biggest discount airline caused
flight delays to surge last summer and drew a rebuke from
 Stelios Haji-Ioannou , its founder and largest shareholder.  EasyJet stock rose as much as 1 percent to 355.2 pence, the
biggest intraday gain this week, and traded at 352.8 pence as of
3:53 p.m. in London, paring the decline this year to 20 percent
and giving a market value of 1.52 billion pounds ($2.5 billion).  The pilot deal also includes a 5 percent rise in so-called
sector pay, together with an accord to work under an independent
chairman “to ensure a better work-life balance for pilots, and a
robust, workable schedule for the company,” Balpa said.  Luton, England-based EasyJet didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  