-- 
ECB’s Stark Says It’s Time to Stop ‘Fruitless’ Greek Discussion

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-10T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ecb-s-stark-says-it-s-time-to-stop-fruitless-greek-discussion.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark comments on Greek bailout proposals,
borrowing costs and liquidity provision.  He spoke to reporters at a conference in Frankfurt today.  On ECB liquidity measures:  “We have now also to take into account the so-called
funding plans which are part of the adjustment programs in all
three countries, Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . The objective is
to reduce the dependency on ECB or Eurosystem refinancing
operations. This is the objective. This is now under discussion
with regulators. I can assure you that we’ll come up over the
next couple of months” with a plan.  “We’re in the process of phasing out. The recourse to our
refinancing operations has significantly declined. There’s a
normalization. At the same time we have to deal with some banks
which have not yet access to the  interbank market . On the
phasing out, you know what we decided yesterday but at the same
time I’d like to stress the fact that we continue with the full
allotment doesn’t prevent us to do what’s necessary to ensure
 price stability  over the medium term.”  On private-sector involvement in a Greek bailout:  “One should think twice about the idea of private-sector
involvement. With a strong commitment from Greek authorities, I
think there’s no need for private-sector involvement.”  “The ECB is not against involvement of the private sector
but conditions have to be clear. The involvement of the private
sector has to be purely voluntary and not create a default. It’s
time to stop this fruitless discussion. The real issue is the
program for Greece and to implement it in full.  “What’s key for us is to protect our independence and our
integrity and that the no-bailout clause is respected. We will
apply our rules so the system requires adequate collateral and
lending to only sound banks. The program as it stands now
delivers sustainability.  “Each and every analysis about the need to involve the
private sector has to be involved on the debt-sustainability
analysis. If  Greece  runs a primary surplus and the privations
plan is implemented the debt-to-GDP ratio will decline
significantly. All this discussion about private-sector
involvement distracts so many resources from implementing the
program that it’s no surprise in the view of the academics and
also of the Greek authorities that it seems to be an easy way
out.”  On Greek bailout proposals:  “It’s not our task to make concrete proposals. I’m very
happy that this institution’s mandate is on its core task. It’s
not our task to give advice” on “initiatives that were
launched by others.”  On criticism of the ECB:  “There is this ongoing criticism about the risks that we
have taken too much risk on our balance sheet, that it’s not
manageable, the bad bank, should I now provide with additional
information that you can continue writing these things? It’s
always taxpayer money but it’s also about the credibility of
this institution.”  On a Greek solution:  “We have our rules. Those rules have been applied and all
the options that are under discussion implicitly consider to
some extent the involvement of the ECB. That means whatever the
option which in the end might be chosen, the underlying
assumption is that the ECB will continue to accept the Greek
paper as eligible collateral. This remains to be seen.  “We know today more than we knew two weeks ago. It’s not
very likely that a substantial involvement of the private sector
will happen,” and any involvement would have to be “totally
voluntary. As we have to stick to the rules, first that the
collateral has to be appropriate, the banks have to be
financially sound, financially healthy. We have to make an
assessment.  “It’s pretty clear in the case of a  credit event  first and
in the case of a selective default, a rating event, this
prevents us from continuing to accept Greek bonds as eligible
bonds. For this reason policy makers should know what they’re
talking about.”  On ECB  interest rates :  “The projections are staff projections. We said that we
see the risks to price stability to the upside over the medium
term. The underlying assumption is higher short-term interest
rates.”  On the ECB’s balance sheet:  “It’s obvious that the ECB has taken additional risks on
its balance sheet. This reflects the dimension of the crisis.
We’re still living through the crisis and like other central
banks, we have taken risks on our balance sheet. We have a well
functioning risk-controlling regime. We’re neither naïve nor
ignorant on what’s going on in the markets and what risks we
have on our balance sheet.”  On central bank measures:  “Eurosystem credit is provided against eligible collateral
only. We have a prudentially designed rule base and a
transparent collateral framework. The level of transparency of
the collateral framework allows for a high level of market
scrutiny.”  “The Eurosystem has continuously adjusted its collateral
framework to react to financial market” developments. “We have
widened the collateral” setup. “Most of these broadening
measures have been discontinued at the end of 2010.”  “We have also intensified monitoring and surveillance and
have increased haircuts. The statement made in public that huge
amounts of low-quality ABS have been” pledged to the ECB “is
simply wrong. Only 44 billion euros has been originated in
Ireland and currently no ABS has been originated in Greece.”  “The Target2 claim on the NCB’s balance sheet doesn’t per
se mean a financial risk exposure. The risk exposure relates to
the underlying monetary-policy operations. We have to be very
prudent not to blur the facts here. What is key are the
underlying monetary policy operations.”  On liquidity provisions to banks:  “In particular German banks actually use the ECB’s deposit
facility. There are no liquidity constraints.”  On cross-border flows:  “We have to deal with cross-border flows and we have to
analyze why they occur.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at  smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  