-- 
Economy’s I-Told-You-So Naysayers Hold a Reunion: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-06-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/economy-s-i-told-you-so-naysayers-in-reunion-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
An object in motion remains in
motion with the same speed and in the same direction unless
acted on by an external force. When Sir Isaac Newton described
the behavior of objects in the universe, codified as the first
of his three  laws of motion , he didn’t have a $15 trillion
economy in mind.  But the same principles apply, which is why the growing
buzz about a new slide in the  U.S. economy  is misplaced.  An economy’s natural tendency is to grow. Really. Consumers
want to buy cars, clothing and home furnishings. We need money
to pay for our purchases, so we produce something or provide a
service someone else wants. That’s the premise behind  Say’s Law ,
named for the late 18th and early 19th century French economist
Jean-Baptiste Say: Supply creates its own demand. The very act
of producing generates the purchasing power to buy other goods.  For example, consumers weren’t exactly clamoring for a
mobile device that would let them talk,  walk and gawk  at
celebrities and engage in virtual pimple-pushing, yet Apple Inc.
came up with a profit-making idea and developed the iPhone.  From time to time human interventions knock the economy off
its growth path. Higher  interest rates , burdensome taxation, and
intrusive rules and regulations all act to slow growth. At the
same time, natural disasters may destroy the capital stock and
disrupt production, also putting a brake on growth.  Spring Thaw  So what happened this spring to make the U.S. economy fall
off a cliff? Granted, it wasn’t cruising along to begin with.
Real gross domestic product rose a scant 1.8 percent in the
first quarter, with inventory accumulation accounting for most
of that growth. Final domestic demand limped along at a 0.7
percent annualized pace.  The second quarter was looking better -- until the data
started to roll in. Down went the GDP forecasts as reports on
jobless claims, industrial production and  consumer spending 
showed renewed weakness.  By May, employers had gotten the memo and stopped hiring.
The widely watched manufacturing index from the  Institute for
Supply Management  fell to a 20-month low in May. Those reports,
on the heels of lousy April data, prompted economists to fall
back on that sophisticated analytical framework: The economy was
encountering some “headwinds,” they told us. (See also “hitting
a speed bump” or “soft patch.”)  Why? What changed?  Schools of Thought  The various schools of economic thought, which just happen
to line up with proponents’ political leanings, were quick to
offer answers.  Keynesian economists basked in their I-told-you-so’s. I
told you the $830 billion fiscal stimulus in 2009 was too small,
too temporary and not targeted to where it was most needed.
(Those targeted handouts for the purchase of homes and autos
didn’t work out so well either.)  Economists of the Austrian School have been saying I-told
you-so for generations. A slump is the natural progression after
a period of  malinvestment , better known as an asset bubble,
which is why the goal should be bubble avoidance. Any attempt to
prevent prices -- in this case home prices -- from falling
prolongs the agony, which is something policy makers have been
slow to grasp.  For supply-siders, the tax cuts put in place by the Obama
administration this year were the wrong kind. Reducing the
 payroll tax  on employees may generate more spending, but cutting
it for employers -- something now being considered -- might
actually create a few jobs. The expiration of the Bush tax cuts
at the end of 2012 is also stifling business.  Virtual Wall  For monetarists, all the Fed’s quantitative easing hasn’t
translated into broad money supply growth, because banks are
holding onto excess reserves and corporations are sitting on
cash.  “The QEs were very ad hoc,” said David Beckworth, assistant
professor of economics at Texas State University in San Marcos,
who advocates the adoption of a  nominal spending target . Such a
strategy would create more certainty, reduce money demand and
“address the problem in a systematic manner,” he said.  For everyone else, soaring prices for oil and food were the
one-two punch that sapped household spending.  There is some truth to some of these critiques, but the
fact is there’s been no new tightening of fiscal policy in the
intervening period. The Fed is still expanding its balance sheet
through the end of this month. So if the economy hit a wall
early this year, it was not one erected by mankind.  Lost and Found  Japan ’s March earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster did
affect global supply chains. The  Federal Reserve  said as much in
its industrial production  report  for April, attributing the
decline in auto assemblies to parts shortages. It turns out
just-in-time inventory management is just-too-bad for consumers
looking for their favorite models.  The auto production and purchases aren’t lost.  “Supply shocks don’t change GDP,” said  Joe Carson , director
of global economic research at AllianceBernstein in  New York ,
referring to the unavailability of key auto parts. “They change
the timing of GDP.”  The timing change will be reflected in the third quarter.
Based on automakers’ announced production schedules, July auto
output will show a 24 percent monthly increase, the sixth
biggest on record, said Neal Soss, Credit Suisse chief
economist.  The economy’s short-term problems, including the arduous
task of digging out from the financial crisis, are creating a
distraction for President  Barack Obama  and Congress at a time
when the U.S. faces major long-term challenges, such as the
approaching insolvency of Medicare.  “The economy is cyclically improving but structurally
impaired,” Soss says.  The last thing we need is for  Washington  to refocus on
“improving” and take its eye off “impaired.”  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald 
 mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 