-- 
Chemical Used in Food Containers Added to U.S. List of Carcinogens by NIH

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-06-10T23:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/eight-agents-including-formaldehyde-added-to-list-of-carcinogens.html
The widely used preservative
formaldehyde, and styrene, found in food containers and coffee
cups, are among eight agents added to a  list  of known and
suspected carcinogens by the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Formaldehyde, linked to leukemia and a rare type of nasal
cancer, is “known to be a human carcinogen,” according to the
congressionally mandated report published today on the health
agency’s website. Styrene is categorized by researchers as
“reasonably anticipated” to be cancer-causing.  The new compounds bring the total number of substances
linked to cancer to 240. Aristolochic acids, found in herbal
products used to treat arthritis and gout, were also listed as a
known carcinogen because they can cause bladder or urinary-tract
cancer in people with  kidney disease . The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  cautioned consumers against taking supplements
containing aristolochic acid in 2001, according to the report.  “A listing in the report does not by itself mean that a
substance will cause cancer,” said John Bucher, associate
director of the National Toxicology Program of the National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences in Research Triangle
Park,  North Carolina , in a conference call with reporters.  The cancer-causing risk from formaldehyde and styrene comes
from the products’ widespread use in industrial applications and
less from their presence in consumer products, Bucher said.  ‘Unfounded’ View  The report makes “unfounded classifications” about
formaldehyde and styrene that will scare consumers, said Cal Dooley, president and CEO of the American Chemistry Council, a
Washington trade group, in a statement. Formaldehyde
manufacturers include Georgia-Pacific LLC, based in Atlanta.  The American Composite Manufacturers Association disputed
the link between styrene and cancer.  “The styrene-based composite material system has been used
safely for over 60 years,” the Arlington, Virginia-based trade
group said in a statement. The organization’s members include
 Owens Corning (OC)  Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, and Pittsburgh-based  PPG
Industries Inc. (PPG)   Styrene is a component of the polystyrene used in food and
drink containers, as well as the manufacturing of plastics,
fiberglass, insulation, carpet backing and other products,
according to the National Toxicology Program. Cigarette smokers
face higher risks of exposure than others because the smoke
contains styrene, the agency said.  Consumers don’t need to worry about polystyrene cups and
food containers though they should seek versions of products
like cosmetics that don’t contain formaldehyde, said Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the Atlanta-based  American
Cancer Society .  “I see no problem with Styrofoam cups,” Brawley said
today in a telephone interview. “If I were using nail polish or
nail polisher remover, I would try to get formaldehyde-free
versions of those, which are available.”  The report is the 12th issued by the U.S. since the
National Toxicology Program was established in 1978.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 