-- 
Telefonica Pulls Atento Share Sale on Equity Markets Woes

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-06-10T18:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/telefonica-cuts-ipo-price-of-call-center-unit-extends-timetable-of-offer.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone
company, shelved a share sale of its  Atento Inversiones &
Teleservicios SAU  unit after a discount in the offer price
failed to entice investors amid tumbling equity markets.  The initial public offering of the call center business was
suspended indefinitely because of “unfavorable market
conditions,” Telefonica said in a statement today. It had
received orders for 97 percent of the stock, according to a
sales update e-mailed to clients today and obtained by Bloomberg
News, after slashing the price.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, who had
tried to sell Atento as early as in 2007, is seeking to reduce
debt and focus on  Latin America  to offset declining domestic
market share. Telefonica’s decision to suspend the Atento IPO
may herald difficulties for Spanish lenders and the state in
holding a series of initial public offerings this year.  “The difficult market conditions that Telefonica faced
with the listing of Atento are similar or actually not as bad as
the ones we can expect from Bankia and Banca Civica because of
the deep trouble the banking industry is going through,” Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona, said by phone.  Bankia, the lender formed by a merger of seven savings
banks led by  Caja Madrid , plans to raise as much as 4 billion
euros in an IPO next month.  Banca Civica, formed from the combination of four savings
banks including Caja Navarra, also plans for a listing in July.
The government is planning an IPO of lottery business Sociedad
Estatal Loterias y Apuestas del Estado.  Price Cut  Telefonica said yesterday it had cut the lower end of the
price range to 17.25 euros a share from an initial range of
19.25 euros to 25 euros and gave investors another day to place
orders. At the lower price, the stock sale would have raised
about 580 million euros ($833 million).  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. had managed the
IPO, along with  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   Telefonica’s attempt to sell Atento shares came as
political wrangling over the future of Greece is infecting
 Europe ’s markets.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for a sixth straight week
today, the longest losing streak since 2008, as concern
increases that Greece will default and U.S. economic indicators
from housing to payrolls missed estimates.  Telefonica shares fell 1.5 percent to 16.19 euros today in
Madrid trading, the biggest decline since May 6. Spanish bond
yields rose to the highest in almost three weeks.  Losing Money  Telefonica sold a stake of its mobile unit Telefonica
Moviles SA for 11 euros per share in 2000 in an initial public
offering before buying it out in 2006. The Spanish telephone
operator also offered 5.25 euros a share for the 62 percent it
didn’t own in its internet unit Terra Networks SA in May 2003.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led an initial public offering of Terra
stock to institutional investors at 13 euros in 1999 and the
stock soared to 157.65 euros in February 2000.  “Investors still remember other Telefonica listings from
which we lost money such as Telefonica Moviles and Terra
Networks,” Benguerel said.  Atento’s revenue rose 26 percent last year to 1.66 billion
euros, with the largest part coming from  Brazil , while
Telefonica had sales of 60.7 billion euros. The unit’s operating
profit before depreciation and amortization increased 23 percent
to 190 million euros. Atento had 151,896 employees at the end of
2010, accounting for about half of Telefonica’s workforce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri at   mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  