-- 
Solorz-Zak Said to Bid for Polkomtel as Teliasonera Drops Out

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-10T17:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/teliasonera-opts-not-to-submit-final-bid-for-polkomtel.html
Polish billionaire Zygmunt Solorz- Zak submitted a binding bid for Polkomtel SA, the country’s
largest mobile-phone company, said a person familiar with the
matter.  The person declined to give a value for the offer or to be
identified because the process is not public. Sweden’s biggest
phone company  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  said earlier today it decided
against an offer. Bids were due today.  The 2008 sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent holding
in Polkomtel provides a 3.7 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) minimum
valuation, copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , one of the
owners, said in November. Polkomtel was in talks with four
potential buyers, including Solorz-Zak, Apax Partners LLP,
TeliaSonera and a group formed by  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Bain Capital
LLC, people familiar with the negotiations said last month.  A Bain spokeswoman declined to comment today. Spokesmen for
Telenor and Apax couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The owners of Polkomtel, also including power utility PGE
SA, oil refiner PKN Orlen SA and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , plan to
complete the sale by the end of June, Weglokoks SA Chief
Executive Officer Jerzy Podsiadlo said on May 16. Weglokoks, a
Polish coal trader, owns 5 percent of Polkomtel.  “We have done our homework thoroughly, weighed the pros
and cons, and decided not to submit an offer,” Cecilia Edstroem, a spokeswoman for Stockholm-based TeliaSonera, said by
telephone today. She declined to comment further on the process.  Polkomtel, which uses the Plus brand for its services, has
almost 14 million basic voice and 3G customers according to its
website. It competes with Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa, controlled
by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , and Orange, controlled by
Telekomunikacja Polska SA, a unit of  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net 
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 