-- 
Telmex Says Mexico Rural Rules to Cut Investments, Plans Appeal

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/telmex-says-mexico-rural-rules-to-cut-investments-plans-appeal.html
Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB, the
nation’s largest land-line phone carrier, said it won’t invest
in rural zones of the country if the government doesn’t overturn
new rules cutting its fees to connect calls to those areas by 95
percent.  The company will ask the Communications and Transportation
Ministry to overturn the Federal Telecommunications Commission
rate cut, Regulatory and Legal Affairs Director Javier Mondragon
said on a conference call yesterday. The reduction is legally
unfounded, he said.  Telmex and its parent company, billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB, are contending with a series of government
decisions to reduce their dominance of Mexico’s phone market.
The telecommunications commission in March more than halved the
fees America Movil can charge rivals to complete calls to its
Mexican wireless unit.  “We can’t invest just to lose money,”  Arturo Elias ,
Slim’s son-in-law and Telmex’s communications director, said on
the conference call. The government-set fee “is way, way below
our costs,” he said.  The rate cut reduces the fee Telmex can charge to complete
calls in areas where it is the only phone provider to 4 centavos
(0.34 cent) from 75 centavos, the telecommunications agency said
in a  statement  yesterday.  Telmex is still calculating how the new rules would affect
the company financially, Elias said.  ‘Material’ Impact  The fee reduction could have a “material” impact on the
revenue Mexico’s biggest phone company gets from charging other
carriers to connect calls, Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco
Santander SA in Mexico City, said in a research note yesterday.
He said the price cut would hurt shares of Telmex, which he
rates “underperform.”  While fees to connect calls from rivals last year
represented 9.7 percent of profit excluding interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, it’s unclear how much of those
earnings came from places where Mexico City-based Telmex is the
only provider, Tomassi said. Telmex had 1.5 million lines in
such areas at the end of last quarter, out of a total of 15.6
million in Mexico, where it has 80 percent of the fixed-line
market.  Slim, 71, visited the commission’s offices last week to
present his case against the rural-fee rule change to officials,
said a person with direct knowledge of the matter who could not
be named because the meeting was private.  America Movil 
represents about 61 percent of Slim’s $68.4 billion in publicly
disclosed holdings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telmex gained 10 centavos to 10.01 pesos yesterday in
Mexico City trading. America Movil rose 14 centavos to 28.88
pesos.  Telmex has concluded that a Supreme Court decision in May,
which denied the company the ability to halt implementation of
lower phone connection fees with rivals by filing legal
injunctions, doesn’t apply to the rural-line decision, Mondragon
said. This means Telmex can seek to block the rural fees, he
said.  The government made the reduction in rural fees by changing
the way calls to rural lines are defined legally and
technically, according to the telecommunications agency.  The fee cuts would mostly benefit U.S. carriers, whose
clients make 90 percent of the calls to Telmex’s rural lines,
mostly from immigrants calling family, Elias said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  