-- 
English Soccer’s Lower Leagues to Adopt New European Rules on Cost Control

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-10T12:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/english-soccer-s-lower-leagues-to-adopt-new-european-rules-on-cost-control.html
English soccer’s Championship league
plans to adopt “in principle” financial rules similar to those
designed by European soccer’s governing body UEFA.  Like the top-tier  Premier League , the second division
league has been unable to keep costs under control, even with
rising revenue. Operating losses in the Championship during the
2009-10 season increased for the sixth straight year to a record
133 million pounds ($216.7 million), according to a report
published this week by accountant Deloitte LLP.  UEFA’s rules, which could lead to clubs being barred from
 Europe ’s elite  Champions League  from 2014 for failing to meet
its criteria on limiting losses, came in response to rising debt
across the continent and the effect of cash infusions from
wealthy benefactors in its competitions.  “We are not doing this so clubs can make huge profits,”
Football League chairman Greg Clarke said in a telephone
interview today. “We are trying to stop teams from
haemorrhaging cash. Football League teams have debts of 700
million pounds”  The Football League, which accounts for the three
professional divisions below the Premier League, plans to
introduce the measures in the Championship by the start of
2012-13 season. Clubs in third-tier League One have also agreed,
starting next season, to adopt a salary control mechanism that
limits spending on wages to a percentage of turnover.  Possible Penalties  Clubs have yet to agree what punishment rule breakers will
face. Clarke said they’ll probably start with ”light touch“
penalties like transfer embargoes before possibly being extended
to fines and points deductions.  “Without teeth these things are just meaningless metrics
without regulation,” he said.  The rules are likely to be advantageous to teams relegated
to the second tier from the Premier League. Those clubs get so-
called parachute payments averaging 12 million pounds a season
for four years.  Clarke said it will take time to get conclusive evidence to
prove if the funds skew performance or simply help teams cope
with a sudden drop in revenue after relegation. None of the
teams relegated from the Premier League in 2010 -- Portsmouth,
Burnley and Hull -- made it back for next season.  “It’s too early to tell the impact of those payments
because we have relatively little data,” he said. “I don’t
think it gives them a competitive advantage but stops them from
going bankrupt.”  Clarke said two teams, which he didn’t identify, voted
against the new proposals.  “Everybody needs to get real and understand we are in
period of economic austerity and we can no longer bury our heads
in the sand,” he said, adding the rules may mean greater
relegation clauses in player contracts.  UEFA’s  break-even rules will allow clubs some leeway for
the first few years before being made more stringent and will
also allow teams to overspend on facilities and youth
development. It’s unclear whether the Championship will follow
the same route.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 