-- 
Hermes Shares Decline in Paris After LVMH Denies Bid Plans

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-06-10T08:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/hermes-shares-decline-in-paris-after-lvmh-denies-bid-plans-1-.html
Hermes International (RMS)  SCA dropped the
most in six months in Paris trading after  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  last night denied it planned to bid for the
shares of the Birkin bag maker that it doesn’t already own.  LVMH may be preparing to bid 350 euros ($505.79) a share
for Paris-based Hermes, the  Daily Mail  reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information, sending the shares
up as much as 4.6 percent. The stock fell as much as 11.40
euros, or 5.9 percent, to 180.55 euros today, the steepest drop
since Dec. 3. It traded at 183.05 euros as of 10:23 a.m.  LVMH, which has accumulated a 20.2 percent stake in Hermes
since October, has no intention of bidding for its rival, a
company spokesman said last night, echoing comments made by LVMH
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault , who has
called LVMH’s investment “peaceful.”  “From the outset, we understood that there was no
possibility of controlling Hermes because the family
shareholders spoke for 70 percent of the company,” LVMH deputy
chairman Pierre Gode said May 30 at Hermes’s shareholder
meeting. “Our sole objective was, and remains, to make a long-
term investment in a company with recognized potential and with
which we share a passion for high-quality workmanship.”  Hermes’s founding family plans to retain control of the
company and wants LVMH to reduce its stake by more than half to
free shares on the open market, Bertrand Puech, who heads the
family’s holding company, said in a February interview. Even if
LVMH doesn’t reduce the holding, nothing will change regarding
the running of Hermes, Puech said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  