-- 
Ethiopia Begins Electricity Exports to Neighboring Djibouti, Utility Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T14:46:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ethiopia-begins-electricity-exports-to-neighboring-djibouti-utility-says.html
Ethiopia  began power exports to its
Horn of Africa neighbor Djibouti, an Ethiopian Electric Power
Corp. spokesman said.  The electricity shipments began on May 27, Addis Tagele, a
spokesman for the state-owned utility, said in a phone interview
today from Addis Ababa, the capital.  “The maximum at the moment is about 20 megawatts,” he said.  Ethiopia plans to produce as much as 8,000 megawatts of
additional electricity from hydropower sources over the next
five years, Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  said on April 30. The
country will generate most of the power that will be traded
among nine countries that are expected to connect to a regional
grid by 2016, according to the Eastern Africa Power Pool.  Construction of a $4.76 billion, 5,250-megawatt project
near the Sudanese border was announced on April 2 by Meles. The
country’s hydropower potential of 45,000 megawatts is second
only to the Democratic Republic of Congo on the continent,
according to the  World Bank .  A World Bank-funded transmission line to  Sudan  may be
completed this year, Raihan Elahi, the World Bank’s senior
energy specialist in Ethiopia, said last month. There is an
agreement for Ethiopia to supply as much as 200 megawatts to
Sudan, he said.  The  African Development Bank  provided a total of $95
million to Djibouti and Ethiopia for the project that links the
two countries, Ethiopia Resident Representative Lamin Barrow
said today in a phone interview from Addis Ababa.  “The beauty of the project is that Ethiopian and Djibouti
have diverse peaks,” he said. “So supply will be very easy.”  The connection will bring Djibouti cheap energy to fund its
industrial development and is expected to generate $10 million
for Ethiopia in the first year, according to Barrow. The foreign
exchange earned by Ethiopia can “be ploughed back into fund its
Universal Electrification Access Program,” he said.  Ethiopia plans to increase access to electricity to as much
as 75 percent of the population in July 2015 from 41 percent
now, according to the government’s five-year growth plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 