-- 
Ethiopia May Charge More Oromo Rebels, After Fighters Sentenced Over Plot

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T12:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ethiopia-may-charge-more-oromo-rebels-after-fighters-sentenced-over-plot.html
Ethiopia  is “highly likely” to
charge another 121 Oromo rebels with terrorist offences after 14
people were sentenced yesterday over their involvement in a plot
to bomb an African Union summit, a government spokesman said.  The Supreme Court yesterday jailed four of the accused for
life, while six received 25-year prison terms, one got 14 years
and three others were incarcerated for nine years, State
Minister of Communications Shimeles Kemal said in a phone
interview from Addis Ababa, the capital. All 14 were convicted
of involvement in a plot to set off bombs at the AU’s
headquarters in the city during a summit in January.  “All of the defendants were members of the Oromo Liberation
Front,” Shimeles said yesterday. “Some of them were assigned to
go to Eritrea for the purpose of carrying out the operation to
terrorize the summit as well as demolishing hotels and
entertainment sites.”  Oromos are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia. The
OLF has waged a 38-year campaign for autonomy in Oromia, the
biggest of Ethiopia’s nine federal states. Cases are still being
put together against 121 OLF fighters arrested in March, some of
whom were trained by the Eritrean government, Shimeles said.  “It’s highly likely they may be charged in accordance with
the anti-terrorism proclamation,” he said.  Regional Destabilization  In April, Ethiopia’s Foreign Ministry said it will back
Eritrean rebels trying to overthrow the government of Eritrean
President Isaias Afewerki unless that country changes its
policies of regional destabilization. Eritrea’s ambassador to
the AU, Girma Asmerom, denied the charge and said the stance was
“pure aggression and a declaration of war.”  The two countries fought a 1998-2000 border war in which an
estimated 70,000 people were killed, according to  International
Crisis Group , the Brussels-based advocacy organization.  The OLF denied its forces had anything to do with a plot to
attack the AU summit and said its fighters are trained in
Oromia, not in Eritrea.  “The OLF did not and will not plan to bomb the AU
headquarters,” Beyan H. Asoba, spokesman for the rebel group,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “As a
matter of policy, the OLF does not target civilian populations
and property in its military operations.”  In March, Oromo opposition parties said that 69 of their
activists or sympathizers had been arrested by the government
that month.  “Generally the government’s strategy is the marginalization
of the opposition using the anti-terrorism law. They use it
against the opposition whether they are legal like us or
operating outside the legal framework,” Merera Gudina, chairman
of the Oromo People’s Congress, said in a phone interview from
 Addis Ababa  yesterday. “For sure I know the members have nothing
to do with Eritrea or illegal activities.”  The mobile phone of Ambassador Girma was switched off when
Bloomberg called seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 