-- 
EU Claims Victory in Court Fight With Trader Over CO2 Theft

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-10T16:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/eu-claims-victory-in-court-fight-with-trader-over-co2-theft-1-.html
The European Commission said it
defeated Italian energy trader TCIE Srl in a Brussels lawsuit
over the alleged theft of carbon permits worth 4.5 million euros
($6.5 million) in the world’s biggest emissions-trading system.  TCIE lost its bid to get the commission to disclose
information about missing permits and to pay it as much as
100,000 euros ($144,650) a day in penalty payments, said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman at the European Union’s
regulatory authority. The commission has resisted revealing
details of the lost allowances to anyone except for law
enforcement authorities.  The Brussels court’s ruling received yesterday in the
afternoon “is in line with what the commission argued,”
Valero-Ladron said by phone today. “We are very satisfied.”  The EU’s cap-and-trade program has become target
of fraudsters and online thieves, who in past months stole
internet passwords to emitter accounts in national carbon
registries and illegally transferred permits.  A Romanian unit of Swiss cement maker  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  said in
February it was joining the Brussels lawsuit in a bid to get
help from the EU in finding a million stolen carbon permits,
valued at 16.6 million euros at today’s prices. The commission
said today it was “procedurally not possible” for the company
to become a part of the case.  “I am discussing the next steps, including a possible
appeal, with my different clients,’ said Laurent Arnauts, the
Brussels-based lawyer representing TCIE and Holcim.  Hacking Attack  The theft of allowances last year in Romania and  Italy  was
followed by a computer-hacking attack on Austria, the  Czech
Republic  and  Greece  in January, driving the European spot
emissions market to a halt for 15 days. Spot trading accounts
for around 10-15 percent of the EU market, estimated by the
 World Bank  at about $120 billion last year.  TCIE, operating under the name The Cube Energy, was asking
the commission and the Belgian carbon registry to block a set of
allowances and was requesting information about the accounts in
which the missing permits were put, the commission said. It also
wanted the holders of those accounts to be identified.  During the procedure TCIE slightly changed the request,
saying it would be satisfied with the names of member states
where the allowances were located and asked for a complete halt
on the affected registries, according to the commission.  The EU emissions program, started in 2005 and known as the
ETS, is the cornerstone of  Europe ’s plan to cut  greenhouse
gases . It imposes pollution limits on companies including
 Germany ’s utility RWE AG and  France ’s Electricite de France SA,
leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21 percent below 2005
discharges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  