-- 
EU Commission Recommends Completing Talks for Croatia to Join Bloc in 2013

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-06-10T13:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/eu-commission-recommends-completing-talks-for-croatia-to-join-bloc-in-2013.html
The European Commission recommended
that European Union nations complete accession talks with
Croatia, paving the way for the Balkan country to become the
bloc’s 28th member in July 2013.  EU Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the decision is
an “important step forward” for Croatia, which has been in
talks for almost six years to be the second former Yugoslav
republic to join the world’s largest trading bloc.  “The commission has negotiated hard but fair over the last
years, applying strict conditionality and making sure that all
EU criteria and benchmarks are fulfilled,” Barroso said today
in an e-mailed statement from Brussels. “This firm commitment
has paid off: Croatia is now ready to move ahead.”  Croatia aims to wrap up talks by the end of the month and
sign its entry treaty by December. Croatian Premier Jadranka Kosor needs to persuade voters that entry is worth the cuts in
 government spending . She also needs to overcome skepticism among
EU citizens that she is stemming crime and corruption after the
2007 accession of  Bulgaria  and Romania raised concern they
weren’t ready to join, analysts said.  “There’s a widespread feeling that the accession of
Romania and Bulgaria took place too quickly,” said Rosa
Balfour, an analyst at the Brussels-based  European Policy
Centre . “Anything related to judiciary, corruption and
organized crime is going to be monitored quite closely.” The EU
is “trying to raise the standards.”  Remaining Challenges  Croatia has other challenges as it forges ahead with entry.
Unlike its Balkan neighbors Slovenia and  Serbia , it’s struggling
to emerge from recession and reduce its budget gap, forecast for
this year at 4.2 percent of gross domestic product. The economy
contracted 1.2 percent last year and an annual 0.9 percent in
the first quarter. The government forecast 1.5 percent the
growth for 2011.  Still, Croatians are richer and the country ranks higher in
stock-market capitalization and the perception of corruption
than  Romania  and Bulgaria.  “Just the fact we have concluded the talks will signify a
new era in our relations with foreign investors, whose first
question is always how far we have gone,” Deputy Prime Minister
Domagoj Milosevic, who is in charge of investment in the
government, told reporters in Zagreb today.  Croatian stocks gained for a fourth day, with the benchmark
heading for the highest close in more than two months, as the
European Union moved closer to accepting the Balkan country as a
member in July 2013.  Lobbying London  The CROBEX gauge of stocks advanced 0.7 percent to 2,285.67
by 1:01 p.m. in Zagreb. A close at that level would be the
highest since March 31.  Premier Kosor is in  London  today to meet her British
counterpart,  David Cameron , seeking his support before the open-
ended state-by-state ratification process begins.  “I am sure that David Cameron on” June 10 “will endorse
the U.K.’s strong support for Croatia’s EU accession,” David
Blunt, the British ambassador to Croatia, said in a June 8
interview in Zagreb. “This support for Croatia’s entry has been
very strong, very clear and very consistent.”  Kosor will have to lobby all 27 governments. Any one of the
member states can veto the bid because of expansion weariness
and concerns about the consequences of the European debt crisis.  Support for Croatia  Barroso, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and Hungarian Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban , who holds the bloc’s rotating presidency
until the end of June, have supported the Croatian bid.  France  and the Netherlands last month proposed monitoring
for the Balkan to ensure it stays committed to working toward
complying with EU standards before the final approval, the DPA
news service reported on June 6.  Croatia “shouldn’t worry” about complying with the
monitoring, said Vesna Pusic, head of the country’s committee
for overseeing the talks, after meeting Dutch lawmakers on June
8. “These obligations cover the minimum, not the maximum of our
efforts. Our ambitions should really be greater.”  Croatia would gain access to at least half the 1.5 billion
euros ($2.2 billion) allotted to it in the EU’s 2013 budget by
joining the bloc on July 1, 2013, Pusic said.  Policy Areas  The country has completed talks in policy areas including
agriculture, environmental protection, fisheries and trade. It
improved competition by selling its state-subsidized,
unprofitable shipyards and started reforms in education,
government administration and health care.  Unlike Bulgaria and Romania,  Croatia  also had to overcome
the effects of the Balkan wars during the breakup of  Yugoslavia 
that devastated the region’s economy and led to the creation of
the United Nations  war crimes  Tribunal for former Yugoslavia in
 The Hague .  Risking backlash from its constituents, the government
extradited to the court three generals that most Croats regard
as heroes. Two of them, Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac, have
been convicted of war crimes against Serbs. The third, Ivan Cermak, was acquitted.  Croatian authorities investigated hundreds of corruption
cases, targeting government officials and ruling-party members,
including former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who is awaiting
extradition from  Austria  on suspicion of abuse of power and
corruption.  “One of the reasons why the talks have lasted so long was
that Croatia was the first modern postwar candidate, unlike
Romania or Bulgaria, and that brought along a whole bag of
issues,” Pusic said by phone on June 8.  Croatians will vote in a referendum on EU membership within
30 days of signing the accession treaty. About 62 percent of
citizens support entry, according to a Nov. 6 poll by IPSOS Puls
d.d., commissioned by the  Foreign Ministry . The independent
polling company surveyed 1,000 Croatian citizens.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net 
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  