-- 
EU Carbon Permits Head for Second Weekly Loss as Volumes Shrink

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-06-10T16:45:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/eu-carbon-permits-head-for-second-weekly-loss-as-volumes-shrink.html
European Union carbon permits were
headed for their second weekly loss as utilities showed little
interest in hedging future electricity sales after  Germany ’s
decision to phase out nuclear power production.  EU permits for delivery in December dropped 0.1 percent to
16.65 euros a metric ton as of 5:30 p.m. on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London , extending their loss for the week to
1.1 percent. Volumes shrank to 6.9 million tons today compared
with an average 11 million in the past 60 days ahead of a public
holiday on June 13 in several European countries.  “Utilities are not buying, and some investors who
purchased permits on the German decision are now digesting the
news and selling the allowances back,” said  Emmanuel Fages , a
Paris-based analyst for Orbeo, the carbon venture of Rhodia SA
and Societe Generale SA.  EU allowances briefly touched a 2 1/2-year high of 18.18
euros on May 31, one day after  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
coalition endorsed a blueprint to shut all its nuclear  power
plants  by 2022. The government backed the plans on June 6, and
opposition  Social Democrats  said yesterday they will also
support the phase-out.  “The market has been in a range of between 16.7 euros and
17 euros in recent days and may stay near these levels,” Fages
said. “We’re now at the bottom of the range and very firm gas
prices may be constructive for carbon.”  ‘Intense Discussions’  Representatives of member states are scheduled to decide on
regulations for a single registry tracking emissions permits on
June 17, during the next meeting of the Climate Change
Committee. “Intense discussions” with member states have
continued since the commission presented the draft earlier this
year,  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the European
Commission, said in a statement in Brussels.  Support by European Union nations next week for the draft
regulation is key for the “urgently” required security of the
carbon market, Delbeke added.  Natural gas for delivery into Britain next winter, the six
months from October, rose 0.8 percent today to 72.8 pence a
therm, according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg,
extending this month’s gain to 1.5 percent. Higher  gas prices 
may prompt some power generators to switch to coal, which
requires about twice as many carbon permits to burn as gas.  German baseload power for next year, a European benchmark,
was little changed at 59.72 euros today, gaining 0.3 percent
this week, according to broker prices on Bloomberg. The contract
has eased 1.9 percent since touching 60.90 euros on May 31, the
highest intra-day level since the end of November 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ; or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  