-- 
EU Energy Ministers Unite Behind Planned Nuclear-Plant Checks

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-10T15:44:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/eu-energy-ministers-unite-behind-planned-nuclear-plant-checks.html
European Union governments presented
a  united front  over planned safety checks at nuclear-power
plants following  Japan ’s atomic accident and a dispute over the
scope of the “stress tests” in  Europe .  In their first meeting since the EU set parameters for the
checks on its 143 atomic plants, energy ministers from the 27-
nation bloc today showed “overwhelming political support and
consensus concerning the need and the content of this,” said
Tamas Fellegi,  Hungary ’s national development minister.  The European tests, a response to Japan’s nuclear accident
caused by a March 11 earthquake and tsunami, will cover threats
from natural disasters as well as plane crashes and explosions
close to atomic stations, EU regulators decided on May 25.
Preventive measures from terrorist attacks will be excluded
under the compromise that took two weeks longer than planned.  “I feel very comfortable with the current situation,”
Fellegi, whose country holds the EU’s rotating presidency, told
reporters in Luxembourg. “We have to make sure that everybody
follows the highest possible standards.”  EU leaders in March called for a “comprehensive and
transparent risk and safety assessment” of atomic stations
after the accident at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  The Japanese crisis triggered public protests in Europe
against atomic power and prompted the government of  Germany , one
of 14 EU nations that generate nuclear energy, to decide to
abandon production by 2022.  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including
Electricite de France SA and Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE)  produce a third of
the electricity in the EU. While it is up to governments in the
bloc to decide whether to use atomic power, safety is a shared
responsibility between national and EU authorities.  The EU checks may be completed by end-March 2012, said
Fellegi. The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, will
be in a position to present a “preliminary, large-scale
report” on the matter to governments in December, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  