-- 
European Stocks Fall for Sixth Week as Greek Lenders Tumble

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/european-stocks-fall-for-sixth-week-as-greek-lenders-home-retail-tumble.html
European stocks fell for a sixth
week as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no hint
that he will unveil a new round of stimulus to support an
economic recovery that investors speculate is faltering.  Four Greek banks, including the country’s biggest lender
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , sank more than 7 percent, dragging
the Stoxx 600 Banks Index lower.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  plunged
22 percent after the company said that sales slumped at its
Argos chain as the market for consumer electronics weakened.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 2 percent to
268.13 this past week, for the longest losing streak since 2008,
as investors speculated that the slowdown in the global recovery
will continue. The gauge has slumped 7.9 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 17.  “Structurally it’s still a very challenging environment,”
said William De Vijlder, the Brussels-based chief investment
officer of BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which manages $780
billion, in a briefing with reporters in London. “There is this
paranoia about the risk of a double-dip recession.” De Vijlder
has a “neutral” stance on developed-market equities.  National benchmarks retreated in all 18 west European
countries this past week. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  decreased
1.5 percent, Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.6 percent and
France’s CAC 40 Index fell 2.2 percent, the biggest loss in 12
weeks. Greece’s ASE Index sank 6.1 percent.  Federal Reserve Stimulus  In the U.S., Bernanke said that the “uneven” and
“frustratingly slow” economic recovery warrants continued
monetary stimulus. Even so, he gave no indication that he plans
a third round of asset purchases known as quantitative easing,
nicknamed “QE3” by investors.  Separately, the Fed said the economy is slowing in 4 of the
12 regions of the U.S. as consumers contended with higher food
and fuel prices and shortages of parts reduced car production.  European stocks consolidated their losses as German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  intensified his calls for
bondholders to assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid,
setting Europe’s biggest economy on a collision course with the
European Central Bank.  In a speech to parliament in Berlin, Schaeuble appealed to
lawmakers to back a second bailout for Greece to ensure a stable
euro and bolster the global economy. In return, “we have to
insist on the participation of the private sector,” he said.  Greek Banks Slide  Greek banks were some of the biggest losers this past week.
They included National Bank of Greece, which dropped 9.5
percent, and  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , which slumped 12 percent.  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO)  sank 15 percent
as the Greek government said it will sell a 10 percent stake in
the company, which is also known as OTE, to Deutsche Telekom AG
for 400 million euros ($575 million).  Home Retail tumbled 22 percent after the U.K. retailer said
a plunge in first-quarter sales of televisions and video games
led the company to cut the annual revenue forecast for its U.K.
Argos chain.  French carmakers  Peugeot SA (UG)  and  Renault SA (RNO)  fell 2.6 percent
and 4.6 percent, respectively. Peugeot said it will review its
production sites in France to improve competitiveness as its
market share in Europe drops. Denis Martin, executive vice
president for human resources, said that Europe’s second-largest
carmaker can’t rule out plant closures.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  retreated 4.1 percent, extending the previous
week’s drop, as  Standard & Poor’s  cut its  credit rating  for the
second time this year. The company confirmed it remains in talks
with “multiple partners” to sell its stake in the Nokia
Siemens Networks business.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, surged 7.7
percent to its highest price since August 2008 after Citigroup
Inc. reiterated that the stock is one of its “top picks in
steel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  