-- 
Hewlett-Packard Said to Plan Devices That Make Wireless Payments

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-10T20:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/hewlett-packard-is-said-to-plan-mobile-devices-that-make-wireless-payments.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is developing
mobile devices that will help consumers make purchases
wirelessly, two people familiar with the company’s plans said.  The company is considering introducing phones and tablets
based on  near field communication  technology, which lets users
pay for items and receive coupons and loyalty points by tapping
the gadgets on posters and grocery store cash registers, said
one of the people, who requested anonymity because the plans
haven’t been made public. The first NFC devices may be available
by year-end, the person said.  Hewlett-Packard, which bought Palm Inc. for $1.2 billion in
2010, is adding the feature to help keep alive a brand that’s
losing ground in the market for smartphones. Palm’s share
dropped to 2.6 percent in the three months that ended in April,
from 3.2 percent in the previous period, researcher  ComScore
Inc . says. The company won’t release a new device that can vie
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet until July.  “Other folks are going to build this capability into
devices, so, competitively, HP needs to do that,” said Ed
Finkler, an independent programmer who has created an
application for devices that run Palm’s WebOS operating system.  Third-party developers will be able to build apps and
services using the capability, one of the people said.  Leslie Letts, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-based
Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  Hewlett-Packard said this week it will start selling its
TouchPad in the U.S. in July. The tablet will compete with rival
products from Apple and machines that feature  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
operating system.  Losing Share  Gartner Inc.  projected  in April that devices featuring
Palm’s WebOS software, such as the TouchPad, will hold 3 percent
share of the global tablet market in 2015, from 4 percent this
year.  NFC is emerging as a must-have feature for mobile devices.
Google and ISIS, a joint venture among wireless carriers AT&T
Inc.,  Verizon Wireless  and  T-Mobile USA  Inc., will soon begin
testing NFC-based payment and coupon services in select cities.
Global NFC-based transactions  will reach  almost $50 billion by
2014, according to consulting firm Juniper Research.  Rival handset maker Samsung Electronics Co. debuted its
Nexus S phone, featuring NFC capabilities, in December. T-Mobile
USA began selling Nokia Astound with NFC capabilities in March.
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  has said future versions of the
BlackBerry will offer built-in NFC support. Users will be able
to pair the BlackBerry Bold to an accessory or read information
such as a Web link from smart tags by simply tapping the phone
to an NFC tag in a poster.  Business customers as well as consumers may flock to NFC
technology. Train and bus conductors can use it to check riders’
tickets. Warehouse staff can use NFC-enabled devices for
inventory tracking, and cashiers can use NFC-enabled tablets to
accept payments in retail stores.  “Business could use this capability internally for many
purposes,” Charlie Bess, a Hewlett-Packard Fellow, wrote in a
blog in  January . “This can be attached to just about anything
and read from nearby.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 