-- 
Mexico Said to Tell Telmex It Must Slash Rural Fees

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T14:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/mexico-said-to-tell-telmex-it-must-slash-rural-fees-correct-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in second paragraph of
yesterday’s story.)  Mexican regulators will officially
notify Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB today that it must cut by 95
percent the fees it charges to connect calls in rural areas
where it’s the only phone provider, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The decision by the Federal Telecommunications  Commission ,
made in late May, will reduce the fees to about 4 centavos (0.34
cent) a minute from 75 centavos, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the change hasn’t been officially
announced. An official for the company, who can’t be named under
Telmex policy, declined to comment, and an agency official
wasn’t immediately available.  The fee reduction could have a “material” impact on the
revenue Mexico’s biggest phone company gets from charging other
carriers to connect calls, Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco
Santander SA in Mexico City, said in a research note today. He
said the price cut would hurt shares of Telmex, controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB. Tomassi rates
Telmex’s shares “underperform.”  While fees to connect calls from rivals represented 9.7
percent of profit last year, excluding interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, it’s unclear how much of those
earnings came from places where Mexico City-based Telmex is the
only provider, Tomassi said. Telmex had 1.5 million lines in
such areas at the end of last quarter, out of a total of 15.6
million in Mexico, where it has 80 percent of the fixed-line
market.  Slim, 71, visited the commission’s offices last week to
present his case against the rural-fee rule change to officials,
the person said. America Movil represents about 61 percent of
Slim’s $68.4 billion in publicly disclosed holdings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The regulator’s decision was reported last week by the
Mexican website  Etcetera .  Telmex gained 10 centavos to 10.01 pesos at 4:10 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading.  America Movil  rose 14 centavos
to 28.88 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  