-- 
Goldman Sachs Trader Tourre Claims Abacus Deal Done by Jersey Companies

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-01T16:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/fabrice-tourre-loses-bid-to-dismiss-all-charges-in-sec-suit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  trader
 Fabrice Tourre , accused of misleading investors in a
collateralized debt obligation, said in a court filing that  IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB) ’s alleged $150 million investment was
actually made by two Jersey-based companies.  Tourre wants to take testimony of witnesses at Loreley
Financing (Jersey) No. 29 Ltd. and Loreley Financing (Jersey)
No. 30 Ltd., according to the filing yesterday in federal court
in Manhattan. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has
said Duesseldorf, Germany-based IKB made the investment in the
CDO, Abacus 2007-AC1.  “Discovery in this matter thus far has shown, however,
that IKB’s alleged $150 million investment was, in fact, made
by” the Jersey-based companies, Tourre’s lawyers wrote in the
filing.  On June 10, U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in  Manhattan 
declined to dismiss the case against Tourre. The judge said the
SEC had met its burden for pursuing a claim that Tourre violated
a  securities law  designed to prevent fraudulent sales of
securities and should stand trial.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman; Jorg Chittka, an IKB
spokesman; and David Esseks, a lawyer for Tourre at Allen &
Overy LLP in  New York , declined to comment on the filing. Pamela Rogers Chepiga, another lawyer representing Tourre, didn’t
immediately return a call and e-mail yesterday after business
hours inquiring about the Jersey-based companies’ investments.  Investment Adviser  IKB advised Loreley on the investment, according to
Tourre’s filing.  “I think what they’re trying to establish here is they
have sophistication piled on top of sophistication to show that
this was a well-reasoned investment by, yet again, a
sophisticated institution,” Jacob S. Frenkel, a former
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer now in private
practice in Potomac,  Maryland , said in a phone interview today.  “They also could be trying to establish that whatever
representations may have been made to the German bank ultimately
could have been irrelevant to the investor,” Frenkel said.  The SEC initially sued the London-based trader in April
2010, saying he defrauded investors by not disclosing that hedge
fund Paulson & Co. had helped pick the underlying securities for
the CDO and planned to bet against them. After reaching a $550
million settlement with New York-based Goldman Sachs, the SEC
filed a new claim against Tourre, saying he gave the company
“substantial assistance” as it misled investors.  Portfolio Selection  The SEC said IKB wouldn’t have invested if it had known of
Paulson’s involvement in the portfolio selection, according to
yesterday’s filing.  “IKB’s role was apparently limited to that of  investment
adviser  to the Loreley companies, in which capacity IKB could
only recommend to the directors of the Loreley companies that
they enter into securities transactions,” according to the
filing.  Yet the “factual record” in the case contains almost no
evidence of the Loreley companies, according to the filing.  Citing last year’s U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Morrison v.
National Australia Bank, Jones, in June, threw out some claims
involving IKB, which allegedly lost almost all of its $150
million investment, and  ABN Amro  Bank NV, which assumed the
credit risk associated with a portion of Abacus.  Sale of Securities  In Morrison, the high court ruled that U.S. securities laws
don’t protect foreign investors who buy stocks on overseas
exchanges.  Jones let the case proceed on a claim against Tourre that
he “knowingly, recklessly or negligently” made
misrepresentations in the sale of securities to ACA Management
LLC, IKB and ABN Amro.  Jersey , the largest of the  Channel Islands , is a dependency
of the U.K. with its own legislative assembly and is known as a
tax haven.  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities. Interest payments on the underlying bonds
or loans are used to pay investors. The Abacus entity was a
synthetic CDO, meaning its  cash flow  came from derivatives that
referenced mortgage-backed securities.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 