-- 
FBI’s Freeh, FIFA Bribe Investigators to Visit Bahamas After Miami Snubbed

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-10T21:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/fbi-s-freeh-fifa-bribe-investigators-to-visit-bahamas-after-miami-snubbed.html
A team led by former Federal
Bureau of Investigation head Louis Freeh that is looking
into allegations of bribery in the presidential election of
soccer’s governing body will go to the Bahamas to meet with
officials who refused to travel to the U.S.  Meanwhile, the Trinidad & Tobago Police Service said
today it will ask FIFA, soccer’s Switzerland-based
international federation, for details of its investigation
into accusations that Caribbean members were offered
$40,000 each in exchange for support.  Members of the Caribbean Football Union declined an
invitation to meet Freeh’s group in Miami earlier this
week, saying they’d only participate if the sessions took
place in the West Indies. They also questioned  FIFA’s 
decision to hire a U.S. firm to look into allegations that
some regional officials were offered and accepted cash
bribes to vote for Mohamed Bin Hammam, a challenger to
President Sepp Blatter.  “The Caribbean Football Union and its members welcome
an unbiased, impartial and independent investigation into
the matter,” a  CFU  spokesman said from the organization’s
headquarters in Trinidad. “FIFA has agreed to move venues
and it will be held in the Bahamas.”  The spokesman didn’t give a date for the meeting. FIFA
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Freeh couldn’t
immediately comment, his office said today.  May Meeting  The allegations are linked to a May 10-11 meeting in
Trinidad arranged by FIFA Vice President Jack Warner to
allow Bin Hammam to lobby for votes. Bin Hammam and Warner
have been suspended by FIFA pending the investigation. Both
deny wrongdoing.  Caribbean officials, led by acting CFU President
Horace Burrell, have complained about the choice of a U.S.
investigator. They argue that because American soccer
official Chuck Blazer made the initial bribery allegation,
an investigator from another country should be selected.  FIFA’s head of security, Chris Eaton, said Freeh’s
probe would continue whether the officials cooperated or
not.  “Talking is one way of investigating, that’s all,”
Eaton said in an interview. “There are other ways to do an
investigation and I’m fairly certain that the professionals
at the  Freeh Group  will do that. There are a lot of options
available.”  Complaint to FIFA  Five officials told Chicago-based lawyer John Collins
they had been offered money. Collins filed the complaint to
FIFA on behalf of Blazer, the general secretary of
Concacaf, the body responsible for soccer in North and
Central America and the Caribbean, which Warner had run
since 1990. Twelve CFU members provided letters denying
they’d seen any money change hands at the meeting.  The statement from the Trinidad & Tobago police, made
to the country’s minority party and issued in a news
release, said the lack of evidence beyond media reports
currently made it “impracticable” to pursue a criminal
investigation into the bribery allegations.  “Notwithstanding the above, it is our intention to
write to FIFA requesting information which they may have in
their possession which may afford us the opportunity of
commencing any investigation(s) into any alleged criminal
activity within our jurisdiction,” the police service
said.  Editors: Bob Bensch,  Christopher Elser .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  