-- 
Rule to Spread Knicks to More TV Viewers Survives in Court

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-06-10T18:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/fcc-can-require-cable-companies-to-share-sports-shows-appeals-court-rules.html
A U.S. rule that could help bring
Knicks basketball, Phillies baseball and other sports to more
television viewers withstood a challenge from  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC)  in a court decision issued today.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  said the Federal
Communications Commission acted within its rights in a January
2010 ruling that aimed to make coverage of sports teams more
widely available. Withholding sports programming can place
competitors at a “serious disadvantage,” the judges said in a
3-0 ruling.  “We doubt that Philadelphia baseball fans would switch”
to an alternative service “if doing so would mean they could no
longer watch  Roy Halladay ,  Cliff Lee ,  Roy Oswalt , and  Cole Hamels  take the mound” for the Phillies, the court said in a
48-page opinion written by Judge David Tatel.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , based in Philadelphia, withholds its
SportsNet coverage of professional teams in Philadelphia from
 DirecTV (DTV)  and Dish.  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  have
complained to the FCC of not being able to buy access to sports
programming controlled by Bethpage, Long Island-based
Cablevision.  “Today’s decision clears the way for the FCC to resolve
pending program-access disputes and to ensure that the
programming that is important to sports fans is available to
them,”  Michael Glover, a Verizon senior vice president, said
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Terrestrial Loophole’  The FCC last year decided companies such as DirecTV, AT&T
and Verizon are harmed when they’re unable to get access to
cable-owned sports shows. The judges today placed one
restriction on the rule, saying the FCC can’t simply assume harm
without looking at a particular complaint.  The FCC acted “to close the so-called terrestrial
loophole” that lets cable companies decline to sell rivals
access to programming not distributed by satellite, Andrew Jay Schwartzman, policy director of Media Access Project, said in an
interview.  Today’s ruling “means that the FCC has been substantially
affirmed,” said Schwartzman, whose Washington-based group is a
public policy law firm. “In a particular case, they’re going to
have to show that the withholding of the programming was unfair
rather than assuming it’s unfair.”  Disputes Flared  Disputes have flared between cable companies, which own
regional sports networks that control coverage rights, and
telephone companies that increasingly offer TV service.  AT&T in 2009 complained to the FCC that its television
customers in Connecticut couldn’t watch high-definition
broadcasts of the Knicks and other sports teams because
Cablevision unfairly withheld the programming. At issue were
telecasts by  Madison Square Garden Network,  which includes
coverage of the Knicks and the Rangers, Islanders and Devils
hockey teams.  Verizon in 2009 told the FCC that Cablevision withheld
high-definition coverage of professional sports events including
Knicks games in the  New York  market. The second-largest U.S.
phone company argued to the agency that local sports is
considered “must-have” programming by New York customers.  The Verizon and AT&T complaints are pending at the FCC.  Cablevision last year spun off its Madison Square Garden
unit as  Madison Square Garden Inc. (MSG)   ‘Move Quickly’  The National Cable & Telecommunications Association, a
Washington-based group with members including leading U.S. cable
operator Comcast Corp. and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , joined the
case on Cablevision’s side.  Bob Quinn, an AT&T senior vice president, said in an e-
mailed statement that the company is “hopeful that the FCC now
will move quickly on our pending complaint against
Cablevision.”  Cablevision is “pleased” that the court is “is requiring
the FCC to reconsider the idea that exclusive terrestrial
programming contracts are categorically unfair,” Kim Kerns, a
spokeswoman for company, said in an e-mail. “Exclusives can be
highly pro-competitive, particularly in markets like New York
with as many as five video providers.  The FCC is “pleased” that the court affirmed its rule
“to promote competition,” Neil Grace, a spokesman for the
agency, said in an e-mail. “By closing a loophole in the cable
television program access rules, consumers retain choice in
their video service providers without giving up the ability to
watch their favorite sports team on regional sports networks.”  The case is Cablevision Systems Corp. v. Federal
Communications Commission, 10-1088,  U.S. Court of Appeals ,
District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  