-- 
Dudley Sees ‘Moderate’ Growth in Second Half of 2011 After a ‘Soft Patch’

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-06-10T14:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/fed-s-dudley-sees-economy-recovering-from-soft-patch-in-2011.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said he expects “disappointing”
economic growth to improve, even as “downside risks” such as
higher commodity prices have increased.  “I anticipate that economic growth will pick up enough in
the second half of 2011 to sustain a moderate economic
recovery,” Dudley, 58, said today in a speech in  Brooklyn , New
York. “Despite the recent soft patch, economic conditions have
improved in the past year.”  The economy will probably recover from recent weakness in
part because a surge in commodity prices, the earthquake in
 Japan  and “severe weather” in the U.S. are transitory, Dudley
said. The nation’s economy will also be buoyed by an improvement
in financial conditions, demand for exports and a labor market
that “appears more solid than it was a year ago,” he said.  A stretch of disappointing economic data on the  U.S.
economy , including a rise in the unemployment rate to 9.1
percent in May, have increased the odds the Fed will keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero into next year. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said this week that “accommodative monetary
policies are still needed” to boost a “frustratingly slow”
economic recovery.  While Dudley said he expects “a moderate economic recovery
to be sustained,” he also said “the recent disappointing data
suggest that downside risks to the outlook have increased.”  More Strain  The rise in commodity prices has “further strained”
household spending, and the “renewed decline in  home prices 
could dampen  consumer spending  and housing activity more than I
expect,” he said. Fiscal consolidation may also slow economic
growth in the “short- to medium-term,” he said.  “Although these issues bear watching, I still believe they
remain risks rather than the most likely outcomes,” Dudley
said.  Bernanke and the  Federal Open Market Committee  plan this
month to complete a $600 billion bond purchase program, and the
minutes of their April meeting showed central bankers have been
discussing the tools they’d use to remove stimulus. Bernanke
said on June 7 that the Fed will “take whatever actions are
necessary to keep inflation well controlled” and that the
central bank must be “vigilant in preserving its hard-won
credibility for maintaining price stability.”  ‘Desired Levels’  Dudley said that headline inflation has “risen somewhat
above desired levels” and is likely to continue to climb “in
coming months” because of the rise in commodity prices. The
increase in food and oil costs “has not spilled over much” to
other areas, and “most measures of underlying inflation
trends” are “below levels consistent with our mandate for
 price stability ,” Dudley said.  The personal consumption expenditures price index, minus
food and energy, rose 1 percent for the 12 months ending April.
That’s below the longer-run inflation goal of 1.7 percent to 2
percent for the PCE index forecast by policy makers in April.  The Fed is “still watching inflation expectations very
closely” and at present they are “generally stable,” Dudley
said in response to audience questions. Inflation expectations
“were getting to levels that were starting to concern us,” and
have “reversed course and come down a bit,” he said. The
decline reflected the decrease in commodity prices, Dudley said.  Slowest Pace  Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight months in May,
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly climbed to 9.1 percent
from 9 percent in April, Labor Department figures released on
June 3 showed. The 54,000 rise in jobs followed a 232,000 gain
in April and was below the 165,000 median increase forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The jobs numbers followed a series of economic statistics
suggesting that the economy is decelerating. Manufacturing grew
at its slowest pace in more than in year in May, according to
Institute for Supply Management data released last week.
Consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy,
rose less than forecast in April as households felt the pinch of
grocery and energy costs, a Commerce Department report showed.  “I expect a moderate recovery to continue,” Dudley said.
“However, we still have a considerable way to go to meet the
Fed’s dual mandate of full employment and price stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  