-- 
Fed May Review Capital for More Banks

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-06-10T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/fed-said-to-consider-expansion-of-capital-reviews-to-more-banks.html
The  Federal Reserve  may expand its
annual review of bank capital beyond the 19 largest financial
institutions to push rigorous risk-management standards into
more banks, according to people familiar with the discussions.  Firms with assets of $50 billion or more would be required
to conduct an exam, with boards showing Fed examiners how stock
buybacks, dividends, earnings, and new regulations affect
capital over several years, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the proposal isn’t final. The Fed completed
its first annual study of capital plans in March, clearing the
way for firms such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
to boost dividends.  Bankers, including JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon, have criticized stricter federal oversight of the
biggest firms, saying new regulations may impair lending and
economic growth. Some investors welcome the tougher supervision,
which the Fed is imposing in compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act,
passed last July.  “This amount of oversight is something that has been
lacking in the corporate board room in most banks,” said Joel Conn, president of Lakeshore Capital LLC in Birmingham,  Alabama .
“For smaller banks, it is pretty clear that their  capital
ratios  were not adequate for a major economic downturn.”  Still, concerns about how the Dodd-Frank Act will be
implemented, along with slowing economic growth, are hurting
bank-share performance. The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 U.S.
financial institutions, is down 10 percent this year, compared
with a 2.5 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Focusing on Capital  The possible expansion of the reviews shows how the Fed and
other regulators are focusing on capital as the most important
buffer against risk. Financial stability isn’t the only reason.
Regulators don’t want to ask Congress for another bailout like
the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, said Dino Kos,
managing director at Hamiltonian Associates Ltd.,  New York .  “Nobody in the regulatory apparatus ever wants to do that
again,” said Kos, a former executive vice president at the New
York Fed. The reviews should be extended to more banks because
many need the discipline of looking at capital needs over longer
time horizons, he said.  “For the past 20 years, bankers have said, ‘We understand
derivatives, we understand risk management, we understand risk
controls,’” Kos said. “What regulators learned was, no, they
don’t.”  $50 Billion  Under a criterion of $50 billion in assets or more, M&T
Bank Corp. in Buffalo, New York with total assets of $67.8
billion in the first quarter, and Comerica Inc. in  Dallas ,
 Texas , with $55 billion, would be among the banks asked to
conduct capital-plan reviews.  “Capital planning and stress testing is nothing new at
M&T, it’s how we manage the bank, and we have a long and
successful track record at it,” Rene Jones, M&T Bank’s chief
financial officer, said in an e-mail. “We had the lowest loan
losses of any of the top 20 commercial banks through the
financial crisis.”  Wendy D. Walker, a spokeswoman for Comerica, said in an
e-mail that it was “premature” to discuss the matter.  The Fed in 2009 ordered the top 19 U.S. banks to conduct
stress tests against adverse economic scenarios. It later
ordered 10 of them, including  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Atlanta-based SunTrust Banks Inc., to
raise an extra $74.6 billion in capital. The results were
released May 7 that year.  Managing Capital  The more recent review, completed in March this year, also
contained a  stress test  involving a recession, a rise in
unemployment and falling stock and housing prices. The test went
beyond capital adequacy and forced bank boards to sign off on an
explanation of how they would manage capital through a multiyear
cycle of recession and recovery. The Fed wanted an explanation
of capital decision-making.  The Fed dedicated more than 100 staff to the March review,
using a new multidisciplinary approach that enlisted economists,
supervisors, and accounting experts in the analysis of financial
institution risk.  Banks are dedicating more senior executives to the capital
planning process and are getting into the habit of looking at
capital through economic cycles, said one of the people familiar
with the process. At the same time, Fed officials learned that
the banks need to improve systems that pull loans, securities,
and other risks together into formats that are easy to analyze
and report to regulators, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  