-- 
Federal Reserve to Expand Annual Capital Reviews to 35 Largest U.S. Bank

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-06-10T20:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/federal-reserve-to-expand-annual-capital-reviews-to-35-largest-u-s-banks.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will
expand a capital-planning program to the 35 largest U.S. banks
to ensure they have an adequate buffer in an economic crisis.  Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets
will be required to adopt “robust, forward-looking capital
planning processes that account for their unique risks,” the
Fed said today in a statement in Washington.  Banks would be required to submit plans to raise dividends
or repurchase stock as part of the reviews, to begin early next
year, the Fed said. Firms whose plans are rejected would have to
get approval before distributing capital.  The reviews are part of a broader effort, which includes
the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling financial regulation, to tighten
supervision of financial firms and reduce the risk of another
crisis. In March, the 19 largest banks, such as  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , completed capital reviews that
allowed many of them to boost dividends or buy back shares.  “During the years leading up to the recent financial
crisis, many bank holding companies made significant
distributions of capital, in the form of stock repurchases and
dividends, without due consideration of the effects that a
prolonged economic downturn could have on their capital
adequacy,” the Fed said in its proposed rule.  Bankers such as JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  have criticized stricter federal oversight of the
biggest firms, saying new regulations may impair lending and
economic growth.  Threat to Profits  The initiative may force banks to hold additional capital
and reduce profitability measured by return on equity, said Bert
Ely, an industry consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia.  “In wanting higher capital standards, they really want the
bigger banks to be bulletproof,” he said. “There will be
tremendous pressure to downsize” or have “financial engineers
to come up with new forms of shadow banking” by moving
activities outside commercial banks.  Some investors welcomed the tougher supervision, saying
it’s long overdue.  “This amount of oversight is something that has been
lacking in the corporate board room in most banks,” said Joel Conn, president of Lakeshore Capital LLC in Birmingham,  Alabama .
“For smaller banks, it is pretty clear that their  capital
ratios  were not adequate for a major economic downturn.”  Bank Shares  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 U.S. financial
institutions, extended losses after the Fed announcement, then
rallied after CNBC reported that the biggest banks are likely to
face a capital surcharge of 2 to 2.5 percentage points rather
than 3 points. The index fell 0.4 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York 
after declining as much as 2.3 percent.  International central bankers and supervisors have decided
banks need to hold more capital to avoid future taxpayer-funded
bailouts. A proposed surcharge, previously reported to be 3
percent, may be lowered amid pushback from European nations,
especially  France , CNBC said without saying where it got the
information. The amount may be set at a meeting in two weeks.  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed last July, gives the Fed new
authority to control lending and risk-taking at the largest,
most “systemically important” banks, following the
government’s $700 billion financial-market rescue package in
October 2008.  While the capital plans aren’t required under Dodd-Frank,
“the Board believes that it is appropriate to hold large bank
holding companies to an elevated capital planning standard
because of the elevated risk posed to the financial system,”
the Fed said.  Focus on Capital  The expansion of the reviews shows how the Fed and other
regulators are focusing on capital as the most important buffer
against risk. Financial stability isn’t the only objective, said
Dino Kos, managing director at Hamiltonian Associates Ltd., New
York. Regulators don’t want to ask Congress for another bailout,
he said.  “Nobody in the regulatory apparatus ever wants to do that
again,” said Kos, a former executive vice president at the New
York Fed. The reviews should be extended to more banks because
many need the discipline of looking at capital needs over longer
time horizons, he said.  “For the past 20 years, bankers have said, ‘We understand
derivatives, we understand risk management, we understand risk
controls,’” Kos said. “What regulators learned was, no, they
don’t.”  Under the $50 billion asset threshold regional lenders
including  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ,  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  and Huntington
Bancshares Inc. would be among banks asked to conduct reviews.  Stress Tests  “Capital planning and stress testing is nothing new at
M&T, it’s how we manage the bank, and we have a long and
successful track record at it,” said Rene Jones, the Buffalo,
New York-based firm’s chief financial officer, in an e-mail.
“We had the lowest loan losses of any of the top 20 commercial
banks through the financial crisis.”  Wendy D. Walker, a spokeswoman for Comerica, said the
Dallas-based firm will study the Fed’s proposal.  “Huntington has routinely self-administered stress tests,
and has continuously met or exceeded federal standards,” since
the largest financial firms were subjected to stress tests in
2009, said Brent Wilder, a spokesman for the Columbus, Ohio-
based firm.  Top 19 Banks  The Fed in 2009 ordered the top 19 U.S. banks to conduct
so-called stress tests to ensure they could withstand a deeper
economic slump. It later ordered 10 of them, including
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , to raise an extra $74.6
billion in capital. The results were released May 7 that year.  The more recent review, completed in March this year, also
contained a  stress test  against scenarios involving a recession,
a rise in unemployment and falling stock and housing prices. The
test went beyond capital adequacy and forced bank boards to sign
off on an explanation of how they would manage capital through a
multiyear cycle of recession and recovery.  The Fed dedicated more than 100 staff to the March review,
using a new multidisciplinary approach that enlisted economists,
supervisors, and accounting experts in the analysis of financial
institution risk.  Banks are dedicating more senior executives to the capital
planning process and are getting into the habit of looking at
capital through economic cycles, said a person familiar with the
process. At the same time, Fed officials learned that the banks
need to improve systems that pull loans, securities, and other
risks together into formats that are easy to analyze and report
to regulators, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net 
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  