-- 
Inflation in India May Quicken as Government Raises Crop Prices to Record

-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-06-10T06:11:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/food-inflation-in-india-may-climb-as-government-raises-minimum-crop-prices.html
Food-price inflation in India,
 Asia ’s third-largest economy, may accelerate after the
government raised the prices it pays farmers for rice and
oilseeds to records, making crops costlier, economists said.  The minimum prices for monsoon-sown crops including paddy,
soybeans and corn were increased to help boost planting, the
farm ministry said in New Delhi yesterday. The federal
government sets the crop prices to assure farmers’ incomes,
while selling subsidized grains and cooking oils to the poor.  An increase in food prices would add to inflationary
pressures in India, where the central bank has boosted  interest
rates  nine times since March 2010. Global food prices reached an
all-time high in February driven by stronger demand and harvest
disruptions, according to a United Nations gauge.  The higher crop prices in  India  will “raise the floor
price of agricultural commodities,” Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd., said in an interview
yesterday. “It will definitely add to food inflation.”  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products advanced 9.01 percent in the week ended May 28 from a
year earlier, the highest level in eight weeks, the trade
ministry said yesterday. Overall inflation in India has been
above 8 percent for 16 months.  The jump in global food costs has pushed 44 million more
people into poverty since June 2010, according to a World Bank
estimate. Higher prices helped spark the riots across northern
 Africa  this year, toppling Tunisian President Zine El Abidine.  Policy Concern  Food costs in India have been a concern for the last two
years,  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said
on June 2. Inflation needs to be curbed to boost economic growth,
Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on May 18.  India, the world’s second-biggest rice producer, increased
the minimum purchase price of the so-called common variety of
raw rice to an all-time high of 1,080 rupees ($24) per 100
kilograms (220 pounds), from 1,000 rupees, the farm ministry
said. The soybean price was raised 17.4 percent to a record
1,690 rupees per 100 kilograms and for peanuts by the same
amount to 2,700 rupees.  India’s food inflation may accelerate from October when new
crops, affected by higher farming costs and rising oil prices,
arrive in the market, Ashok Gulati, chairman of the commission
that recommends minimum prices to the government, said in May.  “The cost of farm production has risen by close to 20
percent” in the year ended March 31 from a year earlier,  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in
a report yesterday. “This suggests that a sharp rise in minimum
support prices will be necessary this year to cover farmers’
rising input costs, a potential negative for food inflation.”  Monsoon Rains  Monsoon-sown crops are planted from this month, with
harvesting starting in October. The annual  weather  pattern,
which accounts for more than 70 percent on India’s rainfall, may
be 98 percent of the average, a level deemed normal, the Indian
Meteorological Department said in April.  “Although the hike in minimum support price is valid for
rice and wheat for procurement purposes, it serves as a
benchmark for other crops, feeding inflation,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Mumbai-based CARE Ratings. “This
year, the rains are expected to be good and the crop is likely
to be better. But there will be no relief for inflation as on
one hand the government tries to protect the consumers and on
the other hand, the farmers.”  Production of food grains from rice to wheat, lentils and
corn is estimated to climb 8 percent to a record 235.88 million
metric tons in the year ending June after a normal monsoon last
year, according to the farm ministry.  Record Rice  Monsoon-sown rice production may climb as much as 7 percent
to a record 86 million tons in the 2011-2012 season as normal
rains spur planting, Tarsem Saini, president of the Federation
of All India Rice Millers Association, said last week.  Bumper crops should prompt the government to ease export
curbs, P. Chengal Reddy, secretary-general of Consortium of
Indian Farmers Associations, said on June 6.  The country banned shipments of wheat in early 2007 and
non-basmati rice in April 2008 to bolster domestic supplies.
State  reserves of food grains  totaled 65.6 million tons on
June 1, almost triple the quantity five years ago, according
to the Food Corp. of India.  “The government is being overcautious in holding back on
exports of rice and wheat,” Sabnavis of CARE Ratings said.
“The buffer stocks are ample and the government should dispose
the surplus as there is lack of adequate storage space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  