-- 
Ford to Appeal Judge’s $2 Billion Award to Truck Dealers

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-06-13T20:46:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ford-loses-2-billion-judgment-to-dealers-law-firm-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it will appeal a
$2 billion judgment awarded by an Ohio judge to a class of
commercial truck dealers who claimed the company overcharged
them for 11 years.  The dealers sued Ford in 2002, claiming the company broke
an agreement to sell trucks at published prices, which forced
them to pay more from 1987 through 1998 and cut into profits.
Cuyahoga County Judge Peter J. Corrigan on June 10 upheld a
$4.5 million verdict awarded to one Ohio dealer in February by a
Cleveland jury. He also said Ford had to pay similar damages and
interest to a class of about 3,000 other dealers.  David Leitch , Ford’s general counsel, said the automaker
doesn’t believe it violated its agreement with dealers or that
they suffered damages. Corrigan incorrectly applied his findings
on one dispute across hundreds of thousands of transactions
involving other dealers, Leitch said today in a phone interview.  “We think that step and a number of others are far outside
the bounds of the normal legal process,” Leitch said. “We’re
confident that the  Ohio  appellate courts will reach the same
conclusion when they get a chance to look at the matter.”  Leitch said he doesn’t expect the ruling to create
financial uncertainty for the Dearborn, Michigan-based company
during an appeal.  “We do expect to prevail ultimately,” he said. “Even if
we’re wrong about that, we’re not writing any checks for quite
some time.”  ‘Hiccup’  “In the long run and over the long term, this is something
that we expect to work our way through without too much of a
hiccup,” he said.  The total $2 billion award is five times higher than the
largest-ever jury award against Ford in a lawsuit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News. Ford said it would appeal and
expects the judgment to be reversed.  Ford has 30 days to file a notice of appeal to the Ohio
Court of Appeals in Cuyahoga County, said Leitch and James Lowe,
a lawyer for the dealers. Ford’s prospects of reversal may be
limited, he said.  “The court of appeals has already upheld this judge when
he certified this as a class action,” Lowe said.  Wholesale Pricing  Corrigan allowed the dealers to pursue claims against Ford
in a class action, or group suit, in 2005. This decision was
upheld on appeal and the Ohio Supreme Court didn’t take Ford’s
petition for review, Lowe said in an interview yesterday.  Corrigan on June 10 upheld the jury’s finding that Ford
breached a contract with its dealers through its wholesale
pricing system.  “Because every potential price was not published, each
sale is affected by hidden discounts in each negotiation of the
artificially inflated published price,” Corrigan said in
affirming the verdict to Westgate Ford Truck Sales Inc. “As to
all class members, it is undisputed that the franchise
agreements were identical in all material aspects.”  Corrigan added $6.65 million in interest to the
$4.5 million verdict awarded to Westgate, a Youngstown, Ohio,
dealer. The total $2 billion judgment to the class includes
about $1.2 billion in interest. Corrigan said he would stay
execution of the judgment pending Ford’s posting of a
$50 million bond.  600 Series Trucks  Ford was accused in the lawsuit of breaching an agreement
with truck dealers by failing to publish to all of them all
price concessions that were approved for any dealer, the company
said in a regulatory filing.  The class includes all Ford dealers who bought from the
company any 600 series or higher truck over a period of about 11
years, starting in 1987. The court also granted the dealers’
motion for summary judgment on liability, Ford said in its most
recent 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
issued in February after the Westgate verdict.  “If similarly calculated amounts are awarded to other
class members, total damages could be substantial,” the company
said in that filing.  The interest on some truck sales goes as far back as 1987,
said Lowe, the dealers’ lawyer. “All interest was computed on
each and every truck, depending on the date of transaction.”  The claims covered sales of 474,289 trucks, Lowe said. The
judge awarded the damages requested by the dealers’ attorneys,
said Lowe, of Lowe Eklund Wakefield & Mulvihill in  Cleveland .  “This was exactly what the experts said was proper,” he
said in a phone interview.  The largest-ever jury verdict against Ford was for
$369 million in a products-defect case awarded in  California  in
2004. That verdict was later reduced by trial and appellate
courts.  Ford fell 21 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $13.14 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  The case is Westgate Ford Truck Sales Inc. v. Ford Motor
Co., CV 02-483526, Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio
(Cleveland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  