-- 
Foreclosure Probe ‘Closer’ to Settlement, Iowa Official Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-10T16:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/foreclosure-accord-is-closer-should-include-monitor-iowa-s-miller-says.html
Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller,
leader of a 50-state probe of foreclosure practices, said a
settlement is “closer” and that state and federal officials
want a monitor to ensure that banks keep their promises.  The state attorneys general began an investigation in
October as a response to revelations of faulty foreclosure
procedures by mortgage servicers. The states and the U.S.
 Justice Department  have been negotiating an accord with the five
largest servicers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   A settlement with the banks should include a monitor to
ensure they comply with the terms of any agreement, Miller said
yesterday in a phone interview. A monitor would have
“substantial authority” to enforce the terms, he said.  “One of the great challenges is enforcement,” Miller, a
Democrat, said. “We have to make sure that they do what’s
promised. That’s going to be very difficult.”  The state attorneys general are seeking “considerably
more” than the $5 billion proposed by the banks as a settlement
figure, he said. Payments by the banks should go toward mortgage
principal reductions and compensating homeowners for wrongful
foreclosures, said Miller, who declined to comment further about
how much officials are seeking.  Proposed Terms  In March, state and federal officials submitted proposed
settlement terms to the servicers, a group that also includes
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc., seeking funding for
principal writedowns and standards for servicing loans and
conducting foreclosures. Terms have been revised as the two
sides negotiate.  “We’re getting closer” to a resolution, Miller said. He
wouldn’t predict when an agreement would be reached. “It’s hard
to put a time on it that would be accurate.”  The U.S. Treasury Department  said  yesterday that four
mortgage servicers -- Bank of America, JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and
Ocwen Loan Servicing LLC -- need “substantial improvement”
under a federal program aimed at modifying  mortgage loans  for
struggling homeowners. Treasury said it was withholding
financial incentives for Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells
Fargo for poor performance.  Bank of America spokesman  Dan Frahm , JPMorgan spokesman
Thomas Kelly, Wells Fargo spokeswoman Vickee Adams and Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined to comment
about Miller’s remarks.  No Details  “We consider our conversations with the AGs and agencies
to be private, so we do not provide details,”  Mark Rodgers , a
Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail. Citigroup and JPMorgan
are based in New York. Bank of America is based in Charlotte,
 North Carolina , and Wells Fargo is based in  San Francisco .  Miller said it’s “likely” that principal reduction would
be part of the agreement.  “Principal reduction is important to have the maximum
effect of keeping as many homeowners in their homes as
possible,” he said. Banks and investors would also receive more
through partial payments than through foreclosures, he said. The
issue is “part of the ongoing negotiations,” Miller said.  A group of Republican attorneys general, including
 Florida ’s Pam Bondi and Greg Abbott of  Texas , criticized the
settlement proposal submitted to the banks, saying they opposed
a deal that would fund principal reductions.  Four of the officials said in a letter to Miller in March
that the proposal for principal reductions may foster an
unintended “moral hazard.”  ‘Different Views’  “The states are working pretty well together given there
are 50 of us each separately elected by citizens of our states
and have different views on things,” Miller said.  Representatives for Republican attorneys general who have
criticized the plan over principal writedowns couldn’t be
reached for comment today. Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, one of the opponents, is “encouraged” by the
settlement talks, his office said in a statement June 3.  “There is still a lot to be done, but the current climate
is productive,” Diane Clay, Pruitt’s spokeswoman, said in the
statement.  State and federal officials also are working with
government mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  on the
settlement, Miller said. Any deal that sets servicing standards
will affect Fannie and Freddie as investors in mortgage-backed
securities, though their support for the deal isn’t necessary,
he said.  “We’re working with them to try to be on the same page on
as many things as we can,” Miller said.  Officials are seeking to provide restitution to borrowers
whose homes were improperly foreclosed on.  “That’s imperative that somehow they’re compensated,”
Miller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  