-- 
Brian Lenihan, Former Irish Finance Minister, Dies at 52

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-06-10T15:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/former-irish-finance-minister-brian-lenihan-dies-at-age-of-52-office-says.html
Brian Lenihan , who served as
Ireland’s finance minister during the most turbulent period in
the country’s economic history, has died. He was 52.  Lenihan died at home in the early hours of this morning,
his family said in a statement released by his Fianna Fail party
in Dublin today. He was suffering from pancreatic cancer, which
had been diagnosed in late 2009.  A lawyer by training, Lenihan took over as finance minister
in May 2008 as the economy moved toward the worst recession in
its modern history. Four months later, he introduced a guarantee
of the deposits and most of the debts of Ireland’s banks, a
decision that tied the state’s fate to that of the debt-laden
financial system. Last year, Lenihan was forced to seek an
international bailout, presiding over a loss of economic
sovereignty after almost 90 years of independence.  “He was an excellent communicator who was eventually
overwhelmed by circumstances,”  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at
Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in an interview before news
of Lenihan’s death was announced. “In the end, he was let down
by a lack of expertise and maybe some bad advice.”  A month after his appointment as finance minister in 2008,
Lenihan said he had the “misfortune” to take the job as the
economy slumped. The  budget deficit  soared to about 32 percent
of gross domestic product last year, including bank-bailout
costs, as a real-estate bubble burst and tax revenue plunged.  ‘Nuclear Winter’  In the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse, Irish banks came close to collapse as credit dried up.
Lenihan responded by guaranteeing about 440 billion euros ($637
billion) of Irish bank deposits and borrowings, a move he said
helped avert a financial “nuclear winter.”  The state has so far pledged 70 billion euros to the banks,
a commitment that became too big for Ireland to handle alone.
With investors shunning Irish sovereign and banking debt,
Lenihan was forced to seek a bailout in November 2010.  “I have a very vivid memory of going to Brussels on the
final Monday and being on my own at the airport and looking at
the snow gradually thawing and thinking to myself: this is
terrible,” Lenihan said in a BBC radio interview earlier this
year. “No Irish minister has ever had to do this before. Now
hell was at the gates.”  Political Dynasty  A scion of an Irish political dynasty, his father Brian,
who died in 1995, was a deputy prime minister and a one-time
presidential candidate. As a schoolboy, Lenihan attended
Belvedere,  James Joyce ’s alma mater, and then studied law at
Trinity College Dublin and  Cambridge University .  Lenihan was appointed to the finance post by former Prime
Minister Brian Cowen, 12 years after he first won his seat in
parliament. Before that, he served as justice minister from June
2007 to May 2008 and was a junior minister at the health,
justice and education ministries.  Lenihan “acted patriotically to stabilize the state’s
finances in the face of unprecedented pressures,” Irish Central
Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said today in an e-mailed
statement. He was a “decent man, a fine public
representative,” said Prime Minister  Enda Kenny .  Cowen resigned as leader of the Fianna Fail party in
January, and Lenihan was defeated by  Micheal Martin  in the
contest to succeed him.  “He was an extraordinary individual with a powerful
intellect and a gifted communicator,” Martin said in a phone
interview. “His greatest contribution was the manner in which
he was decisive in the budgetary and banking decisions,
regardless of the political consequences or any personal
considerations.”  Lenihan held his seat in the general election in February
as his party was swept out of power for the first time since
1997. Martin named him as finance spokesman even as he continued
to battle cancer.  “He always worked for his country and the best for
Ireland,” Lenihan’s aunt, Mary O’Rourke, a former lawmaker,
said in an interview on RTE Radio today.  Lenihan is survived by his wife, Patricia, a son and a
daughter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  