-- 
U.S. Government Strikes Plea Bargain Deal in Leak of Classified Documents

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T16:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/former-nsa-employee-drake-to-plead-guilty-to-misdemeanor-in-leak-case.html
Thomas A. Drake, a former employee
at the U.S. National Security Agency accused of leaking
government secrets to a reporter, pleaded guilty to unauthorized
use of an agency computer.  The violation, a misdemeanor, carries a maximum penalty of
one year in prison and a $100,000 fine, according to a plea
agreement filed yesterday in Baltimore federal court.
Prosecutors won’t oppose a sentence that involves no jail time
and agreed to dismiss the indictment at the time of sentencing,
according to court documents.  Drake, who worked at the intelligence-gathering agency for
seven years, was indicted in April 2010 on charges of retention
of classified information, obstruction of justice and making a
false statement to a government agent. Prosecutors said he gave
classified information to the newspaper reporter, who isn’t
named in court papers. The information included details alleging
fraud and abuse at the NSA regarding a program called
Trailblazer, according to court documents.  “We are pleased that the government has agreed to dismiss
the indictment,” James Wyda, an attorney for Drake with the
federal public defender’s office, said today in an e-mail. “Tom
Drake never should have been charged under the Espionage Act.
Tom never intended to harm his country. And he didn’t.”  Drake, who served as a witness for an investigation into
the Trailblazer program, exchanged encrypted e-mails with the
reporter on a secure network in  Canada  rather than his home
computer, prosecutors said in court papers.  NSA Articles  The reporter used the information for a series of articles
about the NSA, according to court documents. In his role as a
source, Drake printed both classified and non-classified
documents and stored copies at his residence in Glenwood,
Maryland, prosecutors said.  The plea deal comes after U.S. District Court Judge Richard D. Bennett ruled that some classified information could appear
in exhibits at trial without substitution, according to court
documents. Prosecutors determined that such disclosure would
harm national security, according to court papers filed today.  “As today’s guilty plea shows, in cases involving
classified information, we must always strike a careful balance
between holding accountable those who break our laws, while not
disclosing highly sensitive information that our intelligence
agencies conclude would be harmful to our nation’s security if
used at trial,” Assistant U.S. Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer
said in an e-mailed statement.  Drake is scheduled to be sentenced on July 15.  The case is U.S. v. Drake, 10-00181, U.S. District Court,
District of  Maryland  (Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  