-- 
France Will Need Changes to Keep AAA Rating From 2020, S&P Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-06-10T17:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/france-will-need-changes-to-keep-aaa-rating-from-2020-s-p-says.html
France needs to stick to plans to
cut its  budget deficit  and push through changes to its health
and pension systems to avoid risking its top  credit rating ,
 Standard & Poor’s  said today.  “If French authorities do not follow through with their
reform of the pension system, make additional changes to the
social security system and consolidate the current budgetary
position in the face of rising spending pressure on health care
and pensions, Standard & Poor’s will unlikely maintain its AAA
rating,” S&P said in a report on the impact an aging population
will have on France’s finances.  The comments are the latest to show how rating companies
believe France’s top-level creditworthiness remains intact,
while its future depends on changes and budgetary efforts that
have yet to be delivered. Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
France’s AAA sovereign rating May 4, saying that stabilization
of its indebtedness is key to preserving its creditworthiness.  It is unlikely that demographics will affect the rating
“in the next three to five years,” S&P said today. In the
longer term, “our AAA rating on France would likely come under
increasing pressure” if further reforms aren’t completed, it
said.  In the wake of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crises, French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has stepped up efforts to squeeze
 government borrowing , even as he pledges to avoid increasing
taxes on income or sales. He’s also preparing a proposed
constitutional rule that would limit the ability of future
governments to take on debt, having raised the age at which full
pension benefits can be tapped to 67 from 65 in November.  Deficit Cut  Sarkozy cut the budget deficit to 7 percent of gross
domestic product last year. His government promised its European
partners last month that the shortfall will drop to 5.7 percent
this year, 4.6 percent in 2012 and to within the European
Union’s 3 percent limit in 2013.  “French authorities will likely continue to introduce
policies to contain the future budgetary impact of the
population’s aging,” S&P said today. “If  France  were to
balance its general government deficit by 2016, future net
indebtedness would improve sufficiently for us to maintain our
AAA rating on the sovereign almost through to 2050.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 