-- 
NATO Risks ‘Irrelevance’ Unless U.S. Allies Boost Contribution, Gates Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-10T11:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/gates-says-european-defense-spending-lag-risks-rendering-nato-irrelevant.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , in a
parting shot to  Europe  before leaving office this month, said
NATO risks “collective military irrelevance” unless U.S.
allies contribute more to the alliance’s operations.  Military missions in Afghanistan and Libya exposed the
failure of allies to make contributions and showed North
Atlantic Treaty Organization weaknesses, Gates told a meeting
organized by the  Security and Defense Agenda  group in Brussels
today, in his last policy speech as defense secretary.  “There will be dwindling appetite and patience in the
United States Congress -- and in the American body politic writ
large -- to expend increasingly precious funds on behalf of
nations that are apparently unwilling to devote the necessary
resources or make the necessary changes to be serious and
capable partners in their own defense,” Gates said.  Gates issued the warning as both continents struggle with
the remains of the global recession and President  Barack Obama 
seeks $400 billion in defense spending cuts over 12 years to
reduce the deficit. While Gates and NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen have cautioned European members not to
reduce defense spending further, the implicit threat that the
U.S. may withdraw support for the alliance marks a hardening of
the U.S. position.  Rasmussen last year said European defense risked becoming a
“paper tiger.”  The U.S. provides two-thirds of the almost 150,000 NATO-led
troops in Afghanistan and sold allies more than $24 million of
ammunition, spare parts and technical aid to help the Libya
operation.  Farewell Tour  The U.S. defense chief chose the topic to wrap up an 11-day
round-the-world farewell tour that took him to an Asia security
forum in Singapore and American bases in  Afghanistan  before a
round of NATO meetings in Brussels. The  U.S. Senate  this week
held confirmation hearings for his nominated successor, Central
Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta.  The security of Europe has been “the consuming interest of
much of my professional life,” said Gates, who worked at the
CIA and at the White House National Security Council during the
Cold War before becoming director of the spy agency in the
aftermath.  “If current trends in the decline of European defense
capabilities are not halted and reversed, future U.S. political
leaders -- those for whom the Cold War was not the formative
experience that it was for me -- may not consider the return on
America’s investment in NATO worth the cost,” Gates said. “I’m
in the awkward position for the first time in my career of being
20 years older than my president.”  U.S. NATO Share  The U.S. share of NATO defense spending has risen to more
than 75 percent from 50 percent during the  Cold War , he said.  Meanwhile, total European defense spending has dropped 15
percent since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on the U.S.,
according to one estimate, Gates said. That’s even after
European nations invoked NATO’s clause that calls for joint
action in the case of an attack on any one member to topple the
Taliban regime that had harbored al-Qaeda in Afghanistan.  Only five of the 28 NATO allies exceed the agreed standard
of spending at least 2 percent of gross domestic product on
defense, Gates said, naming the U.S., the U.K, France, Greece
and Albania.  Fix the Problem  He said Europeans could help fix the problem by protecting
defense budgets from further cuts in the next round of austerity
measures; by better allocating and coordinating existing
resources; and by following through on commitments to the
alliance and to each other.  Gates commended the Europeans for sticking with the fight
in Afghanistan and doubling the number of their troops there
during his 4 1/2 years in office. He also indicated a pending
drawdown of forces starting next month will meet terms he
outlined at  NATO  headquarters yesterday for “deliberate,
organized and coordinated” steps.  “The vast majority of the surge forces that arrived over
the past two years will remain through the summer fighting
season,” Gates said, without giving details. “We will also
reassign many troops from areas transferred to Afghan control
into less-secure provinces and districts.”  European Troop Struggles  European members  of NATO struggled to maintain their 25,000
to 45,000 troops in Afghanistan even with more than 2 million
forces in uniform among them, Gates said. They also lagged in
providing equipment such as helicopters, transport aircraft,
maintenance and intelligence capability, he said.  He cited “serious capability gaps and other institutional
shortcomings laid bare by the  Libya  operation,” which was
spurred largely by European countries, including France and the
U.K.  In addition to filling a shortage of basic ammunition for
the European allies, the U.S. had to come through with targeting
specialists for the NATO air operations center in  Italy , Gates
said.  “We have the spectacle of an air operations center
designed to handle more than 300 sorties per day struggling to
launch about 150,” he said.  Such weaknesses “have the potential to jeopardize the
alliance’s ability to conduct an integrated, effective and
sustained air-sea campaign,” Gates said.  Some countries have made the most of the assets they have,
he said.  Praises Norway, Denmark  “In the Libya operation, Norway and  Denmark , have provided
12 percent of allied strike aircraft yet have struck about one
third of the targets,” Gates said. “Belgium and  Canada  are
also making major contributions to the strike mission.”  The resulting “two-tiered alliance” of those members that
pull their weight compared with others that don’t “is no longer
a hypothetical worry. We are there today,” Gates said. “And it
is unacceptable.”  Gates departed from Brussels today, making his last flight
home from an overseas trip as defense secretary on a C-17
military transport aircraft because his usual converted Boeing
747, called the E4B, experienced a mechanical problem on the
ground.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Brussels at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  