-- 
Gates Ends Emotional Farewell Tour to Afghanistan, NATO Allies in Europe

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-10T23:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/gates-wraps-up-emotional-farewell-tour-to-afghanistan-europe.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
returned home today from a sometimes emotional round-the-world
farewell tour during which he hit his signature themes involving
“the wars we’re in” and the trans-Atlantic alliance.  Gates arrived in Washington from Brussels, where he had
exhorted European allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization to shore up their defense spending or risk the
alliance’s “collective military irrelevance.”  The military missions in Afghanistan and  Libya  exposed
yawning gaps, he told a meeting organized by the Security and
Defense Agenda group in Brussels, in his last policy speech as
defense secretary. The U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee
yesterday held a confirmation hearing for President Barack Obama’s choice as his successor, CIA director Leon Panetta.  The security of  Europe  has been “the consuming interest of
much of my professional life,” said Gates, who has a graduate
degree in Russian and Soviet history and was for years an
analyst with the Central Intelligence Agency.  “If current trends in the decline of European defense
capabilities are not halted and reversed, future U.S. political
leaders -- those for whom the Cold War was not the formative
experience that it was for me -- may not consider the return on
America’s investment in NATO worth the cost,” he said.  The blunt talk, which he said was in the spirit of “true
friends,” followed similarly emphatic public messages during
more than three days of troop visits in  Afghanistan . There, he
set out his parameters for the drawdown that the president has
promised to start next month and thanked the troops in a voice
choking with emotion.  Farewell to Troops  “More than anybody other than the president, I’m
responsible for you being here,” Gates told the soldiers,
airmen, sailors and marines at each of four forward operating
bases and a combat outpost. “I’m the guy that signed the
deployment orders that brought you here. And that has weighed on
me for four and a half years.”  He said he thinks about them “every day” and respects the
sacrifice they and their families make.  “I think you are the best America has to offer. My
affection and my admiration for you has no limits,” Gates told
the camouflage-uniformed men and women gathered, often in the
blazing heat. “I will pray for each and every one of you every
day for the rest of my life.”  He also urged at every opportunity on the trip that the
U.S. and its coalition partners pursue a measured withdrawal
when a scheduled drawdown begins next month.  “While President Obama is still considering the size and
pacing of the troop drawdown beginning in July, I can tell you
there will be no rush to the exits,” he said in Brussels. “The
vast majority of the surge forces that arrived over the past two
years will remain through the summer fighting season.”  European Strains  Gates commended the Europeans for sticking with the fight
in Afghanistan and doubling the number of their troops there
during his time in office, which began in December 2006 under
President  George W. Bush .  Still, European members of NATO have struggled to maintain
their 25,000 to 45,000 troops in Afghanistan, Gates said. They
also lagged behind in providing equipment such as helicopters,
transport aircraft, maintenance and intelligence capability, he
said.  The U.S. provides two-thirds of the almost 150,000 NATO-led
troops in Afghanistan. The Pentagon also sold allies more than
$24 million of ammunition, spare parts and technical aid to help
the  Libya operation .  The apparent weaknesses are symptoms of the shortage of
will and capability among the European allies, Gates said.  “There will be dwindling appetite and patience in the
United States Congress -- and in the American body politic writ
large -- to expend increasingly precious funds on behalf of
nations that are apparently unwilling to devote the necessary
resources or make the necessary changes to be serious and
capable partners in their own defense,” Gates said.  Budget Pressures  Gates issued the warning as both continents struggle with
the remains of the global recession and Obama seeks $400 billion
in defense spending cuts over 12 years to reduce the federal
 budget deficit . While Gates and NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen have cautioned European members not to reduce
defense spending further, his implicit threat that the U.S. may
withdraw support for the alliance marks a hardening of the U.S.
position.  The U.S. share of NATO defense spending has risen to more
than 75 percent from 50 percent during the  Cold War , Gates said.  Meanwhile, total European defense spending has dropped 15
percent since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the U.S.,
according to one estimate, Gates said.  Only five of the 28 NATO allies exceed the agreed standard
of spending at least 2 percent of gross domestic product on
defense, Gates said, naming the U.S., the U.K.,  France ,  Greece 
and Albania.  ‘Capability Gaps’  He cited “serious capability gaps and other institutional
shortcomings laid bare by the Libya operation,” which was
spurred largely by European countries. In addition to filling a
shortage of basic ammunition for the European allies, the U.S.
had to come through with targeting specialists for the NATO air
operations center in  Italy , Gates said.  He said Europeans could help fix the problem by protecting
defense budgets from further cuts in the next round of austerity
measures, by better allocating and coordinating existing
resources, and by following through on commitments to the
alliance and to each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  