-- 
German Lenders’ Greek Claims Fell 42% in a Year, Bundesbank Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-06-10T15:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/german-lenders-greek-claims-fell-42-in-a-year-bundesbank-says.html
German lenders’ claims on the Greek
public sector declined 42 percent in the 12 months through
February if loans from the federal government’s KfW Group
development bank are excluded, according to Bundesbank data.  The claims, such as bond holdings and loans, fell to 9.65
billion euros ($13.9 billion) from 16.6 billion euros, the data
show. The latest figure didn’t include 8.4 billion euros in
loans provided by KfW to Greece as part of  Germany ’s
contribution to the European Union’s rescue package.  German financial companies such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in May 2010 reached a voluntary
agreement to provide 8.1 billion euros in financing to Greece to
support the debt-stricken nation. Last year’s commitment came
after the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  agreed on a 110
billion-euro rescue package for Greece, which has failed to
prevent contagion from the debt crisis.  “We are strictly adhering to the agreement,”  Ronald Weichert , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, said
today. Including  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB) , Germany’s largest lender
had net sovereign risks related to Greece of 1.6 billion euros
at the end of last year, the bank said in March. No comparative
figure from last year is available, Weichert said.  German and EU leaders are pushing for private investors to
share the burden of financing a second rescue package for
Greece, which remains shut out of capital markets. European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday reiterated
his opposition to any solution forcing private-sector
participation, saying it amounts to a “ credit event ” and would
be an “enormous mistake.”  Insurers’ Holdings  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest bank, had Greek
sovereign-debt exposure of 2.9 billion euros at the end of
March, compared with 2.8 billion euros at the end of June, it
said in quarterly reports.  German insurance companies such as Allianz, Munich Re and
Talanx AG reduced their holdings of Greek government debt in
March by 52 percent to 2.79 billion euros from a year earlier,
according to an internal government document obtained by
Bloomberg News yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  