-- 
Germany Lifts Food Warning for Cucumbers, Tomatoes, Lettuce After E. Coli

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T15:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/germany-lifts-food-warning-for-cucumbers-tomatoes-lettuce-after-e-coli.html
Germany  lifted a warning against
eating raw tomatoes, cucumbers and lettuce after concluding
tainted sprouts caused an E. coli infection that has killed 31
people, as the first direct link to the illness was found.  Based on interviews with restaurant patrons and cooks and a
review of food deliveries, there’s a “high probability”
sprouts were the cause, Reinhard Burger, head of the  Robert Koch
Institute , said in Berlin today. The German state of North
Rhine-Westphalia said separately that E. coli bacteria of the
aggressive O104 strain tied to the outbreak were detected for
the first time on sprouts from a northern German farm.  “There is no signal any more that tomatoes, cucumbers and
salad are responsible for the outbreak in North Germany,”
Andreas Hensel, head of the  Federal Institute for Risk
Assessment , said at a news conference. “Now these products are
not suspicious anymore. It’s healthy to eat them.”  Demand slumped for vegetables across the European Union
after health officials mistakenly blamed Spanish cucumbers as
sources of the outbreak. Vegetable growers in the 27-nation bloc
are losing as much as 400 million euros ($580 million) a week
from a drop in demand related to the outbreak, Brussels-based
farm lobby Copa-Cogeca said this week.  EU Farmers’ Aid  EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos proposed on
June 8 that producers be given 210 million euros in support, up
from an initial plan for 150 million euros. As much as 80
percent of vegetables are being destroyed in some areas because
there is no market, according to Copa-Cogeca.  The outbreak, which officials have said was centered in the
northern German city of Hamburg, has sickened at least 3,082
people since May 2, with the number of deaths rising to 31 from
the 27 reported as of yesterday, the  European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control  said today.  Health officials in the state of Lower Saxony on June 5
identified organic sprouts from a farm near Uelzen, Germany, as
a possible source. Produce from the property,  Gaertnerhof
Bienenbuettel , was recalled and its customers were informed.  North Rhine-Westphalia investigators found the bacteria in
an opened package of sprouts in the garbage of a home in the
Rhein-Sieg area, where two of the household’s three family
members had eaten the vegetables and fallen ill with E. coli in
the middle of May, the state Environment, Agriculture and
Consumer-Protection Ministry said.  ‘First’ Illness Link  “The sprouts originate, based on current knowledge, from
the business in Bienenbuettel in Lower Saxony,” the Dusseldorf-
based ministry said in a statement. “That means that for the
first time, an unbroken link between sprouts infected with O104
from the business in Bienenbuettel and people who have fallen
ill have been found.”  The farm, which has grown sprouts for 25 years, is located
about 35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of Hamburg. Its
products include radish, red-cabbage, alfalfa, broccoli, onion
and garlic sprouts, as well as sunflower seedlings, according to
information on its website. Gaertnerhof has about 18 employees.  The warning against eating sprouts applies to all 18
varieties that the farm grows, Natascha Manski, a state
spokeswoman in Hanover,  Lower Saxony ’s capital, said today in a
phone interview.  While the number of new E. coli cases is declining, the
outbreak isn’t over yet, the Koch Institute’s Burger said at the
Berlin news conference. Contaminated seeds may have caused the
outbreak, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  