-- 
Greek, Portuguese, Spanish Bonds Decline Amid Bailout Concern; Bunds Rise

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-06-10T16:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/german-government-note-yield-approaches-three-month-low-as-inflation-eases.html
Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield rose
to a record, leading a surge in the borrowing costs of Europe’s
most indebted nations, as policy makers clashed over a solution
to the region’s funding crisis.  German debt rose as consumer-price inflation eased in May
and equities declined, boosting demand for safety. Greek, Irish
and Spanish benchmark bonds slumped after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  stepped up his calls for bondholders
to assume a “fair” share of further Greek aid, pitting him
against the  European Central Bank , whose President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday rejected any direct participation in a second
bailout of the debt-stricken nation.  “The ECB and the German government are on a collision
course and that was reinforced by Trichet yesterday,” said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “There’s no common denominator in place.”  The Portuguese 10-year yield rose 15 basis points to 10.44
percent, as of 4:54 p.m. in London. It earlier climbed to a
record 10.45 percent. The 3.85 percent security due in April
2021 slipped 0.635, or 6.35 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,446) face
amount, to 60.64.  The additional yield investors demand to hold the
securities instead of benchmark German bunds widened to as much
as 745 basis points, the most since at least 1997, when
Bloomberg began collecting the data.  Germany, ECB Clash  In a speech to lawmakers in Berlin, Schaeuble appealed for
backing for a second bailout of  Greece  to ensure a stable euro
and bolster the global economy. In return, “we have to insist
on the participation of the private sector,” he said.  Trichet yesterday rejected any direct ECB participation in
a second bailout for Greece. As politicians try to find a plan
by June 24 that would share the cost of a new rescue with
bondholders, he ruled out the ECB setting an example with its
own assets, saying the bank has no intention of rolling over its
own Greek holdings.  Trichet also warned against an approach advocated by
Schaeuble that would pressure investors to accept longer
maturities on their Greek bonds, saying any solution forcing
private-sector involvement amounts to a “ credit event ” and
would be an “enormous mistake” for the euro region.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said it’s not up to the
central bank to solve Greece’s debt crisis.  “The burden is not on us,” Constancio told reporters at a
conference in  Frankfurt  today. “In the first instance it should
be the concern of governments and treasuries. It wasn’t the ECB
that asked for private-sector involvement.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Greece’s government notes were little changed, with the
two-year yield two basis points lower at 25.74 percent. The 10-
year yield rose six basis points to 16.71 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on government debt
sold by Greece surged to a record, according to traders of
credit-default swaps. Contracts on Greece soared to 1,534,
according to CMA.  The benchmark German bund yield dropped seven basis points
to 2.95 percent. Yields on two-year notes were also seven basis
points lower, at 1.54 percent, the least since March 17.  The harmonized inflation rate in  Europe ’s largest economy
slipped to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent in April, according to
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden. German bonds rallied
yesterday after the ECB revised expectations for 2012 inflation
downwards, leading investors to trim bets on the pace of
interest-rate increases, even after the bank signaled higher
borrowing costs next month.  Disappointed Bears  “For the bund bears it was disappointing that the
inflation forecast for 2012 was unchanged, so market
participants maybe expect a pause in the ECB rate-hike cycle,”
said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt. “Inflation for Germany as well
as for the euro region and producer prices came down from high
levels and maybe that’s an additional point helping bunds.”  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in March 2012 down five basis points to 1.92
percent, indicating fewer bets on higher ECB interest rates.  German  government bonds  have handed investors less than 0.1
percent this year, while U.S. Treasuries have returned 3.1
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.2 percent and
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 1.3 percent.  ‘Big Supply Week’  Spain ’s 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield up four basis
points to 5.48 percent. It earlier rose to 5.52 percent, the
most since May 24. The Spanish government plans to auction debt
due in 2026 on June 16.  Germany , France and  Italy  will also sell
bonds next week.  It “will be a big supply week, a record high for 2011 in
terms of issuance,” said Schnautz. “In this environment having
Spain coming up with long bonds is a burden. For Spain the
negative news flow does not stop.”  The Irish 10-year bond yield jumped as much as 16 basis
points to 11.25 percent after touching a euro-era record of
11.35 percent, widening the spread over German bunds of a
similar maturity to as much as 834 basis points, the most since
at least 1992 when Bloomberg began collecting the data.  Italian debt was little changed after the nation sold 6
billion euros of 366-day Treasury bills at an average yield of
2.147 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 