-- 
German Nuclear Halt May Disrupt Europe’s Power Market Balance

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-10T11:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/german-nuclear-halt-may-disrupt-europe-s-power-market-balance.html
Germany ’s shutdown of nuclear  power
plants  will disrupt  Europe ’s electricity supply and demand
balance this winter, said French Industry Minister Eric Besson.  “Safety margins at the European level will be reduced by
the German decision,” the minister said in a statement late
yesterday. Even so, power generating capacity “should remain in
surplus this winter.”  French power exports to Germany surged 54 percent during
the first five months of the year while imports dropped 45
percent, according to the ministry. France, Europe’s biggest
electricity market after Germany, last year was a net power
importer from its northeastern neighbor.  France has criticized the decision by German Chancellor
Angela Merkel to shut the country’s seven oldest reactors and
exit nuclear power by 2022. French ministers and lawmakers have
said the resulting lower generating capacity will make Germany
more reliant on French nuclear power, possibly putting strain on
European power markets.  Germany’s halt of 7 gigawatts of power has “reversed” the
direction of French and German power trading, Besson said in the
statement, which followed a meeting of French utilities and grid
chiefs on the effects of  France ’s worst drought in half a
century.  France faces the prospect of having to rely on electricity
imports in August and September should the dry weather continue
and temperatures rise to higher than normal levels, according to
a forecast published this week by the French grid  Reseau de
Transport d’Electricite .  “If this happens, the last two weeks of August would be a
sensitive period,” Besson said today on RTL radio. “We’re
vigilant but not in a crisis situation.”  State-controlled Electricite de France SA operates 58
nuclear reactors which allow the country to be a net power
exporter to European neighbors and provide relatively cheap
electricity to customers at home. Since the Fukushima disaster
in  Japan  in March, President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is facing an
election next year, has vowed to continue to invest in the
atomic industry. This contrasts with the German and Swiss
decisions to phase out the energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  