-- 
Gingrich Allowed to Delay Release of Personal Financial Disclosure Form

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/gingrich-delays-release-of-personal-financial-disclosure.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , whose campaign for the Republican presidential
nomination was thrown into disarray June 9 after the
resignations of his top aides, has sought and received an
extension from the  Federal Election Commission  to file his
personal financial disclosure form.  The revelations in the disclosure report are expected to
include Gingrich’s personal income and the status of a line of
credit of as much as $500,000 at  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the New York-
based jewelry store.  The report also may shed light on income the former speaker
earns from the mix of private endeavors he established since
leaving Congress in 1999.  Gingrich, 67, who formally announced his candidacy for the
White House on May 11, received a 45-day extension for filing
his disclosure to July 25 from the original deadline of June 10,
according to an FEC letter. His lawyer, Stefan Passantino, cited
the need to “afford the candidate sufficient time to ensure
complete accuracy of the resulting filing.”  In addition to his lucrative speaking engagements, the
former Georgia congressman has built several businesses based on
his own profile, his reputation for provocative thinking and his
penchant for diving deep into policy issues.  His company,  Gingrich Productions , produces documentaries
and books. In 2003, he founded the  Center for Health
Transformation , which explores proposals to overhaul health
care.  American Solutions for Winning the Future  is dedicated to
training the next generation of Republican leaders.  ‘Moral Leadership’  Gingrich also founded  The Americano , an organization used
to reach out to conservative Hispanics, and  Renewing American
Leadership , a nonprofit group with a goal to foster “moral
leadership” in America. He has written 23 books, according to
his  campaign website .  The mix of for-profit and nonprofit organizations, with
varying disclosure requirements, has shrouded the amount of
money Gingrich earns from his projects. The complexity of his
enterprises and the time needed to legally separate from them to
run for president were the primary reasons cited by then-
spokesman Rick Tyler for Gingrich’s decision in March to
postpone his announcement that he would run.  Finishing the disclosure paperwork must compete with a new
set of priorities prompted by the resignations this week of more
than a dozen top aides. Several aides and Gingrich cited
differences over campaign strategy as the reason for the split.  He also lost his national co-chairman, former Georgia
Governor Sonny Perdue, who endorsed former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty .  Gingrich said he would remain in the race and is scheduled
to join a Republican presidential debate on June 13 in  New
Hampshire .  The staff resignations were the latest calamity for the
Gingrich campaign. In May, he was criticized by Republican
lawmakers and commentators after he described the House
Republicans’ plan to privatize traditional Medicare as “right-
wing social engineering” during an appearance on “Meet the
Press.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  