-- 
Goldman Is Unlikely to Face Charges Stemming From Senate Report, Bove Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-10T14:49:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/goldman-sachs-is-unlikely-to-face-charges-from-senate-report-bove-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is unlikely
to face charges from investigations into the firm’s mortgage
practices before the financial crisis, according to Richard X. Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC.  “It is becoming increasingly apparent that a terrible
wrong may have been done to Goldman Sachs,” Bove wrote in a
note to investors dated June 8.  Bove suggested less than a month ago that clients sell the
firm’s stock because the  U.S. Department of Justice  was under
pressure to bring claims, based on a report from the U.S.
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations accusing
Goldman Sachs of misleading buyers of mortgage-linked
investments.  The firm, which paid $550 million to settle Securities and
Exchange Commission charges related to its marketing of mortgage
securities, was subpoenaed by the Manhattan District Attorney’s
office for information on business practices leading into the
credit crisis, two people familiar with the matter said last
week.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein and
other executives at the firm have said that its traders placed
“short” bets, which profited when prices of mortgage-linked
securities fell, to hedge against losses. Blankfein also said in
last year’s hearing that Goldman Sachs didn’t have a "massive
short" against the housing market, and was acting as a “market
maker” in selling collateralized debt obligations and other
mortgage-backed investments to clients.  Senate Findings  The Senate subcommittee said that documents uncovered in
its two-year investigation of the financial crisis show that
Goldman Sachs’s mortgage traders did have a large short position
during 2007 and the sales team aggressively sought clients to
buy CDOs that the traders expected would decline in value.  “Evidence is now mounting that the company did not have a
net short position" during the time in question, Bove said in
his note. "The Senate committee may have misread the numbers.”  Bove also said it was "becoming apparent" that Blankfein
"did not misrepresent to the Senate Committee because Goldman
was not net short at the time the firm was accused of
misrepresenting its position.’’  Bove maintained his sell rating on Goldman Sachs and
lowered his earnings estimates for 2011, 2012 and 2013, citing a
“relatively bleak second quarter” and a “weakened” secular
outlook.  AG’s Review  U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder, testifying before the
House Judiciary Committee on May 3, confirmed that his
department is reviewing the report from the Senate committee,
which was led by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin. Oklahoma’s
Thomas A. Coburn is the ranking Republican on the panel.  The bank rose 14 cents, or 0.1 percent, to $133.67 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 10:24 a.m., two days
after it touched the lowest value in almost a year. The shares
are down 21 percent this year, and have fallen in 12 of the last
15 weeks.  Bove, who is based in Lutz,  Florida , is one of two analysts
with a negative rating on Goldman Sachs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The other is  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst for Mediobanca SpA. Of 28 analysts
surveyed, 18 recommend that investors buy the stock and eight
call for holding it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  