-- 
Goldman ‘Huddles,’ Swaps ‘Black Hole,’ Air Rules, Autoliv: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-10T12:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/goldman-huddles-swaps-black-hole-air-rules-autoliv-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay a $10 million fine and stop holding private meetings of
stock analysts and traders known as “huddles” to settle an
investigation by Massachusetts’s chief securities regulator.  The settlement ends a two-year probe by William Galvin, the
secretary of the commonwealth, into New York-based Goldman
Sachs’s “Asymmetric Service Initiative,” in which information
on analysts’ trading ideas was disseminated earlier to favored
clients. The company will “permanently discontinue” the
practice, Galvin’s office said in a statement yesterday.  Goldman Sachs analysts, who publish stock recommendations
for long-term investments, attended weekly meetings where they
shared short-term trading ideas, the Wall Street Journal
reported in 2009, citing internal company documents. Galvin’s
office sent a subpoena to Goldman Sachs shortly after the
article was published. The Securities and Exchange Commission
and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority also began examining
the practice.  Finra  is close to concluding its investigation of Goldman
Sachs’s trading huddles, a person familiar with the situation
said yesterday. The person spoke on condition of anonymity
because the details of the investigation aren’t public.  Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for Finra, said she couldn’t
comment.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter with the
 Massachusetts  securities division,” Stephen Cohen, a Goldman
Sachs spokesman in  New York , said in an interview.  While the settlement finds that Goldman Sachs “engaged in
dishonorable or dishonest conduct,” it adds that nothing in the
settlement “shall be construed as a finding or admission of
fraud.”  Compliance Policy  Dodd-Frank Deadline May Create ‘Black Hole,’ Roberts Says  Swaps users may face a “black hole” when Dodd-Frank Act
rules take effect next month because too much remains unresolved
for markets to operate properly, the Senate Agriculture
Committee’s top Republican said.  “We don’t even know what a swap is” under the financial
overhaul, Senator Pat Roberts said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s office in  Washington . The Kansas Republican said the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission needs to outline what
provisions will apply when Dodd-Frank takes effect, and which
will require rule-making that will delay implementation.  The CFTC and the Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing new regulations required by the legislation enacted last
July, after largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis.  Roberts joined Republican Senators Saxby Chambliss of
Georgia and Richard Lugar of Indiana in a letter to CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  on May 27 asking for a list of Dodd-Frank
provisions that would become effective on July 16. They also
asked the CFTC’s view of how swaps transitions would be governed
while new regulations are put in place and how the commission
would provide greater legal certainty for the transactions
during the transition.  For more, click here.  AEP Says New Air Rules May Cost Up to $8 Billion, 600 Jobs  American Electric Power Co. said it would have to spend as
much as $8 billion through the end of the decade to comply with
proposed federal regulations aimed at curbing carbon-dioxide
emissions from coal-fueled power plants.  The company estimated it would cut about 600 jobs and
shutter five coal-fueled power plants in Virginia,  West Virginia 
and Ohio if proposed federal rules are enacted, American
Electric said in a statement yesterday.  “Unrealistic timelines” in the Environmental Protection
Agency proposals would force the company to prematurely shut
about 25 percent of its current coal-fueled generating capacity,
or 6,000 megawatts, said Michael Morris, American Electric’s
chairman and chief executive officer.  Business will face electricity price increases of “10
percent to more than 35 percent,” Morris said in the statement.  Coal-fueled generation accounts for about 65 percent of
American Electric’s total generating capacity. The company has
spent more than $7.2 billion since 1990 to reduce emissions from
its coal power plants.  PCAOB to Weigh Inspection Program for Broker-Dealers’ Auditors  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  will meet
next week to consider establishing an interim inspection program
for registered public accounting firms’ audits of brokers and
dealers.  The measure, which would be part of the adoption of the
nonprofit corporation’s expanded oversight responsibilities
under the Dodd-Frank Act, will be weighed at a June 14 meeting
in Washington, the PCAOB said yesterday in a statement.  U.K. Regulator Defends Liquidity Rules Against Bank Criticism  The U.K.  Financial Services Authority  defended rules
requiring lenders to hold increased liquidity buffers after
banks complained that the rules were tougher than international
standards.  The FSA disagrees with claims that banks must “hold more
liquidity than is likely to be required under the implementation
of” global rules proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, “and to date have not seen any evidence from firms
to suggest otherwise,” Liam Parker, an FSA spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  The rules proposed by the FSA requiring banks to have
enough high-quality assets to survive a temporary liquidity
crisis could “cause disruption in the payment systems as banks
delay payments in an attempt to reduce liquidity usage,”
according to a paper published by Bank of England officials last
week.  The liquidity rules may require U.K. banks to buy as much
as 110 billion pounds ($161 billion) of  government bonds .  Compliance Action  Autoliv Raided as EU Probes Automotive-Parts Price Fixing  Autoliv Inc. (ALIV) , the world’s biggest producer of seatbelts and
air bags, was raided by European Union authorities as part of an
antitrust investigation into car-parts suppliers.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s competition authority,
said on its website yesterday that raids at producers of car
safety systems began on June 7. Stockholm-based Autoliv said
it’s cooperating with investigators.  The relationship between suppliers and automakers has
tightened as development times shorten and car companies insist
components be delivered shortly before assembly to reduce
inventory costs. Component manufacturers are critical to the
automotive industry, accounting for about 75 percent of the
value of an average car, up from 65 percent 10 to 15 years ago,
according to the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany.  Autoliv said two of its facilities in Germany were visited
by EU officials. The commission didn’t say which companies it
inspected.  Cartels are “the top priority” for antitrust regulators,
the EU’s competition commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in April.
The commission said last year it is investigating companies that
make automotive electrical distribution systems as part of a
joint probe with the U.S. into possible price fixing. The
commission said there is no deadline to complete its
investigations.  JPMorgan Warehouses Won’t Get LME Investigation, U.K. OFT Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s stockpile of copper and ownership of
warehouses for goods traded on the  London  Metal Exchange won’t
be probed for market violations, Britain’s antitrust regulator
said, citing a lack of evidence and jurisdiction.  The U.K. parliamentary committee that sought the review
didn’t give proof that certain “large dealers” on the exchange
were undermining the market by owning warehouses, the U.K.
 Office of Fair Trading  said in a  May 27 letter  posted on the
 Science and Technology Committee ’s website.  The exchange last year handled $11.6 trillion in contracts,
offering trading in metals from copper to cobalt to steel. In
May, the committee said it was concerned about allegations made
by other traders at hearings reviewing the country’s
“strategically important metals.”  Other allegations that New York-based JPMorgan “could
distort commodity markets” by owning 50 percent of the stock of
copper as part of a creation of an exchange-traded fund fall
under the jurisdiction of Britain’s Financial Services
Authority, the OFT said.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti  didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  LME spokeswoman Miriam Heywood said yesterday in an e-mail
that is it “unjustified” to suggest that ownership of a
warehousing company implies anticompetitive behavior.  More than 400 warehouses in about 35 countries handle metal
traded on the exchange, and JPMorgan’s Henry Bath unit has
warehouses in 14 locations, the OFT said.  SEC Cautions Investors on Buying Reverse-Merger Stocks  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission cautioned
investors about buying stakes in companies that gain listings on
U.S. exchanges through so-called reverse mergers, saying they
may be prone to “fraud and other abuses.”  Many of the companies, often overseas operations that
access U.S. markets by acquiring publicly traded firms with few
or no operations, “either fail or struggle to remain viable”
and may use small audit firms that don’t verify financial
statements, the SEC said yesterday in an investor bulletin.  Lori Schock, head of the SEC’s investor education office,
said in a statement that investors “should be especially
careful” when considering investing in the stock of reverse
merger companies.  Yesterday’s warning comes more than a year after the SEC
formed a task force to examine China-based reverse-merger
companies and their auditors. The SEC and exchanges have halted
trading in more than a dozen such firms in recent months, citing
missing financial information, according to the release. Several
such companies have seen their share prices plummet amid
allegations that their financial statements were inaccurate.  In a reverse merger, a closely held firm buys a so-called
shell company and becomes able to sell shares without the
scrutiny that would surround an initial public offering.  Goldman, U.S. Banks Probed by SEC on Libya Deals, WSJ Reports  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is among financial firms being
examined by U.S. regulators to determine if transactions with
Libya’s sovereign fund may have violated bribery laws, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission officials are
reviewing documents including those related to a $50 million fee
Goldman Sachs agreed to pay the Libyan fund to help recoup
losses, the newspaper said yesterday. The payment, which was to
be passed on by the Libyan Investment Authority to a firm run by
a local official’s son-in-law, was never made, it said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and Goldman Sachs are among banks that
held funds for the Muammar Qaddafi-controlled Libyan sovereign
wealth fund, London-based advocacy group  Global Witness  said
last month. Talks between Goldman Sachs and the wealth fund
stalled before violent protests broke out in Libya in February,
the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  Goldman Sachs said it was confident it hadn’t violated any
rules or regulations, according to the Journal, citing spokesman
Lucas van Praag. An SEC spokesman declined to comment, the
newspaper said. The agency’s interest doesn’t mean that a formal
investigation will be started, the Journal said.  Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, and Vinh Tran, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for HSBC,
didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail seeking comment.  Courts  Ex-UBS Adviser Pleads Guilty to Fraud, Agrees to Prison  Steven Kobayashi, a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  financial adviser in
California, pleaded guilty to wire fraud and agreed to serve
more than five years in prison for improperly transferring
client funds to his bank accounts, U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag
said in a statement yesterday.  Kobayashi, 39, of Livermore, California, was charged in
March with taking money from his clients’ UBS accounts and
putting it into his accounts, sometimes gaining customer
authorization to withdraw their money by telling them it would
be used to purchase investments, prosecutors said.  Between 2006 and 2009, Kobayashi transferred more than
$5.4 million in client funds to his bank accounts, prosecutors
said. In March, he settled a lawsuit brought by U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission alleging misappropriation of $3.3
million. He didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Kobayashi pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court in
northern California to one count each of money laundering and
wire fraud. In a plea agreement with prosecutors, he agreed to
serve 65 months in prison and pay $5.4 million in restitution,
Haag said.  Kobayashi’s attorney, Joyce Leavitt, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message.  The criminal case is U.S. v Kobayashi, 11-106 and the SEC
case is U.S. v Kobayashi, 11-981, in U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  UBS Madoff Claims Must Wait for Luxembourg Court Ruling  UBS AG lost its bid to dismiss outright claims by LuxAlpha
Sicav-American Selection Fund’s French investors, who must wait
on related Luxembourg court cases before their claims can be
addressed, a Paris court said.  A commercial court in Paris said in an opinion June 9 that
while their case is admissible, it will wait to issue a final
ruling until the Luxembourg-based LuxAlpha liquidators’ claims
are resolved by judges there.  The suit is one of many over UBS’s role as custodian for
LuxAlpha, which invested 95 percent of its assets with  Bernard
Madoff  and is being liquidated. Irving H. Picard, the trustee
liquidating Madoff’s firm, sued the bank for $2.6 billion last
year, claiming UBS aided the fraud partly by setting up feeder
funds like LuxAlpha.  Dominique Gerster, a UBS spokesman, said the Zurich-based
bank welcomes the court’s “overall conclusions.”  UBS lawyer Denis Chemla told the Paris court at a March
hearing that LuxAlpha was created at the request of wealthy
clients who wanted a fund that allowed them to continue
investing with Madoff and that UBS didn’t issue any false
information.  Murdoch’s Sun Can’t Identify Ex-RBS CEO Goodwin’s Mistress  Rupert Murdoch’s Sun newspaper can’t identify a woman who
had an affair with former Royal Bank of Scotland Group Chief
Executive Officer Fred Goodwin, a judge ruled in a case
involving privacy and corporate governance.  Justice Michael Tugendhat at the High Court in London today
refused to allow the paper to name the woman, but modified a
court order to allow more details about her job description to
be published.  RBS posted the largest loss in U.K. corporate history in
2008 and required a 45 billion-pound ($74 billion) bailout
following its acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV. Goodwin was
cleared of responsibility in December. The RBS rescue may
explain why the paper considers articles about Goodwin to be of
interest to readers, Tugendhat said in the ruling. He noted that
“what is of interest to the public is not the same as what it
is in the public interest to publish.”  The Sun’s lawyer, Richard Spearman, said at a June 1
hearing that an anonymity order was stifling public debate about
corporate governance at the bank before its 2008 bailout. Hugh
Tomlinson, the lawyer representing the woman, said at the same
hearing that there was no need to change the order because there
isn’t any evidence the affair contributed to the collapse of
RBS.  Tomlinson said he planned to challenge the judgment at the
Court of Appeal. Tugendhat said the Sun shouldn’t publish the
woman’s job description for 14 days to allow time for the appeal
to be filed.  The case is one of dozens involving so-called super
injunctions or privacy injunctions that ban newspapers from
printing stories about people’s sex lives.  German Top Court Schedules Hearing in Euro Bailout Suits  Germany’s top constitutional court scheduled a hearing on
lawsuits against the nation’s participation in the euro-area
rescue fund and the aid package for Greece.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe will hear
oral arguments in three cases over the issue on July 5, the
court said in an e-mailed statement today. The cases were
brought by a group of academics and lawmaker Peter Gauweiler.  The German high court has drawn criticism for not acting
swiftly on the suits, which were filed in the first half of
2010. The judges declined to issue emergency orders blocking the
aid package for Greece in May 2010 and the euro-area rescue fund
in June 2010 and didn’t schedule a hearing on the main legal
questions in the cases until yesterday.  The court is expected to consider whether the case can be
dismissed for procedural reasons as well as substantive
questions. The court normally takes a few months after a hearing
before it issues a ruling.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 987/10, 2 BvR 1099/10 and 2 BvR
1485/10.  Interviews/Speeches  Bair Says U.S. Must Avoid Amnesia in Response to Crisis  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
strongly defended higher capital buffers for the biggest banks
and said U.S. regulators must guard against pressure to be less
vigilant in financial-industry oversight as the nation recovers
from the 2008 credit crisis.  “I see a lot of amnesia setting in now,” Bair said
yesterday during a question-and-answer session at the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in New York, where she discussed her tenure at
the FDIC and the government’s response to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  Bair was asked to respond after JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , head of the most profitable U.S.
bank, pressed Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in a
public forum on June 7 on whether regulators have risked slowing
growth by going too far in reining in the U.S. banking system.  Regulators must look at the relationships among different
rules and may have to phase in regulations on derivatives, Bair
said in an acknowledgement of some agreement with Dimon. In
other areas, such as a 3 percent equity capital buffer for
systemically important firms, the new rules will help protect
the financial system while allowing large banks to earn a
reasonable return, she said.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Germany Risks Losing Manager Post at EU Stress-Test Agency  Germany’s financial supervisor risks losing its seat on the
managing committee of the  European Banking Authority , days after
Bafin’s chairman criticized the “legitimacy” of the agency
overseeing stress tests on lenders.  Bank watchdogs from across the European Union are scheduled
to vote as soon as this month on a replacement for Bafin’s
Sabine Lautenschlaeger, who must step down from her role at the
EBA because she agreed to join the Bundesbank. The EBA’s six-
person managing committee helps decide the agency’s annual work
plan and includes supervisors from the  Czech Republic , Finland,
France, Hungary and Sweden.  Bafin spokesman Ben Fischer said that Lautenschlaeger “now
loses her seat” and it won’t automatically go to a new German
candidate.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 