-- 
Goolsbee Says Markets Confident U.S. Won’t Default on Debt

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/goolsbee-says-markets-confident-u-s-won-t-default-on-debt.html
Austan Goolsbee , President  Barack Obama ’s top economist, said markets are confident the U.S. will
avoid a default and that talks with congressional leaders on
cutting the nation’s long-term debt are making progress.  “The negotiations are going reasonably well,” Goolsbee,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s Political Capital with
 Al Hunt , airing this weekend. “I think we’ll find a solution.”  Vice President  Joe Biden  plans three meetings with
lawmakers next week in an effort to strike a deal by July 4 that
would curb the federal  budget deficit  and clear the way to raise
the $14.3 trillion debt limit. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S. will run out of options to avoid a
default by Aug. 2.  Pushing the negotiations up against that date “plays with
fire,” Goolsbee said.  “I don’t think the markets think we’re going to default on
Treasuries or any of the other government obligations,”
Goolsbee said. “We’re a nation that pays our bills.”  Pressure is building on debt negotiators to deliver an
agreement. Moody’s Investors Service last week said if there’s
no progress on raising the debt limit in coming weeks, it
expects to place the government’s rating under review for a
possible downgrade. In April,  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded its
U.S. debt outlook to negative.  Stocks Slide  U.S. stocks extended a sixth weekly drop on concern the
global economy is slowing. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost
172.45 points, or 1.4 percent, to 11,951.91 in  New York , its
first dip below 12,000 since March, and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 1.4 percent to 1,270.98.  With concerns growing that the economic recovery is
weakening, Goolsbee said the administration is focusing on ways
to spark more hiring by businesses.  “As we’re shifting to this transitioning to a growth
phase, we want to be for any policies that are going to help
incentivize and stand up the private sector to drive the
recovery,” Goolsbee said. The president won’t press for steps
“that are of the traditional stimulus form,” such as the $830
billion tax and spending package the administration pushed
through Congress in 2009, he said.  The White House has taken steps such as trimming
regulations and providing help for entrepreneurs, he said.  Payroll Tax  Among the measures Obama’s advisers have discussed is a
temporary cut in the employer contribution to payroll taxes,
people familiar with the matter said earlier this week. A
reduction in the employee portion of the tax was part of a deal
the administration reached with Congress last December.  Goolsbee said that is “something we ought to be open to
looking at.”  Obama is meeting with members of his Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness, which includes corporate executives, in
Raleigh,  North Carolina  on June 13 to discuss economic growth.
New proposals for boosting the recovery may come out of those
meetings, Goolsbee said.  Recent economic data have added pressure on the
administration. Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in eight
months in May, Labor Department figures released on June 3
showed. The 54,000 rise in jobs followed a 232,000 gain in April
and was below the 165,000 median increase forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer Spending   Manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in more than in a
year in May, according to Institute for Supply Management data.
Consumer spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy,
rose less than forecast in April as households felt the pinch of
grocery and energy costs, a Commerce Department report showed.  Goolsbee attributed the slowdown to “some headwinds”
including high gasoline prices and the effects of supply chain
disruptions on U.S. manufacturers following the Japanese
earthquake.  Goolsbee, who has been a longtime adviser to Obama,
announced this week he would be resigning from the
administration and returning to the  University of Chicago  this
summer. He has been on leave from his post as an economics
professor at the university’s Booth School of Business.  “The University of Chicago has been beyond understanding
of my time in public service and my two-plus years working on
the campaign,” Goolsbee said. “The university, my family, and
the president and I have been back and forth on this for several
months and I decided this is probably, this is the way that it’s
got to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  