-- 
Greek Woes Cause Company Bond Sales to Be Pulled; Spreads Widen

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-10T12:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/greek-debt-crisis-causing-company-bond-sales-to-be-pulled-as-spreads-widen.html
Political wrangling over the future
of  Greece  is infecting  Europe ’s corporate bond market, pushing
relative yields to a 2 1/2-month high and forcing borrowers to
pull deals.  The extra yield investors demand to hold non-financial
company debt instead of  government securities  rose 3 basis
points this month to 118, the highest since March 24, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Denmark’s Nykredit
Bank A/S and Finnish lender  Pohjola Bank Plc (POH1S)  postponed bond
sales yesterday citing market conditions.  Euro-region governments are pitched against the  European
Central Bank  in a dispute over what a potential restructuring of
Greece’s sovereign debt would look like. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  is calling for private creditors to take more
pain while ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  warns such a course
may spread contagion. A plan needs to be in place by June 24 to
prevent the  International Monetary Fund  from withholding the
next instalment of the nation’s bailout.  “Systemic risk with Greece is definitely an issue for the
market,” said Christophe Herpet, a Paris-based senior portfolio
manager at AXA Investment Managers, which manages about 516
billion euros ($747 billion) of assets.  Concern over indebted European nations’ ability to fund
themselves amid the sovereign crisis scuppered a fundraising by
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  at the end of last month.  Half the Bonds  The three banks underwriting the 1 billion-euro covered
bond sale for Spain’s biggest lender on May 31 were left with
about half of the bonds, the Wall Street Journal reported today,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. Commerzbank
AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe Generale SA arranged the
issue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A spokesman for Santander, who declined to be identified
citing bank policy, wouldn’t comment.  Nykredit,  Denmark ’s biggest issuer of mortgage bonds,
postponed its sale of senior unsecured bonds because the market
“was much weaker” than when the deal was announced, according
to Morten Vagnoe, head of debt investor relations.  Pohjola Bank delayed its 300 million-euro, 10-year lower
Tier 2 notes issue because “market conditions dramatically
changed,” said Lauri Iloniemi, head of group funding.  “Participation of private creditors in cases of insolvency
is indispensable,” Schaeuble told lawmakers in Berlin today,
ignoring warnings from credit-rating firms that his proposal to
extend Greek debt maturities by seven years would be deemed a
default. Trichet has said the ECB has no intention of setting an
example by rolling over its own Greek holdings.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of insuring bonds sold by European companies and
banks jumped this month, signaling a deterioration in how
investors view the borrowers’ creditworthiness.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 40 companies with mostly high-yield ratings rose 23 basis
points to 393, the highest since March 17, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the
senior debt of 25 banks and insurers climbed 6.5 basis points to
163, the highest since March 11.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  