-- 
Groupon Is Said to Offer Role to Six Additional Banks in Initial Offering

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-06-10T14:21:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/groupon-said-to-offer-role-to-six-more-banks-in-initial-public-offering.html
Groupon Inc., seeking to raise $750
million in an initial public offering, asked six more banks to
help underwrite the sale, including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , said two people with knowledge of the situation.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
Allen & Co. were also offered a role, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the decision isn’t public.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  are leading the IPO, a June 2 filing said.  Investment banks are racing to win assignments to handle a
surge of technology IPOs and the lucrative fees associated with
them. Lead banks have earned an average fee of 5.2 percent on
U.S. IPOs this year, compared with 0.6 percent for corporate
bond sales, Bloomberg data show.  Groupon, the top provider of daily deals online, is
following LinkedIn Corp., Yandex NV and Renren Inc. in raising
money from public markets. LinkedIn, the biggest professional-
networking site, was the first major U.S. social-media company
to sell shares to the public. Its stock more than doubled in the
first day of trading, though it has pared its gains since then.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Spokespeople
from Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Bank of America and
JPMorgan declined to comment. Allen & Co. couldn’t be reached
for comment.  Operating Losses  While Groupon’s sales surged 14-fold to $644.7 million last
quarter, the company has racked up operating losses of $540.2
million since its founding in 2008.  Groupon  also faces
competition in the market for daily coupons from hundreds of
rivals, including LivingSocial.com, as well as recent entrants
Google Inc., Facebook Inc. and Yelp Inc.  The Chicago-based company will trade under the ticker
GRPN, according to the filing.  Groupon delivers daily discounts on hotels, restaurants and
other goods and services to 83.1 million subscribers. The daily-
deal market pioneered by Groupon may generate $3.9 billion in
U.S. sales in 2015, from $873 million in 2010, according to
research firm BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly, Virginia.  To handle the growth, Groupon bolstered its workforce to
7,107 employees as of March 31, from 37 in June 2009. Revenue
per sales representative in the first quarter was $172,000 a
month, up from $87,000 two years earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  San Francisco  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  