-- 
Groupon China Unit Says Margins ‘Much Greater’ Than 10% Amid Competition

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-10T07:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/groupon-china-venture-says-margins-much-greater-than-10-amid-competiton.html
Groupon Inc., owner of the world’s
biggest coupon website, said margins are “much greater” than
10 percent at its  China  venture Gaopeng.com, which competes with
thousands of clones in the world’s largest Internet market.  Gaopeng offers coupons for group purchase deals in 30
cities and has established operations in 50, Ouyang Yun, chief
operating officer, said at a press conference in Beijing today.
Groupon started Gaopeng in February with partners including
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company.  Groupon, seeking to raise $750 million in an initial public
offering, is making “progress” in China, Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mason  said at the same event. Sales of Web
discount vouchers for services such as dining and spas may
quadruple in the Asian country this year, according to research
company iResearch.  “Tencent’s scale and user base gives Groupon an advantage,
and China’s group-buying market is still at an early stage and
has a lot of upside,” said April Su, an analyst at iResearch in
Beijing. A main competitor for Groupon will be Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd., she said.  Underwriters  Groupon, based in  Chicago , promotes discounts on everything
from meals to massages in the cities where its customers live.
The company asked six more banks to help underwrite the sale,
including Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co., said two people
with knowledge of the situation yesterday.  Mason, in Beijing as part of a tour of China,  Japan , and
 Korea , today addressed reporters for less than three minutes
before exiting the event without taking any questions.  “We think we’ve found an excellent partner in Tencent and
we’ve been very pleased with the progress we’ve made,” Mason
told reporters in Beijing today, before leaving Ouyang to field
queries on Gaopeng.  Tencent fell 2.7 percent to HK$205.20 as of 3:24 p.m. in
Hong Kong trading. The shares have gained 22 percent this year,
compared with a 2.6 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  More than 3,000 group-buying websites operate in China and
generated an estimated 1.5 billion yuan ($232 million) of sales
in 2010, Su said. Revenue in the industry may quadruple this
year, she said.  Rival Alibaba  Alibaba, China’s biggest online-commerce company, operates
group-buying site Ju Hua Suan. In April, Lashou.com, a Beijing-
based group-buying site, said it raised $110 million of funding
from investors including Milestone Capital and Cie Financiere
Richemont SA’s Reinet Fund.  Gaopeng, owned by a venture between Groupon, Tencent, and
 Yunfeng Capital , a private equity fund co-founded by Alibaba’s
chairman Jack Ma, has already hired 3,000 workers in China,
Ouyang said today.  Gaopeng is seeking an edge in China with “world-class
brands,” like Apple Inc., Ouyang said today.  “Our strategy is very strict selection of the merchant
deals,” Ouyang said. “It’s not only about discount service but
it’s also about being a city guide, a lifestyle.”  Group Market  China’s group-buying market is small compared with online
retail, which expanded 75 percent last year to 461.1 billion
yuan, according to iResearch’s Su.  Alibaba’s Taobao.com generated estimated sales of about 380
billion yuan in 2010, accounting for more than 80 percent of the
online shopping market, according to Su.  Taobao already vanquished one U.S. rival, EBay Inc. EBay
entered China in 2002 and shut its China site in 2006, as Taobao
cut the U.S. company’s share of the China market by half.  Other U.S. Internet companies have struggled in China,
including Google Inc., which shut its China-based search page
last year in a clash with the government about adherence to
censorship requirements.  Groupon vowed to avoid the mistakes of other U.S.
technology companies in China by not simply transplanting the
U.S. model to the Asian nation, Julie Mossler, a Groupon
spokeswoman, told the briefing today.  “That is why the partnership with Tencent and why Ouyang’s
expertise are so important,” Mossler said. “The management
team here is Chinese and they are native to the market. They
live here, they understand what consumers want and they
understand what merchants are looking for as well.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  