-- 
Second Half 2011 U.S. Growth Rebound Intact, Economists Say

-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/growth-rebound-for-u-s-seen-in-second-half-of-2011-in-economists-survey.html
Slowdowns in  consumer spending  and
employment will prove temporary, giving way to a U.S. growth
rebound in the second half of 2011, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News said.  After growing at a 2.3 percent annual pace this quarter,
the world’s largest economy will expand at a 3.2 percent rate
from July through December, according to the median forecast of
67 economists polled from June 1 to June 8.  Rising exports, stable fuel prices, record levels of cash
in company coffers and easier lending rules will be enough to
overcome the damage done by one-time events like poor weather
and the disaster in  Japan , economists said. Nonetheless, the
current slackening means Federal Reserve policy makers will wait
even longer to raise  interest rates  next year, the survey shows.  “The economic headwinds are well known, but if you look at
the tailwinds, they are still pretty strong,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “There are a lot of reasons to be fairly upbeat
about the recovery. Growth will pick up in the second half.”  The projected gain in second-quarter gross domestic product
is down a percentage point from the 3.3 percent estimated last
month. At the same time, this month’s forecast for the second
half of the year was little changed from May’s prediction of an
average 3.35 percent.  For all of 2011, the U.S. will grow 2.5 percent, down from
the 2.7 percent gain projected last month. The rate of growth
will accelerate to 3 percent for the next two years, the survey
showed.  Stocks Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has slid about 5 percent
from its 2011 high on April 29, reflecting the cooling economy.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has declined to 3 percent
from 3.29 percent in the same period. Economists forecast the
yield will rise to 3.65 percent in the fourth quarter, down from
a prior estimate of 3.8 percent.  A slowdown in hiring is among reasons for short-term
pessimism. Employers boosted payrolls by 54,000 workers in May
after a 232,000 increase the prior month, figures from the Labor
Department showed last week. The jobless rate climbed to 9.1
percent from 9 percent in April.  “Credit conditions continue to improve and labor income is
growing, even with a bit of a pause in May, and we think that
gives the economy enough momentum to carry us though the soft
patch,” said Samuel Coffin, an economist at UBS Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Corporate Cash  Companies had a record $1.91 trillion in cash and other
liquid assets at the end of the first quarter, according to Fed
data issued yesterday. The money will probably be used to boost
 capital investment  and hiring later this year once concern over
the slowdown dissipates, said IHS’s Behravesh.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, will grow at an average 2.95 percent in the second
half of the year after increasing at a 2.1 percent rate this
quarter, according to the survey median.  Auto sales slumped last month, in part reflecting a
shortage of vehicles from Japanese manufacturers following the
earthquake and tsunami. Cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8
million annual rate, down 11 percent from 13.1 million in April,
according to industry data.  Ford Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said
this week that while the economy is the automaker’s main concern,
he expects conditions to improve in the second half of the year.  Biggest Concern  “Our biggest concern of course is that the economy has
slowed a little bit from where we thought it would be,” Mulally
said in a June 7 Bloomberg Television interview. “Having said
that, most of the economists believe that it’s going to start
picking up in the second half with everything that’s been put in
place, both monetarily and fiscally.”  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, said its global
sales will rise 50 percent by 2015 to 8 million vehicles a year
as it delivers more small cars and boosts revenue in  Asia .  Increasing overseas demand is another reason for optimism,
economists said. Exports climbed to a record in April, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday, reflecting a 10 percent
drop in the value of the dollar over the past 12 months,
according to a Fed gauge, and expansions in emerging markets.  Forecasts for a second-half rebound are in synch with Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s views. Bernanke this week said growth
is likely to pick up as fuel prices recede and disruptions in
parts supplies dissipate with Japanese factories recovering.  ‘Moderate Pace’  “Overall, the economic recovery appears to be continuing
at a moderate pace, albeit at a rate that is both uneven across
sectors and frustratingly slow from the perspective of millions
of unemployed and underemployed workers,” Bernanke said in a
June 7 speech in Atlanta.  Concern over the pace of improvement in the labor market
means the central bank’s first rate increase will take place in
the second quarter of 2012, rather than in the first three
months of the year, according to the survey median.  Not all economists are convinced the slowdown will be
short-lived.  “The labor market is disappointing,” said  Joshua Shapiro ,
chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York ,
who cut his GDP forecasts for each of the last three quarters of
the year. “Small businesses are increasingly worried about the
future and that is where the job growth is going to have to come
from.” The dearth of jobs last month “really caught my
attention and that made me think we were experiencing more deep-
seated problems,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorrres2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  