-- 
Iceland Foods Profit Gains 15% as U.K. Retailer Adds Stores

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-06-10T08:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/iceland-foods-profit-advances-as-u-k-retailer-adds-stores.html
Iceland Foods Group Ltd., the U.K.-
based frozen-food chain whose majority owner is seeking a buyer,
reported a 15 percent increase in full-year earnings as it
opened stores and added new products to win customers.  Pretax profit for the year ended March 25 climbed to 155.5
million pounds ($253 million) from 135.4 million pounds a year
earlier, the Deeside, Wales-based company said today in an e-
mailed statement. Sales rose 5.9 percent to 2.39 billion pounds.  Failed Icelandic lender Landsbanki Islands Hf. last month
hired banks to help find a buyer for its 67 percent stake in the
food company. Asda, the U.K. supermarket chain owned by  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , may make a bid, the  Sunday Times  reported this
month. William Morrison Supermarkets Plc and Malcolm Walker,
Iceland Food’s chief executive officer and owner of the
remaining stake, are also interested, the newspaper reported.
Asda Chief Executive Officer Andy Clarke this week called the
speculation “unfounded.”  “My colleagues and I will work constructively to bring
this process to a satisfactory conclusion,” Walker said in
today’s statement. “Our own objective is to ensure that Iceland
has a strong, prosperous and independent future, and continues
to serve its customers for many years to come.”  Iceland Foods opened 21 stores and closed one during the
year, taking the total to 796. The retailer plans to add an
additional 15 stores during the coming year, according to the
statement.  Sales at stores open at least a year increased 2.1 percent
in the year, the company said. The retailer has added more than
200 new products in the last 12 months and this year began an
advertising campaign with “X Factor” singer Stacey Solomon.  Iceland Foods was “virtually” free of debt at the end of
the financial year, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  