-- 
Micromet Gains After Leukemia Drug Helps Patients in Study

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-06-10T13:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/micromet-drug-draws-remission-in-leukemia-patients-study-shows.html
Micromet Inc. (MITI) , a biotechnology
company with no marketed products, rose the most in two months
in Nasdaq trading after its experimental medicine was shown to
help leukemia patients reach remission in interim study results.  Micromet climbed 76 cents, or 14 percent, to $6.05 at 9:50
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after earlier
reaching $6.15 for the biggest intraday gain since April 6. The
shares had fallen 35 percent this year before today.  Nine of 12 patients on the drug, called blinatumomab,
reached complete remission, with no evidence of cancer cells in
their bone marrow, the Rockville, Maryland-based company said
today in a statement. The data will be presented tomorrow at the
European Hematology Association meeting in  London .  The trial, from the second phase of three generally
required for marketing approval, consists of patients with acute
lymphoblastic leukemia whose disease has relapsed after standard
therapy. The cancer affects about 5,760 people in the U.S. each
year. There hasn’t been a new medicine for this indication
approved in more than three decades, Chief Executive Officer
Christian Itin said.  “Blinatumomab is shaping up to be a breakthrough treatment
for ALL across all lines of therapy,”  Jason Kantor , an analyst
with  RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco, wrote in a research
note today. The data “provide an indication that blinatumomab
may be acceptable for an accelerated approval strategy in the
U.S.”  Adverse events included fever, swelling in the legs and
feet and fatigue, Micromet said. Two patients stopped treatment
because of central nervous system side effects, which were
reversible, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 