-- 
Microsoft, Mohawk Industries, Nu-Image, ‘Old Spot’: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-10T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/microsoft-mohawk-industries-nu-image-old-spot-intellectual-property.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  upheld a
patent-infringement verdict that will cost  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  $300
million and already has forced changes in its Word software.  The justices yesterday unanimously rejected calls from
Microsoft and its allies, including Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
to overturn the award and make some patents more vulnerable to
legal challenge.  The ruling is a victory for closely held  I4i LP , which
claimed in its 2007 lawsuit that its patented technology had
been incorporated into Word, the word-processing program used by
500 million people. The award is the largest ever upheld on
appeal in a patent case.  Microsoft, which had $5.2 billion in profit in the first
quarter of 2011, hasn’t yet paid I4i any damages.  “While the outcome is not what we had hoped for, we will
continue to advocate for changes to the law that will prevent
abuse of the patent system and protect inventors who hold
patents representing true innovation,” said  Kevin Kutz , a
Microsoft spokesman, in an e-mail.  Microsoft contended that the disputed patent was based on
technology already in the marketplace. The question for the
Supreme Court was whether, as a lower court concluded, Microsoft
needed to make that showing by “clear and convincing” evidence
to overcome the longstanding presumption that patents approved
by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office are valid.  Microsoft argued that a less-demanding standard should
apply when a jury is presented with evidence about pre-existing
technology that the patent examiner didn’t consider.  Writing for the Supreme Court, Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said
that the clear-and-convincing standard is a decades-old rule
that Congress has repeatedly declined to revisit.  “Any recalibration of the standard of proof remains in its
hands,” Sotomayor said.  The case is Microsoft v. I4i Limited Partnership, 10-290.  For more, click here.  Apple Seeks Patent on Movie-Finding Application for IPhone  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, applied for a
patent on a technology that will make it easier for an iPhone
user to find a movie at the right time and place.  Application  20110137690 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office yesterday, covers an
application for an electronic device that can search variables
before presenting movie information.  The variables include geographic proximity of the theater,
the show start time closest to the current time of day, show
finish time, and traffic conditions, according to the
application. The variables also could be factored into use of
the mobile electronic device to buy tickets for the movie or
other event.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, applied for the
patent in December 2009. No outside counsel is named in the
application.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Mohawk Seeks Declaration of Non-Infringement of Rug Design  Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK) , a rug manufacturer based in
Calhoun,  Georgia , asked a federal court to declare it isn’t
infringing the copyright of a Maine-based design and licensing
company.  In the complaint filed June 7 in federal court in Atlanta,
Mohawk said it received notice from counsel for Angela Adams
Licensing LLC that one of its carpets is “substantially
similar” to an Adams design.  Included in the court filing is a letter from  Margaret
Minister O’Keefe  of  Portland , Maine’s  Pierce Atwood , suggesting
that any potential dispute can be resolved amicably.  Mohawk’s response to that letter, also included in the
court filing, was sent by  Michael D. Hobbs Jr.  of Atlanta’s
Troutman Sanders LLP. Mohawk “takes Angela Adams’ claims
seriously” and carefully analyzed her design and the design of
the carpet that allegedly infringes, he said.  He said that the geometric elements in Adams’s design
“date back thousands of years and are not original to Angela
Adams.” In the 1950s and 1960s, designers “commonly adopted
those ancient geometric designs into ‘mod’ mid-century decor,
rugs and fabrics.” The Mohawk rug at issue is a “retro”
design based on “mid-century elements that have been popular
for at least the last ten years,” he said.  Mohawk asked the court to declare that it doesn’t infringe
the Adams design, and for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs. It also seeks a declaration that the Adams design “does
not contain protectable originality.”  The Georgia is represented in the case by  Sara Beth Myers 
of Nashville, Tennessee’s  Riley Warnock & Jacobson Plc.   According to Bloomberg data, Angela Adams Licensing has
filed 10 copyright-infringement cases since 2005. Mohawk is one
of the defendants in a case filed June 8 in federal court in
Portland.  That case is Angela Adams Licensing LLC v. Target Corp.,
2:11-cv-00229-DBH, U.S. District Court, District of Maine
(Portland). The Atlanta case is Mohawk Industries Inc., v.
Angela Adams Licensing LLC, 4:11-cv-00155-HLM, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Nu Image’s Delay in Serving Subpoenas Wins Scolding from Judge  Nu Image Inc., a Los Angeles-based film studio, received a
setback in a copyright-infringement case it filed against more
than 23,000 unnamed defendants.  In an order issued June 7, a federal judge in  Washington 
scolded the company for failing to serve “not a single
subpoena” in the case more than two months after the court
granted a request for the subpoenas  Nu Image filed the case Feb. 11, accusing the unnamed
defendants of illegally downloading copies of its film “The
Expendables” using the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol.  The film company had asked the court for permission to
serve subpoenas on Internet service providers, seeking the
identities of customers who allegedly did the unauthorized
downloading.  U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins wrote that the delay
was “inexcusable.” If the studio was seeking information on
claims that couldn’t properly be pursued in his court, it was
“inappropriate and a waste of scarce judicial resources,” he
said.  If his court isn’t the proper venue for the case, then it
should either be dismissed or transferred to “any district or
division in which it could have been brought,” Wilkins said.  The judge ordered Nu Image to show him why his court was
the proper venue to serve all 23,433 defendants. He told the
studio it must respond to his order by June 21.  He noted that at a June 2 conference, counsel for Nu Image
said the subpoenas hadn’t been served because of issues the
judge raised about venue and jurisdiction. Wilkins hadn’t raised
those issued until May 25, he said.  Nu Image is represented by  Nicholas A. Kurtz  and  Thomas
Mansfield Dunlap  of Washington’s  Dunlap, Grubb & Weaver PLLC .  The case is Nu Image Inc., v. Does 1-23,322, U.S. District
Court for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  U.K. Swine Breeders Win Meatpacker’s Trademark Cancellation  Axle Associates , a Selkirkshire, U.K.-based meat-marketing
company, lost its “Bramley Old Spot Pork” trademark following
an action by that country’s Intellectual Property Office, the
 BBC   reported .  The Gloucestershire Old Spots Pig Breeders’ Club argued for
the invalidation of the trademark, claiming the meat Axle used
for the product didn’t come from purebred swine, according to
the BBC.  Gloucestershire Old Spots  was added to the European Union’s
list of protected agricultural names last year, according to the
BBC.  Jim Ironside, director of Axle Associates, criticized the
IP Office’s decision, telling the BBC that the country’s
trademark law is inconsistent.  ‘Pink Lady’ Growers Seek Consumer Reports of Bogus Labels  An association of growers of the Pink Lady variety of
apples is developing a program to encourage consumers to report
bogus stickers on apples that aren’t of that variety,  according
to  the produce industry publication the Packer.  Pink Lady apples are of the “ cripps pink ” variety
originating in  Australia , and if the apple doesn’t bear a label
with the Pink Lady trademark, “it doesn’t come with that
trademark protection,” Alan Taylor,  Pink Lady America LLC 
marketing director, told the Packer.  The Yakima, Washington-based trade group is using the
social media sites run by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. to
promote the trademark and explain the quality conditions it
represented, the Packer reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Greenblum & Bernstein Hires Former Cargill IP Counsel  Greenblum & Bernstein LLP  hired Harry Gwinnell, the Reston,
Virginia-based intellectual-property specialty firm said in a 
statement .  Gwinnell  joins from Cargill Inc. in Minneapolis, where he
was vice president and chief IP counsel. He previously practiced
IP law in-house at  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  of Kingsport, Tennessee;
Boston-based  Cabot Corp. (CBT)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  of
Hartford, Connecticut. He also has served as a patent examiner
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Villanova
University and a law degree from Catholic University of America.  Hiscock & Barclay Hires Patent Lawyers From Marjama Muldoon  Hiscock & Barclay LLP  hired two patent counsel, Denis J.
Sullivan and Michael J. Wasco, from defunct Marjama Muldoon
Blasiak & Sullivan LLP, the Syracuse, New York-based firm said
in a  statement .  Sullivan , who also previously practiced at  Chicago ’s
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, does patent litigation in federal district
courts and before the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Before he became a lawyer, he was an electrical engineer
and project manager in the Aviation Design Division of the Port
Authority of  New York  and  New Jersey . He has an undergraduate
degree in electrical engineering from Manhattan College and a
law degree from New York Law School.  Wasco , who does patent and trademark-acquisition work, has
represented clients in the mechanical, electro-mechanical and
electrical areas. He also has handled trademark disputes before
the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  He has both an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree
in mechanical engineering from Clarkson University and a law
degree from the Franklin Pierce Law Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 