-- 
Import Prices in U.S. Unexpectedly Increase on Automobile, Clothing Costs

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-10T12:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/import-prices-in-u-s-unexpectedly-increase-on-automobile-clothing-costs.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. unexpectedly rose in May as increasing costs for consumer
goods like autos and clothing overshadowed the first drop in
fuel expenses in eight months.  The 0.2 percent increase in the import-price index, its
eighth consecutive gain, followed a revised 2.1 percent climb in
April, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Economists projected a 0.7 percent decrease for last month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Costs advanced 12.5 percent from May 2010, the biggest 12-month
increase since September 2008.  Growing demand from economies in  Asia  and  Latin America ,
paired with a weaker dollar, is pushing up the cost of goods
from abroad for businesses like  Gap Inc. (GPS)  At the same time,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has reiterated that he
expects elevated commodity costs to moderate.  “Higher prices given the weaker dollar are something that
the economy is going to have deal with going forward,” said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in  Detroit . “Retailers and food vendors are seeing their costs
rise.”  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the report
and  Treasury securities  rose. The contract on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index maturing in September fell 0.4 percent to
1,277.5 at 8:56 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-
year note, which moves inversely to prices, fell to 2.98 percent
from 3 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  Projections in the Bloomberg survey of 55 economists ranged
from decreases of 2 percent to increases of 0.3 percent.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 12.5
percent, the biggest 12-month gain since September 2008. They
were forecast to increase 11.2 percent over the past 12 months.  The cost of imported petroleum decreased 0.4 percent from
the prior month and was up 45 percent from a year earlier.  Excluding all fuels, import prices increased 0.4 percent
from the prior month. They were up 4.4 percent from May 2010,
matching the year-over-year gains in the prior two months as the
largest since October 2008.  Costs of imported automobiles increased 0.5 percent from
the prior month. Consumer goods excluding vehicles showed a 0.3
percent gain, led by a 0.7 percent gain for cotton apparel.  Cotton Prices  Glenn Murphy, chief executive officer of Gap, the largest
U.S. apparel chain, said his San Francisco-based company needs
to work more directly with mills making his company’s clothes
because “for 30 years nobody has ever seen this kind of
inflation.”  “This year we’re dealing with not only some economic
headwinds, but obviously we’re dealing with huge inflationary
pressure, which has taken our operating margin down,” Murphy
said during a June 8 presentation.  Imported food prices fell 0.5 percent, the first decrease
since June 2010, today’s report showed.  The rising oil prices that helped make imports more
expensive in April have since moderated. Crude oil futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  reached $113.93 a barrel on
April 29, the highest level since September 2008, before closing
at $102.7 a barrel on May 31.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week he
doesn’t see “much evidence that inflation is becoming broad-
based or ingrained.” The chairman said the economy will likely
pick up as fuel costs moderate and parts supply disruptions ease
as factories in  Japan  recover.  Fed’s View  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier. Fed
policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent, according to their April forecast.  “There are good reasons to believe that commodity prices
will not continue to rise at the rapid rates that we have seen
recently,” Bernanke said at a June 7 speech in Atlanta Costlier
commodities lead households and businesses to adjust spending
and production, which curtails demand, while temporary factors
like adverse weather abate and reduce prices, the chairman said  The cost of goods from  China  rose 0.3 percent, while those
from Japan were unchanged, the report showed.  U.S. export prices increased 0.2 percent after rising 0.9
percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices of
farm exports fell 2 percent, while those of non-farm goods
climbed 0.5 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due June
14 and the consumer-price index on the following day. The
Bloomberg survey median for those measures indicates inflation
excluding volatile food and fuel expenses remains contained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  