-- 
In Germany, Vegetables Are the New Enemy: Matthias Politycki

-- B y   M a t t h i a s   P o l i t y c k i
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/in-germany-vegetables-are-the-new-enemy-matthias-politycki.html
The situation is serious, deadly
serious. At the same time, it is also clear: As with all
national disasters, the performance of officials amid  Germany ’s
vegetable-borne E. coli outbreak belongs to the theater of the
absurd. We are experiencing a constant parade of incompetence,
which is presented in a completely earnest fashion. And the news
media are trying above all to make their marks.  The experts are hitting us round the clock; we’re willing
to believe everything they say. We are amateurs and continue
with our chatter: What used to be an exchange of words about the
weather has now turned into a highly involved discussion about
alternating bowel movements -- even in random encounters.  It’s not uninteresting to hear what our fellow man is
experiencing these days. Had I not expected to be infected by
the panic fanned by the news media? I live in Hamburg, the
center of the whole mess. Whether cucumbers, tomatoes or bean
sprouts, the primary suspects are among us -- certainly at our
weekly farmer’s market, where my wife buys so much. Are we now
to eat only tomatoes from  New Zealand , or biscuits with dried
fruit?  Then, there I am at noon at my local Turkish place ordering
a kebab, and the waiter asks me: “With everything?”  I nod without thinking; I see him lost in thought as he
puts the cucumber and tomatoes in my kebab pocket along with the
meat and onions, and someone is standing next to me saying:
“Whoa! Are you trying to poison us?”  The questioner is huge, half-naked and tattooed;
fortunately, he meant the Turk behind the counter, who knew
immediately what the guy meant.  It’s My Kebab  Before I can say something -- after all, it’s my kebab --
the big guy issues instructions to take every bit of cucumber
and tomato out of my kebab. I smile at him with gratitude. He
pays no attention to me, praises the sandwich maker, then orders
a kebab for himself with everything, “including tomatoes and
cucumbers -- whadd’ya think of that?”  Next time I’ll go to a currywurst stand -- a vegetable-free
zone. Half a chicken, meatballs, schnitzel burger -- meat has
become my substitute for vegetables -- at least until the coast
is clear. My running buddy, a vegetarian, is on a long
abstinence; He switched to frozen foods, just to be safe.  At McDonald’s, almost everyone orders burgers without
veggies. I am trying to understand. Every day the news comes
out, is withdrawn, then comes out again, stirring up new
hysteria.  Uncertainty at Lunch  I confess to my buddy that I’m not sure anymore whether I
can eat at the local Thai place for lunch, because they use lots
of sprouts in every dish.  “They’re heated, though,” my buddy says.  “But only to 150, 160 degrees!”  “What a pansy! Calm down, man. Nothing can happen.”  Now it’s my turn to look surprised. This guy, with whom I
regularly run, do I really know him?  At the end of the day, even my wife surprises me, after 19
wonderful years together! She bought mozzarella and tomatoes for
dinner; when she was washing the tomatoes, she suddenly stopped
and said, more to herself than to me: “Maybe not.”  Obviously, she finds it hard. She loves mozzarella with
tomatoes, almost as much as she loves arugula with parmesan --
both women’s meals, as I call them.  “Let’s not do it,” she finally decides, turning resolutely
to me. What follows is a palace revolution, a  turning point , a
sensation:  “No more mozzarella with tomatoes.”  Never again? But what then? And what’s under suspicion
next, peppers? Should we eat only cereal for dinner? Or should
everything, without exception, be boiled or peeled, as if
central  Europe  has suddenly become a part of the tropics or the
Third World?  Permission to Eat  In the end, will our wonderful new awareness, which
revolves around healthy eating and organic food, quietly
implode? Maybe we’ll be able to openly eat fat again -- without
embarrassment -- for health reasons.  It’s a field day for conspiracy theorists. It’s also a
welcome opportunity for free spirits, whether tattooed or not,
to make fun of others. Either way, it will be difficult for
people to hold their heads high when they go for a meal.  (Matthias Politycki is the author of "Next World Novella." 
The expressed are his own.)  For more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthias Politycki in Hamburg at  mp@matthias-politycki.de   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 