-- 
Indian Industrial Production Growth Slows; Pressure for Higher Rates Stays

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-06-10T12:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/indian-industrial-production-growth-slows-pressure-for-higher-rates-stays.html
India’s industrial production growth
eased in April, a slowdown that has yet to curb pressure for
more interest-rate increases to damp inflation. Stocks fell.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 6.3 percent
from a year earlier after an 8.8 percent gain in March, the
 Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in New Delhi
today, after it changed the base year to 2004-05. The median of
23 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 5.5 percent
advance, based on 1993-94 prices.  Asian nations from  South Korea  to India are raising
borrowing costs to quell price gains stoked by rising consumer
demand and costlier energy. The  Reserve Bank of India  may boost
rates by a quarter of a percentage point in its June 16 meeting,
the tenth move since mid-March 2010, HSBC Holdings Plc, Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Religare Capital Markets Ltd. said.  “Though we are seeing some signs of moderation, demand is
still strong and needs to be curbed to subdue inflation,” said
Jay Shankar, Mumbai-based chief economist at Religare Capital.
He expects the central bank to lift rates by 75 basis points by
the end of September.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index declined 0.6
percent at the 3:30 p.m. close. The rupee was little changed at
44.72 per dollar, and the yield on the 7.8 percent note due
April 2021 slid four basis points to 8.23 percent.  Inflation Forecast  India ’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation slowed to 8.66
percent in April from 9 percent in March. The price gauge may be
around 8.6 percent in May,  Kaushik Basu , the chief economic
adviser in the  finance ministry , said in New Delhi today.  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last month the
inflation rate may stay “elevated” until September and
signaled he was willing to risk a slowdown in economic growth to
curb prices. The central bank’s repurchase rate is 7.25 percent.  The new industrial production index released today has 682
items compared with 538 earlier reflecting “the present
structure and composition of the industry,” T.C.A. Anant, the
top bureaucrat in the statistics ministry, said in  New Delhi 
today.  Manufacturing grew 6.9 percent in April from a year earlier
after a 10.4 percent gain in March, today’s report showed.
Mining output increased 2.2 percent and electricity rose 6.4
percent.  Slowing Growth  India’s gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent in the
three months ended March 31 from a year earlier, the weakest
pace in five quarters, government data show. Still, the
expansion is the quickest after  China  among major economies,
bolstered by higher incomes in the nation of 1.2 billion people.  Salaries in India in 2011 will likely rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region, a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC showed March 8.
 Government spending  under the National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act of 2005 has surged almost fourfold to 399 billion
rupees ($8.9 billion), propping up demand in the countryside.  “Even though growth is showing signs of easing, demand is
still holding up well,” Meghna Patel, a Mumbai-based economist
at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd., said before the report. “The
concern at this point is inflation.”  Sales at carmakers including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  grew
7 percent last month from a year earlier, the  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers  said yesterday.  Phone Demand  Mobile-phone operators including  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  added
11.42 million new customers in April, a 2 percent increase from
the previous month, according to the Cellular Operators
Association of India.  India’s exports climbed 57 percent to $25.9 billion in May
from a year earlier, trade secretary Rahul Khullar said in New
Delhi today. Imports gained 54.1 percent to $40.9 billion.  The government’s focus should be to bring down the
inflation rate to a range of 4 percent to 5 percent,
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said June 2 as he urged policy makers
to use all monetary and fiscal tools.  The Bank of  Korea  today raised rates for a third time this
year.  Thailand  has increased borrowing costs four times since
Jan. 1, while the Philippine central bank boosted the rate it
pays lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5 percent in May.  Inflation in India may accelerate as economists expect food
costs to rise after the government increased the prices it pays
farmers for food grains and oilseeds. The federal government
sets the crop prices to assure farmers’ incomes, while selling
subsidized grains and cooking oils to the poor.  The inflation rate may surge to 9 percent in May, according
to Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. and STCI Primary Dealer,
after refiners including Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest,
lifted gasoline prices by as much as 8.5 percent, the biggest
rise in three years.  “Given the inflation pressures, a quarter-point increase
in  interest rates  next week is a done deal,” Madan Sabnavis,
chief economist at Mumbai-based CARE Ratings, said before the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  