-- 
Invesco Invests in Tower on Manhattan’s Park Avenue Once Owned by Helmsley

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-06-10T22:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/invesco-invests-in-tower-on-manhattan-s-park-avenue-once-owned-by-helmsley.html
A unit of  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , a global
 money manager , invested in 230 Park Ave. as owner Monday
Properties recapitalizes the landmark Manhattan office tower,
buying out a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. real estate fund.  Monday Properties, led by Anthony Westreich, will be the
operating partner and will continue to manage and lease the
building, the New York-based investment firm said in a
statement. Goldman’s Whitehall funds, a partner in the $1.15
billion purchase of the tower in 2007, is no longer a co-owner,
Loren Riegelhaupt, a Monday spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The deal “commences this new chapter for 230 Park Ave.,”
Westreich said in the statement, calling the 34-story tower atop
Grand Central Terminal “a unique landmark.” Terms of the
transaction with Invesco’s Dallas-based real estate unit weren’t
disclosed.  Monday and Whitehall’s acquisition was one of several in
2007 that approached or exceeded $1,000 a square foot near the
peak of  New York ’s office market. Prices tumbled the following
year as losses on residential loans caused credit to dry up.  Goldman’s highly leveraged Whitehall funds were among those
that lost value in the plunge. A call after business hours to
Gia Moron, a Goldman spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately returned.  Whitehall estimated at the end of last year that the
property was worth about $300 million less than its investment,
indicating Goldman took a loss on the transaction, the Wall
Street Journal reported today.  Built in 1929 as the headquarters for the New York Central
Railroad Co., the Beaux Arts tower was named the Helmsley
Building after New York real estate investor Harry Helmsley
acquired it. Monday Properties, which owns offices in the New
York and Washington areas, has managed the building since 1998
and owned it since 2007, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  