-- 
Mission Training Grooms Mormons to Pursue Presidency, CEO Suite

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   W i n t e r
-- 
2011-06-10T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/mission-training-grooms-mormons-to-pursue-presidency-ceo-suite.html
Before setting out in orderly pairs
to spread their gospel door-to-door, almost all U.S. Mormon
missionaries pass through the Provo Missionary Training Center.  Inside the sprawling brown-brick complex, thousands of 19-
and 20-year-old men in oversized black suits work alongside
women in below-the-knee skirts and brightly colored tops. All
wear name tags. For one to three months, depending on the
language challenge ahead, their days begin at 6:30 a.m. and end
at 10:30 p.m., and include 10 hours of class and study time,
 Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its June 13 issue.  On their one day off per week, missionaries-to-be do
laundry, write home, and stock up on supplies at the training
center store where pre-knotted ties ($15-$20) and key-chain
rings with screw-top vials for carrying consecrated oils ($3.50)
hang beside highlighters, alarm clocks, and hymnbooks translated
into roughly 50 foreign languages.  The grounds are under tight security, and no one leaves
without permission. This is the last stop for roughly 20,000
young Mormons each year before they’re driven 45 miles north to
Salt Lake City International Airport and whisked off to one of
more than 150 countries to make converts.  The Provo Missionary Training Center (MTC) and its
curriculum are designed to render all trainees equal servants of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (LDS), yet many
of the men who prepared for their missions here, or at the
center’s earlier incarnations, have gone on to become among the
most distinguished and recognizable faces in American business
and civic life.  White House Hopefuls  There’s Mitt Romney (mission:  France ), who as of 2007 had
amassed an estimated $190 million to $250 million as head of
Bain Capital LLC, rescued the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter
Olympics from a corruption scandal, spent four years as the
governor of Massachusetts, and announced his second presidential
run June 2.  His potential rival for the Republican nomination is Jon Huntsman Jr. (Taiwan), a former Utah governor who negotiated
dozens of free-trade agreements as a U.S. trade representative
and served as ambassador to  China  from 2009-2011. The list also
includes  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  founder David Neeleman (Brazil),
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  Chief Executive Officer Eric Varvel, who
confirmed training at the Provo MTC and provided no more
information, self-help mogul Stephen Covey (England), author of
“The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People,” Kim Clark
(Germany), former dean of Harvard Business School, and Gary Crittenden (Germany), who served as chief financial officer for
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  American Express Co. (AXP) , and Sears Roebuck & Co.  Defining Experience  Gary Cornia, dean of Mormon-run Brigham Young University’s
Marriott School of Management, is often asked what makes Mormons
so successful.  “I’m not going to say we beat everybody out, but we do
have a reputation,” says Cornia. “And one of the defining
opportunities for young men and young women is the mission
experience.”  Reflecting on his own mission to the mid-Atlantic states,
Cornia adds, “When I left, the son of a relatively poor mother
and a father who died when I was young, I frankly didn’t know if
I could do anything. I came back with the confidence that I can
accomplish most hard things. I may not have had that
otherwise.”  The Mormon Church is 181 years old, and its adherents
compose less than 2 percent of the U.S. population, according to
a 2009 American Religious Identification Survey (ARIS).  Top Company Posts  Yet Latter-Day Saints hold, or have held, a seemingly
disproportionate number of top jobs at such major corporations
as Marriott International Inc., American Express, American
Motors Corp.,  Dell Inc. (DELL) , Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Fisher-Price,
Life Re,  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , Madison Square Garden Co., La
Quinta Properties, Pricewaterhouse­Coopers LLP, and Stanley
Black & Decker. The head of human resources at Citigroup is
Mormon, and in 2010 the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hired 31 grads
from BYU, the same number it hired from the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School.  There’s a risk of stereotyping in drawing conclusions about
any religion based on a sampling of its exceptional adherents,
but church leaders and Mormon businessmen embrace the idea that
there’s a relationship between the missionary experience and
success in business.  “The mission is like a crucible experience” and “a lot
of people come out with the capacity to lead,” says Clark, who
left HBS in 2005 to preside over BYU-Idaho at the request of the
LDS Church’s then president, Gordon Hinckley, regarded by
Mormons as a living prophet; as Clark tells people, “It was
like getting a phone call from Moses.”  Women at Home  Almost all of the Mormon businessmen contacted for this
story -- the teachings of the church encourage women to stay
home -- see a connection between their faith and their work.
Romney and Huntsman didn’t respond to interview requests.  So far the church has sent more than 1 million missionaries
into the world. All young Mormon men, referred to as “elders,”
are asked to serve a mission if they are in good standing. Young
women, called “sisters,” serve voluntarily and make up about
20 percent of the missionary force.  Roughly 50 percent of U.S. Mormon missionaries go abroad to
countries as disparate as Albania, Ghana, Micronesia, and
France, with each individual’s placement a matter of “divine
inspiration,” according to the Provo MTC’s director, Richard I.
Heaton.  12 Apostles  Young Mormons submit their medical records and basic CVs to
the “Twelve Apostles,” who in stature rank just below the
church’s president. The group then prays to find out where each
individual is needed. Once on site, missionaries pay a $400
share of their room and board and are required to live as the
locals do.  “The wonderful thing is that you don’t experience Korea
from the 25th floor of the Hyatt,” says Harvard Business School
professor  Clayton Christensen , a Rhodes scholar and board member
at India’s  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , who did his mission
in Korea from 1971 to 1973. “They don’t have air conditioning,
you don’t have air conditioning; they don’t have plumbing, you
don’t have plumbing.”  Each elder or sister spends every moment of every day in
tandem with another, sleeping and rising at the same time in a
shared room. That companion isn’t always American and doesn’t
necessarily speak English. For the next two years, these
“companionships” proselytize for 10 hours a day, six days a
week, knocking on doors and offering The Book of Mormon to
strangers, often in languages the missionaries barely know how
to speak. They must persuade people to listen and learn to
persevere in the face of near constant rejection.  Demanding Job  “I don’t think there’s any more demanding profession than
being a Mormon missionary,” says Christensen.  Over the course of a mission, each individual rotates
through two or three companions, an experience that forces the
development of interpersonal skills, according to Joseph Ogden,
assistant dean at BYU’s Marriott School. One person is always
assigned a senior role, usually on the strength of time served.
Sometimes seniority is assigned by church officials’ assessment
of leadership abilities.  Ogden remembers being given senior status over a 26-year-
old ex-Green Beret while on his mission to Australia. “I was
this lanky teenager,” and “you could tell he really wanted to
be in charge,” says Ogden. “That was a tough one.”  2 Calls Home  Missionaries aren’t allowed access to news and are
permitted only two phone calls home each year, on Mother’s Day
and Christmas. Guidelines are laid out in a pocket-sized
handbook that Provo MTC President Gordon D. Brown says helps
them to focus, stay safe, and integrate faster.  The book has instructions on a wide range of activities:
Full-court basketball games, for example, are banned, while
half-court is permissible. Returned missionaries say that simply
abiding by all the rules is enough to impart a sense of
accomplishment.  Serving abroad helps Mormons learn languages (around
70 percent of BYU students are bilingual). It also seems to
provide them with insight into foreign cultures and economies,
an asset many missionaries have used to start businesses and
careers.  Neeleman served in Brazil and, after founding JetBlue, went
on to start Azul Airlines, a domestic Brazilian carrier. L. Todd Budge, chairman of Tokyo Star Bank, used his mission experience
in  Japan  to become the first non-Japanese CEO of a Japanese bank
and says he may never have gone abroad at all if the church had
not sent him. Allan O’Bryant, now Japan CEO at Reinsurance Group
of America, served in Japan and later became the president of
AFLAC International.  Rejections  Mitt Romney  served in France from 1966 to 1968, after his
freshman year at Stanford University. Widespread anti-American
sentiment at the time made proselytizing especially difficult;
in a 2007  New York  Times article, Romney described his mission
as humbling, saying it was the only time in his life “when most
of what I was trying to do was rejected.”  As the son of George Romney, the ex-American Motors CEO who
was then governor of Michigan, Mitt Romney enjoyed privileges
unheard of for most elders and entered the mission field of
Bordeaux and Paris having completed three years of French at
Michigan’s elite Cranbrook School.  Once on site, Romney broke handbook rules to sneak out to
the movies and eat coq au vin, and used his father’s connections
to arrange a meal at the American Embassy, according to the
Times. Still, Romney has credited the experience with deepening
his faith and ambition. Eager to move up through the missionary
ranks, he experimented with innovative means of getting out the
Mormon Word, like hosting “American night” at a local café and
staging an exhibition baseball game. According to The Washington
Post, he also pitched articles about Mormons to newspapers and
even tried proselytizing at bars.  Car Crash  Romney’s mission was marred by tragedy. On June 16, 1968,
he was asked to chauffeur the couple presiding over the region’s
missionaries and was at the wheel during a head-on collision
that killed the mission president’s wife. Romney was left
unconscious and so badly mangled that a police officer
mistakenly pronounced him dead. He was rushed to the hospital
and found to have a concussion, fractured ribs, and a broken
arm.  When the mission president returned to the U.S. to bury his
wife, Romney was asked to take charge of the region’s
missionaries, who numbered around 200. He thrived in the
position, traveling across France to lead conferences. Under his
leadership, France’s missionaries exceeded 200 baptisms for the
first time in a decade.  Streets of Compton  Dave Checketts is chairman of the sports, entertainment,
and media enterprise SCP Worldwide, the owner of the St. Louis
Blues, and a Mormon whose past titles have included CEO of
Madison Square Garden. Checketts served his mission in East Los
Angeles, mostly walking the streets of neighborhoods such as
Compton, Whittier, and Boyle Heights. The hardest part, he says,
was splitting from his comparatively comfortable teenage life.  “You leave your family, your friends, your car, you don’t
date for two years, and you’re 19 years old,” he says. “I
missed my freedom, I missed going out to eat -- I was suddenly
working hard, knocking on doors, trying to find people who would
listen, dressing every day in a shirt and tie, whereas before I
probably had on a T-shirt and jeans.”  In witnessing extreme poverty and wealth, Checketts says he
understood that he needed to take responsibility for his future.
Upon returning to college, he shot to the top of his class and
later became president of the National Basketball Association’s
Utah Jazz at the age of 28.  Grow Up Fast  “What happens on a mission is that you grow up pretty
fast,” he says. “You’re dealing with adult problems and adult
issues, because when you’re teaching somebody the gospel of
Jesus Christ, you’re typically meeting people who want to
improve their lives,” and “you kind of get a sense for how
you’d like to live your life; you get serious about life, about
school, about work.”  Kevin Rollins, the former CEO of Dell Computers and
currently a senior adviser to TPG Capital, says the rejections
spiked with occasional successes that he experienced during his
mission in Alberta and Saskatchewan, Canada, prepared him for
entrepreneurship.  “When you get into the business world, most of what you
try doesn’t work either,” he says. “And so the notion of
having focus and determination, working hard, and leading others
along with you, those principles are all things you would look
for in a corporate executive, vs. someone who closes his tent
after one little disappointment.”  Puritan Ethic  Mormons, who consider their faith to be a Christian
denomination, take Biblical exhortations to work hard to the
extreme.  “Mormonism is kind of like the Puritan ethic on high,”
says Nathan Furr, assistant professor of entrepreneurship at
BYU’s Marriott School. “There’s total emphasis on self-
sufficiency, on working hard.”  This aspect of the missionary experience is rooted in the
religion’s origins and permeates all aspects of Mormon life.
Utah Governor Gary R. Herbert, a seventh-generation Mormon whose
relatives were among the state’s original settlers, admires the
Mormons who found Utah after leaving behind New York, Ohio,
Illinois, and Missouri.  Settlers, in his words, “harnessed the snowpack and built
reservoirs and canals and ditches,” and “literally made the
desert blossom like a desert rose.” Herbert’s account could be
straight from The Book of Mormon’s version of how the land of
Helam was made fruitful: “And they pitched their tents, and
began to till the ground, and began to build buildings; yea,
they were industrious, and did labor exceedingly.”  Unpaid Clergy  Simply belonging to the highly managerial Mormon Church
requires work. Mormons depend upon an unpaid “lay” clergy
composed of ordinary congregants tapped to lead sermons each
week. Congregants don’t just go to church on Sunday, they run
the church, filling all the positions from Sunday school teacher
to bishop, serving an estimated five to 25 hours each week.  At the same time, they are expected to pay a 10 percent
tithe on their incomes while encouraged to raise large families.
Only those who tithe are given “temple recommends,” passes
which are required to enter Mormon temples.  Church obligations start early. “Children at a very young
age begin to learn things that leaders have to do -- speak in
public, interact with people, teach,” says Kim Clark. Public
speaking starts with two-minute presentations at the age of 3,
according to Kim Farah, a spokeswoman for the church. The goal
is to “help them internalize their beliefs,” she says, and any
professional benefits are secondary.  Up Early  Mormons don’t undergo grueling Battle-Hymn-of-the-Tiger-
Mother upbringings, but teenagers are expected to get up early
and attend seminary one hour before school, five days a week.
Kids age 12 through 18 progress through hierarchical rings of
youth groups, each of which has two or three appointed leaders
who learn to hold meetings, take responsibility for their
groups, and check on members who aren’t attending church
regularly.  One former Latter-Day Saint, a facial plastic surgeon from
Brazil named Marcello Jun de Oliveira, says church commitments
are so intense that “when you finally start a job, it’s just
like church -- it’s so much work.”  Kevin Rollins, whose Mormon roots go back to the religion’s
founders (and who says he worked 20 hours a week for the church
while putting in another 100 hours at Dell), remembers
conducting youth group meetings as a child.  Plan, Structure  “You learn by experience that it’s better to have an
agenda, have a plan, have a structure, have people
participating” and “if you have to discipline somebody, you
learn to do that in private,” he says.  When Dell hired him from the consultancy Bain & Co. to head
up the company’s Americas division, accounting for 70 percent of
the company’s revenue at the time, Rollins had no prior
experience as an executive.  “I can still remember, I was at my first meeting at Dell”
and “there were, oh, I don’t know, 12 executives, and I think
they were stunned at how I came in and ran the meeting, knowing
how to run a meeting from all the times I had run one as a
church member,” he says. “I really owe most of that natural
instinct there to the training I received as a young kid.”  The church itself is a well-run global conglomerate. Ryan
T. Cragun, an assistant professor at the University of Tampa and
president of the Mormon Social Science Association, says the
church likely owns more acreage than there is in the state of
Delaware.  Florida Landowners  In Florida alone, he says, Mormons own 10 times as much
land as Walt Disney, including a $1 billion for-profit cattle
and citrus ranch. The LDS Church also owns commercial hunting
grounds,  radio stations , newspapers, real estate developers,
shopping centers, and a land management company in Hawaii.
Churches in the U.S. are not required to report their finances,
and the Mormon Church does not, but the Financial Times in 2010
estimated the LDS Church’s worth at $25 billion to $30 billion.  Mormons insist that self-improvement and self-reliance, not
material wealth, are their religious aims, yet the Book of
Mormon states, “And thus they did prosper and become far more
wealthy than those who did not belong to their church” (Alma
1:31). The same passage goes on to explain why non-Mormons fall
short: “For those who did not belong to their church did
indulge themselves in sorceries, and in idolatry or idleness,
and in babblings, and in envyings and strife; wearing costly
apparel; being lifted up in the pride of their own eyes.”  Recent Converts  Armand L. Mauss, professor emeritus of Sociology and
Religious Studies at Washington State University, says “Mormons
tend to assume that if they are doing their best in meeting
their religious obligations, God will bless their worldly
efforts.”  In fact, Mormons fall in the middle of the socioeconomic
spectrum, their numbers perhaps skewed lower by recent converts
who tend to be less educated and less wealthy, according to Furr
and others. Even so, Latter-Day Saints are less likely than the
general public to be in the lowest income bracket, according to
the Pew Research Center.  BYU’s Marriott School, housed inside a bland box of tinted
glass and gray pebble slabs, is a 10-minute drive from the
Missionary Training Center and 2,000 miles from  Wall Street .
Most high-ranking business schools are located in major urban
centers; BYU has Provo, a city of roughly 100,000, laid out on a
grid of colossal six-lane streets built up into a maze of
housing developments, hotels, and fast-food chains.  BYU Program  Still, Dean Cornia says, Wall Street finds it “interesting
enough to continue to hire. If we weren’t producing, I don’t
think we’d end up there.”  BYU’s undergraduate  business program  ranked 11th last year,
just behind Georgetown University, according to Bloomberg
Businessweek’s annual rankings. BYU ranks No. 1 for invention
disclosures, new patent applications, and startup companies spun
out per every $1 million of research expenditure, according to
the Association of University Technology Managers.  Of 127 full-time faculty members, Kristen DeTienne, a
professor of organized leadership and strategy, is the sole non-
LDS professor and, although she says she doesn’t “buy into the
religion,” she is floored by the Mormon work ethic.  “They have this song that they sing all the time, it’s
called Put Your Shoulder to the Wheel.” After a shy attempt at
the hymn, DeTienne corrals the school’s PR manager, Chad Little,
to provide a more polished rendition. He obliges in a sweet
tenor: “The world has need of willing men/Who wear the worker’s
seal/Come help the good work move along/Put your shoulder to the
wheel.”  Hard-Working Teetotalers  Non-Mormons who make a point of hiring Latter-Day Saints go
back at least as far as  Howard Hughes , who surrounded himself
with Mormons, trusting them over others because of their
reputation as hard-working teetotalers.  Ronald Reagan  also employed several LDS staffers and once
declared, the “Mormon contribution to American life is beyond
measuring,” according to historian Michael K. Winder.  DeTienne says she knows several executives at top companies
who express enthusiasm about hiring Mormon employees, in part
because they are often faithfully married, which tends to make
them “more mature and better at managing their time,
establishing priorities, working hard.”  Mormon women are partners in those faithful marriages, yet
they’re almost absent from the business landscape. The Marriott
School’s MBA class of 2011 is only 12 percent female, compared
with HBS’s 36 percent, and although LDS spokeswoman Jessica
Moody says Mormon women do hold leadership roles at small
companies, none have reached the corporate leadership heights of
Mormon men.  Raising Children  Women are urged by the church to pursue education, but the
Mormon Proclamation on the Family, which, according to religion
scholar Mauss, attained near-canonical status after its issuance
in 1995, says men should provide for families while women should
raise children.  In his 2007 book The Mormon Way of Doing Business, Mormon
journalist Jeff Benedict includes a chapter titled “The Secret
to Success,” dedicated entirely to the stay-at-home wives of
famous Mormon CEOs. “The wives’ deep commitment to the home”
is the glue that keeps Mormon families together, says Benedict,
and also “vital to the success of these CEOs’ performance at
work.”  Kevin Rollins stresses that both man and wife must be
devoted to the family, but that in “the Mormon model, a woman
would take care of the kids and the husband would assist her and
go out and work and make all the money they need to survive.”  Church Hierarchy  Scholar of Mormonism Melissa Proctor says, “A Mormon woman
who has post-graduate education is less likely to attend
church,” perhaps because “an advanced degree does not
contribute to an LDS woman’s status within the church,” whereas
the church tends to fill its top positions with professionally
successful men.  To some, the Mormon emphasis on success can seem
restrictive. John Schultz, a 33-year-old warehouse manager in
Toronto, opted for a “voluntary excommunication” in 2003 when
his bishop scolded him for failing to tithe and missing Sunday
services for work. His resentment toward the church had been
building for some time.  Growing up in the Mormon Church, “there was all this focus
on the middle-class lifestyle, on going to college,” he says,
explaining why he felt like a misfit. “You had to look a
certain way and act a certain way.”  Mainstream Acceptance  Schultz theorizes that the church’s insistence on a middle-
class appearance is aimed at winning mainstream acceptance and
recognition as a Christian faith.  “In religious and theological communities, Mormons are
always pushed to the side,” says Schultz. “If they’re even
considered Christian by the Christian majority, they consider
that a huge gain. I think that’s exactly why there’s the
pressure to put on this face.”  De Oliveira, the Brazilian surgeon, considers himself a
secular Mormon. He left the church because of its role in
dismantling gay marriage in California and because of what he
described as classism in his chapel. De Oliveira, who notes that
the vast majority of new converts are poor, witnessed the
church’s influence in making some low-income families upwardly
mobile, while several others spoke with him about feeling
excluded by wealthier congregants who held all the top
leadership positions.  “Here in Brazil, I attended a ward (parish) for half a
decade where the chapel would literally, and physically, split
itself down the aisle,” he says.  ‘Dedicated to Serving’  At the Salt Lake City airport, three teenage elders in
white shirts and black suits are headed to Brazil on 24-month
missions. Only one of them has been outside the U.S. They say
they’re fully prepared for their undertaking and have never felt
as much love as during their training period at the Provo MTC
(“with 3,000 young men dedicated to serving”).  Elder Hildebrandt, 19, says he can’t wait to be changed by
his mission. “It’s only two years,” he says. “People come
back, and they’re just totally different,” he adds. “They
don’t need mom anymore.”  As for the prospect of having two Mormon presidential
candidates in 2012, the elders say they aren’t generally
interested in politics. None have heard of  Jon Huntsman , and
they don’t have much to say about Romney. Upon reflection,
though, Elder Hildebrandt says, “One good thing about having a
Mormon president -- we’ll be able to hold him to a higher
standard.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Caroline Winter in New York at 
 cwinter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt in New York at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  