-- 
Italian Economy Expands Less Than Expected in First Quarter

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-10T08:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/italian-economy-expands-less-than-expected-in-first-quarter.html
Italy ’s exports failed to offset
weak domestic demand in the first quarter, leaving the pace of
economic growth unchanged from the previous three months.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent from the fourth
quarter, Rome-based statistics institute Istat said in its final
GDP report today. The reading matched a preliminary reading on
May 13. The economy expanded 1 percent from a year earlier,
Istat added.  Sales of goods abroad climbed 1.4 percent in the first
quarter, up from the fourth quarter when exports rose 0.4
percent. Household spending increased 0.2 percent, down from the
0.3 percent in the three months through December, according to
the report.  Business confidence in the euro region’s third-biggest
economy fell more than economists forecast in May as the
recovery lost momentum. Still, Italy’s industrial output
increased for a second month in March and the  unemployment rate 
fell in April as the outlook for the country’s export-led
recovery improved.  Italy’s growth in the first quarter lagged behind the euro-
region as a whole and its two biggest economies. The German
economy expanded 1.5 percent and French GDP grew 1 percent,
while the 17-member region’s economy expanded 0.8 percent in the
same period.  Italy’s credit-rating outlook was lowered on May 21 to
negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the
nation’s slowing growth.  The government led by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
plans an additional 3 billion euros in deficit-reduction
measures this year to meet its goal of cutting its budget
shortfall to 4 percent of GDP, the premier said yesterday. The
government will also present its plan to overhaul the Italian
tax system before parliament recesses in August, Berlusconi
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 