-- 
Italy Needs Spending Review to Cut Deficit, Saccomanni Says

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-10T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/italy-needs-spending-review-to-cut-deficit-saccomanni-says.html
Italy  needs a public spending review
at both the central and local levels to meet the goal of a
balanced budget by 2014 and to sustain the economic recovery,
 Bank of Italy  Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni said.  “While pursuing the consolidation of public finances, it
will be important that any intervention on spending penalizes as
little as possible” items such as infrastructures that may
support growth, Saccomanni said, according to an e-mailed
transcript of a speech he delivered today in Florence. A
“credible” package of budget corrections and reforms may have
a positive impact on financial markets, he added.  Italy’s credit outlook was lowered on May 21 to negative
from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited slowing economic
growth and “diminished” prospects for reducing government debt
that reached almost 120 percent of gross domestic product last
year. Italy’s Treasury replied that it will “intensify”
structural changes to the economy and push ahead with measures
following a deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP last year.  Italy’s economy, the euro region’s third biggest, expanded
0.1 percent in the first quarter, the same as in the previous
three month, as exports failed to offset weak domestic demand,
Rome-based statistics institute Istat said in its final GDP
report today. The Treasury in April cut the official forecast
for economic growth to 1.1 percent this year and 1.3 percent in
2012, from previous projections of 1.3 percent and 2 percent,
respectively.  Through a line-item review of public spending, the
government may save resources without diminishing the quality of
services and recoup “resources aimed at lowering taxes and
debt,” Saccomanni said today.  The Italian government plans an additional 3 billion euros
in deficit-reduction measures this year to meet its goal of
reducing its shortfall to 4 percent of GDP, Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  told reporters after a Cabinet meeting in  Rome 
yesterday. He also said that his government will present its
plan to overhaul the country’s tax system before parliament
recesses in August.  The balanced budget goal is “appropriate,” Bank of Italy
Governor  Mario Draghi  said on May 31, adding that the government
must cut current spending by 5 percent from 2012 through 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 