-- 
Ivory Coast Gold Miners Have Post-War ‘Passion,’ Group Says

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-06-10T15:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ivory-coast-gold-miners-have-post-war-passion-group-says-1-.html
About 30 companies are exploring for
gold in  Ivory Coast  and a fourth miner is expecting to begin
production in the next two years, said Michel Mian, head of the
Professional Miners’ Group of  Ivory Coast .  Investors have developed a “passion” for the industry
following the end of a 4 1/2-month post-election crisis, Mian
told reporters in Yamoussoukro, the capital, today.  “A lot of investors have come to request a license to
explore,” he said on the sidelines of an industry conference.
The West African nation may have 200 metric tons (7.1 million
ounces) of gold reserves, he said.  Randgold Resources Ltd., Cluff Gold Plc and  Newcrest Mining
Ltd. (NCM)  have gold mines in Ivory Coast and had their operations
disrupted during the conflict that followed a November
presidential election. Former President  Laurent Gbagbo  refused
to cede power to Alassane Ouattara, sparking violence that left
about 2,000 people dead, according to the  United Nations .  Adama Toungara, who was named by Ouattara on June 1 as
minister for mines, oil and energy, said yesterday Ivory Coast
plans to triple production of gold from the current 7 tons
annually over the next four to six years.  That goal is “totally sensible,” said Mian. “The companies
will have to carry out an aggressive campaign to rapidly find
deposits,” he said.  Ivory Coast shares its eastern border with Ghana and a
northern frontier with Mali,  Africa ’s second and third-biggest
producers of the precious metal. Most of the country’s reserves
are in the east of the country, according to Mian.  Gold futures for August delivery fell $14.50 or 1 percent,
to $1,528.20 per ounce at 10:23 a.m. on the Comex in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Yamoussoukro via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 