-- 
Japan Needs $125 Billion Rebuild Plan: Maehara

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-06-10T02:04:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/japan-needs-125-billion-rebuild-plan-maehara.html
Japan’s next reconstruction package
should be “at least” 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) and the
nation’s central bank ought to step up stimulus, a potential
candidate to succeed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said.  The next spending package will be on “a considerably big
scale” because Japan needs to end deflation as well as rebuild
from the record March earthquake and tsunami,  Seiji Maehara , 49,
said in an interview yesterday in Tokyo. Maehara, a former head
of the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, declined to rule
himself out of a contest to replace Kan, who has pledged to
resign once the post-disaster crisis is contained.  The proposals would add stimulus to an economy showing
signs of heading for a second-half recovery from the March
disaster, which shut factories across the nation, hampering
global trade and production lines. Maehara’s view on the Bank of
Japan, which he said “can expand its balance sheet a little
more,” echoes that of the  International Monetary Fund , which
this week suggested an increase in BOJ asset purchases.  “Fading power and supply chain disruptions alongside
reconstruction demand will feed into a real gross domestic
product recovery,” Cameron Umetsu, senior economist at UBS AG
in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. At the same
time, “the failure to quickly agree on a much-needed second
supplementary budget to finance reconstruction does not inspire
confidence in the ability of the politicians to resolve other
key issues,” such as  energy policy  and trade talks, he said.  Reconstruction Efforts  To speed up reconstruction efforts, Maehara said a
coalition government between the DPJ and the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party  should be formed for a “maximum” of
one year. LDP chief Sadakazu Tanigaki said on June 7 his party
can consider such an alliance only once Kan steps down.  Kan should work to win the support of opposition parties
for legislation allowing the government to sell deficit-
financing bonds before he resigns, said Maehara, a former
foreign minister.  The prime minister and Tanigaki should negotiate to ensure
the passage of the bill to fund nearly half of this year’s 92.4
trillion yen budget before planning for the second  disaster
relief , which will be “at least” 10 trillion yen, he said.  “We must reach an agreement with the opposition parties to
secure funding for additional relief packages,” Maehara said.
“Mr. Kan should directly negotiate with Mr. Tanigaki as soon as
possible to show leadership for the last time.”  Political Strife  Kan’s handling of the disaster drew public censure and
prompted last week’s no-confidence vote that was defeated only
after he pledged to rebels in his  Democratic Party of Japan  that
he would resign at an unspecified date. Opposition lawmakers
have refused to cooperate on disaster relief until he quits,
threatening to delay a second reconstruction spending bill.
Maehara said the possibility that he’ll run to replace Kan is
“totally a blank slate.”  “He’s certainly one of the top three candidates,” Tomoaki Iwai, a political science professor at Nihon University in
 Tokyo , said in a phone interview. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku are also
likely to run, Iwai said.  Voters believe Maehara is the most suitable candidate to
replace Kan, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published
June 6. Maehara was favored by 14 percent of the respondents,
followed by Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano and DPJ
Secretary-General Katsuya Okada, both with 9 percent. The paper
polled 1,057 people and provided no margin of error.  Hit to Economy  Japan’s economy shrank in the six months through March and
is projected to contract again in the second quarter of 2011.
The government is now implementing an initial 4 trillion yen
extra budget to clean up from the March disaster, which is
estimated to have caused as much as 25 trillion yen in economic
damage.  The  Bank of Japan  has refrained from additional measures to
boost growth since increasing its asset-purchase program by 5
trillion yen three days after the March 11 earthquake.  Maehara stepped down as foreign minister over a
questionable donation five days before the March 11 quake and
tsunami devastated the northeast and crippled an atomic power
plant. He also served as transportation minister, overseeing a
turnaround plan for Japan Airlines Corp. and leading the push to
sell high-speed rail technology to the U.S.  Maehara said Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the
crippled Fuskushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, “cannot be legally
liquidated” because the utility has a regional monopoly and is
the sole provider of electricity. He said the economic
consequences must also be considered in debating whether to put
the utility under  bankruptcy protection , a process that  Japan 
Air went through last year.  Tepco Carnage  Maehara is a graduate of  Kyoto University  where he majored
in international politics and was first elected to parliament in
1991 as a member of a now-defunct party. He joined the DPJ when
it was formed in 1998. He likes taking photos of steam
locomotives, according to his  website , some of which are
displayed in his office.  Maehara quit as foreign minister on March 6 after admitting
he received 250,000 yen from a South Korean woman living in
Japan in violation of campaign financing laws which bar
contributions by foreign nationals. Thousands of ethnic Koreans
who have lived in Japan their entire lives do not hold Japanese
citizenship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  