-- 
Financial-Industry Groups Urge Delay of U.S. Resolution Rules

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-10T18:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/jpmorgan-blackrock-press-for-delay-of-rules-on-firms-posing-systemic-risk.html
Lobby groups representing some of
the world’s biggest financial companies want U.S. regulators to
delay rules that would govern resolutions of systemically risky
firms to allow more time to review and revise the proposal.  The  Federal Reserve  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
must clarify what constitutes a “credible” plan for unwinding
a complex firm before requiring companies to file so-called
living wills, six groups including the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association and the Institute of International
Bankers said in a letter to the regulators, according to a copy
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “There are potentially severe business-model and
competitive consequences to any financial firm if the Federal
Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. were to jointly
determine that the company’s resolution plan is ‘not
credible,’” the groups said in the letter, which they plan to
send to the agencies today. “Supervisors should not create a
system that manages for failure rather than for success.”  The Dodd-Frank Act requires firms deemed systemically
important to file plans with the Fed and the FDIC for how they
could be unwound in event of their failure. Lawmakers gave the
FDIC resolution authority for shutdowns of complex firms aiming
to prevent a repeat of the market tumult that followed the
September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The groups, representing firms including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co (JPM) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Bank of New York Mellon, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group PLC and Deutsche Bank AG, urged regulators to
push back implementation of the rules from next month to as late
as January of next year.  Workable Plans  Under the living-wills provision, companies with at least
$50 billion in assets will have to provide information on their
debt, funding, capital and cash flows. Firms that fail to file
workable plans for unwinding their business could be subject to
increased capital, leverage or liquidity requirements as well as
restrictions on their growth, activities or operations.  “One of the challenges in the resolution-planning process
is that a financial business should be managed to optimize
capital information, prudent maturity transformation and
economic growth as a going concern, rather than for failure as a
gone concern,” the organizations wrote in the 53-page letter
addressed to the Fed and the FDIC.  In addition to Sifma and IIB, signers included the Clearing
House Association, the  American Bankers Association , the
Association for Financial Markets in Europe and the Financial
Services Roundtable.  Broader Pushback  Financial-industry criticism of the living-wills measure is
part of a broader pushback against Dodd-Frank, the regulatory
overhaul enacted in response to the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  questioned Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at a public forum
on June 7 over whether new rules may threaten economic growth.  In today’s letter, the industry groups cited concerns about
confidentiality of the information companies will have to give
regulators as part of the resolution plans.  “We realize that the Freedom of Information Act or FOIA
will apply to data submitted in resolution plans and credit-
exposure reports, making it critical that the information
submitted be treated as an integral part of the examination
process and subject to similar protections,” the organization
said in the letter. “Resolution plans and credit-exposure
reports should therefore be made subject to the strongest FOIA
protection available.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is a
member of the Association for Financial Markets in  Europe .
Bloomberg Tradebook LLC is a member of Sifma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  