-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Heads for 2nd Weekly Drop to Dollar on Inflation Concern

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-10T09:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/kenya-s-shilling-heads-for-2nd-weekly-drop-to-dollar-on-inflation-concern.html
Kenya ’s shilling snapped two days of
gains and headed for a second week of declines against the
dollar on concern inflation will accelerate as the government
plans to increase spending, widening its budget gap.  The currency of East Africa’s largest economy depreciated
0.2 percent to 87.70 per dollar by 12:31 p.m. in the capital,
Nairobi, extending its retreat this week to 1 percent.  Kenya will boost spending by 15 percent to 1.15 trillion
shillings ($13.1 billion), Finance Minister Uhuru Kenyatta said
on June 8. The deficit will widen to 236.2 billion shillings, or
7.4 percent of gross domestic product, he said. The inflation
rate jumped to a 25-month high of 13 percent in May and price
growth is expected to advance further this year as dry weather
curbs agricultural production, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on June 6.  “If Kenyans are importing goods at the current exchange
rates then you expect inflation to go up,” Solomon Alubala, a
trader at  Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (COOP) , said in a phone
interview today. “One of the measures to check inflation is
removal of taxes on certain goods. It waits to be seen what
impact this will have on lowering inflation.”  The  budget deficit  has expanded every year since at least
2005, the  International Monetary Fund  said in April, partly due
to stimulus spending during the global financial crisis and poor
 tax revenue . Kenya’s monetary policy committee raised the
benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 6.25
percent and the  cash reserve ratio  by the same amount to 4.75
percent, central bank said on May 31.  This week, the central bank has sold 1.5 billion shillings
of  repurchase agreements  to curb supply of the local currency,
according to Bloomberg data.  In a repurchase agreement, an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  