-- 
Kior Sets Initial Price Offer at $19 to $21, May Raise Up to $241 Million

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-10T21:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/kior-sets-ipo-price-at-19-to-21-may-raise-up-to-241-5-million.html
Kior Inc., a biofuels company backed
by  Vinod Khosla , aims to raise as much as $210 million in an
initial public offering.  The company registered to sell 10 million shares at $19 to
$21 each, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission today.  Kior is going public at a time of growing demand for
biofuels companies in the public markets, said Pavel Molchanov,
an analyst for Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “Clearly the context here is the surge in advanced biofuel
IPOs that we have seen in past year and a half,” he said today
in a telephone interview. Investors have become more familiar
with the industry after initial share sales for companies
including Codexis Inc.,  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , Gevo Inc., and Solazyme
Inc. “As the market gets more comfortable with these stories,
it is to be expected that valuations are likely to get some
boost from that.”  The shares will list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol KIOR.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , UBS AG and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are leading the offering. Underwriters may buy an
additional 1.5 million shares by exercising an over-allotment
option, the filing said.  Kior, of  Pasadena ,  Texas , originally filed to raise as much
as $100 million in April and boosted the size to $200 million on
June 1.  Other companies involved in biofuels have also filed to go
public, including Ceres Inc., Myriant Corp. and PetroAlgae Inc.  “If all three of those go public, there could conceivably
be eight of them by the end of the year, which is clearly a
trend,” Molchanov said.  Advantages Over Solar  Investing in biofuels offer advantages over other renewable
energy technologies, especially solar.  “Chinese solar companies are really eating the lunch of
the western solar manufacturers because they’re low cost
producers,” he said. “That is not an issue in biofuels.”  The U.S. biofuels companies have developed “genuinely
proprietary IP,"  Molchanov said, compared to many solar
companies that are ‘‘cookie cutter, commoditized’’ businesses.  Kior processes wood and non-food agricultural biomass to
make biofuels that can be converted using standard refineries
into gasoline, diesel or jet fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  