-- 
Natural Gas Climbs in New York as Forecasters Predict Return of Heat Wave

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-06-10T19:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/natural-gas-climbs-in-new-york-as-forecasters-predict-return-of-heat-wave.html
Natural gas advanced in  New York ,
posting a third straight weekly gain, on forecasts for a wave of
hot weather from the Midwest to the Atlantic Coast this month
that would boost demand from  power plants .  Gas futures climbed 1.8 percent after companies including
Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland, predicted above-
normal temperatures in parts of the Midwest, South and mid-
Atlantic from June 20 through June 24. Temperatures may be about
5 degrees above normal in  Texas , the forecaster said in a note
to clients today.  “The heat that we’ve seen so far, starting as early as it
has this summer, has been disconcerting,” said Carl Neill, an
energy consultant at Risk Management Inc. in Atlanta. “We’re at
the upper end of a trading range, but we could break through
that range and continue higher.”  Natural gas for July delivery rose 8.3 cents to settle at
$4.757 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices jumped 1.1 percent this week and
have gained 8 percent this year.  Gas reached a 10-month intraday high of $4.983 per million
Btu yesterday amid forecasts of record heat in the eastern U.S.
The futures later declined after a government report showed a
larger-than-expected increase in U.S. inventories for last week.  Cheap Gas  Traders may perceive natural gas as cheap relative to other
energy commodities after yesterday’s 3.6 percent decline, said
Rich Ilczyszyn, a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a
broker in  Chicago .  “The market might have gotten a little ahead of itself
with the selling yesterday,” Ilczyszyn said. “Traders may be
taking a look at gas if they want energy exposure.”  The number of gas drilling rigs dropped for the first time
in three weeks, falling eight to 879, a Baker Hughes Inc. report
today showed. The gas rig count was down 7.9 percent from a year
ago, the Houston-based company said.  Warmer-than-normal weather is likely in the South and parts
of the Midwest from June 15 through June 19, according to
Commodity Weather Group. The above-normal temperatures may
increase the demand for natural gas to produce electricity for
air conditioners.  The high temperature in New York on June 20 may be 85
degrees Fahrenheit (29 Celsius), 5 above normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in
 Dallas  may be 96, 3 degrees above normal.  Air Conditioning  Cooling demand in the U.S. may be 15 percent above normal
from June 16 through June 20, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist
with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, in a note to
clients today.  Power plants use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  At least one computer forecast model is showing a storm
developing in the far southern Gulf of  Mexico  between June 20
and June 24,  Matt Rogers , Commodity Weather Group’s president,
said in the note to clients today. Other models show the region
remaining quiet.  The  Gulf of Mexico  accounts for about 8.4 percent of
natural gas production in the U.S., according to the Energy
Department.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
259,269 as of 2:43 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 320,000. Volume was a record 553,738 yesterday. Open interest
was 1,001,658 contracts. The three-month average open interest
is 942,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  