-- 
Need a Light Bulb? Uncle Sam Gets to Choose: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/need-a-light-bulb-uncle-sam-gets-to-choose-virginia-postrel.html
If you want to know why so many
Americans feel alienated from their government, you need only go
to Target and check out the light bulb aisle. Instead of the
cheap commodities of yesteryear, you’ll find what looks like
evidence of a flourishing, technology-driven economy.  There are “ultrasoft” bulbs promising “softer soft white
longer life” light, domed halogens for “bright crisp light” and
row upon row of Energy Smart bulbs -- some curled in the by-now-
familiar compact fluorescent form, some with translucent shells
that reveal only hints of the twisting tubes within.  It seems to be a dazzling profusion of choice. But, at
least in  California , where I live, this plenitude no longer
includes what most shoppers want: an inexpensive, plain-vanilla
100-watt incandescent bulb. Selling them is now illegal here.
The rest of the country has until the end of the year to stock
up before a federal ban kicks in. (I have a stash in storage.)
Over the next two years, most lower-wattage incandescents will
also disappear.  This is not how the story was supposed to go. When compact
fluorescent light bulbs were new, promoters sold them as a
market-oriented, win-win proposition. They were like “lite”
beer: the same great illumination, for a fraction of the
electric bill.  But, as with beer, not everyone was convinced. Some
consumers didn’t like the high out-of-pocket cost. (A basic CFL
runs about three times the initial price of the equivalent
incandescent.) Some didn’t like that bulbs could take a while to
build up to full intensity.  You Look Blue  Some didn’t like the occasional flicker. And a lot didn’t
like the light. Its bluish cast lacks the warmth of traditional
incandescents and gives skin tones a somewhat deathly tinge.
“Fluorescent is just not attractive,” a resolute restaurant
designer once told me. “I don’t care what they say.”  One serious technophile, University of Tennessee law
professor Glenn Reynolds, spent much of 2007 flogging compact
fluorescents on his popular Instapundit blog, eventually
persuading more than 1,900 readers to swap 19,871 incandescent
bulbs for CFLs. To this day, the Instapundit group is by far the
largest participant at OneBillionBulbs.com, a bulb-switching campaign
organized by the consulting firm Symmetric Technologies. But
Reynolds himself has changed his mind.  “I’m deeply, deeply disappointed with CFL bulbs,” he wrote
last month on his blog. “I replaced pretty much every regular bulb
in the house with CFLs, but they’ve been failing at about the
same rate as ordinary long-life bulbs, despite the promises of
multiyear service. And I can’t tell any difference in my
electric bill. Plus, the Insta-Wife hates the light.”  What Americans Like  By the end of last year, CFLs had managed to capture only 25
percent of the general-purpose light-bulb market -- a decent
business, sure, but hardly the radical transformation
evangelists were going for. Most Americans, for most purposes,
have stuck to traditional incandescents.  So the activists offended by the public’s presumed
wastefulness took a more direct approach.  They joined forces
with the big bulb producers, who had an interest in replacing
low-margin commodities with high-margin specialty wares, and,
with help from Congress and President  George W. Bush ,  banned
the bulbs people prefer.  It was an inside job. Neither ordinary consumers nor even
organized interior designers had a say. Lawmakers buried the ban
in the 300-plus pages of the  2007 energy bill , and very few
talked about it in public. It was crony capitalism with a touch
of green.  Of such deals are Tea Parties born.  It’s a Ban  Now, I realize that by complaining about the bulb ban --
indeed, by calling it a ban -- I am declaring myself an
unsophisticated rube, the sort of person who supposedly takes
marching orders from  Rush Limbaugh .   In a New York Times
article last month, Penelope Green set people like me straight.
The law, she patiently explained, “simply requires that companies make
some of their incandescent bulbs work a bit better, meeting a
series of rolling deadlines between 2012 and 2014.”  True, the law doesn’t affect all bulbs -- just the vast
majority. (It exempts certain special types, like the one in
your refrigerator.) The domed halogen bulbs meet the new
standards yet are technically incandescents; judging from my
personal experiments, they produce light similar to that of old-
fashioned bulbs. They do, however, cost twice as much as
traditional bulbs and, if the packages are to be believed, don’t
last as long.  Washington  Knows Best  Strictly speaking, it’s also true that the rules are
neither mandates nor bans. They’re standards: We don’t tell you
how to reduce the amount of energy your light bulb consumes. We
just tell you that it can’t use more than a certain amount.  It’s as though, to spur innovation and encourage Americans
to lose weight, Washington had decreed that no beer shall
contain more than 8 calories an ounce. That wouldn’t technically
be a ban on traditional brews, but nobody but a pedant or a
flack would call it anything else.  Back when consumers weren’t paying attention, ban
supporters weren’t so coy. “Bipartisan Bill Declares ‘Lights Out’ on
Older, Inefficient Technology,” boasted the 2007 press release
from the ban’s original sponsor, Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New
Mexico Democrat. “By 2014, the traditional incandescent  light
bulbs  found in approximately 4 billion U.S. light sockets will
be virtually obsolete.”  A Bipartisan Mistake  Though sponsored largely by Democrats, the ban was a
bipartisan effort. It never would have become law without
support from Republican senators and the signature of President
Bush. Through filibuster and veto threats, Republicans got other
changes in the 2007 energy bill -- changes that had vocal
corporate constituencies -- but they didn’t fight the light bulb
ban. Maybe it seemed like progress. It was certainly pro-
business.  “The entire discussion of ‘phaseout of least- efficient
general service light bulbs’ has been at the industry’s
initiative,” Kyle Pitsor, the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association lobbyist told Bingaman’s committee in 2007
testimony. “This is not a case of manufacturers dragging their
heels, but of leading the way. New standards-setting legislation
is needed in order to further educate consumers on the benefits
of energy-efficient products.”  No Polished Wonkery  Though anti-populist in the extreme, the bulb ban in fact
evinces none of the polished wonkery you’d expect from
sophisticated technocrats. For starters, it’s not clear what the
point is. Why should the government try to make consumers use
less electricity? There’s no foreign policy reason. Electricity
comes mostly from coal, natural gas and nuclear plants, all
domestic sources. So presumably the reason has something to do
with air pollution or carbon-dioxide emissions.  But banning light bulbs is one of the least efficient ways
imaginable to attack those problems. A lamp using power from a
clean source is treated the same as a lamp using power from a
dirty source. A ban gives electricity producers no incentive to
reduce emissions.  Nor does it allow households to make choices about how best
to conserve electricity. A well-designed policy would allow
different people to make different tradeoffs among different
uses to produce the most happiness (“utility” in econ-speak) for
a given amount of power. Maybe I want to burn a lot of
incandescent bulbs but dry my clothes outdoors and keep the air
conditioner off. Maybe I want to read by warm golden light
instead of watching a giant plasma TV.  Only Use Matters  What matters, from a public policy perspective, isn’t any
given choice but the total amount of electricity I use (which is
itself only a proxy for the total emissions caused by generating
that electricity). If they’re really interested in environmental
quality, policy makers shouldn’t care how households get to that
total. They should just raise the price of electricity, through
taxes or higher rates, to discourage using it.  Instead, the law raises the price of light bulbs, but not
the price of using them.  In fact, its supporters loudly
proclaim that the new bulbs will cost less to use. If true, the
savings could encourage people to keep the lights on longer.  Even if you care nothing about individual freedom or
aesthetic pleasure, this ham-handed approach wouldn’t pass
muster in a classroom at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.
As pollution control, it’s horribly inefficient.  The bulb ban makes sense only one of two ways: either as
an expression of cultural sanctimony, with a little technophilia
thrown in for added glamour, or as a roundabout way to transfer
wealth from the general public to the few businesses with the
know-how to produce the light bulbs consumers don’t really want
to buy.  Or, of course, as both.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vpostrel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  