-- 
Nigerian Banks Fall As Sanusi Says Recapitalization Risks Being Derailed

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-06-10T11:28:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/nigerian-banks-recapitalization-process-risks-being-derailed-sanusi-says.html
Nigerian banks declined after
Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said the
recapitalization of lenders risks being derailed by shareholders
who have taken court action to stall the process.  Lenders affected by shareholders’ plans are  Oceanic Bank
International Plc (OCEANIC) , Union Bank of Nigeria Plc,  Intercontinental
Bank Plc (INTERCON) , and  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM) , Sanusi said in a statement published
in the Lagos-based Punch newspaper today.  Oceanic dropped for a 13th day, the longest streak of
losses since 2009, losing 4.8 percent to 1.20 naira by 12 p.m.
in Lagos. Union Bank retreated 4.6 percent to 2.07 naira,
erasing yesterday’s gain. Intercontinental headed for the lowest
since at least February 2003, losing 4.1 percent to 93 kobo.
Bank PHB lost 4.6 percent to 84 kobo. A close at this level
would be the weakest since January 2006.  The central bank, known as the CBN, will continue
supporting bank mergers and won’t be tied up in “endless
litigation,” Sanusi said.  The CBN provided 620 billion naira ($3.9 billion) to eight
of the nation’s 24 lenders after amassing 700 billion naira of
non-performing debt by lending to investors who speculated in
stocks, according to the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission in Abuja. Sanusi fired the chief executives of the
distressed lenders and set up Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria ,
or Amcon, to buy bad debts from the banks to help recapitalize
them before matching them with potential buyers.  Recapitalization Deadline  Historically, the central bank took over distressed banks
and handed them the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corp. “for
management, resale or liquidation,” Sanusi said. “If the
current attempt to arrive at a win-win situation is frustrated
by shareholders, the CBN assures creditors and depositors that
their savings, deposits and loans will be fully protected,” he
said, adding that the central bank would have no obligation “to
protect or give any value to shareholders.”  The rescued banks have until the end of September to
conclude recapitalization or merger deals with new investors or
face liquidation, Kingsley Moghalu, a deputy governor of the
central bank said on May 24.  Others that the central bank injected funds to are Afribank
Plc,  Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL) , Equitorial Trust Bank Ltd. and  Spring Bank
Plc. (SPRINGBK)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 