-- 
Nokia Siemens Stake Sale Remains an Option as Negotiations Are Continuing

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-27T09:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/nokia-is-still-in-talks-to-sell-stake-in-networks-business.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  said it’s still in talks
over the sale of a stake in the telecommunications networks
business it runs with  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  Nokia said the business still
has “multiple options.”  Nokia Siemens Networks, a 50-50 joint venture between
Espoo, Finland-based Nokia and Siemens, began talking with
private equity firms last year about selling a stake that could
bring in new cash and open more strategic options. NSN is the
second-biggest maker of wireless communications equipment by
market share. It had an operating loss of 686 million euros
($975 million) on revenue of 12.7 billion euros in 2010.  Nokia and Siemens are focusing on restructuring Nokia
Siemens Networks and may put more cash into the venture, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter. Talks with Gores Group LLC and
Platinum Equity LLC to sell a controlling stake will probably
not lead to a deal, the newspaper said.  “Negotiations are continuing” to sell a stake, said
Monika Langendorf, a spokeswoman for Munich-based Siemens. She
declined to comment on the number of companies Nokia and Siemens
are talking to or the size of the holding being discussed.  Nokia rose 0.9 percent to 4.18 euros at 12:54 p.m. in
Helsinki trading. Siemens climbed 0.1 percent to 92.45 euros in
 Frankfurt .  “Multiple options continue to exist due to NSN’s
performance in innovation as well as financial results,” Nokia
spokesman James Etheridge said by telephone. “Shareholder
interests are aligned in building a strong and profitable
company.”  Turnaround  Etheridge declined to define the options or comment on any
negotiations involved. Nokia Siemens spokesman Ben Roome
declined to comment. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia Siemens said
last year that it was in talks with private equity firms which
were interested in taking a stake in the vendor.  Nokia Siemens had 18.2 percent of the market for wireless
network gear in the first quarter, while Ericsson AB had 40
percent, according to market researcher Dell’Oro Group. Nokia
Siemens has about 73,000 employees after acquiring assets
from Motorola Solutions Inc. for $975 million in cash in April.  “If someone wants to make a contribution and become a
shareholder of NSN, we’ll be listening to what they have to
say,” Siemens Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said in an
interview with Bloomberg News in  Washington  on June 21. “So
far, there has been no one else who said he could do anything we
felt we couldn’t do on our own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 