-- 
Norilsk Seeks Iron, Copper to Curb ‘Dangerous’ Nickel Focus, Triple Value

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-06-10T15:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/norilsk-seeks-iron-copper-to-cut-dangerous-nickel-dependence.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel,  Russia ’s
largest mining company, plans to add copper, coal and iron ore
assets in  Indonesia  and  Latin America  as it seeks to overcome a
reliance on nickel and triple its market value to $150 billion.  “It’s dangerous to depend on nickel, in which we already
control a quarter of the global market,” Chief Executive
Officer Vladimir Strzhalkovsky said in a June 8 interview in
Moscow. “Copper, where Norilsk has just a 3 percent share in
global production, provides more room to expand.”  While nickel output may rise about 68 percent by 2025,
Strzhalkovsky is targeting an almost threefold jump in copper
and a doubling in production of platinum-group metals. That’s
intended to help the company, which produces 80 percent of its
metals at Soviet-era Russian plants, triple its market value in
14 years as it pursues the diversification model of global
competitors  Vale SA (VALE3) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group.  Norilsk is the world’s biggest producer of nickel, which
accounts for two-fifths of its sales. Prices of the metal, used
to make stainless steel, have fluctuated between $9,000 and
$51,600 a metric ton in the past three years on the  London  Metal
Exchange. As much as 80 percent of Norilsk’s profit has come
from its polar division, which extracts ores from mines north of
the Arctic Circle, as deep as 1.3 kilometers (4,300 feet).  Overseas Acquisitions  “Norilsk should diversify its business in terms of
geography and products, as its nickel reserves in Russia are
becoming poorer,” Dmitriy Kolomytsyn, a Moscow-based analyst at
Morgan Stanley, said by telephone. “While the company generates
good cash it should buy new nickel or other mining assets
overseas.”  By 2025, Norilsk Nickel plans to increase nickel output to
500,000 tons a year and copper production to 1 million tons,
Strzhalkovsky said. In 2010, Norilsk produced 297,329 tons of
nickel, 388,872 tons of copper, 2.86 million ounces of palladium
and 693,000 ounces of platinum, it said in a Jan. 31 filing.  Copper prices will rise to a record $12,000 a ton by the
end of this year on import demand from  China ,  Barclays Capital 
said June 8. Copper has almost tripled since the end of 2008,
reaching an all-time high of $10,190 in February in London.  Indonesia is attractive to Norilsk because the country is
rich in mineral resources and cheap labor, Strzhalkovsky said.
Norilsk said May 6 it signed a memorandum of understanding to
build a copper smelter in the Southeast Asian country with
capacity of 400,000 tons of the metal a year.  Norilsk rose 1.1 percent to 7,113 rubles at the 6:45 p.m.
close in Moscow trading, valuing the company at 1.36 trillion
rubles ($48.5 billion).  African Opportunities  The company also seeks to expand in  Africa , adding to
existing projects in Botswana and  South Africa , the CEO said. In
 Australia , Norilsk resumed output at the Lake Johnston nickel
mine this month after halting production in 2009 because of high
costs. Current nickel prices and cost-cutting make the venture
profitable, Strzhalkovsky said. Nickel has risen 20 percent in
the past year in London to $22,822 a ton.  “Africa gives Norilsk the best opportunities, as the
reserves there are easily extracted and they are relatively
inexpensive,” Kolomytsyn of Morgan Stanley said.  In Latin America, Norilsk is evaluating possible
acquisitions in  Brazil ,  Argentina ,  Peru ,  Mexico  and Cuba. “We
are analyzing this market very seriously, though there is no
goal to expand abroad immediately without evaluating the long-
term outcome,” Strzhalkovsky said. “We won’t necessarily
strike any deals this year or in 2012.”  Spending Plan  Norilsk will study buying mining projects valued at $100
million as well as companies, Strzhalkovsky said. He declined to
give any targets for iron-ore and coal production by 2025, or
for foreign investment. Norilsk plans to spend $34 billion by
2025, he said.  While Norilsk will seek Russian iron-ore acquisitions and
wants to expand in coal, it isn’t interested in purchasing OAO
Raspadskaya or any other of the country’s coal producers,
Strzhalkovsky said. Raspadskaya management and steel producer
 Evraz Group SA (EVR) , which hold 40 percent each in the coal company,
are seeking a buyer for their stakes.  Billionaire Alisher Usmanov, who controls Russia’s largest
iron ore producer, OAO Metalloinvest, hasn’t ruled out a merger
with Norilsk, Kommersant reported in April.  Profit Guidance  Norilsk’s net income this year will likely be similar to
its 2010 profit of “more than $5 billion” because nickel
prices have declined almost 8 percent this year, while copper,
platinum and palladium have been “decent,” he said. Profit was
$2.65 billion in 2009.  Norilsk’s $1.2 billion share buyback in the open market,
announced by the company in April, is “on track,” and about
half of the volumes have been purchased, Strzhalkovsky said.  He didn’t exclude a further round of buybacks later this
year, a decision that’s up to the board of directors. “If the
company accumulates significant cash and isn’t yet ready to
expand capex, a buyback is justified,” Strzhalkovsky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 