-- 
Northeast U.S. Carbon Auction Leaves More Than 2/3 of Allowances Unsold

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-10T17:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/northeast-u-s-carbon-auction-leaves-69-percent-of-allowances-unsold.html
Carbon-dioxide permits in the U.S.
Northeast were auctioned for $1.89 each, the minimum allowable
bid, as a record number of the pollution rights went unsold.  The auction on June 8 sold 13.5 million of 43.9 million
carbon-dioxide permits, or allowances, leaving 69 percent
without buyers, the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative  said
today on its  website . It was the biggest shortfall since
auctions began in September 2008.  Each allowance gives a power plant the right to emit one
ton of carbon dioxide in a cap-and-trade program that includes
the six New England states, New Jersey,  New York , Delaware and
 Maryland .  Demand for allowances is down because power-plant pollution
has dropped below required levels, said Paul Tesoriero, director
of environmental trading at  Evolution Markets LLC  in White
Plains, New York. There’s also a “black cloud” over the
program’s future after New Jersey’s governor said last month the
state will leave the cap-and-trade system, Tesoriero said today
in an interview.  Some buyers are holding back in case additional states exit
the regional carbon market and “this whole thing folds tents,”
he said.  New Jersey ’s Republican Governor  Chris Christie  said May 26
his state will depart the program by the end of this year. In
 New Hampshire , Republican lawmakers passed a bill June 8 to pull
the state out of the program. New Hampshire Governor John Lynch,
a Democrat, will veto the bill, his spokesman Colin Manning said
today.  RGGI Assurance  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative Inc., the group that
administers the trading system for the states, has said New
Jersey’s departure won’t jeopardize the carbon market.  Since 2008, the program has raised more than $886 million
for the states and 80 percent of the money is being used to
“promote clean-energy sources and lower energy costs for
consumers,” the group said today in an e-mailed statement.  The results of this week’s auction “show the success of
the RGGI market-based system,” Collin O’Mara, secretary of the
 Delaware  Department of Natural Resources and a member of the
cap-and-trade program’s board of directors, said in the
statement.  Power plants in the region have “significantly reduced”
their carbon-dioxide output since pollution targets were set and
“require fewer allowances,” O’Mara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  