-- 
NRC Chief Withheld Information on Yucca Plans, Watchdog Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-10T17:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/nrc-chief-withheld-information-on-yucca-plans-watchdog-says-3-.html
(Corrects Ostendorff appointment in fourth paragraph.)  Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  selectively provided information to
colleagues to keep plans for the Yucca Mountain waste dump from
advancing, the agency’s inspector general said.  The chairman “was not forthcoming with the other
commissioners about his intent to stop work” on the Nevada
site, according to a report by Inspector General Hubert T. Bell
that also questioned management style. “Jaczko acknowledged
that he sometimes loses his temper,” Bell said in the report.  Jaczko said in a statement on June 8 that the agency’s
watchdog had concluded the NRC’s handling of the Yucca Mountain
waste project was “consistent with established law.”  Lawmakers and NRC colleagues have faulted Jaczko for his
actions after the nuclear crisis in  Japan  along with his Yucca
Mountain decision. Commissioners William Ostendorff, nominated
by President  Barack Obama , and Kristine Svinicki, appointed by
President  George W. Bush , opposed Jaczko on the waste site.
Ostendorff, Svinicki and Commissioner William Magwood, named by
Obama, have said Jaczko asked them to stay away from the NRC’s
emergency operations center after the nuclear accident in Japan
in March.  The chairman “controls information provided to other
commissioners based on his interpretation of his statutory
authority versus the authority given to the Commission,” Bell
said in his report. As a result, commissioners “are uncertain
as to whether they are adequately informed of policy matters
that should be brought to their attention,” the report said.  Yucca Plans  U.S. plans for the waste site at Yucca Mountain, about 100
miles (161 kilometers) northwest of  Las Vegas , are opposed by
lawmakers led by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat. Jaczko was a science adviser to Reid before being
named to the commission.  The Obama administration in 2010 filed a motion with the
NRC to withdraw the license application for the site, which was
rejected by an NRC panel. The agency hasn’t issued a final
decision on the license withdrawal. Republicans on the House
Science Committee said this week that Obama’s plan lacked a
“scientific or technical evaluation.”  The House Energy and Commerce Committee, which posted the
June 6 report on its website today, will hear testimony from
Bell and two associates at a hearing June 14.  The watchdog’s report “paints an embarrassing picture of a
bully whose use of deceit and manipulation is ruining the
integrity of a respected independent regulatory agency,”
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
said today in a statement.  ‘Should Have Asked’  Magwood said he didn’t realize that Jaczko intended to
shut the NRC’s High-Level Waste Program and withhold publication
of a safety report on repository design, the report said.  “You should have asked,” Jaczko told Magwood, according
to the report.  Jaczko inferred that a dispute over funding withSvinicki
was caused by “a belief on her part that he was at the NRC for
the purpose of dismantling and terminating the Yucca Mountain
program at the bidding of  Senator Reid ,” according to the
report. The chairman became “animated and objected to this
perceived accusation,” according to the report.  The Obama administration eliminated Yucca funding in its
2011 budget request and the NRC allotted $10 million to close
out the license application. Congress, unable to pass a 2011
budget, in September approved the first of several bills to fund
government operations at 2010 levels.  Budget Discussions  In October, the NRC’s chief financial officer and executive
director for operations issued a memo directing staff to
continue work on the Yucca Mountain license application “in
accordance with the commission’s decision on the FY2011
budget,” the inspector general said in the report.  Jaczko said he met with the two managers and NRC’s general
counsel and sought their interpretation of the language in the
memo.  “Does everybody understand what this means, and that this
means close-out?” he said, according to the watchdog’s report.  Jaczko used the budget memo to halt the Yucca Mountain
review, even in the absence of a 2011 budget, which was within
in the chairman’s authority, the inspector general said.  House Republicans  propose reviving the Yucca Mountain
repository with $35 million in funding from the 2012 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  