-- 
Loans to Small Businesses Emerge for First Time Since Lehman

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-06-10T04:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/loans-for-small-business-emerging-for-first-time-since-lehman-s-bankruptcy.html
Lending to small U.S. businesses is
making a comeback on  Wall Street , with 12 investment firms
arranging $1.38 billion of initial stock offerings to funnel
cash to the nation’s biggest job creators.  Oaktree Capital Management LP, Crescent Capital Group LP
and Churchill Financial Holdings LLC are forming so-called
business development corporations, which typically lend to
businesses with annual revenue of less than $500 million,
according to filings with the U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission. The wave of BDCs is the largest in at least seven
years, based on data from Ipreo Holdings LLC in  New York .  While the  Federal Reserve  has flooded the financial system
with trillions of dollars over the past three years, obtaining
credit remains a challenge for many borrowers that don’t have
access to capital markets. A lack of credit is also hindering
the labor-market recovery, with unemployment hovering above 9
percent. Companies with fewer than 50 employees accounted for
more than half of new jobs created in the past decade.  “Capital needs to start getting down to the middle market
and then below to the innovators,” said Leon Wagner, who co-
founded GoldenTree Asset Management LP, a New York hedge fund
focused on debt markets. “That’s what America needs to get
deployed into the economy for significant growth to occur.”  Fewer Options  Small businesses have had fewer financing options since
institutions such as  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  and  CapitalSource Inc. (CSE)  cut
lending following the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Companies with annual earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $50 million or less
obtained $7.25 billion of syndicated loans in the U.S. this
year, while banks and investors supplied larger borrowers with
$229.4 billion, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged
Commentary and Data.  Banks, trying to rebuild following $2 trillion of
writedowns and losses since the start of 2007, continue to favor
government and related bonds to making loans. Holdings of such
debt has risen 44 percent to $1.68 trillion since October 2008,
while commercial and industrial loans outstanding have fallen 31
percent to $1.26 trillion, Fed data show.  Those that can get loans paid 1.79 percentage points more
in interest than large corporations in the first quarter,
according to  UBS AG (UBSN) , which is an attraction to Oaktree and the
other debt investment firms faced with record-low yields on
company bonds.  Backbone of Economy  Small businesses are the backbone of the economy. Companies
with fewer than 50 employees accounted for 64 percent of
private-sector jobs created in 2006, according to Automatic Data
Processing Inc. This year, it’s 48 percent.  Slow job growth poses a challenge to President  Barack Obama , whose re-election prospects may hinge on bringing down
unemployment. The jobless rate rose to 9.1 percent in May, and
is up from 5.6 percent in mid-2008. Former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , who announced his candidacy for the
Republican nomination this week, said June 3 in  New Hampshire 
that the number of people out of work is “simply inexcusable.”  Small businesses have struggled to obtain credit since
business development funds were hit when credit markets seized
up starting in 2008. CIT, the New York-based business lender,
filed for bankruptcy in November 2009.  CapitalSource, the  Chevy Chase , Maryland-based lender to
small businesses, reduced total loans to $6 billion in the year
ended in December, from $8.1 billion in 2009 and $9.3 billion in
the prior year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Big Bubble?’  Allied Capital Corp., one of the oldest BDCs, sold itself
to  Ares Capital Corp. (ARCC)  in 2010, after its auditors said they had
“doubt about the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern.”  Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV)  fell 92 percent to a low of
$2.05 on March 20, 2009 from a high of $24.13 on June 18, 2007.
The company has since risen to $10.65 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  “I like the BDCs as a whole,” said  Michael Turner , a
commercial finance analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading
LLC in  Washington . “The thing I’m always mindful of is, are we
in the middle of a big bubble?”  While recent reports on manufacturing and jobs indicate the
U.S. recovery is slowing, the median estimate of 72 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg is still for growth of 2.7 percent in
2011.  That is giving debt investors the confidence to target
small companies as they seek bigger returns than those offered
on high-yield, high-risk bonds and loans. The only other period
in which a comparable number of BDCs were being created was in
2004, when Apollo Investment and Ares were founded.  Riskier Assets  The Fed has flooded the economy with cash by expanding its
balance sheet to $2.79 trillion from $892 billion in mid-2008.
The move has prodded investors into riskier assets, helping to
drive yields on  junk bonds  down to a record low of 7.19 percent
last month from more than 20 percent in March 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch & Co. indexes show. Junk-rated securities
are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- at S&P.  “It’s hard to find yield and these are yield-producing
instruments,” John Hecht, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in
 San Francisco , said in reference to small-business loans.  Firms starting a BDC are typically able to double the
amount of money they raise by selling stock through borrowing an
equal sum. Average annual yields on BDCs range from 8 percent to
10 percent, Hecht said.  There are 32 publicly traded BDCs, with the biggest being
Ares and  American Capital Ltd. (ACAS)  They pay little or no corporate
income tax in return for distributing at least 90 percent of
taxable income to shareholders.  Crescent, Oaktree  Los Angeles-based Crescent, the leveraged-finance
investment firm co-founded by Mark Attanasio, the owner of the
Milwaukee Brewers baseball team, is planning to raise $175
million to lend primarily to companies with yearly Ebitda of
less than $40 million, according to documents filed with the SEC
on March 10.  Oaktree, which oversees $85 billion and is seeking $125
million through its IPO, is raising a fund to buy senior secured
loans, mezzanine debt, subordinated debt and equities of
companies with annual revenue of $25 million to $1 billion,
according to a May 11 filing by the Los Angeles-based firm.  Churchill’s BDC, which aims to raise $150 million of
equity, will target first-lien senior secured loans made to
companies controlled by private equity firms with Ebitda of $5
million to $50 million, according to an April 5 filing. The firm
has offices in New York,  Chicago  and  Minneapolis .  ‘Accessing Credit’  Howard Marks, Oaktree’s chairman, and Kenneth Kencel,
Churchill’s president and chief executive officer, declined to
comment because the funds are in a quiet period before the IPOs.
Bill Mendel, a spokesman for Crescent, also declined to comment,
citing the same reason.  Financing for small companies may heat up as private-equity
firms invest the more than $300 billion they have raised over
the next three-to-five years, a portion of which may fund
purchases of business with lower annual revenue, according to a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  report published May 31.  While Fed data show commercial and industrial loans are
down from the peak in October 2008, they are up 4.7 percent from
the post-crisis low of $1.21 trillion in September.  “Community banks and the large banks have really cut back
the supply of capital they put in the cash-flow based loan
market,” Hecht said. “As companies feel better about their
wherewithal, they start accessing credit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  