-- 
Mobius ‘Optimistic’ on Thai Stocks as Goldman Says Sell Amid Election Drop

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-10T11:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/mobius-optimistic-on-thai-stocks-as-goldman-says-sell-amid-election-drop.html
The biggest stock-market tumble
worldwide hasn’t dented  Mark Mobius ’s optimism for Thailand,
even as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG
advise cutting holdings on concern next month’s election will
spur political turmoil.  “We continue to believe that the market looks
attractive,” Mobius, whose $17.5 billion Templeton Asian Growth
Fund beat 92 percent of peers in the past 12 months and held 21
percent of its assets in Thai stocks at the end of April, said
in e-mailed comments to Bloomberg News yesterday. “We must
remember that Thailand has been the subject of political
turmoil” for eight decades, he said.  The benchmark SET Index lost 5.3 percent in June through
yesterday as foreign investors sold $602 million of shares on
concern the July 3 national elections will revive political
tension that sparked violent protests last year. Goldman Sachs
cut its rating on Thai stocks to “underweight” on June 7,
while Credit Suisse advised reducing lenders and tourism-related
holdings the same day. Both banks cited the election, along with
stock valuations and faster inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s
second-biggest economy.  The SET index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,020.37 today for the
biggest gain among emerging markets in  Asia .  Emerging-Market Boom  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party faces
opposition from the Pheu Thai party, led by the sister of
Thailand’s former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . Thaksin was ousted
in a 2006 coup and has lived abroad since fleeing a jail
sentence for abuse of power three years ago. Demonstrations
against Abhisit’s government last year left more than 90 dead.  Mobius, who oversees about $50 billion as the Singapore-
based executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group,
said periods of political turmoil haven’t caused “long-term”
selling of Thai stocks because investors have become accustomed
to conflict after more than 25 prime ministers, 18 constitutions
and 11 successful coups since 1932. Thailand’s economy is
“sound” and agricultural exports including rice to fast-
growing Asian nations will help drive growth, he said.  “Thailand is poised to benefit from a continued boom in
emerging markets,” said Mobius, without specifying which
industries or companies he favors. “We remain optimistic on
Thailand as a long-term investment destination.”  The 74-year-old investor declined to comment on whether
Templeton has been buying or selling Thai stocks, according to
Mae Loon, a spokeswoman in  Singapore .  Goldman Downgrade  The SET index has risen for two straight days after a
seven-day slide that dragged the gauge to the lowest level since
March 18. The index is still up 33 percent during the past year,
the fourth-best rally among benchmark equity indexes in 21 major
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index has gained 25 percent in the period.  The outperformance of Thai stocks is probably ending as the
economy slows, inflation accelerates and political risk deters
investors, according to Timothy Moe, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at New York-based Goldman Sachs. Moe recommended
boosting holdings in Malaysia and  Indonesia  in a June 7 research
report.  Thailand ’s banks, property companies and tourism-related
stocks are most vulnerable to revived concerns over politics,
Dan Fineman, an analyst at Zurich-based Credit Suisse, wrote in
a research note. Political instability has cost the country
between 1 and 2 percentage points of annual gross domestic
product growth, according to Credit Suisse estimates.  “Many in the market underestimate the economic and market
importance of politics in Thailand,” Fineman wrote.  ‘Key Factor’  The SET index dropped 1.3 percent in the four weeks before
parliamentary elections in December 2007 and sank at least 9
percent in the four weeks following the vote. In April 2006,
when opposition parties boycotted the election, the gauge
dropped 2.6 percent in a month before the vote, then climbed 4.8
percent the following month.  “The election will be a key factor,” Bank of Thailand
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters yesterday in
Bangkok. “We have to see whether the situation will be calm
after that. But in general, businesses should continue as usual
and growth should be in line with the forecast.”  The economy will expand 4.1 percent this year, down from
7.8 percent in 2010, according to the central bank. Rice exports
from Thailand, the world’s biggest supplier, jumped 67 percent
in May, the Thai Rice Exporters Association said on June 7.
Shares of Bangkok-based  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) , the nation’s
largest food producer, have jumped 61 percent in the past 12
months.  Price Controls  The Bank of Thailand raised its benchmark interest rate for
the fourth time this year on June 1 to damp inflation that
jumped to a 32-month high in May.  Abhisit has capped diesel tariffs and applied price
controls to items such as eggs and cooking oil. He promised to
raise the minimum wage by 25 percent, give cash to the elderly
and guarantee farmers’ incomes to appeal to voters loyal to
Thaksin.  Yingluck Shinawatra, the sister of Thaksin and leader of
the Pheu Thai party, favors letting prices of  consumer goods 
move freely, she said in an interview this week. Pheu Thai is
the latest incarnation of parties loyal to Thaksin that have won
the past four elections, with the last three results being
overturned by court rulings and the 2006 coup that removed
Thaksin from power.  Pheu Thai would win 43 percent of the vote if elections
were held now, compared with 37 percent for the Democrat party,
according to a Dusit Poll that surveyed 4,694 people from May 23
to May 28.  Lower Valuations  The risk of political turmoil resulting from the election
may already be reflected in equity valuations, according to
Andrew Stotz, a strategist at Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl,
the nation’s largest stock brokerage.  “It’s too late to downgrade,” Stotz said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “We’ve come down a lot.”  The SET index is valued at 11 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next 12 months, down from 12.5 times in April
and within 1 percent of the lowest level since July, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio is about 5 percent
higher than the five-year average, the data show.  “For value investors like us, current valuations remain
attractive,” Mobius said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  