-- 
Lockheed to Lose $15 Million for Military Satellite Delay

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-06-11T00:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/lockheed-to-lose-15-million-for-military-satellite-orbit-delay.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense contractor, has agreed to forgo $15 million in
fees because of delays in placing a military communications
satellite in orbit, the U.S.  Air Force  said today.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , launched the $1.7
billion satellite -- the first of six in the  Advanced Extremely
High Frequency  communication program -- on Aug. 14 last year on
board an Atlas V rocket also built by the company.  The satellite has yet to reach its designated
geosynchronous orbit because of “an anomaly” in the propellant
propulsion system, the Air Force’s  Space and Missile Systems
Center  in  Los Angeles  said in a statement today. The Air Force
has extended the time for placing the satellite in its orbit to
Oct. 3 from an earlier Aug. 31 date, the statement said.  Lockheed will lose $15 million to “address the costs
associated with the modified orbit-raising plan,” the Air Force
said. The company’s contract will be restructured, the statement
said, to encourage “cost performance by the contractor team
that will offset anomaly investigation and recovery costs.”  Communications Satellites  The Advanced EHF satellite program would create a
constellation of satellites capable of withstanding shocks from
a nuclear attack to allow secure communications among top
commanders, including the president. It also would provide
transmission of tactical communications, such as real-time
video, battlefield maps and targeting data.  Lockheed’s top subcontractor on the program is Los Angeles-
based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   “The financial details reached during negotiations between
the U.S. Air Force and Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company and
cited in today’s news release are accurate,” Lockheed spokesman
Stephen Tatum said in an e-mail.  “We are fully confident in our path forward to
successfully reach the satellite’s operational orbit,” he said.
“As directed by the Air Force, the timeline for reaching
operational orbit has been extended to early October to further
optimize fuel usage and provide additional fuel reserves to
support potential future contingency operations.”  “In addition, the joint Air Force/Lockheed Martin team has
declared the second and third AEHF propulsion systems to be
flight ready for their planned launch in 2012,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  