-- 
Modelo Is Said to Seek Board Support for Foster’s Offer at June 13 Meeting

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-06-10T21:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/modelo-is-said-to-seek-board-support-for-foster-s-offer-at-june-13-meeting.html
Grupo Modelo SAB de CV (GMODELOC) , the Mexican
brewer of Corona beer, will seek board support for a possible
joint bid with  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) 
at a June 13 meeting in Mexico City, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  Such a proposal would need the backing of  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI) , which has nine seats on Modelo’s 19-person board and
holds a 50 percent non-controlling stake. An offer would have to
be at least $9 billion, or more than Foster’s current market
value, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private.  AB InBev is likely to tell Modelo at the meeting whether it
will officially support or oppose a bid, said the people. The
companies have discussed the idea, and AB InBev has raised
concerns, including how the two companies would work together to
manage a business based in  Australia , one of the people said.  Jennifer Shelley, a spokeswoman for Modelo, declined to
comment. Colin Wheeler, a spokesman for Denver-based Molson
Coors, and Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for Anheuser-Busch
InBev, also declined to comment.  Molson Coors remains interested in pursuing a joint bid for
Foster’s, said one of the people. If a joint Modelo-Molson Coors
bid falls apart or is thwarted by AB InBev, then Modelo and
Molson Coors could also pursue a bid on their own or with other
partners, people said this month.  Modelo fell 1.57 pesos, or 2.2 percent, to 71.02 pesos in
Mexico City trading as of 4:10 p.m. New York time. Molson Coors
fell 52 cents to $44.22 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Financing the Deal  The brewers are working with banks including Bank of
America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG on lining up financing for a
potential purchase, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Melbourne-based
Foster’s has a market value of about A$8.8 billion ($9.3
billion).  Modelo is being advised by Bank of America and Greenhill &
Co., and Molson Coors is working with Deutsche Bank, the people
said. The Mexican brewer had about $2.27 billion of cash and
cash equivalents at the end of March and no bank or bond debt.  AB InBev inherited its Modelo stake with the $52 billion
purchase of Anheuser-Busch in 2008. Carlos Fernandez, chairman
and chief executive of Modelo, sued to block the sale of the
Modelo shares to AB InBev and lost in a ruling last year.  Fernandez has rejected selling control of Modelo to AB
InBev and has said he’d be interested in buying back the stake.
The company faces increased competition in  Mexico  after Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB sold its brewery to Heineken NV last year
in a transaction valued at $7.35 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  