-- 
Oil Falls Most in Four Weeks on Saudi Arabia’s Plan to Increase Production

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-06-10T19:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/oil-falls-first-day-in-four-in-new-york-on-signals-economic-growth-to-slow.html
Crude oil tumbled the most in four
weeks after the al-Hayat newspaper reported  Saudi Arabia  will
raise oil production to 10 million barrels a day next month, and
on concern the global economic recovery is slowing.  Oil declined 2.6 percent as London-based al-Hayat cited
unidentified senior OPEC and industry officials as the sources
of the Saudi output plan. China reported a smaller-than-
estimated  trade surplus  today.  India ’s industrial output growth
eased in April and U.K. manufacturing dropped.  “The expressed intent of the Saudis has been to make up
for the missing Libyan barrels and to cap  oil prices ,” said
 Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 Washington . “In addition to the Saudi news, most economic
indicators have been looking terrible.”  Crude oil for July delivery declined $2.64 to settle at
$99.29 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the
biggest drop since May 11. Prices fell 0.9 percent this week and
are 32 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent crude  for July delivery decreased 79 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $118.78 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  A rebellion against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has cut
production in the North African country by almost 90 percent,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  “An increase in Saudi output has been widely expected, but
the size hasn’t been announced,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst
with the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “The market is interested in any sign of how much
they will boost output.”  ‘Worst Meeting’  The report comes after the 12-member Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries failed this week to agree on
output in what Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said was “one of
the worst meetings” ever. Futures topped $100 a barrel after
the decision and al-Naimi said Saudi Arabia was “committed to
supplying the needs of the market regardless of the
disagreement.”  Saudi Arabia will increase oil production, though it is too
early to say by how much, according to a Saudi industry official
with knowledge of the matter. The country is still assessing
demand, the person said, declining to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to speak for the government.  “It’s starting to sink in that the Saudis intend to do
what they said and will increase oil production,” said  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy, LLC in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “This will ease any supply worries.”  Trade Surplus  China  reported a $13.1 billion trade surplus in May, as
export growth slowed. Inbound shipments rose 28 percent from a
year earlier and exports gained 19 percent, the customs bureau
said on its website. A $19.3 billion surplus was expected,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  India’s output at factories, utilities and mines rose 6.3
percent from a year earlier in April after an 8.8 percent gain
in March, the Central Statistical Office said in a statement in
New Delhi today.  China and India are the world’s second- and fourth-biggest
oil-consuming countries, responsible for 14 percent of global
demand in 2010, according to BP Plc, which published its
Statistical Review of World Energy on June 8.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1 percent to
1,276.14, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 132.34
points to 11,992.02 at 3:36 p.m. in  New York . The euro was down
1.1 percent at $1.4344 after dropping to $1.4323, the lowest
level since June 2.  ‘Across the Board’  “The market is under pressure across the board,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New
York. “We came in this morning to negative economic data from
China and then had the al-Hayat report. Both the stock market
and euro are moving lower, which are negative for oil.”  The euro fell against the dollar as European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet signaled a slowing pace of
interest-rate increases. A stronger U.S. currency reduces the
appeal of commodities to investors.  Brent, the European benchmark contract, traded at a record
$19.49 premium to U.S. futures today. The spread between the two
grades has climbed from $3.29 at the beginning of the year as
the Libyan rebellion curbed global supplies of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content.  Equipment problems and planned maintenance are expected to
curb production at the Buzzard oil field in the  North Sea  until
the end of July, according to Calgary-based operator Nexen Inc.  “The Libyan disruption has been a major reason for the
Brent premium,” Mueller said. “Maintenance at the Buzzard
field has both reduced the amount of Brent oil and increased its
quality, adding to its price. We also have too much oil at
Cushing, depressing the price of WTI.”  Cushing Inventories  Supplies of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, rose to
41.9 million barrels in the week ended April 8, the highest
level since at least 2004, when the Energy Department began
tracking stockpiles at the hub.  “WTI is getting hit more than Brent because of the storage
issue in Cushing,” said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount
Options Inc. in New York and a trader at the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 720,580
contracts as of 2:38 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 839,094
contracts yesterday, 27 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  