-- 
Oil Declines on Concern Fuel Demand May Slow as Banks Raise Interest Rates

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-10T08:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/oil-drops-0-3-percent-in-new-york-trading-brent-crude-is-little-changed.html
Crude oil declined in  New York ,
trimming the biggest weekly increase in four, amid speculation
fuel demand will falter as  Asia ’s central banks raise interest
rates to curb inflation and the U.S. job market weakens.  Futures slipped as much as 0.6 percent, after earlier
climbing 0.2 percent. South  Korea ’s central bank raised rates
for a third time this year and U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly
increased. Prices climbed yesterday after the U.S. Commerce
Department said the nation’s trade gap shrank 6.7 percent to
$43.7 billion, the lowest since December.  “The bulls and bears are firmly entrenched in a tug-of-
war,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity
Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicted crude will average
$100 a barrel this year. “The market will be quite happy to
take it higher if they see good economic grounds but we don’t
have a lot of data to suggest that’s the case.”  Crude for July delivery slid as much as 62 cents to $101.31
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $101.43 at 8:54 a.m. London time. Prices
are up 1.2 percent this week and 34 percent the past year.  Brent crude  for July delivery was at $119.27 a barrel, down
30 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday increased $1.72, or 1.5 percent, to $119.57.
It was the highest settlement since May 4.  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$17.91 a barrel to U.S. futures today on the ICE exchange.  Korean Interest Rates  The Bank of Korea raised its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent to rein in inflation that
has exceeded its target range and curb record household debt.
Eight of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the
decision with the rest expecting no change.  U.S. jobless claims rose by 1,000 to 427,000 last week,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News projected a drop in claims to 419,000. The
number of people on unemployment benefit rolls and those
receiving extended payments decreased.  U.S. oil imports declined by $2.42 billion in April,
contributing to the narrower trade deficit, the Commerce
Department said. The nation imported 8.41 million barrels a day
on average, the fewest since October.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries on June 8
was unable to reach an accord on targets for the first time in
at least 20 years after six countries opposed a Saudi Arabian
push to increase supply.  OPEC Weakened  “The economic news out of the U.S. is a bigger driver of
near-term oil direction than OPEC changing their output
targets,” said  Victor Shum , senior principal at consultants
Purvin & Gertz Inc. Singapore. “The market has seemed to
realize that supply issues among OPEC may not really matter that
much in the near term. At the end of the day what matters is
actual supply and the Saudis said that they would unilaterally
put more barrels on to the market.”  OPEC’s quota system has been weakened by the need to
replace lost oil from Libya, the group’s secretary general said
after this week’s divided meeting. “I don’t want to say it is
dead,” Abdalla el-Badri said yesterday in Vienna, referring to
the group’s overall production target. “It is there, but we
have to see how to replace  Libya .”  A rebellion against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has cut
production in the North African country by almost 90 percent,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Output slumped to 200,000
barrels a day last month, from an average of 1.55 million last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer,  Kuwait , Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates were ready to supply more oil to the
market, Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said after the meeting.
The four nations proposed a 1.5 million-barrel-a-day increase.  Libya, Angola, Ecuador, Algeria,  Iran  and Venezuela were
opposed to higher limits, according to al-Naimi.  Iraq  is exempt
from the targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  