-- 
Oil Declines on Concern Fuel Demand May Slow as Banks Raise Interest Rates

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-06-10T12:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/oil-declines-on-concern-fuel-demand-may-slow-as-banks-raise-interest-rates.html
Crude oil declined in  New York ,
trimming a weekly gain, amid speculation demand will falter as
Asia’s central banks raises  interest rates  to curb inflation and
the U.S. job market weakens.  Futures slipped for the first time in four days, losing as
much as 1.1 percent. South Korea’s central bank raised rates for
a third time this year, and U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly
increased. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
forecast a “tightening” oil market as demand for its crude
rises, two days after members of the producer group failed to
agree on output increases.  “Prices are coming back to reality as the post-OPEC gains
aren’t sustainable,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Demand will feel the high of high
prices. We have supplies rising, and inventories are high.”  Crude for July delivery slid as much as $1.12 to $100.81 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $100.92 at 1:06 p.m. London time. Prices are up 0.7
percent this week.  Brent crude  for July delivery was at $119.40 a barrel, down
17 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday increased $1.72, or 1.5 percent, to $119.57.
It was the highest settlement since May 4.  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$18.49 a barrel to U.S. futures today. The difference between
front-month contracts in  London  and New York reached a record
$18.62 on June 8. It averaged 84 cents last year.  No Consensus  OPEC, which concluded its June 8 meeting in Vienna without
reaching consensus on production targets, will release a monthly
report on supply and demand levels later today.  Crude in New York gained about 11 percent this year, partly
as the conflict in  Libya  halted exports of crude. Prospects for
Libya returning to production are “rather limited,” Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in a report today. The bank may
increase its second-half forecast for Brent crude of $102 a
barrel, analysts led by New York-based Francisco Blanch said.  “Barrels will have to make it into the market fast in
order to avoid large inventory draws in the third quarter of
2011,” Blanch said.  The Bank of  Korea  raised its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent to rein in inflation that
has exceeded its target range. The Philippine central bank
boosted the rate it pays lenders for overnight deposits to 4.5
percent in May.  U.S. jobless claims climbed by 1,000 to 427,000 last week,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday. That was more than
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  