-- 
Honda, Toyota Lose Grip on American Sedans

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-06-10T06:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/honda-fails-with-toyota-to-dominate-american-sedan-market-cars.html
Stephen Ragsdale is no longer one of
Honda Motor Co.’s “Happy Drivers.” A loyal owner for a decade,
he ditched a 2009 Accord just 18 months after he bought it. The
reason: He coveted his mother’s stylish Kia Optima.  He found last month he could get an Optima with heated rear
seats, cooled front seats and a larger video screen for his
navigation system -- and still save $40 a month. He traded in
the Accord and also swapped a 2003 Honda CR-V compact sport-
utility vehicle for a Kia Soul wagon.  “Honda has kind of fallen behind when it comes to how the
car works,” the Texas information-technology manager said.
“All Honda has going for it is better resale value.”  Ragsdale’s shopping spree shows how the U.S. car market is
shifting away from decades of dominance by Honda and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  among buyers of compact cars and family sedans.
While production shortages caused by the tsunami in  Japan 
hastened that shift, it was under way already, said  Eric Noble ,
president of Orange,  California , consulting firm The CarLab.  “Both companies are losing ground because their products
haven’t been competitive in key segments for half a decade,”
Noble said. “The inventory shortages will force shopping that
wouldn’t have happened for another generation.”  Toyota stumbled with last year’s recalls and hasn’t
recovered its trust advantage with consumers, Noble said, while
Honda has fallen behind when it comes to styling, creature
comforts and innovation. No longer are the Corolla, Camry, Civic
and Accord the default choices of value-minded U.S. consumers.  Better Competition  When car shoppers look around, they will find as Ragsdale
did that  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  no longer make
budget cars, that  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are no
longer producing unreliable sedans, and that  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has
slashed its prices. Honda’s market share has fallen to 9.9
percent this year from 10.6 percent. Toyota’s share has tumbled
almost two points to 13.2 percent.  Rivals have figured out that they can challenge Japan’s
once-unassailable leadership in fuel economy and beat them with
styling.  “We’ve determined in our strategy with both the Sonata and
Elantra to focus on design and fuel efficiency,”  John Krafcik ,
chief executive officer of Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said in an
interview. “The cars look sexy, you want to put them in your
driveway.”  Toyota and Honda have been very good over the years in
“quantifying the voice of the customer” in their products,
Krafcik said. “They’ve taken a very scientific approach, which
can lull you into doing something in a very logical fashion.”  Consumer Reports   As competitors have stepped up, Honda and Toyota models
have slipped down the ranks in Consumer Reports. Last year was
the first time that neither the Camry nor the Accord was the top
pick for family sedan. Nissan Motor Co.’s Altima took over and
the Hyundai Sonata ranks second on the recommended list.  “Toyota and Honda seem to have lost the plot,” said David
Champion, director of vehicle testing for Consumer Reports.
“The quality of some of Toyota’s products is wanting. Honda has
stood still in terms of introducing new technology.”  While Camry remains the top-selling car so far this year,
its share of the midsize segment fell to 9.6 percent from almost
11 percent a year ago, according to research Autodata Corp.,
based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Toyota’s Corolla and
Honda’s Civic and Accord have all lost share this year.  The slides started well before the tsunami hit. In 2008,
the Civic had 14.2 percent of the small-car market and its share
fell to 13.5 percent last year. During the same time, the
Camry’s share of the midsize market fell from 14.2 percent to
11.5 percent, according to Autodata.  Cross Shopping  Shopping data show the same trend, said Jessica Caldwell,
an analyst with  Santa Monica , California-based auto-shopping
website Edmunds.com. Early last year, before Toyota’s big
recall, 7.6 percent of Camry buyers looked at a Hyundai Sonata.
That doubled to 15.1 percent by the end of March, Caldwell said.  Same goes for the Civic. By the end of May, 14.3 percent of
people shopping for a Civic looked at the Ford Focus and 10.3
percent considered a Chevrolet Cruze, Edmunds says. A year
earlier only 5 percent looked at a Focus and just 2 percent
considered a Chevy Cobalt, the Cruze’s predecessor  Honda says it has stable customer-loyalty rates, which it
has highlighted in ads with a “Happy Drivers” theme. Through
the end of 2010, there was little change in customer retention
for the Civic and the Accord, said  Chris Martin , a spokesman for
Honda, citing data from researcher Strategic Vision.  Customers switching from the “Civic to other models
remained in the mid-20 percent range for the past three years,
so up through 2010 the data don’t show any significant shift
away,” Martin said.  ‘Coming Back’  Toyota has a new Camry is on the way as well as other
models that will get sales turned around, said Joe Tetherow, a
spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. unit.  Toyota is “not going to stand still,” he said. “There
are some things on the table that people are going to have to
take a look at pretty soon,” Tetherow said. “You can foresee
that Toyota is going to be coming back with something
significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  