-- 
Hong Kong Exchanges Has No ‘Immediate’ Plans for Acquisitions, Lamba Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-06-10T19:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/hong-kong-exchanges-says-no-immediate-plans-for-deals-executive-says.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the largest bourse operator by market value, has no immediate
plans to buy a rival, said Romnesh Lamba, an executive vice
president.  About $30 billion of industry bids have been announced
worldwide since October, including Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse AG’s deal to purchase NYSE Euronext of New York, creating
the world’s largest exchange operator.  “We don’t want to do M&A for the purpose of
consolidation,” Lamba, executive vice president and head of the
market development division at Hong Kong Exchanges, said today
at the Sandler O’Neill Global Exchange and Brokerage Conference
in New York. “Our story is very China-oriented.”  Joint ventures with other exchanges are more likely than
acquisitions as the company seeks expertise in areas such as
financial and commodity derivatives to cater to demand for risk
management, he said. The Hong Kong-based company, which has a
market value of $23.3 billion, runs the city’s securities and
derivatives markets.  Product Development  It’s only a matter of time before companies in  Asia  decide
they want regional benchmark gauges to manage the risk of price
movements in fixed-income products and commodities such as oil
and natural gas, Lamba said. Although the company’s current
“skill set” in financial and commodity derivatives is “close
to zero,” Hong Kong plans to develop products that companies in
China and other Asian countries can use to manage risk, he said.  In equities, Hong Kong’s “organic growth potential is
higher than any other exchange,” Lamba said. The company is
focused on preparing to attract Chinese investors as the
government changes rules limiting their activity, he said. A
merger would “drive down our growth rate.”  A series of international exchange deals has put pressure
on market operators to consider acquisitions to grow their
business. The deals began in October, when Singapore Exchange
Ltd. bid A$8.35 billion ($8.3 billion) for ASX Ltd. of Sydney.
London Stock Exchange Group Plc agreed to buy TMX Group Inc. for
about $3.1 billion on Feb. 9, and Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse AG followed with its $9.5 billion takeover of NYSE.  Listings Business  Hong Kong Exchanges will continue to build its corporate
listings business and attract foreign companies seeking initial
public offerings, said Chief Executive Officer Charles Li, who
spoke at today’s conference. The move will diversify the company
away from being primarily a “ China  play” in that business, he
said. He added that the exchange will improve its trading
platform, computer infrastructure and market rules to increase
its transaction volume and the number of users.  “We are not a modern market yet,” compared with rival
exchanges, Li said. “Our infrastructure is not up to speed. We
are a monopoly so we are not under pressure.”  The exchange plans to reduce the time to buy or sell shares
on the system by investing in technology and altering trading
rules, Li said. The company is also building a data center and
system for market data to meet the needs of customers, he said.  IPO Listings  Hong Kong Exchanges raised HK$122.5 billion for companies
through IPOs in the first five months of this year, up 164
percent from the same period last year, the company said in a
statement on June 7. The exchange operator will seek to help
companies raise money in the Asian markets as that region grows
in importance to foreign issuers, Li said.  Companies such as Vale SA, based in  Rio de Janeiro , or
Armonk, New York-based International Business Machines Corp.
“may very well go to  Shanghai ” to raise money, Lamba said,
referring to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange . “They’re coming to
Asia for branding, strategic reasons,” and want to appeal to
Chinese customers. In contrast, companies like Prada Holding SpA
seeking to raise money through an IPO are “unlikely to list in
China anytime soon” because of limits on foreign investments,
he said. Prada’s IPO on Li’s venue will occur next week.  Beyond Equities  Li said Hong Kong Exchange’s expansion in the next few
years will extend beyond equities, its traditional business, as
the company pursues its goal of becoming “China’s offshore
capital-markets center.” He said the exchange is focused on
catering to the investment needs of Chinese as “China Inc. is
finally emerging.”  The company is building a clearinghouse to process over-
the-counter trades in anticipation of a growing Asian market, he
said, and plans to combine the three clearinghouses it operates.
Clearinghouses reduce the risk of trading for firms by becoming
the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer,
reducing the impact on users if a clearing member defaults.  “Today we are largely a cash equities business,” Li said.
The potential convertibility of the renminbi “presents itself
with lot of credit opportunities,” he added. “A lot of the
financial derivatives products will become very, very big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  