-- 
Hong Kong Raises Home Loan Down Payments Signaling No Letup to Cool Prices

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-10T16:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/hong-kong-widens-effort-to-cool-home-prices-ordering-higher-downpayments.html
Hong Kong  raised minimum
downpayments for home buyers, signaling no let-up in a 20-
month campaign to cool prices even after sales slowed and a
land auction raised less than estimates.  Buyers of homes costing more than HK$6 million
($770,000) will have to increase up-front payments, with
properties of HK$10 million or more requiring 50 percent,
Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan  told
reporters yesterday. Foreign buyers must deposit an
additional 10 percent.  The measures mark Hong Kong’s fourth attempt since
October 2009 to cool prices that surged as much as 70 percent
on record-low  mortgage rates  and an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers. Developers on June 9 signaled gains in the
city’s  home prices , rated by Savills Plc as the world’s most
expensive, may slow as they held back bids that exceeded
surveyors’ estimates at the auction.  “The measures show the government’s determination to
hold prices at their current level,” said Lee Wee Liat, an
analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It may be
a signal they will take a more significant step and that’s to
limit the number of units foreigners or mainlanders can buy
in the city: If that happens, I think there’ll be a
correction in home prices.”  The new rules are effective immediately, Chan said.  Continued Price Gains  Borrowers whose income is primarily from outside Hong
Kong will need to make a higher downpayment unless they can
demonstrate a “close connection” to the city such as
evidence that they work for a local employer or that an
immediate family member resides in Hong Kong, the HKMA said
in a statement.  Home prices in Hong Kong gained 1.3 percent last week
from the previous seven days, according to Centaline Property
Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor.  The HKMA had already taken steps to tighten mortgage-
lending standards three times since October 2009. The
government on Nov. 19 increased stamp duties on homes sold
within six months of purchase and mandated higher
downpayments on those costing HK$8 million or more.  The city at the time also pledged to boost land supply
amid public protests that housing prices are becoming
unaffordable.  In the latest land auction by the government,  Cheung
Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
agreed to pay HK$11.65 billion for a site on Borrett Road,
about a 10-minute drive from the Central business district.
The price was equivalent to HK$26,763 per square foot, said
Centaline.  Volatile Market  “Although the  property market  cooled down a bit in
March and April this year, there are now signs of renewed
exuberance following high transaction prices recorded in
recent government land sale auctions,” HKMA’s Chan told
reporters in Hong Kong. “The property market has been
volatile” since November.  Property transactions fell for a fifth straight month in
May while overall home price growth is slowing after lenders
accelerated mortgage rate increases in April as liquidity
dried up. Prices may drop 10 percent to 20 percent in 2012
and a further 10 percent in 2013 on rising rates, Andrew Lawrence, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays Capital , said
this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  