-- 
Morgan Stanley Trades as Though ‘Worth More Dead,’ Bernstein’s Hintz Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-10T17:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/morgan-stanley-undervalued-as-shares-trail-tangible-book-hintz.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, could shut down its trading businesses and
the firm would be worth 40 percent more than yesterday’s share
price, according to Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst.  An analysis of the liquidation of the sales and trading
operations, which constitute 80 percent of the firm’s balance
sheet, shows that the equity market is overreacting to
impatience in the firm’s turnaround, Hintz wrote in a note to
investors today. Hintz said he isn’t endorsing a dismantling of
the trading operations.  Morgan Stanley shares have dropped 27 percent from their
recent peak in February as investors express concern over new
regulations and capital rules. After accounting for the planned
conversion of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.’s preferred
stake in the New York-based firm, the shares are trading at a 13
percent discount to tangible book value, Hintz said.  “We have long argued that absent a liquidity crisis, the
mark-to-market balance sheets of Wall Street trading firms
support a trough valuation at tangible book value,” Hintz
wrote. “This is because at low valuations, an acquirer could
simply liquidate the trading balance sheet, pay off the
liabilities and walk away with more cash than they paid for the
company. Thus, at certain P/TB levels, such as today, a broker
is worth more dead than alive.”  ‘Outperform’ Recommendation  Morgan Stanley fell 26 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $22.25 at
12:34 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares yesterday touched their lowest level since April 2009,
and this week are headed for the 14th decline in 16 weeks.  Hintz maintained his “outperform” recommendation on the
stock, and he expects the share price to reach $35, according to
the note.  The current share price is undervalued even under the most
pessimistic outlooks for regulation and retail investor trading,
barring a major liquidity run similar to 2008, Hintz wrote.
Morgan Stanley should pay off “handsomely” for long-term
investors that buy now, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  