-- 
Osaka Mayor Says Quake Proves Need to Decentralize From Tokyo

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-06-10T01:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/osaka-mayor-says-quake-proves-need-to-decentralize-from-tokyo.html
Japan’s record earthquake proved the
need to disperse central government functions beyond  Tokyo , and
Osaka’s place at the center of the nation’s second-biggest urban
area makes it an ideal backup, the city’s mayor said.  “It’s nonsense that the national government’s workings
should be limited to Tokyo,” Kunio Hiramatsu, 62, said this
week in an interview at Osaka’s city hall. “There are several
cities nationwide that can offer alternative infrastructure and
Osaka should be foremost among them.”  The March 11 earthquake and nuclear accident that caused
some companies to temporarily relocate workers outside Tokyo
sparked discussion on the long-term need to move more government
and business functions outside the capital. Osaka hotels and
leased-office facilities were among the benefactors of the
temporary shift to  Japan ’s western and southern regions.  “Osaka always has had the highest concentration of
diplomatic missions in Japan outside Tokyo so we have a natural
edge in making our case as an alternative,” said Hiramatsu, a
former anchorman for local broadcaster  Mainichi Broadcasting
System Inc.  who was elected in 2007.  Hiramatsu also says rail and road links to the historical
city of Kyoto and port of Kobe, both about 30 minutes away by
train, are advantages for Osaka. The so-called Kansai region,
about 400 kilometers (250 miles) southwest of Tokyo and 600
kilometers from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, is home to electronics manufacturer Panasonic Corp., game
maker Nintendo Co. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.,  Asia ’s biggest
drugmaker.  Tokyo’s Pull  Osaka’s draw as a business center has been declining since
the burst of Japan’s asset bubble two decades ago, with banks
including  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and Resona
Holdings Inc. moving more of their operations to Tokyo. Among
companies included in Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average,
only 21 are based in Osaka, while 147 have headquarters in Tokyo.  Redevelopment of the area around Osaka Station, western
Japan’s busiest rail terminal, is a sign the city is trying to
recapture some of its former glory. A revamped  station building 
was opened last month and the first phase of a business and
retail complex on the north side of the station, is due to be
completed within two years.  “We want this to be a ‘knowledge oriented’  district  where
innovations arise from communication between business people and
researchers,” Hiramatsu said. “ Osaka ’s success depends on
attracting the best people to the site.”  Hiramatsu, who declined to say whether he will run for re-
election when his term ends in December, points to efforts to
remove graffiti and abandoned bicycles from the streets of Osaka,
a city of 2.7 million people, as achievements during his term as
mayor.  Giuliani Model  “For some people in other parts of Japan, Osaka’s image
has been as a rather dirty city,” he said. “I think it has
become considerably cleaner and safer.”  Street crime in Osaka, including muggings and purse-
snatching, fell 35 percent to 28,877 incidents in the three
years since 2007, while the number of bicycles left on streets
decreased by half during the period, according to Osaka city
spokesman Hironori Kakuno.  Hiramatsu said his efforts were partly influenced by his
experience in  New York , where was posted as a broadcaster in the
1990s. He observed the crime-prevention measures taken by then-
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who adopted the Broken Windows Theory
that suggests signs of social disorder induce misbehavior and
crime.  Osaka’s approach was different from New York’s in that it
was done mainly with the help of citizens groups rather than the
police department, which is under the direction of the
prefectural government, the mayor said.  “I think it was done in a softer manner than Giuliani,”
he said. “I’d like to ask foreign tourists, especially those
who have refrained from traveling to Japan after the March
earthquake in the northeast, to come to Osaka and see the
difference for themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net  