-- 
House Panel Seeks Report If Boeing Tanker Cost Rises $5 Million

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/house-panel-seeks-report-if-boeing-tanker-cost-rises-5-million.html
The U.S. Air Force must report to
Congress any cost increase of $5 million or more in  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
aerial tanker program, according to the 2012 Defense Department
spending bill approved by the House Appropriations Committee’s
subcommittee on defense.  The panel “directs the secretary of the Air Force to
report any authorized contract modifications with a cost greater
than or equal to” $5 million, no later than 30 days after that
change is made, according to the committee report that
accompanies the bill. Bloomberg News obtained a copy of the
document.  Boeing, the sole supplier of refueling tankers to the Air
Force since 1948, beat European Aeronautic, Defence and Space
Co. for a $35 billion program to build 179 new KC-46A tankers.
The initial contract for the development phase was valued at
$3.5 billion.  Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn said on Feb. 24, when
Boeing won the contract, that the Pentagon “committed to a
fixed-price contract structure that would deliver the  Air Force 
a capable aircraft at the most competitive price.”  The appropriations bill underscores Congress’ continued
scrutiny of the program. As part of the legislation authorizing
defense spending for fiscal year 2012, the full House approved a
provision that would require the Pentagon to review and brief
Congress quarterly on the program. At each review, Pentagon
officials should provide notice of “major engineering, design,
capability or configuration change to the tanker as well as the
cost for those changes.”  C-17 Replacement  House lawmakers are also proposing an increase of $225
million to replace the “operational loss” of one Boeing C-17
cargo plane. The Pentagon did not request that money as part of
its proposed budget for fiscal year 2012, which starts Oct. 1.  The bill would cut $149.5 million from the multinational
missile defense program known as the  Medium Extended Air Defense
System , or Meads. The Pentagon in February said it would
terminate Meads when the current contract ends in 2013.  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
 Orlando ,  Florida , by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Lfk-
Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of Germany and MBDA of  Italy . MBDA is
jointly owned by BAE Systems Plc, European Aeronautic, Defence
and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   The House’s defense authorization bill, passed in May, also
would cut $149.5 million from a request of $406.6 million for
Meads and would limit the availability of funds until the
secretary of defense either negotiates a multilateral
termination or restructures the program and ensures that
technology developed can be transferred to other programs.  Abrams Tanks  The defense appropriations panel also added $272 million to
the Pentagon’s budget for  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Abrams tank,
backing the company’s effort to override an Army plan to suspend
the program. The Army had requested $181.3 million for the
enhanced Abrams M1A2.  General Dynamics, based in  Falls Church ,  Virginia , and at
least 200 of its suppliers have been lobbying Congress to add
almost $1.4 billion over the next four years.  The Army’s 2012 budget proposed to suspend the ongoing
upgrade of older tanks to an enhanced Abrams M1A2 model while
the Army assesses plans for next-generation armor. The Abrams
was designed in the 1970s.  The Army proposes to shut down work at the Lima, Ohio-based
tank plant between 2013 and 2015.  The House-passed authorization bill also includes $272
million in addition to the Army’s $181.3 million request for
2012, enough to buy about 60 tanks. The defense appropriations
panel is following suit.  The full  House Appropriations Committee  will consider the
2012 defense bill on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  