-- 
How Much Money Does a Big Bank Really Need to Be Safe?: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/how-much-money-does-a-big-bank-really-need-to-be-safe-view.html
Not long ago, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  described the key ingredient in a
sound global financial system: “Capital, capital, capital.” He’s
right about the ingredient. But when it comes to the world’s
banks, he and his international counterparts are all wrong about
the proportions.  Capital is the amount of money, or equity, that a bank’s
shareholders put at risk -- like a down payment on a house. It’s
also the simplest way to protect the economy from the risks big
banks naturally take. The more capital banks have, the less
likely they are to go bankrupt and trigger crises like the one
the world is still recovering from.  As soon as this summer, global regulators will decide how
big a down payment to require of banks large enough to present a
systemic threat if they failed, a category that could include
more than two dozen global financial firms. U.S. officials are
aiming for a maximum of 10 percent, compared to a 7 percent
minimum other banks must meet by 2019.  Bankers are already warning of dire consequences. If we
want a safer system, they argue, we’ll have to pay for it. More
capital means higher costs, which banks would pass on to
customers in the form of higher interest rates on loans. That,
in turn, could stunt economic growth by making companies less
willing to invest and expand, as  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  warned  earlier this week.  Logical as the bankers’ argument seems, it’s not quite
right. The available evidence suggests that the benefits of
fewer banking crises would far outweigh the costs of  capital
requirements  much higher than those currently on the table.  Economic Growth  Consider, first, the idea that capital takes a toll on
economic growth. The bank-funded  Institute of International
Finance  asserts this would happen. Its conclusion isn’t
supported elsewhere. Three Bank of England economists, for
example, looked at more than 100 years of data and in a January
 study  found no clear link between capital levels and economic
growth in Britain. Other  studies  have found that significantly
higher capital levels would push up lending rates, but no more
than 0.8 percentage point, and could move them as little as 0.1
percentage point.  The benefits of more capital, by contrast, can be
considerable. When banking panics cause credit to dry up and
companies to fire their employees, much of the lost economic
growth is never recovered. The value of avoiding such losses,
let alone the human suffering, is so great that the  Bank of
England  team put the optimal level of capital at about 20
percent. A  report  from the  Bank for International Settlements ,
the central bank for central bankers, pegged the ideal level at
about 13 percent.  Transparency  Transparency is almost as important as capital levels. Over
the years, the banking system has become so complex that
figuring out one large bank’s capital ratio recently required
more than 200 million calculations, according to  Andrew Haldane ,
executive director for financial stability at the Bank of
England.  Global capital rules allow banks to place different weights
on different kinds of assets, leaving them vulnerable to
manipulation and mistakes. Technical errors alone, Haldane
 estimates , can skew banks’ estimates of their  capital ratios  by
several percentage points -- a big problem if the starting point
is only 10 percent.  Regulators worry that if they’re too tough on banks,
they’ll create an incentive for bankers to find ways around the
rules. Their concern seems misplaced. The off-balance-sheet
machinations at the center of the recent crisis emerged at a
time when capital requirements were as low as 2 percent.  Taking Chances  The developed world is in no condition to take chances with
banks. The average total debt of the U.S., Britain,  Japan , and
other advanced nations last year was 74 percent of annual
economic output, more than triple the level in 1970. They can
ill afford another major bailout. That leaves capital as the
only barrier between taxpayers and an outcome far worse than
whatever slightly higher  interest rates  might produce.  It’s hard to know what the perfect capital ratio is. But
given the lopsided risks, it would be wise to err on the high
side. The burden of proof rests on global regulators to justify
why they aren’t aiming for a capital ratio closer to 20 percent.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 