-- 
Toyota to Face U.S. Sudden-Acceleration Test Trial in 2013, Judge Decides

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-06-10T18:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/toyota-to-face-sudden-acceleration-trial-in-2013-judge-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will face the
first test trial in February 2013 of lawsuits combined in
federal court that claim a defect causes the company’s vehicles
to speed up uncontrollably, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
 California , said in a “tentative order” posted on his court’s
website that the first bellwether trial would be of claims by
the families of two people killed in a Nov. 5, 2010, crash in
Utah. Paul Van Alfen died when his 2008 Toyota Camry crashed
into a wall. Passenger Charlene Lloyd died the next day.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims of injuries
and deaths.  “The conduct of a trial in the first quarter of 2013 will
markedly advance these proceedings,” said Selna, who is
overseeing most of the federal suits. “Selection of a personal
injury/wrongful death case” is most likely to “meet that
goal,” he said.  A bellwether case is used by the court and lawyers for both
sides to test evidence and liability theories before moving on
to other trials or limiting future litigation.  Selna picked the Van Alfen case from six submitted by
lawyers for the company and plaintiffs.  Trial in 2013  “My overriding goal is to ensure that we try the first
bellwether case in the first quarter of 2013,” Selna said today
at a hearing.  Lawyers for both sides said at the hearing that they were
satisfied with Selna’s choice. Van Alfen was on the list of
three cases submitted by the plaintiffs’ attorneys.  “The Van Alfen case is a good candidate for a first
trial,” said Joel Smith, Toyota’s lawyer. “We’re fine with
that.”  Van Alfen’s wife and son were injured in the 2010 crash and
are suing as well. The families say the accident happened when
the vehicle unexpectedly accelerated as Van Alfen pulled onto an
exit ramp on I-80 near Wendover,  Utah , and didn’t stop even
after he slammed on the brakes.  The Camry was defective and the Toyota City, Japan-based
carmaker failed to include a brake override system or device to
stop inadvertent acceleration, the families maintain.  Cases Combined  Lawsuits were combined before Selna in a multidistrict
litigation for evidence-gathering and pretrial rulings.  Toyota’s recalls began in September 2009 with an
announcement that 3.8 million vehicles might have a defect
making floor mats jam the accelerator pedal. In January 2010,
the company recalled 2.3 million vehicles to fix sticking gas
pedals.  The carmaker said in February that it was recalling another
2.17 million vehicles for carpet and floor-mat flaws that could
jam gas pedals.  Many of the lawsuits include claims that loose floor mats
and sticky pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden
acceleration and that the electronic throttle system in  Toyota
vehicles  is to blame.  Toyota has disputed claims of flaws in its electronic
throttle control system. The Van Alfen case alleges a defect in
this system left vehicles vulnerable to unintended acceleration.  Government Testing  In February, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration and the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  said their probe of possible electronic defects
found no causes for unintended acceleration other than sticking
accelerator pedals and floor mats that jammed the pedals.  Toyota previously went to trial this year in federal court
in  Central Islip ,  New York , on a sudden-acceleration claim that
wasn’t combined before Selna.  The jury on April 1 found no defect, rejecting the claims
of a doctor who said he was injured when his 2005 Scion sped up
and hit a tree. That vehicle wasn’t involved in the recalls.  “We are pleased that the initial bellwether will address
plaintiffs’ central allegation of an unnamed, unproven defect in
Toyota vehicles, as every claim in the MDL rests upon this
pivotal technical issue,”  Celeste Migliore , a Toyota
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “A decision on this
core claim and the related causation issues will greatly speed
the entire MDL.”  The Utah lawsuit is Van Alfen v. Toyota Motor Sales USA
Inc., 2:11-cv-04143, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana). The cases are combined as In re Toyota
Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices
and Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego 
at   callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  