-- 
Toyota Forecasts 31% Surprise Profit Drop on Reduced Sales, Stronger Yen

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e ,   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-06-10T07:29:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/toyota-forecasts-31-decline-in-its-full-year-net-income-on-loss-in-output.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Japan’s largest
carmaker, forecast a surprise drop in profit after the nation’s
record earthquake disrupted production and sales while the yen
strengthened.  Net income may fall to 280 billion yen ($3.5 billion) in
the 12 months ending March 31 from 408 billion yen a year
earlier, the Toyota City-based company said in a  statement  today.
That compares with the 422 billion yen average of 13 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the past 28 days.  Declining global sales may erode full-year earnings by 120
billion yen, Toyota said, after the magnitude-9 temblor and
tsunami on March 11 damaged parts factories and power plants,
disrupting auto output in Japan and abroad. Even as the carmaker
works to restore production by the end of this year, it also
needs to catch up with rivals such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Volkswagen AG in emerging markets including  China , said  Tatsuya Mizuno , a director at Mizuno Credit Advisory in Tokyo.  “They need to make that shift of focusing on emerging
markets as soon as possible to make any profits,” Mizuno said.  Global vehicle sales may drop to 7.24 million this fiscal
year from 7.308 million last year, Toyota said in the statement.  Revenue may decline to 18.6 trillion yen from 19 trillion
yen a year earlier, Toyota said.   Operating profit may drop to 300 billion yen from 468
billion yen, it said. The earthquake and tsunami in March
reduced the figure by an estimated 360 billion yen, Toyota said.  Production Recovery  Toyota rose 0.9 percent to 3,300 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo before the announcement. The stock has declined
9.6 percent since March 10, the day before the earthquake.  The carmaker expects global production to recover to normal
levels by November or December, Chief Financial Officer Satoshi Ozawa said today in Tokyo, reiterating a previous forecast.
About 30 parts used in  Toyota vehicles  are still in short supply,
he said.  “Toyota will do its best to recover from the delays in
delivery,” he said.  Koji Endo, an analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo,
said Toyota’s production is expected to grow “greatly” in the
second half of the year.  “The forecast was conservative,” Endo said. “The company
may revise up the forecast after the second quarter.”  Yen Strength  The carmaker, which is basing this year’s profit forecast
on an exchange rate of 82 yen to the dollar, said the stronger
Japanese currency may cut profit by 100 billion yen. The yen
gained 15 percent in 2010 and soared to a postwar high of 76.25
per dollar on March 17. A stronger yen reduces Toyota’s
repatriated earnings from overseas.  Toyota, which built 45 percent of its cars in  Japan  last
year, may need to produce more abroad because of the yen’s
strength, Ozawa said last month.  While Toyota President Akio Toyoda has said he wants to
protect jobs and Japan’s manufacturing culture, the automaker’s
profitability is suffering with the yen close to a post-World
War II high and German and South Korean rivals benefiting from
weaker currencies and free trade agreements. The currency and
the impact of Japan’s record earthquake contributed to Toyota’s
fourth-quarter profit falling 77 percent from a year earlier,
the company said in May.  Chairman Toshiyuki Shiga of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association called for the government to
“urgently correct” the appreciation of the yen, according to a
statement posted on the association’s website on June 8.  Toyota’s ratio of domestic production is higher than
Japanese rivals. Nissan Motor Co. made 25 percent of its
vehicles in Japan last fiscal year, while Honda Motor Co.
produced 26 percent of its cars at home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  