-- 
Pakistan Army Wants Military Aid From U.S. Diverted to Support the Economy

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-06-10T06:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/pakistan-army-wants-military-aid-from-u-s-diverted-to-support-the-economy.html
Pakistan ’s army chief advocated
diverting U.S. military aid to support the economy, taking note
of the public criticism the military has faced since U.S.
commandos killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in the country.  Economic aid is “more essential for Pakistan,” General
Ashfaq Parvez Kayani said, according to a military statement
issued yesterday. “It is being recommended to the government
that the U.S. funds meant for military assistance to the army be
diverted toward economic aid to Pakistan.”  Total U.S. aid and military reimbursements to Pakistan
amounted to $4.3 billion in fiscal year 2010, according to the
 Congressional Research Service , the nonpartisan research group
that serves lawmakers. Since bin Laden’s killing U.S. lawmakers
have questioned Pakistan’s commitment to fighting militants and
have said that further aid should be tied to actions against al-
Qaeda and the Taliban.  In comments to a meeting of top commanders in the army
headquarters in Rawalpindi, Kayani also criticized continuing
U.S. drone attacks, according to a  statement  from the military’s
Inter Services Public Relations. He said the army is “under no
pressure” to move against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in the
North Waziristan region bordering  Afghanistan .  Kayani said he will not allow the U.S. to conduct
independent espionage operations on its soil. Pakistan has
“drastically” cut the number of U.S. troops in Pakistan and
ended joint training activities, he said.  Drone Attacks  “As far as the drone attacks are concerned, the Army has
repeatedly conveyed to all concerned that these are not
acceptable under any circumstance,” he said.  Kayani did urge Pakistanis in the border region to “evict
all foreigners” -- a reference to al-Qaeda and Afghan Taliban -
- since it is “wrong, in principle, to allow others to use our
land for fighting their battles.”  The statement from Pakistan’s generals came after unusually
sharp criticism from politicians and the media following the
army’s failure to detect the U.S. commando raid that killed  bin
Laden  and to prevent the 16-hour assault last month by Taliban
militants on a navy base in the country’s most populous city,
Karachi.  The military statement cited “blowback” from the U.S.
raid that has led to an increase in terrorism. The commanders
decried Pakistanis who are “trying to deliberately run down the
armed forces and the army in particular,” the statement said.  Garrison Town  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have risen following
the discovery of bin Laden in Abbottabad, a town about 30 miles
(50 kilometers) north of the capital, Islamabad, that is the
site of the nation’s most prestigious military academy and home
to many retired military officers.  Kayani gave what he said was an accounting of U.S. aid to
show how little of the so-called coalition support funds --
money intended to reimburse countries for help in fighting
terrorists -- has gone to the military.  Of the “often quoted figure” of $13 billion in coalition
support funds during the past 10 years, Pakistan has received
$8.6 billion, he said. Of that, no more than $2.6 billion has
gone to the military, mostly the army, he said. The remaining $6
billion has gone to general economic support, “which ultimately
means the people of Pakistan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  