-- 
Palin E-Mails Cover Bears, Budget, ’Biased’ Press

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   A m a n d a   C o y n e
-- 
2011-06-10T21:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/palin-calls-media-biased-in-e-mails-released-by-alaska-from-her-tenure.html
Sarah Palin calls local media
“biased and unfair” and praises an energy speech by then-
candidate Barack Obama in some of the thousands of e-mails sent
during her first two years as governor of  Alaska .  More than 24,000 e-mails from Palin’s term were made public
by the state today, offering a glimpse into her administration
up to September 2008, shortly after Republican Senator  John McCain  picked her as his running mate in his unsuccessful
presidential campaign.  “Can you flippinbelieveit?!” she wrote to her state
Department of Revenue commissioner on Aug. 30, 2008, the day
after McCain of Arizona named her as his running mate.  The six boxes of documents, weighing about 300 pounds,
include e-mails about bears, the budget, oil and gas issues, as
well as the firing of her public safety commissioner, which led
to a scandal called “Troopergate.” On Aug. 15, 2008, she wrote
that the media were reporting the issue “incorrectly.”  In one e-mail, she called reports on her budget and
potential trooper layoffs “biased and unfair.”  “It is appalling to see and hear the untruths being spewed
about the DPS budget and contract results,” she wrote to
members of her staff on Aug. 19, 2008, referring to the state
Department of Public Safety.  ‘Guy Named  Barack Obama ’  The bulk of the correspondence shows Palin and her staff
busy attending to routine events and official business, such as
speeches, schedules, travel, board appointments and job
applicants.  In one February 2007 exchange, a Palin adviser recommends
that, when she is in Washington, she meet  Pete Rouse , who was
Obama’s chief of staff when he was in the Senate and served
briefly in the same job at the White House.  “He’s now chief-of-staff for a guy named Barack Obama,”
the aide wrote.  The aide relayed information that Rouse “wants to help
Alaska however he can,” and also had predicted Palin would win
election to governor.  Palin responded: “I’m game to meet him.”  Several weeks before she was selected as McCain’s running
mate, Palin in an e-mail to her aides praised a speech that
Obama, then a candidate for president, gave in  Michigan  on
energy.  ‘Wrong Candidate’  “He gave a great speech this morn in Michigan -- mentioned
Alaska,” she wrote. “Stole our Energy Rebate $1,000 check
idea, stole our TC-Alaska gasoline talking points, etc.”  Palin tells her staff to write a statement “saying he’s
right on,” and asks an aide to help “crank this quick
statement out as our ‘reaction’ to some of Obama’s good points
this morning.”  Palin later writes: “He did say ‘yay’ to our gasline.
Pretty cool. Wrong candidate.”  Palin, 47, who was elected in 2006 and resigned the
governorship in July 2009, has been coy about whether she will
seek the Republican presidential nomination for 2012. She made a
multiday East Coast tour in a red, white and blue bus this month
that ended in the early primary state of  New Hampshire ,
diverting attention from Republicans already in the race.  Governor’s Mansion  In another e-mail on Aug. 19, 2008, Palin asked her staff
whether someone went into her bedroom in the governor’s mansion
in Juneau to get e-mails from her computer.  “Who, when, etc conducted this search of my bedroom’s
computer and the other house computer?” she wrote. “And what
were the reasons given and responses given to whomever must have
officially entered the residence on whatever day it was that
this occurred.”  A legislative commission was investigating Troopergate in
August 2008. Erika Fagerstrom, Palin’s residence manager, wrote
back to Palin on Aug. 19, 2008, saying the Department of Law
wanted access to her e-mails before the legislative
“investigators have access to it.”  On that same day, Palin wrote: “It’s unacceptable that
whomever is in charge of this ‘investigation’ did not inform me
nor grant me approval before proceeding. I’m dumbfounded by the
way this is developing.”  Palin also received advice from former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , now a Republican candidate for president, about who to
defend against criticism related to per diem allowances for her
family. He said Palin didn’t charge taxpayers for all that she
could have under the law.  Private E-Mail  Palin used private e-mail accounts to conduct state
business, and messages sent to state employees at their state e-
mail addresses were also included in the correspondence that was
made public.  The release of the records follows more than two years of
pursuit and legal challenges by media outlets and members of the
public under a state freedom-of-information law that began when
Palin became the vice presidential nominee.  The state also provided a list of thousands of e-mails that
were withheld for privacy reasons. Many dealt with potential
appointments and personnel issues, while some related to
“children, dinner and prayer” and “talking points on
petroleum tax proposal,” according to the list.  During her governorship, Palin pushed an ethics overhaul
and a tax increase on  oil companies . She also supported up to
$500 million in state subsidies for Calgary-based  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  to pursue a multimillion-dollar natural gas pipeline
project.  Troopergate Inquiry  Palin faced tension in her administration in mid-2008 when
she became the subject of Troopergate, an abuse-of-power inquiry
over firing Alaska Public Safety Commissioner Walt Monegan.  The police chief said he was dismissed for refusing to fire
state trooper Mike Wooten, who was involved in a divorce and
custody battle with Palin’s sister.  In October 2008, a state legislative investigator found
Palin abused her authority and violated state ethics rules by
letting her husband use her office to press for firing Monegan.
A separate investigation by the state Personnel Board in
November 2008 found the governor didn’t violate ethics rules.  Palin said on “Fox News Sunday” on June 5 she wasn’t
worried that some of the e-mails might be damaging.  “Every rock in the Palin household that could ever be
kicked over and uncovered anything, it’s already been kicked
over,” she said. She also said the e-mails “weren’t meant for
public consumption.”  The state of Alaska said it could fulfill the request for
the e-mails only on paper because it didn’t have another way to
redact private information from the documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  