-- 
Pandora Boosts IPO Price by 43 Percent to Raise as Much as $176 Million

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-06-10T14:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/pandora-boosts-ipo-by-43-to-176-2-million-amid-demand-for-web-companies.html
Pandora Media Inc., the Internet-
radio company that’s preparing for an initial public offering,
raised the amount sought in the sale by 43 percent to $176.2
million, as demand for shares of Web companies grows.  Pandora plans to sell 14.7 million shares for $10 to $12,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission today. The Oakland, California-based company earlier
this month filed to sell 13.7 million shares for $7 to $9.  Demand for stock in Internet companies is increasing after
professional-networking site LinkedIn Corp.’s shares more than
doubled on their first day of trading and Yandex NV raised $1.43
billion last month in the world’s biggest technology IPO of the
year. Groupon Inc., the top online-coupon provider, has filed to
raise $750 million in an IPO after booking a 14-fold increase in
sales.  The $11 midpoint of Pandora’s new price range would value
the company at $1.76 billion. It’s selling 6 million of the IPO
shares, compared with the 5 million it previously notified the
SEC it would sell. Existing shareholders are offering 8.7
million shares.  Based on the new midpoint price and higher number of
shares, Pandora will raise about $58 million in cash after
paying underwriter fees, or about $9 million more than
previously planned, the filings show. The company will use
proceeds to pay more than $30 million of accrued dividends and
the remainder for general corporate purposes.  Venture Backers  Hearst Corp., the New York-based publisher, plans to sell
4.4 million shares in the offering to pare its stake to 2.7
percent from 5.7 percent, according to the filing. The largest
shareholders, Crosslink Capital, Walden Venture Capital and
 Greylock Partners , aren’t selling in the IPO.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are
leading the offering. The shares will trade on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol P.  Founded in 2000 by Tim Westergren under the name Savage
Beast, Pandora has lost money for more than a decade with an
accumulated deficit of $92.1 million. Revenue comes from selling
advertisements that target users based on age, gender, home
postal code and musical taste. The ads support the free radio
service, and the company also sells subscriptions to users who
prefer to listen without marketing.  Sales more than doubled in the three months ended April 30,
and registered users topped 90 million, according to the filing.
Pandora, which made about 87 percent of its revenue last year
from advertising, increased revenue 33-fold since 2007 while
booking net losses each year during the period.  Royalty Costs  Pandora’s net loss in the last quarter widened to $6.8
million from $3 million a year earlier, as spending on marketing
and costs to acquire the rights to songs increased.  Advertising and subscription sales haven’t kept up with the
content royalty costs that increase with usage, and that
imbalance may affect future profitability, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 