-- 
Paulson Disclosure Plan ‘Intimidates’ Lehman Creditors

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-10T22:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/paulson-disclosure-plan-is-bid-to-intimidate-lehman-creditors.html
Hedge fund Paulson & Co.’s bid to
force Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. creditors to disclose trades
in the defunct firm’s debt is designed to “intimidate,” said
debt holders such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Germany’s central bank.  Paulson is part of a creditor group including the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  that wants to
control the disposal of Lehman’s $61 billion in assets. Its
liquidation plan will compete for votes with Lehman’s proposal,
and another from a group including Goldman Sachs.  Paulson and Calpers want their rivals to disclose how much
Lehman debt they hold and how much they paid for it before they
can vote and speak out in court as a plan is chosen. Paulson
itself was ordered by a bankruptcy judge in April to reveal that
it paid as little as 9 cents on the dollar for some of its
$4 billion in Lehman bonds. More than three dozen banks and
hedge funds filed objections this week to the Paulson proposal.  It’s an “impermissible fishing expedition” for trading
information, said Citigroup, Silver Point Capital LP and TPG
Capital, in a court filing. It’s “nothing more than a
litigation tactic designed to attempt to intimidate parties in
interest into abandoning any efforts to oppose” Paulson-
Calpers’s plan, said Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank, in
a filing.  The proposal has “no legal basis” so the judge can’t
approve it, Goldman Sachs said in a court filing. Goldman Sachs
is part of a group of 23 creditors who seek higher payments for
derivatives claim holders, it said.  Creditors  Other Lehman creditors that may have to disclose details of
their holdings include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
Morgan Stanley,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN) 
Lehman failed in 2008 with assets of $639 billion, the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  “There may be some of that sense that people will go away
if they have to put their cards on the table,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy professor at Seton Hall University School
of Law in  Newark ,  New Jersey . “Maybe people will be embarrassed
to have that disclosed.”  The Paulson group said in a court filing last month that it
was seeking the disclosures “to promote greater transparency”
as creditors fight over Lehman’s assets.  Conflicting Motives  “The prospect of conflicting motives arising during plan
negotiations and later plan-related litigation is
considerable,” the group said.  Paulson’s group, which holds about $16 billion in Lehman
bonds, would pay bondholders about 25.4 cents on the dollar,
while the Goldman Sachs group would pay bondholders about 16
cents. Goldman Sachs’s group hasn’t yet been ordered to disclose
its holdings and the prices paid, although Lehman wants such
information from anyone with a rival plan, lawyer  Harvey Miller 
said this week.  The Goldman Sachs group today denied it had an obligation
to disclose its holdings. Consisting of “23 individual
creditors, which are represented by multiple law firms,” it
isn’t really a group, said Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Silver
Point and other creditors in the group.  “Had the drafters of Rule 2019 intended for all plan
proponents to be subject to the rule, as the debtors urge, they
would have written the rule to say so,” they said in a filing.  Bankruptcy Law  Rule 2019 of U.S. bankruptcy law calls for groups or
committees that are influencing a bankruptcy plan to show, among
other things, what stakes they hold and what they paid for them.
Paulson-Calpers wants trading data even from individual
creditors and anyone who is gathering information about Lehman
ahead of a vote, said Citigroup’s distressed debt trading desk,
which filed its protest with TPG,  Silver Point  and six other
parties on June 8.  Bank of America, also with an active distressed debt
trading desk, said it would be “enormously burdensome” to
disclose all trades in Lehman debt, and such disclosure would
reveal “highly sensitive trading information.”  Bank of America and its Merrill Lynch unit, which hold
derivative claims against Lehman, are among 13 “big bank”
claim holders identified by Lehman. On the same list are Goldman
Sachs, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, London-based Barclays, Morgan
Stanley, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and Zurich-based Credit
Suisse, according to a filing. The other banks on the list are
based in  New York .  Holds Claims  Citigroup also holds claims on Lehman Brothers Treasury
Co., which is being liquidated in the Netherlands. Its group
members shouldn’t have to reveal their trades, as every one of
them “acts individually and does not, and does not purport to,
speak for any other participant,” they said in the filing.  Barclays, the third-biggest U.K. bank, which in January
defeated an $11 billion lawsuit by Lehman over its purchase of
the defunct firm’s North American business, said it isn’t
“acting in concert” with anyone in Lehman’s Chapter 11 cases,
so it need not disclose its trades either.  The Paulson group’s demands “are so vague and overbroad
that it is not even clear who exactly would be subject to
them,” Barclays said in its filing.  Collective Action  Expanding disclosure rules to those not involved in
“collective action” is “not only without a legal basis but
may also ultimately diminish the integrity of the plan process
itself by discouraging active participation,” the Deutsche
Bundesbank said in a filing. As a creditor, the central bank
said it wants to be free to participate in the information-
gathering process Lehman will hold before rival plans are put to
a vote.  Germany ’s central bank filed a $12.2 billion claim on
Lehman, based on a guarantee of debt of its German affiliate,
Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG, according to claims records.  Gerard Uzzi, a lawyer for the Paulson-Calpers group,
declined to comment about the objections.  “I think the court can get part of the way Paulson wants
it to go, but not all the way,” Lubben said.  Paulson paid 9 cents on the dollar for $5.1 million of
Lehman’s senior bonds on Dec. 1, 2008, according to its April
disclosure. Starting out, Paulson paid 34 cents to 35 cents on
the dollar for the bonds when Lehman filed bankruptcy on Sept.
15, 2008. Calpers paid 86 cents to $1.04 on the dollar for $90.1
million of Lehman’s senior bonds from July 2006 to December
2007, according to the April 22 filing.  Senior Bondholders  Paulson and other senior bondholders are being offered
21.4 cents on the dollar in Lehman’s liquidation plan, and as
much as 25.4 cents in the Paulson-Calpers proposal. The plan
backed by Goldman, Morgan Stanley, Silver Point and other
derivatives creditors would pay themselves as much as 40 cents,
and give 16 cents to bondholders.  Derivatives creditors hold $22 billion in claims on Lehman,
which Lehman would cut in half under its plan.  The Paulson hedge fund is headed by  John Paulson , whose
estimated earnings of $4.9 billion in 2010 made him the highest-
paid hedge-fund manager for the year, according to AR Magazine.
Lehman was once the fourth-largest investment bank.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net  and
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  