-- 
Richest Americans Get $1.4 Million Tax Cut in Pawlenty Plan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-10T18:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/pawlenty-to-give-richest-a-1-4-million-tax-cut.html
The top 0.1 percent of U.S.
taxpayers would save an average of $1.4 million in taxes under
the economic plan of Republican presidential candidate  Tim Pawlenty , according to an  independent analysis .  Pawlenty’s $11.6 trillion tax-cut plan, which reduces rates
on income,  capital gains , interest, estates and dividends, is
almost three times larger than the proposals endorsed by House
Republicans.  Compared with current  tax policy , 63.6 percent of U.S.
households would receive a tax cut, with most of the remainder
experiencing no change. Almost half of the benefits would flow
to taxpayers in the top 1 percent of income distribution, or
those earning more than $593,011 in 2013.  “It’s heavily weighted toward benefits for the wealthy,
giving big tax cuts for the wealthy, and it makes the tax system
much less progressive,” said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow
at the  Tax Policy Center  in Washington, which conducted the
analysis and released it today. The center is a joint venture of
the  Urban Institute  and the  Brookings Institution .  In a June 7 speech, Pawlenty called for cutting the top
individual  tax rate  to 25 percent from 35 percent and reducing
the top corporate rate to 15 percent from 25 percent. He
proposed eliminating taxes on capital gains, dividends, interest
and estates and allowing “small businesses” that currently pay
taxes at individual rates to pay at the corporate rate.  Cuts for ‘Everybody’  “We reduce taxes for everybody,” Pawlenty spokesman Alex Conant said in an interview today in response to the
distributional analysis. “The goal here is to create jobs and
grow the economy, and to do that, we needed to reduce taxes on
people who were entrepreneurs, small business owners.”  Pawlenty’s plan would eliminate corporate tax breaks and
retain all individual tax breaks. Pawlenty would expand the 10
percent income tax bracket to cover the first $50,000 of income
for individuals and the first $100,000 for married couples.  Compared with fully extending all the tax cuts enacted
under President  George W. Bush , Pawlenty’s plan would cost the
government  $7.6 trillion in revenue  over the next decade,
according to the study. Compared with current law, under which
the tax cuts will expire at the end of 2012, Pawlenty’s plan
would cost the Treasury  $11.6 trillion  in foregone revenue, the
study found. The campaign estimates the revenue loss at $2
trillion amid the 5 percent annual economic growth Pawlenty is
seeking.  Federal Revenue  The proposed tax cuts in Pawlenty’s plan are much larger
than those proposed by House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan  of
Wisconsin and House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  of
 Michigan , both Republicans. They both want to keep federal
revenue at the same level it would reach if Congress extended
the expiring tax cuts indefinitely. Ryan and Camp have supported
top corporate and individual rates of 25 percent, paired with
cuts in tax breaks.  The study is imprecise because the researchers made some
assumptions that might not match Pawlenty’s proposal. For
example, the analysis assumes that Pawlenty’s plan would
eliminate the alternative minimum tax. Conant said he would
reduce AMT rates and index the exemption, causing fewer
taxpayers to be affected by it than under current law.  Pawlenty, the 50-year-old former governor of  Minnesota ,
said 5 percent annual average economic growth would help make up
the revenue gap. Conant said such growth would be driven by the
tax plan as well as by spending cuts, regulatory overhaul and
monetary policy changes that Pawlenty is proposing.  ‘No Silver Bullet’  “Some of our critics are looking at just one segment of it
in isolation, and that’s sort of missing the point,” Conant
said. “There’s no silver bullet to our economy. You need a
comprehensive plan. That’s what we’re offering.”  Hitting the 5 percent growth target won’t be easy. The  U.S.
economy  hasn’t expanded by 5 percent in a single year since
1984.  “If that 5 percent becomes 4, 3, 2 or 1 percent, we’re in
deep doo-doo,” Pawlenty said during a question-and-answer
session after the June 7 speech. “So this isn’t about whether
some people are going to get wealthier or not. It’s about what
are those things that we need to do to make it more likely, not
less likely, that businesses are going to start, grow, add
employees, buy capital equipment, build buildings, conduct
research and do all the things it takes to keep a private
economy going.”  Conant declined to identify the economists who are advising
Pawlenty. The campaign plans to introduce its policy team in the
coming weeks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  