-- 
Pemex to Include Offshore Gulf Fields in Contract Proposals

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-06-10T17:42:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/pemex-to-include-offshore-gulf-fields-in-contract-proposals-morales-says.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin America’s
biggest oil producer, is preparing a pair of offshore contracts
allowing companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and BP Plc to gain
access to the Mexican side of the  Gulf of Mexico .  Pemex, as the  Mexico  City-based company is known, plans to
announce in August a second round of performance-based contracts
that may include offshore fields for the first time,  Carlos Morales , head of exploration and production, said yesterday in
an interview in Puebla, Mexico.  “I estimate that in July or August we’ll be presenting the
proposals to the board,” Morales said. The company board may
approve “from four to seven fields. The offshore blocks that
we’re proposing for this round are Arenque and Atun and are
located in shallow waters.”  State-owned Pemex aims this year to offer three rounds of
performance-based contracts to open developments to foreign and
private producers for the first time since Mexico nationalized
its oil industry in 1938. Pemex is seeking to hire companies to
increase output after six years of annual declines.  In August, the company is expected to disclose winners of
the first round of contracts for three mature onshore fields in
Mexico’s southeastern state of Tabasco.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil producer, and  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest oil company, were among more than 20
companies that each paid about $30,000 per project to acquire
bidding rules and access to the data room for the first round.  Project Delays  Pemex has been preparing the accords since Mexico revised
its oil laws in 2008. First-round project delays created
analysts’ concern whether the contracts would expand to bigger
offshore projects and later to deep waters where Mexico
estimates it may have 30 billion barrels of oil.  “Offering offshore projects is a very important step for
Pemex, because it’s opening the doors for international  oil
companies  that exclusively want offshore fields,” George Baker,
a Houston-based energy consultant, said yesterday in a telephone
interview from Houston.  Pemex may have started by offering onshore projects to
attract more Mexican companies, Baker said.  A third round of contracts including the Chicontepec
project should be offered by October, Morales said, while
deepwater fields may be announced in next-year’s first quarter
“at the latest.”  Deep-Water Experience  Pemex is accelerating its deep-water exploration activity.
The company, which primarily discovered gas in 15 deep-water
wells drilled since 2005, plans to five more deep-water wells
this year and eight to 10 wells in 2012.  Morales, 56, said Pemex may approve as soon as next month
its first foreign project to get more experience in the Gulf’s
deep waters.  “The more advanced plans are in the U.S. waters of the
Gulf of Mexico,” he said, adding that the company hasn’t ruled
out projects in Colombia or Africa.  Pemex wants to get involved in a project near the Perdido
region on the U.S. side, Jose Antonio Escalera, deputy director
for technical exploration, said today in an interview.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has said its  Perdido project , the
world’s deepest working oil field, is pumping at about a tenth
of its capacity of “well over” 100,000 barrels a day following
last year’s drilling moratorium in the Gulf.  Unlike onshore fields, Gulf deep-water projects may shield
companies from concerns related to blockages by local activists
or security risks from organized crime, Baker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 