-- 
Pentagon Has $327 Billion Export Backlog, Sees Drone Demand

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-06-10T20:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/pentagon-has-327-billion-export-backlog-sees-drone-demand-1-.html
The Pentagon is processing a record
backlog of $327 billion in arms exports and is speeding up the
clearance process to meet the rising demand for drones, said
Vice Admiral  Bill Landay , head of the agency responsible for
weapons exports.  “We have in excess of 13,000 active cases with more than
165 countries and institutions,” adding up to about $327
billion, he said today at a Pentagon news briefing ahead of the
 Paris Air Show , which begins June 20.  The agency, which oversees U.S. foreign arms sales, is
forecasting fiscal 2011 exports of $46.1 billion, a 45 percent
increase from the previous year. Between 2005 and 2010, the
agency delivered $96 billion of weapons and military systems to
countries around the world, said Landay, who is director of the
Pentagon’s  Defense Security Cooperation Agency .  To meet a growing demand for U.S.-made unmanned aerial
systems, the agency plans to speed up the exports process by
getting pre-approval for countries that may have an interest in
the drones, he said.  “We believe unmanned systems is an area of significant
interest around the world,” Landay said. “We know U.S.
manufacturers have a great desire to sell” drones to other
countries and demand for these systems is rising after countries
have seen how the U.S. uses drones for “fighting and
surveillance,” he said.  Pre-Approvals  The most commonly used U.S. drones include the Reaper and
Predator systems made by San Diego-based General Atomics
Aeronautical Systems and the Global Hawk surveillance drone made
by Los Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   Getting pre-approvals from U.S. agencies, such as the
departments of State and Commerce, to release military
technology to potential foreign drone buyers would help the U.S.
“be faster and more ahead of the game” when countries express
an interest in buying, Landay said.  The agency is also planning to get clearances in
anticipation of orders for other military equipment such as
electronic warfare systems, Landay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  