-- 
Peppa Pig Rights Owner May Get Bob the Builder, Fireman to Join Vampires

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-06-10T11:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/peppa-pig-rights-owner-may-get-bob-the-builder-fireman-to-join-vampires.html
Entertainment One Ltd. (ETO) , owner of the
rights to cartoon character Peppa Pig, may add a can-do builder
and a heroic Welsh firefighter to a stable of talent that
includes the tea-swilling pink swine and teenage vampires.  The company is seeking acquisitions and would consider
buying pieces of U.K. peer Hit Entertainment Ltd., which owns
the rights to children’s TV  characters  such as Fireman Sam, Bob
the Builder and Thomas the Tank Engine, Chief Financial Officer
Giles Willits said in an interview yesterday.  “Hit would represent a fantastic opportunity to speed up
our strategy” of boosting holdings in family entertainment,
Willits said. “It would be lovely to get a chance to bid.”  Entertainment One, based in Toronto, also distributes
movies such as the “Twilight” vampire film franchise and
produces television content including the “Rookie Blue” cop
series. It is in talks with three or four parties and expects to
make its next purchase by late summer or early fall, Willits
said without identifying the targets.  Private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP, which owns London-
based Hit, last month started the sale procedure for the media
company, a person familiar with the matter said, declining to be
identified as the process is private. All or parts of the
company are on offer, the person said. An Apax spokesman
declined to comment.  Peppa, one of the most popular cartoons for U.K. pre-school
children, earned 200 million pounds ($327 million) in retail
sales there last year, Willits said. Pig fans can buy dozens of
Peppa products ranging from cuddly toys, shoes, clothing and
DVDs to a playhouse and the Peppa Pig Royal Family Figure Set.  Pig Toys  Entertainment One shares have more than doubled in  London 
trading in the past year. The stock was unchanged today at 161.5
pence as of 10:38 a.m., giving the company a market value of 328
million pounds.  The company is also seeking to expand with purchases in
territories including Germany, France and Scandinavia and would
consider TV assets in the U.K. and U.S., Willits said.  Entertainment One also aims to do more digital content
deals with companies such as Hulu LLC,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes.  “There’s a digital content land grab going on right now,”
Willits said.  Entertainment One announced a deal last month with  Mattel
Inc (MAT) .-owned  Fisher-Price  to develop a toy line based on the Peppa
Pig series.  Peppa in Vegas  The cartoon began airing on  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Nick Jr. in the
U.S. in February and is now among that channel’s top 10 shows,
with a half million viewers per episode in the two- to five-
year-old audience category.  Peppa will be promoted at the Licensing International Expo
next week in  Las Vegas , Willits said. Peppa’s Fisher-Price toy
line will be released by Christmas 2012. Entertainment One said
the pig could eventually generate 600 million pounds in retail
sales.  Entertainment One also plans a refinancing later this year,
said Willits. The company’s current loan facility is worth $175
million and includes banks such as JPMorgan, Barclays, RBC, and
Santander.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  