-- 
Peruvian Bonds Rise After Central Bank Unexpectedly Leaves Rates at 4.25%

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-10T20:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/peru-unexpectedly-keeps-rate-at-4-25-as-gdp-cpi-slow-on-humala.html
Peru ’s sol-denominated bonds rose
the most in 11 weeks after the central bank unexpectedly kept
its benchmark rate unchanged for the first time in six months on
a slowdown in growth ahead of this month’s presidential
elections.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 6.50 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.43 centimo to 109.19
centimos per sol, the highest since March 24.  “There is some re-pricing because people were expecting a
hike,” said  Roberto Melzi , a Latin America strategist at
Barclays Capital Inc., in an phone interview from in  New York .
“There’s still is a lot of  risk premium  priced in that’s
related to the elections.”  The seven-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, kept the benchmark rate unchanged at 4.25 percent
yesterday, surprising 12 of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
who expected a quarter-point increase. Five economists forecast
a pause.  Economic growth in Peru slowed ahead of a victory in the
June 5 presidential race by Ollanta Humala, a one-time ally of
 Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez . Finance Minister Ismael Benavides in a
interview this week said policy makers had leeway to keep rates
on hold as investors await “clear signals” from Humala on how
he’ll manage  South America ’s sixth-biggest economy.  Investor Uncertainty  Since breaching the top of the central bank’s target range
of 1 percent to 3 percent for the first time since mid-2009 in
April, the annual inflation rate fell to 3.07 percent last month
from 3.34 percent in April. An easing of government spending
growth and increases in the benchmark rate has helped tame
inflation, Benavides said. Prices in May fell 0.02 percent.  “There’s uncertainty about how quickly investment will pick
up so it’s better to wait and see,” said Alonso Segura, head of
investment strategy and research at Banco de Credito del Peru,
the nation’s biggest bank. Policy makers “still need to raise
once or twice more but they’re close to the end of the cycle,”
he said.  After posting annual gross domestic product growth of 8.8
percent for 2010 and year-on-year growth of 10.2 percent in
January, the government last month cut its 2011 growth forecast
for to 6.5 percent from 7.5 percent.  Policy makers said in announcing their rate decision that it
“reflects the moderation in the pace of growth in consumer
prices and some indictors of activity,” according to a
 statement  on the central bank’s website. “Future adjustments in
the benchmark rate will depend on new information about
inflation.”  Stock Selloff  Factory output and demand for electricity and cement slowed
in April as construction and manufacturing activity eased, the
central bank research director Adrian Armas told reporters on a
conference call from  Lima  today.  A cut in fuel tax the government announced yesterday will
limit a rise in fuel prices this month to 5 percent, he said.
Still, the falling cost of chicken and slower price growth in
other products will result in “moderate” inflation this month,
Armas said.  Peru’s benchmark stock index plunged a record 12 percent on
June 6 on concern the president-elect might make good on
campaign pledges to increase government control of the economy
and unilaterally boost mining royalties.  Market View  Since the market’s plunge in the first day of trading
following the election, the Lima general index staged a three-
day rally, recovering most of its record plunge, while Peru’s
bonds, and sol currency rebounded.  The sol traded at 2.7615 per  U.S. dollar  at today’s close,
little changed from 2.7621 yesterday.  The bank’s rate “decision was likely influenced by the
fact that  Ollanta Humala  clinched the presidential elections, as
this event has generated a sour mood in the market and could
have a negative impact on activity in coming quarters,”
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Latin America economist Camilo Gonzalez wrote in a research note e-mailed to investors.  Humala, leader of Peru’s Nationalist Party, shifted his
stance during the campaign to defending policies that made Peru
the fastest growing Latin American economy over the past decade
and distanced himself from his one-time ally, Venezuelan leader
Hugo Chavez.  The 48-year-old president-elect will follow the Brazilian
government’s “successful” socio-economic policies to sustain
region-beating growth and cut poverty with higher social
spending, he told reporters in Brasilia this week.  Wait-and-See  In an interview with  CNN ’s Spanish-language channel on June
7, Humala said he is considering asking Velarde to remain in his
post once his five-year term expires.  The new government is committed to maintaining existing
macroeconomic, monetary and fiscal policies, said former central
bank President Oscar Dancourt, an aide to Humala who Bank of
America said may be a candidate to take over at the central
bank.  Still, investors remain wary of Humala, whose original
government platform called for changing the constitution to give
the state a stronger role in the economy, including its ports
and pension system.  Humala needs to send signals about ministerial appointments
and future policies to reassure companies, many of which have
placed investment projects on hold, said Pedro Olaechea,
president of the National Society of Industries.  “Some companies have decided to continue but others are
waiting for signs on whether to keep investing or not,”
Olaechea said in an interview in Lima yesterday. “It doesn’t
make sense to raise rates because of the fall in economic
activity.”  Companies curtailed spending and hired fewer staff in April
while the sale of cars slowed, wrote Francisco Grippa, an
economist at Lima-based  BBVA Banco Continental , in a note to
clients yesterday.  “Private spending has eased amid a more uncertain
environment tied to the change of government,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 