-- 
Peru Funds Lure Inflows as Stocks Swing Most Since 2008 on Humala Victory

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T11:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/peru-funds-lure-inflows-as-stocks-swing-most-since-2008-on-humala-victory.html
Peru  equity funds attracted about
$60 million of net inflows in the week ended June 8 as Ollanta Humala’s victory in presidential elections sent the benchmark
index to a six-week low and spurred the most volatile trading
since November 2008.  Investors added money to Peru even as they pulled about
$220 million from all emerging-market stock funds,  Jonathan Garner , the chief  Asia  and emerging-market strategist at Morgan
Stanley in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today. Garner cited data
compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Peru’s Lima general index plunged 12 percent on June 6 as
the victory by former army rebel Humala sparked speculation his
policies will deter foreign investment. The gauge has climbed
the past three days as those concerns eased, leaving it down 1.3
percent this week. Humala said yesterday he plans to follow the
Brazilian government’s socio-economic model of fast growth and
prudent macroeconomic policies, combined with policies that seek
to bring poor people into the middle class.  “Once he’d been elected he made some comments that signal
he was moving towards the center and that he would focus on
growing the economy,” Sven Richter, the London-based managing
director of frontier markets at Renaissance Asset Managers, said
in a phone interview. “It’s a market quite a few people are
interested in.”  Stock Swings  The  Lima  General index’s 10-day historical volatility, a
measure of share-price swings, jumped to 107 yesterday, the
highest level since Nov. 3, 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index’s price has declined 10 percent this year,
compared with a 0.8 percent drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index.  Humala, the leader of Peru’s Nationalist Party, has backed
away from a platform that called for changing the constitution
to give the state a stronger role in the economy, including its
ports and pension fund system. Humala said in recent weeks that
he wouldn’t follow through with an earlier pledge to
unilaterally impose a mining windfall tax.  The president-elect will ask mining companies to contribute
more taxes while respecting existing contracts and ensuring
Peru’s mining industry remains competitive with others such as
Canada and Australia, Kurt Burneo, Humala’s chief economic
adviser, said in an interview in Lima on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 