-- 
Philippines’ Tetangco Says Inflation Pressures ‘Still Exist’

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 
2011-06-10T12:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/philippines-tetangco-says-inflation-pressures-still-exist-1-.html
The  Philippines  still faces
inflation threats and the nation’s central bank will review
options for dealing with them at its policy meeting next week,
Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “If you look at the May figure, inflation pressures still
exist,” Tetangco told reporters in  Manila  today. “We will look
at the options available, the instruments included in the
toolkit including the policy rate, reserve requirement and macro
prudential measures.”  Benchmark five-year bonds erased gains after Tetangco’s
comments as investors boosted bets that Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas, which has raised  interest rates  twice this year to
4.5 percent, will continue to increase borrowing costs. Eight of
15 economists so far surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the
central bank will raise the rate to 4.75 percent at a June 16
review, and the rest forecast it will be unchanged.  “I’m erring on the side of a rate hike,” said Radhika Rao,
an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “Raising the reserve
requirement looks unnecessary at this point.”  Banks are required to set aside 19 percent of their
deposits in reserves, a ratio reduced by the central bank from
21 percent in November 2008.  The yield on the 9.125 percent bond due September 2016 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.325 percent
today, according to Tradition Financial Services. It fell as
much as five basis points earlier to 5.25 percent.  May Inflation  Consumer prices last month climbed 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 13 months, compared with 4.3
percent in April.  “We will also assess the impact of our last two policy
hikes to see how these are working their way into inflation
expectations,” Tetangco said in an e-mail reply today.
Authorities are also watching developments, particularly in the
U.S. and  Japan , to assess how they may affect global demand and
commodity prices, he said.  Bangko Sentral will review inflation forecasts for this
year and 2012 at the June 16 meeting, Tetangco said. An
extension of the  Federal Reserve ’s so-called quantitative easing,
“if it happens,” will tend to boost inflows to emerging-
markets, bolster liquidity and strengthen currencies, he said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  