-- 
Philippine Five-Year Bonds Fall on Policy Tightening Signals

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-06-10T09:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/philippine-bonds-gain-on-rates-rating-outlook-peso-weakens.html
Philippine five-year bonds fell,
erasing earlier gains, after the central bank signaled it may
continue to boost borrowing costs next week. The peso declined.  Eight of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas will raise its overnight borrowing rate to
4.75 percent at a June 16 review, while the rest forecast an
increase to 4.75 percent. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in
May from a year earlier, following a 4.3 percent increase in
April, and central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today that
“inflation pressures still exist.”  “The market became a bit defensive after the central bank
comments and some took the opportunity to take profit as yields
have been declining in the past few days,” said Roland Avante,
treasurer at Sterling Bank of  Asia  in  Manila .  The yield on the 9.125 percent bond due September 2016 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.325 percent
as of 4:46 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial
Services. The rate fell as much as five basis points earlier to
5.25 percent. For the week, it dropped 13 basis points.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipina, which raised the benchmark rate
by a quarter of a percentage point at meetings in March and May,
will assess the impact of the two interest-rate increases and
“look at” options and other instruments available including
 reserve requirements  and “macro prudential measures,” Tetangco
said. Authorities will release fresh inflation forecasts for
2011 and 2012 next week, he said.  Peso Drops  Yields fell earlier today, before Tetangco’s comments, on
“bets the central bank will hold off increasing the key rate on
signs that inflation is under control,” said Malou Liwag,
senior vice president for treasury marketing at   Philippine
National Bank  in Manila.  Inflation in May was slower than the 5 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The peso fell 0.20 percent today to 43.302 per dollar,
contributing to a 0.20 percent weekly loss, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. Exports rose 19.1 percent in April from a year
earlier, compared to the 4.1 percent growth in March, the
National Statistic Office reported today. Economists expected an
8 percent increase, a Bloomberg survey showed.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  