-- 
Podravka to Invest in Factories as Croatian EU Entry Nears

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-06-10T10:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/podravka-to-invest-in-factories-as-croatian-eu-entry-nears-1-.html
Podravka Prehrambena Industria d.d.,
 Croatia ’s second-biggest food producer, may invest as much as
100 million euros ($145 million) in new products and facilities
as the country prepares to join the European Union.  The investment would focus on the company’s factories in
Poland and Croatia, where it produces spice mixes and canned
food, and on new products and technology, Ljubo Jurcic,
Podravka’s supervisory board president, said in an interview
yesterday.  “We will be able to supply our products to the world’s
largest trading bloc and that will enable the company to benefit
from economies of scale,” he said.  Croatian companies are readying to expand their businesses
as the nation completes efforts to become the 28th EU member.
The former Yugoslav nation today received a recommendation from
the European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  to
complete EU entry talks and in 2013 become the second ex-
Yugoslav republic after  Slovenia  to join the bloc.  The company, based in the northern city of Koprivnica, was
close to bankruptcy 18 months ago and has since managed to
restructure its debt and increase sales, Jurcic said. Improved
 cash flow  will help Podravka, which exports most of its output,
reduce its debt even further, he said without elaborating.  Podravka rose for a second day in Zagreb today. The shares
were 1.45 kuna, or 0.5 percent, higher at 325.10 kuna at 11:28
a.m., bringing this year’s gain to 7.4 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  Podravka, which last year reported profit of 84 million
kuna ($16 million) after a loss a year earlier, wants to boost
its operations in Russia and  Turkey  where it now has only
representative offices, Jurcic said.  “We first study the potential of specific markets and then
there is a question if it is cheaper to set up shop from scratch
or to take over a company with similar product portfolio,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  