-- 
Polish Treasury Raises $1.2 Billion from Sale of 10% Stake in Insurer PZU

-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-10T08:37:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/polish-treasury-raises-1-16-billion-from-sale-of-10-stake-in-insurer-pzu.html
Poland raised 3.17 billion zloty
($1.2 billion) by selling 10 percent of PZU SA, the country’s
largest insurer, bringing in cash to finance the  budget deficit .  The government, which owned 45.2 percent of PZU before the
transaction, sold 8.6 million shares for 367 zloty each
yesterday, the Treasury Ministry said in a statement on its
website today. The sale was oversubscribed and half of the
shares were bought by foreign investors, Treasury Minister
Aleksander Grad said on TVN CNBC television today.  Poland aims to raise 15 billion zloty from state asset
sales in 2011 to staunch the deficit and curb public debt. The
country has raised more than 6 billion zloty selling stakes in
companies including power utility Tauron Polska Energia SA and
agricultural lender Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA, Grad said.  PZU shares gained 0.4 percent to 373 zloty at 10:03 a.m. in
Warsaw, climbing for the first time in four days. The stock sank
as much as 5.1 percent to 366.3 zloty yesterday, the steepest
intraday decline since it began trading a year ago.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., ING Group
NV, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UniCredit SpA managed the PZU sale.  The PZU sale came one week after the insurer’s shareholders
agreed to limit owners’ voting rights to 10 percent, a move that
will allow the government to retain control after cutting its
stake.  Poland  already passed similar rules at PKO Bank Polski SA
in April and is seeking to do so at PGE SA, the country’s
largest power utility.  The government plans to offer a stake in PKO, the nation’s
biggest lender, in September. Next week it will start a sale of
a 33 percent stake in coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa
SA, whose initial public offering is set to be Poland’s biggest
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  