-- 
Pound Weakens, Gilts Jump on Signs U.K. Economic Growth Slowing

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-10T16:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/pound-weakens-before-report-that-may-show-u-k-manufacturing-output-fell.html
The pound weakened versus the dollar
and 10-year gilts headed for their longest streak of weekly
gains on record as a report showed U.K. manufacturing output
fell more than forecast, reducing the case for higher rates.  Sterling fell against most of its 16 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg, dropping for a third day versus the dollar. Factory
output contracted 1.5 percent in April after rising 0.2 percent
in March, the  Office for National Statistics  said today.
Economists predicted a 0.1 percent decline, according to the
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Overall industrial
output, which includes mining, quarrying and utilities, fell 1.7
percent on the month.  “The industrial production and the manufacturing
production data massively disappointed,” said Lee McDarby, head
of dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “The initial move lower in the
pound was amazing. It will take a big turnaround in sentiment to
get investors back on sterling’s side with no interest-rate
hikes expected by our economists until November.”  The pound fell 0.7 percent to $1.6245 as of 4:41 p.m. in
London. It fell as low as $1.6218, the weakest since May 25.
Sterling was 0.3 percent weaker at 88.37 pence per euro and
weakened 0.9 percent to 130.36 yen.  The yield on two-year U.K. government notes fell four basis
points to 0.82 percent, after reaching 0.8 percent, the least
since Nov. 10. The 10-year yield slid five basis points, to 3.23
percent, set for a ninth-straight weekly decline, the longest
streak since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1989.  ‘Negative’ Momentum  April’s extra public holiday for the royal wedding hurt
orders and the impact of the Japanese earthquake hit supplies,
the data revealed. A separate report showed prices at factory
gates rose 0.2 percent in May, the least since September.  Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc today said
 house prices  were little changed in May, as concern the economic
recovery is slowing damped buyer confidence. The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) 
of shares slipped 0.2 percent, falling 2.5 percent this month.  “There’s a momentum on the U.K. side that has been
generally negative,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “Equity
markets are continuing to underperform and sterling is a bit
more exposed in a risk-off environment.”  Sterling headed for a second-straight weekly drop against
the dollar as speculation mounted that the central bank will be
obliged to keep interest rates on hold as  government spending 
cuts crimp growth. The Bank of England yesterday kept its
benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent, as
predicted by all 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Interest-Rate Bets  UniCredit SpA put under review its forecast for the first
 Bank of England  rate increase to come in August after “today’s
very weak figures,” economists Mauro Giorgio Marrano and Chiara
Corsa said today in an e-mailed note.  Investors pushed back bets on the next Bank of England
interest-rate increase to May, forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average show. As recently as yesterday,
traders were betting on an increase in April, data from Tullett
Prebon Plc showed.  Short-sterling futures advanced, signaling investors
trimmed wagers on higher central bank borrowing costs. The
implied yield on the contract expiring in June 2012 slipped five
basis points to 1.17 percent.  The U.K. plans to sell 4 percent gilts maturing in January
2060 through banks in the week beginning June 27, the Debt
Management Office said today. It also plans to sell 0.5 percent
index-linked gilts due March 2050 in the week commencing June
20, the debt agency said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net 
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  