-- 
Prince William Helps Hedge-Fund Charity Raise 17 Million Pounds

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-06-10T11:29:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/prince-william-kings-of-leon-help-hedge-fund-charity-to-raise-28-million.html
Prince William  and the Kings of Leon
helped Absolute Return for Kids raise 17.2 million pounds ($28.1
million) at the charity’s 10th annual dinner in  London  last
night, a sign that the hedge-fund industry continues to recover
from the global recession of 2008.  The amount raised topped last year’s total by 3.1 million
pounds, as more than 1,000 money managers and bankers filled a
building at Kensington Palace Gardens. The Grammy-winning  Kings
of Leon  jammed through a set of songs after agreeing to auction
off a guitar to help orphans in  Romania  and provide medical
treatment to AIDS patients in  Africa .  “Together we have achieved amazing things,” Ian Wace,
chief executive officer of hedge fund Marshall Wace LLP who also
serves as ARK’s chairman, told the crowd. “We’ve transformed
the lives of thousands of children, most of whom you never see,
you never meet and you will never know their stories.”  The success of the  ARK  dinner serves as a bellwether for
the health of the hedge-fund industry. Fundraising from the
event plunged 38 percent in 2009 after  hedge funds  globally
suffered $154.4 billion of outflows and 1,471 firms shut down,
according to Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Industry
assets have since rebounded, bringing guests out in force last
night to pay 10,000 pounds a plate at the dinner.  Guest List  In addition to Prince William and his wife, Catherine Middleton, attendees at the charity’s 10th annual event included
Moore Capital Management LLC’s  Louis Bacon , Winton Capital
Management LLC’s David Harding and GLG Partners LP founder
Pierre Lagrange. Celebrity guests included actress Elizabeth
Hurley and actor  Kevin Spacey .  ARK founder Arpad Busson, 48, is founder of EIM SA, a Nyon,
Switzerland-based company with $13 billion under management that
invests in hedge funds. He said support from the Duke and
Duchess of Cambridge will help ARK “bridge the generations”
among influential people who are committed to charity.  “They are the next generation,” said Busson, who started
ARK in 2002 with other hedge-fund managers. “We need to get
young philanthropists involved with us.”  As part of the event’s charitable auction, diners bid on
items including a fashion makeover by clothing designer Tom Ford
and the chance for a “child and a friend” to appear in a
pending movie version of stage musical Les Miserables.  The Kings of Leon prize, which will allow the winning
bidder’s child to write a song with singer Caleb Followill, went
for 90,000 pounds. A weekend at the Oscar’s movie awards in  Los
Angeles  next year raised 250,000 pounds.  Maltese Falcon  The Maltese Falcon, a 289-foot sailing yacht owned by IKOS
Asset Management Ltd.’s Elena Ambrosiadou, fetched a total of
930,000 pounds. After the winning bidder secured a week-long
vacation aboard the boat for 480,000 pounds, Ambrosiadou
announced she would auction it off for an additional week.  ARK has raised more than 150 million pounds since its
creation 10 years ago. Governments have provided the charity
with 250 million pounds of matching funds.  The ARK gala has benefitted as the investment performance
of hedge funds improves. Funds on average have gained 4.8
percent this year after increasing 8 percent in 2010 and 9
percent in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average fund declined 19 percent in 2008.  Last night’s event, which was sponsored by BlueCrest
Capital Management Ltd., Marshall Wace, Espirito Santo
Investment Bank and Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, failed
to top 2006’s record. That year the ARK dinner raised 28 million
pounds in the presence of attendees such as former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  and Madonna.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  