-- 
Prudential Targets Japan Where ‘They’re Old, But They’re Rich’

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-06-10T16:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/prudential-financial-targets-japan-where-they-re-old-but-they-re-rich-.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the U.S.
life insurer that spent more than $4 billion this year to expand
in  Japan , said the best way to make money outside its home
market is to focus on a limited number of nations.  “Our strategy is getting deeper in countries that we’re
already in, as opposed to dramatically broadening,” Ed Baird,
chief operating officer of Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential’s
international business, said today at a conference. “In Japan,
they’re old, but they’re rich.”  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld has called Japan an
attractive market that lacked the “sex appeal” of faster
growing economies. Prudential’s concentration on Japan contrasts
with the growth of larger rival  MetLife Inc. (MET) , which spent more
than $16 billion last year to expand in more than 50 countries.  “Doing that cross currency, cross country is exceedingly
difficult,” Baird said. Prudential concentrates on expanding in
countries where it already does business because, “in our
experience, it’s only through this approach that you can really
reap the benefits of economies of scale,” Baird said.  Strangfeld boosted Prudential’s business in Japan by buying
two units from  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in February.
Prudential, the second-biggest U.S. life insurer, has done
business in the country for more than two decades.  Japan, the second-biggest life insurance market, accounted
for about 17 percent of the world’s policy sales in 2009,
according to a study by Swiss Reinsurance Co. Life insurance
sells well in the country in part because an aversion to stock
market investment among the Japanese has limited the growth of
other products like mutual funds, Baird said.  Shunning Stocks  “The Japanese don’t have a strong interest, even in their
own equities,” Baird said. “If one takes a look at the 20-year
history of the Nikkei, that’s not an entirely illogical
position.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped 62 percent in the 20
years ended May 31, compared with a more than tripling of
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The U.S. is the largest life
insurance market.  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the world’s biggest seller of supplemental
health insurance, gets about three-quarters of its revenue in
Japan. The Columbus, Georgia-based company started its
operations in Japan in 1974 by selling cancer insurance.
MetLife, based in  New York , bought American Life Insurance Co.
from AIG in November to add businesses in countries from Chile
to Poland and  Russia . Alico also gave MetLife customers in
Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 