-- 
Travelers Reduces Buybacks After Tornadoes Wipe Out Second-Quarter Profit

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-06-10T20:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/travelers-cuts-buybacks-as-u-s-storms-cost-insurer-1-billion-in-claims.html
Travelers Cos., the insurer added to
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  in 2009, said it’s scaling back
share repurchases as about $1 billion in catastrophe costs will
probably wipe out second-quarter operating profit. The company
dropped the most since November in New York trading.  U.S. disaster costs “relate to the very, very severe
tornadoes and hailstorms that we experienced in places like
Tuscaloosa and Joplin,” Chief Financial Officer Jay Benet said
today at the New York-based insurer’s annual investor day. “The
implication of all that is that for the second quarter we are
expecting to have an operating loss.”  The insurer expects share buybacks to be less than $250
million in the second quarter, Travelers said in a statement
today. That compares with $1.4 billion in the same period last
year. Catastrophes cost the firm between $1 billion and $1.05
billion in April and May including the storms in Tuscaloosa,
 Alabama , and Joplin,  Missouri .  U.S. insurers including State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  face costs tied to an above-
average number of tornadoes. Industrywide, insured losses to
homes, businesses and cars from U.S. storms in the week ended
May 27 may be $4 billion to $7 billion, risk modeler AIR
Worldwide said this week. U.S. storms in the week ended April 28
cost $3.7 billion to $5.5 billion, AIR said last month.  “The losses are probably a little higher than we had
anticipated,” said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets . “Catastrophe losses naturally lead to a lower
buyback.” Dwelle rates the stock “outperform.”  Shares Decline  Travelers slipped $1.87, or 3.1 percent, to $59.21 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
has gained 6.3 percent this year, beating the 3.2 percent rise
in the 30-company Dow.  Book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, will be “slightly higher” on June 30 than the
$58.47 a share at the end of last year, according to the
statement. The forecast assumes no change in unrealized
investment gains this month. The figure was about $59.91 at the
end of March.  Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Jay Fishman said in
January that the board authorized $5 billion in share
repurchases. The company bought back $1.1 billion of its shares
in the first quarter and raised its dividend as policy sales
increased.  Joplin Tornado  A tornado that tore through Joplin on May 22 killed at
least 125 people, making it the single deadliest U.S. storm in
at least 60 years. The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  said that 1,439 tornadoes were reported in the
U.S. this year through June 7, up from 1,282 in all of 2010.  State Farm paid $916 million in claims from storms in the
current quarter, the policyholder-owned insurer said May 27.
Catastrophes, including tornadoes in Alabama, cost Allstate $1.4
billion in April, the Northbrook, Illinois-based company said
before the Joplin storms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  