-- 
RBC Capital Backs Sino-Forest, Casts Doubt on Some of Muddy Waters’ Claims

-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 
2011-06-10T14:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/rbc-backs-sino-forest-casts-doubt-on-block-s-claims-correct-.html
RBC Capital Markets  has come out in
support of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Canadian-listed Chinese timber
company whose shares have been battered since it was accused of
fraud by Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  Research.  Sino-Forest has more extensive timber holdings than claimed
in the Muddy Waters  report , and may not have been subject to
harvest limits alluded to in the document, analysts Paul Quinn
and Hamir Patel wrote in a note dated today. They maintained an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  Muddy Waters said in a report released on June 2 that Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest’s disclosed
land holdings don’t match Chinese city records. Block and his
researchers may have relied too much on figures included in
documents from  China ’s State Administration for Industry &
Commerce, the RBC analysts said.  “The SAIC filings are for registration purposes and filed
for each subsidiary at the county level,” the analysts wrote.
“Simply adding up the financials of each subsidiary does not
equate to the consolidated financials under international
financial reporting standards, due to differences in
accounting.”  RBC is the only bank of seven tracked by Bloomberg that has
an “outperform” rating on Sino-Forest’s shares. The analysts
left their target price of C$27 unchanged, representing a more
than fivefold gain on yesterday’s closing price of C$5.15. The
shares declined 72 percent from June 1, the day before the Muddy
Waters report was released, to yesterday. The shares declined 11
percent to C$4.58 as of 10:12 a.m. today in Toronto.  Coverage Suspended  TD Newcrest Inc. has put its rating of Sino-Forest under
review and BMO Capital Markets Ltd. cut its rating on the stock
to “market perform”, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Three of the remaining banks have placed the stock under review
since the Muddy Waters report became public on June 2.  The RBC analysts said they had confirmed with the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry in Suriname that Greenheart Group Ltd.,
a Hong Kong-listed company controlled by Sino-Forest, has
business registrations there.  Greenheart, whose shares are down 46 percent since before
the report was released, yesterday issued a statement to the
 Hong Kong  stock exchange denying claims attributed to Muddy
Waters that the Suriname registrations didn’t exist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  