-- 
RealD Slumps Most Since IPO as Analysts Question Appeal of 3-D Movies

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-10T20:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/reald-falls-7-4-in-late-trading-after-ceo-downplays-3-d-decline.html
RealD Inc. (RLD) , maker of the equipment
cinemas use to show movies in 3-D, fell the most since its
initial public offering after analysts questioned executives
about the appeal of the format.  The  Beverly Hills , California-based company declined $3.17,
or 13 percent, to $20.90 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange, the most since its July IPO.  Two recent releases, DreamWorks Animation SKG’s “Kung Fu
Panda 2” and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Pirates of the Caribbean,”
generated 45 percent and 46 percent, respectively, of U.S.
ticket sales in the three-dimensional format. “Megamind,” from
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks, reached 66 percent in
November, and earlier Disney pictures like “Tron: Legacy” and
“Alice in Wonderland” drew higher 3-D percentages.  Ralph Schackart, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in
 Chicago , asked Chief Executive Officer  Michael Lewis  on the call
about volatility in the percentage of tickets sold for 3-D.  “It’s going to go all over the place, but the net result
is going to be a very, very good one,” Lewis said. “I don’t
think you can really read that much into a couple of films’
performance.”  Filmmakers and studios still are learning how best to use
the new technology and market movies produced with it, Lewis
said in an interview after the conference call. Lower 3-D
openings for some movies doesn’t mean audiences are shunning the
format, he said.  Rising Sales  “This is still a relatively new medium and we’re in the
early innings,” said Lewis, who declined to comment on specific
stock movements. “Overall, the trend line is very positive.”  The company reported fourth-quarter net income of $4.47
million, or 8 cents a share, compared with a loss of $20.9
million, or 85 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose to $58.5
million from $55.4 million, the company said.  RealD technology was used on more than 16,700 screens
worldwide as of June 6 and the company will add as many as 6,000
more in the fiscal year ending in March 2012, Chief Financial
Officer Drew Skarupa said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  