-- 
Treasuries Gain on Concern U.S. Economy Weakening; Stock Markets Decline

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-06-10T21:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/treasury-yields-near-2011-low-on-prospect-fed-to-keep-interest-rates-low.html
Treasuries rose, with two-year notes
gaining for a ninth weekly in their longest winning streak since
February 2008, as stocks fell on a weakening economy.  The  Federal Reserve  released its final  schedule  of
operations under its $600 billion of debt buying, saying it will
purchase $50 billion of securities through the end of June. In
July, the central bank will continue to reinvest into Treasuries
proceeds from agency and mortgage-backed holdings.  “People are nervous about economic growth going forward,”
said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s private wealth management unit in New York. “As a result,
the Fed will be on hold for a very long time, so the best place
to be now is in U.S. Treasuries.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.97 percent at 5:05 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security maturing in May 2021 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 10/32.  The 10-year note yields fell yesterday to 2.92 percent, the
lowest level since Dec. 3. Yields on two-year notes slid two
basis points to 0.40 percent after dropping on June 8 to 0.37
percent, the lowest level since Nov. 8. The yields slid four
basis points this week.  ‘Outright Slowdown’  “The back end is benefiting from the outright slowdown,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “Stocks are
getting pummeled as people are taking chips off the table.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.4 percent,
extending its sixth weekly decrease. Crude oil for July delivery
fell 3 percent to $98.91 a barrel.  While New York Fed President William C. Dudley said today
he expects “a moderate economic recovery to be sustained,” he
also said “the recent disappointing data suggest that downside
risks to the outlook” have increased.  The economy will probably recover from recent weakness in
part because a surge in commodity prices, the March earthquake
in  Japan  and “severe weather” in the U.S. are transitory,
Dudley said in  Brooklyn , New York. He expects “disappointing”
economic growth to improve, even as “downside risks” such as
higher commodity prices have increased.  Record monetary accommodation is still needed to boost a
“frustratingly slow” U.S. economic recovery, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in Atlanta on June 7. Policy makers are due to
meet in  Washington  on June 21-22.  Fed Rate View  Futures contracts showed the likelihood of an increase in
the fed funds target by the March 2012 meeting fell to 19
percent, from 24 percent a week ago. The Fed’s target rate for
overnight lending between banks has stayed at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Retail sales in the U.S. dropped 0.4 percent in May after a
0.5 percent increase in the previous month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before a report next
week. The consumer-price index advanced 0.1 percent last month
after a 0.4 percent gain in April, according to a separate
Bloomberg News survey.  “There’s a lot of bad news being priced into the
market,” said Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at
Royal Bank of Canada, one of 20 primary dealers that trade with
the central bank. “We’re setting the bar low for an upward
surprise in the data.”  Treasuries have returned 3.1 percent this quarter, the most
since the second quarter of last year, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  The difference in yield between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities of similar maturity, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt known as the break-even rate, dropped today to 2.16
percentage points, the narrowest spread since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  