-- 
Record CPI Plunge Proves No Help for Bonds as Rally Fades: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-06-10T12:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/record-cpi-plunge-proves-no-help-for-bonds-as-rally-fades-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds are posting
their biggest slump in three months on speculation inflation
will quicken from the slowest pace in almost five years.  The yield on the government’s benchmark peso bonds due in
2024 rose eight basis points this week, the most since the five-
day period ending March 4, to 7.15 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The increase snapped a three-month rally
that cut yields 73 basis points, or 0.73 percentage point. In
Brazil, yields on government notes due 2021 dropped 40 basis
points this week, extending their three-month decline to 37.  Investors are betting expansion in  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy will drive up consumer prices after they sank
the most in at least 42 years in May. Annual inflation will
accelerate to 3.7 percent this year from 3.25 percent in May and
a five-year low of 3.04 percent in March, according to the
median forecast of economists in a June 6 survey by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit. Mexico is the only major Latin American
nation to keep  interest rates  unchanged in the past year.  “I find it hard to believe that inflation in Mexico will
go much lower,”  Guillermo Osses , who helps manage about $9
billion as head of emerging markets debt at HSBC Asset
Management in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Once
you have enough positions on the one side of the market,
anything could trigger a correction.”  The yield gap between Mexican inflation-linked and fixed-
rate bonds due in 2014, a gauge of investor expectations for
price increases, has jumped 49 basis points from a two-year low
on June 1 to 3.92 percentage points.  Peso Rally  The inflation slowdown and a rally in the peso prompted
international investors to pour $21 billion into Mexican local
debt in the six months through March, the most since the central
bank began compiling the data in the 1960s. Foreign investors,
the biggest buyers of fixed-rate bonds, boosted their holdings
18 percent since the end of March to a record 592 billion pesos
($50.3 billion) in May.  Consumer prices dropped 0.74 percent in May, the most since
the index was created in 1969, the central bank said yesterday
on its website. The drop was more than the 0.66 percent decline
forecast by 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. In  Brazil , the
region’s biggest economy, consumer prices rose 0.47 percent in
May, driving the annual inflation rate to 6.55 percent, the
fastest pace since 2005.  Rising exports are helping fuel a 7.6 percent rally in the
peso in the past year. Mexico’s economy may grow as much as 5
percent this year after a 5.4-percent expansion in 2010 that was
the fastest in a decade, the central bank said on May 11.  Opportunity ‘Closing’  Mexican peso bonds gained 8.7 percent this year in dollar
terms, compared with a 6.6 percent advance for Latin America
local-currency debt, according to Bank of America Corp.  “The window to take advantage of rates in Mexico is
closing,” Eduardo Vazquez, an analyst at  Harbor Intelligence  in
Monterrey, said in a telephone interview. “Inflation is
unlikely to stay at these rates. Companies are already seeing
higher prices and sooner or later they will transfer that to
customers. The favorable appreciation of the peso in the first
half of the year won’t be present in the second half.”  The peso will fall 5.8 percent to 12.5 per U.S. dollar by
the end of the year, according to Vazquez. The peso will end the
year at 11.62, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  ‘Consistent’  The central bank, known as Banxico, held the benchmark
lending rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month, saying in a
statement following the meeting that there was a “moderation in
the pace” of the economic expansion. The bank, led by Governor
Agustin Carstens, has left the rate unchanged for a record 19
straight meetings.  “The inflation number is consistent with what Banxico
suggested -- that inflation remains contained and pressure is
not there,”  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging markets strategist at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s still value. Mexico is one of the most attractive
curves out there.”  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December rose 2 basis points to 5.02 percent,
indicating the bank will raise rates that month.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 11.7944 per  U.S. dollar  at
7:56 a.m. New York time.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis point to
145, according to JPMorgan.  Cost to Protect  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years dropped 1 basis point to 106 yesterday, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Mexican peso bonds may slump further if the economic
expansion in the U.S. accelerates, which would spark a surge in
U.S. Treasury yields that would prompt investors to demand
higher yields on emerging-market debt, said  Siobhan Morden , a
debt strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries has dropped 16 basis points
to 2.998 in the past month.  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. rose to 9.1 percent last
month, the highest this year, and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a June 7 event in Atlanta that the recovery
has been “frustratingly slow.”  ‘Not Sustainable’  “If your view is that the recent data in the U.S. is
temporary and there will be renewed growth, then this rally in
Treasuries and by default Mexico is not sustainable,” Morden
said in a telephone interview. “Mexico could be vulnerable to a
retracement of Treasuries going higher.”  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark bonds due 2024 touched a 12-
month high of 7.99 percent on March 3 before the three-month
rally began. Investors were too concerned about inflation
picking up then and were too complacent about it in recent
weeks, HSBC’s Osses said.  “Just as markets were underweight Mexico back in March, I
now think that the market is too overweight,” Osses said.
“They are going to be wrong again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  