-- 
Chile’s La Polar Rebounds as Record Drop Triggers Acquisition Speculation

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T21:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/record-discount-makes-chile-s-la-polar-cheap-target-bci-says.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  surged 19 percent
on speculation an investor will seek to gain control of the 
Chilean department-store operator after the stock reached a 
record discount to emerging-market retail peers.  La Polar jumped to 1,603.7 pesos in the biggest gain since
it began trading in September 2003. The stock tumbled 42 percent
yesterday after the company said it will incur provisions of as
much as 200 billion pesos ($427 million) for bad loans.  “The fall yesterday was too violent and the stock will go
through a period of volatility,” said German Guerrero, director
of Santiago-based brokerage MBI Corredores de Bolsa SA. “The
market is taking into account that La Polar is still an ongoing
business that will create value and there is speculation that
somebody may now want to buy it.”  The stock fetches 12.2 times trailing profit, compared with
a ratio of 21.3 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Retailing Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company engaged in
irregular lending practices and fired its loans manager as part
of a restructuring of the division, it wrote in a  regulatory
filing  yesterday. The company has no clear controlling
shareholder as all of its shares trade freely.  La Polar extended gains today after saying in a regulatory
filing that it hired Larrain Vial SA to help “evaluate
different options for maximizing company value.”  ‘Become Attractive’  “La Polar has become attractive for an investor or group
that doesn’t have a presence in  Chile ’s retail sector and it
would be a very cheap buy,” Pablo Solis, who helps manage about
$5 billion for BCI Asset Management in Santiago, said yesterday.  The company may have to set aside provisions of 150 billion
pesos to 200 billion pesos, according to a  statement  on the
securities regulator’s website.  La Polar named Eduardo Bizama as chief executive officer to
replace interim CEO  Martin Gonzalez , who returns to his prior
position of commercial manager, the Santiago-based company said
in yesterday’s statement.  Feller Rate, an affiliate of  Standard & Poor’s , cut the
company’s credit rating to BB+ from BBB+ with a negative outlook
yesterday after downgrading from A- on May 20. Banco Santander
SA cut its recommendation to “underperform” from “hold” and
Deutsche Bank AG lowered the stock to “sell” from “hold.”  The government’s consumer watchdog last week filed a class-
action lawsuit against La Polar for allegedly changing terms of
consumer loans without seeking consent from customers.  ‘Limited Effect’  La Polar’s credit irregularities will have a “limited”
effect on the financial system and don’t pose a risk for market
or banking solvency, according to a statement sent by e-mail
from the  finance ministry . Regulators were instructed to
investigate the role played by company executives, directors,
auditors and credit-rating agencies, the ministry said.  In a separate e-mailed statement late yesterday, La Polar
said that the loan-loss provisions don’t affect its business
model and the company remains committed to growing in Chile and
Colombia. La Polar’s public relations department didn’t respond
to e-mail and telephone requests for comment.  The retailer, which targets middle-income earners, adopted
more conservative lending practices in the second half of last
year to reduce non-performing loans. Based in Santiago, the
company said May 27 that it may sell as much as $400 million of
new shares for expansions and to “strengthen capital.”  ‘Strategic Investor’  The share sale may provide an opportunity for a “strategic
investor,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage $12 billion in
emerging markets stocks at ING Investment Management in  New
York , said yesterday.  “You have a company that has quite important issues,
doesn’t really have a captain on board to turn things around and
is in need of money,” Conrads said. “Someone who would like to
buy the company can come in at an interesting level and come out
as a white knight saving the situation. I can see that scenario
could pan out for someone.”  La Polar increased provisions by 29 billion pesos and wrote
off a total of 43.2 billion pesos in loans, it said March 17
when it reported a 78 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit.  La Polar plans to spend $250 million from 2012 to 2015 to
open 10 stores in  Colombia  and eight in Chile, Chairman Pablo Alcalde said May 3. That’s in addition to the three stores it
will open this year in Colombia and three in Chile.  La Polar’s first-quarter profit rose to 6.21 billion pesos
from 3.92 billion pesos a year earlier, it reported April 29.
Net income fell 38 percent in 2010 from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  