-- 
Red Sox Beat Yankees 8-3 for Sixth Straight Win, Lead AL East by Two Games

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-10T06:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/red-sox-defeat-yankees-8-3-for-sixth-straight-win-lead-al-east-by-2-games.html
Jed Lowrie’s run-scoring triple
ignited a seven-run seventh inning as the Boston  Red Sox 
defeated the  New York  Yankees 8-3 to complete a sweep of their
three-game series at Yankee Stadium.  The Red Sox’s sixth straight victory overall moved them two
games ahead of the Yankees atop Major League Baseball’s American
League East division.  The Red Sox (36-26) captured their second three-game sweep
at Yankee Stadium in a month, and notched their seventh straight
victory this season against New York (33-27).  After a three-hour, 27-minute rain delay before the start
of the game, Curtis Granderson hit his 18th home run of the
season off Josh Beckett to give New York a 2-0 first-inning
lead.  CC Sabathia was working on a shutout for the Yankees until
the seventh inning, when Lowrie’s run-scoring triple and Mike Cameron’s run-scoring double tied the game. Jacoby Ellsbury,
Adrian Gonzalez and  Kevin Youkilis  followed with run-scoring
singles and  David Ortiz  added a two-run double. The seven runs
were the most given up in an inning by the Yankees this season.  Gonzalez added a run-scoring double in the Boston ninth.
 Derek Jeter  drove in a run with a groundout in the ninth for the
Yankees, who have lost 10 of their last 14 games.  Beckett (5-2) struck out six and gave up four hits and two
runs in seven innings. Sabathia (7-4) allowed six runs on eight
hits in 6 2/3 innings.  Jeter was 1-for-4, leaving him 10 hits shy of becoming the
first Yankee and 28th major league player to reach 3,000 career
hits.  The Yankees got more bad news yesterday. Reliever Joba Chamberlain may be out 12 months if he needs surgery on a torn
ligament in his pitching arm, manager  Joe Girardi  said before
the game, one day after the right-hander was placed on the
disabled list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  