-- 
Ambani’s Reliance Industries Buys Out Bharti in Insurance Venture With Axa

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-06-10T22:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/reliance-industries-to-buy-bharti-stake-in-axa-insurance-units.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, will acquire Bharti Enterprises
Ltd.’s stake in its general and life insurance joint ventures
with  Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest insurer. The transaction
amount wasn’t disclosed.  Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance is seeking to expand
in the financial services business as demand increases in the
world’s second-fastest growing major economy. In March, Reliance
announced an agreement with D.E. Shaw & Co., the $20 billion
hedge fund founded by  David Shaw . The two plan to start stock-
brokerage and private-equity businesses in India.  Reliance is looking to diversify its business as earnings
growth from its core oil and gas business slows. The company
missed analysts’ expectations in the quarter ended March 31 with
a 14 percent increase in net income, the least in six quarters.  “The revenues from the oil and gas business will not
increase substantially and so the company needs to look for new
streams of business,” said Kishor Ostwal, managing director of
CNI Research ( India ) Ltd., a publicly traded equities-research
provider in  Mumbai . “They have announced that they want to
enter the financial business arena and this is a progression in
that direction.”  Reliance Industries fell 1 percent to 944.5 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai yesterday. Reliance Industrial
Infrastructure shares gained 2.7 percent, the most in more than
two months, to 569.45 rupees. The announcement was made after
the close of markets.  Ownership Limit  Reliance will hold 57 percent and  Reliance Industrial
Infrastructure Ltd. (RIIL)  17 percent in the life and general insurance
companies. Paris-based Axa will continue to hold 26 percent in
the ventures, the maximum allowed by Indian laws. It will have
the option to acquire an additional 24 percent in the businesses,
if and when local regulations allow greater foreign ownership in
insurance, a statement from Reliance said.  Bharti, the holding company for India’s biggest mobile-
phone operator,  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s
partner in the country, entered the insurance business in 2006.  “The decision is in line with Bharti’s strategy of
focusing its energies and financial resources in businesses
where it is making a deeper impact,” Bharti said in an e-mailed
statement announcing the sale yesterday. “Currently, the
financial services ventures do not fit into Bharti’s long-term
growth plans.”  Bharti, controlled by billionaire Sunil Mittal, will use
the proceeds from the sale for other group businesses, the
statement said, without providing more information.  Insurance Premiums  In the year ended March 2011, Bharti AXA Life collected
premiums of 7.9 billion rupees ($177 million) and Bharti AXA
General Insurance 5.5 billion rupees, the statement from
Reliance said.  D.E. Shaw will join with Reliance to offer  investment
banking , derivatives trading and alternate-asset management next
year, Louis Salkind, managing director at D.E. Shaw, said in an
interview in Mumbai on May 26.  D.E. Shaw India Financial Services Pvt., the venture with
Reliance, will hire 100 people in the next 12 months to 18
months, and raise funds locally by the fourth quarter to invest
in private companies, Salkind said. The company will build a
platform for trading stocks and derivatives this year for large
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Abhay Singh at 
 abhaysingh@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  