-- 
Repower Says Loan Agreements Preserved After Suzlon Takeover

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-10T12:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/repower-systems-says-lending-agreements-to-remain-after-suzlon-takeover.html
Repower Systems AG (RPW) , the European
wind-turbine maker with more cash relative to its loans than its
bigger rivals, said agreements with lenders will continue to
hold after a planned takeover by its debt-strapped parent.  A proposal by  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s largest wind-
turbine maker that’s behind on debt payments, to buy out
Repower’s minority stockholders won’t affect covenants covering
the German unit’s 600 million euros ($870 million) in debt and a
letter of credit, Repower Chief Executive Officer Andreas Nauen
said in an interview.  “The terms will not change,” Nauen said by telephone from
Hamburg yesterday. “As far as the financing and lending
situation, it will not have any impact.”  Suzlon’s plan to buy the remaining 4.8 percent stake in
Repower prompted questions from investors about the impact on
financing arrangements and lending costs. Ahmedabad-based Suzlon
resumes principal repayments next year on 100 billion rupees
($2.2 billion) of refinanced loans taken in part to buy a stake
in the German firm.  Repower has a higher cash ratio, a measure of a company’s
ability to pay off short-term debt with cash on hand, than
 Siemens AG (SIE)  and Vestas Wind Systems A/S, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Suzlon will get access to Repower’s 275
million euros in cash to help manage its debt,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  said in an April 4 note.  Repower has a 100 million-euro loan and a 500 million-euro
letter of credit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Suzlon’s group total debt as of December 2010 was 121 billion
rupees, the company said in an e-mail on April 6.  India Production  Repower will start making turbines in India for the first
time and is increasingly buying components from cheaper Asian
suppliers, which will help trim costs and increase its
competitiveness, Nauen said.  By the end of the financial year, the Hamburg-based company
may manufacture as much as 100 megawatts of its 2-megawatt MM
turbines at a Suzlon plant in southwest Mangalore city, he said.  “The machines that we produce there will go to the U.S.
market and, in the next step, potentially to  Australia ,” he
said.  The move won’t affect production at its European plants,
which will supply the regional market and the offshore industry,
Nauen said. Repower will keep making 2-megawatt turbines at two
German facilities, he said.  By boosting the share of parts it sources from  Asia ,
Repower may reduce costs on average by 15 percent, he said.  Its German plant in Bremerhaven is being expanded to meet
surging demand from  Europe ’s offshore wind industry and
renovations will be completed by next year, he said.  “By March, it should be up and running,” Nauen said.  Repower’s stock was almost unchanged at 135.40 euros at
1:50 p.m. in Xetra electronic trading in  Frankfurt  after
recovering from a 2.6 percent fall earlier in the day. Suzlon
closed down 1.7 percent at 51.9 rupees in Mumbai trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 