-- 
RIM Expands PlayBook Sales to Europe, Asia, Latin America

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-06-10T20:11:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/rim-to-start-selling-ipad-rival-playbook-in-u-k-spain-germany-france.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said it
plans to start selling its BlackBerry PlayBook tablet computer
in 16 new markets globally in the next 30 days after introducing
it in North America in April.  The device will begin selling in countries including the
U.K., Spain,  France , Germany, Italy and Australia, according to
a statement from Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM today.  RIM is banking on a smoother rollout of the PlayBook
internationally than it had in the U.S. and Canada to lure users
away from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s market-leading iPad. The PlayBook earned
mixed reviews from technology columnists who suggested RIM
rushed out the device and criticized its lack of a standalone e-
mail program and network connectivity, as well as the shortage
of consumer applications. Last month RIM recalled about 1,000
PlayBooks because of a software glitch.  Still, RIM may be on track to sell more of its tablets than
some Apple rivals including Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
according to RBC Capital Markets analyst  Mike Abramsky .  RIM may have sold 500,000 PlayBooks in the first quarter
which ended on May 28, above early sales of the Motorola Xoom,
he said last month. Abramsky, based in Toronto, has a “sector
perform” rating on the stock.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , said this week it
has sold more than 25 million iPads since the device went on
sale in April 2010.  The other markets in which the PlayBook will soon be
available are the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates,  India ,  Hong Kong , Singapore, Indonesia, Mexico,
Colombia and Venezuela. RIM didn’t say what the price will be in
the new markets.  A version with 16 gigabytes of storage costs $499 in the
U.S., a 32-gigabyte model retails for $599 and a version with 64
gigabytes is $699.  RIM fell $1.05, or 2.8 percent, to $36.56 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market at 4 p.m. New York time. It has lost 37 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  