-- 
Ringgit Gains Most in a Week as U.S. Data Bolsters Sentiment

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-06-10T09:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ringgit-gains-most-in-a-week-as-u-s-data-bolsters-sentiment.html
Malaysia’s ringgit appreciated the
most in a week as reports yesterday showed the  U.S. trade
deficit  narrowed and consumer sentiment picked up, bolstering
demand for assets in developing markets.  The ringgit rose as the  trade balance  shrank to the lowest
level in four months in April and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index climbed. The currency strengthened 3.8 percent over the
past six months as the central bank raised  interest rates ,
boosting the yield advantage over the U.S. and  Europe .  “Risk appetite for emerging-market assets has improved
with the better U.S. confidence numbers,” said Zulkiflee Nidzam,
head of foreign-exchange trading in Kuala Lumpur at Asian
Finance Bank Bhd. “The ringgit will likely remain firm and may
rise beyond 3 against the dollar as expectations of a domestic
rate hike are still there.”  The ringgit gained 0.2 percent to 3.0205 per dollar as of 5
p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency fell 0.3 percent from a week ago.  The U.S. trade gap shrank to $43.7 billion, compared with a
revised $46.8 billion in March, Commerce Department figures
showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus
45.9 in the period to June 5, the best showing since the end of
April, from the prior week’s minus 47.1.  Bonds Rise  Malaysia’s central bank raised the overnight policy rate to
3 percent on May 5, compared with near zero in the U.S. and 1.25
percent in the European Union. Borrowing costs will rise at
least another 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, by the
end of the year, according to the median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Industrial production in  Malaysia  unexpectedly fell 2.1
percent in April from a year earlier, compared with a revised
2.9 percent increase in March, as  Japan ’s record earthquake
disrupted trade in the Asian region, a government report showed
yesterday. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 2.5 percent increase.  Government bonds  rose this week. The yield on the 4.16
percent securities due July 2021 dropped 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 3.94 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia. That was the biggest weekly decline for a benchmark
10-year note since April 29 and the lowest level of the year,
Bloomberg data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  