-- 
Romania Maintains Goal of 2011 Entry Into EU Visa-Free Zone

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-06-10T13:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/romania-maintains-goal-of-2011-entry-into-eu-visa-free-zone.html
Romania  still hopes to achieve its
goal of joining the Schengen zone, which allows passport-free
travel, this year, President Traian Basescu said.  The European Union Justice and Home Affairs Ministers
Council said yesterday it will reconsider the bids of Romania
and Bulgaria in September, if it sees an improvement from both
Black Sea countries in the battle to overcome crime and
corruption. The decision came a day after the European
Parliament recommended the two countries’ applications.  “We are maintaining our goal to enter the Schengen area in
2011 and we’re waiting for a decision from the Council of
Justice and Home Affairs in September on the entry timetable,”
Basescu said in a speech today in Bucharest.  Bulgaria  and Romania, which joined the EU in 2007, aspire
to join eight other former communist countries that are already
 Schengen  members. Their bids coincide with discussions in  France 
and  Denmark  to reintroduce passport checks at their borders on
concern about an influx of North African migrants through  Italy .  Countries looking to join in the Schengen system, named for
the Luxembourg village where the treaty allowing border-free
travel was signed in 1985, need the unanimous endorsement of
existing members, based on an assessment by the commission.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, voted 487 to
77 in favor of the Bulgarian and Romanian applications before
passing the recommendation on to the ministerial council.
The assembly urged Bulgaria “to take additional measures,”
including a special action plan with Greece and  Turkey , to cope
with a possible surge in migration pressure.  “Romania officially rejects the introduction of new entry
conditions,” Basescu said today.  The two former Soviet-bloc countries spent 1.16 billion
euros ($1.68 billion) to beef up their border police and equip
them with patrol boats, helicopters, scanners and night-vision
cameras to ensure the security of borders with Turkey,  Serbia ,
Moldova and Ukraine and a stretch of the Black Sea coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  