-- 
Romney to Skip Iowa, Florida Tests, Focus on Nominating Contests

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/romney-to-skip-iowa-florida-tests-focus-on-nominating-contests.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney will skip an August straw poll in the early-voting state
of  Iowa  and will focus on winning binding contests to propel his
bid for the Republican presidential nomination, his campaign
said yesterday.  Romney, who won the 2007 Iowa Straw Poll after spending
about $2 million on television ads and busing thousands of
supporters to the balloting, won’t compete in any non-binding
contests this time, including those in  Florida  and in  Michigan ,
his birthplace.  Campaign manager Matt Rhoades said Romney’s presidential
campaign was “both strengthened as an organization and learned
some important lessons by participating in them” during the
2008 election season.  “This time,” Rhoades said in a statement, “we will focus
our energies and resources on winning primaries and caucuses.”  The move underscores the Romney campaign’s heavy emphasis
on  New Hampshire , which traditionally holds the country’s first
primary -- the second presidential nominating contest after the
Iowa caucuses. Romney launched his White House bid in New
Hampshire on June 2 and has been quietly building support in the
state for almost two years.  It’s also an indication that Romney, the Republican front-
runner in recent public polls, plans to style himself as a
national candidate and try to conserve his financial resources
in hopes of getting out his economy-focused message and besting
what is still a crowded field of mostly lesser-known Republican
rivals to take on President  Barack Obama .  ‘Smart Decision’  “The campaign is making a smart decision to not to compete
in the upcoming series of straw polls,” Brian Kennedy, who
heads Romney’s Iowa team and is a former state party chairman,
said in a statement circulated by the campaign. “Mitt’s focus
is on winning the nomination, not the straw polls.”  Still. Romney’s decision to sit out the carnival-like
candidate-testing ritual in Ames, the home of  Iowa State
University , drew a pointed response from the head of the  Iowa
Republican Party , who suggested that his absence from the party-
sponsored event might anger an important constituency.  “I’ll leave it to the pundits and voters to assess the
wisdom of skipping an event of tremendous importance to tens of
thousands of Iowa Republicans and caucus-goers,” party chairman
Matt Strawn said in a statement. “More than ever, Iowa
Republicans are energized and motivated to utilize the Ames
straw poll as a catalyst toward building a 99-county
organization to deny President Obama a second term.”  Frequent Presence  Romney has said he plans to appear “a number of times” in
Iowa, where the race to the nomination begins with party
caucuses early next year, and Kennedy said Romney would
participate in a debate in Ames before the August straw poll.
Still, during his first trip to the state last month, Romney
stopped short of committing to an all-out campaign there.  In the 2008 Iowa caucuses, 60 percent of Republican
participants described themselves in entrance polls as born-
again or evangelical Christians. Romney hasn’t been a natural
fit for that constituency, given his Mormon faith and his past
support for abortion rights and gay rights.  He spent $10 million in Iowa before the 2008 caucuses only
to come in second behind former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ,
a onetime Baptist preacher who spent only a fraction of that
amount and who last month announced that he wouldn’t seek the
2012 nomination.  Romney’s decision could create an opening in Iowa for
former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who is focusing heavily
on the state and must make a strong showing there to have a shot
at the Republican nomination. His camp quickly seized on news
that Romney wouldn’t join the August popularity contest.  “I joined Governor Pawlenty’s campaign because I knew he
could put his record before voters everywhere,” Matt Whitaker,
his top Iowa hand, said in a statement. “The Ames straw poll is
a great gathering of conservatives, and Governor Pawlenty’s
solid record will be well received there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  