-- 
Rosneft Says Chevron Seeks Arctic, May Exit Black Sea Field

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-06-10T19:56:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/rosneft-says-chevron-is-interested-in-arctic-may-exit-black-sea.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is interested in
working with OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, to
explore for Arctic resources and it may exit a  Black Sea 
venture, the head of the Moscow-based company said.  Chevron will probably pull out of the West Chernomorsky
project in the Black Sea because of disagreements about the
area’s potential, Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov told reporters today in Krasnodar, southern Russia.
The companies signed an exploration accord a year ago.  “Our geologists categorically disagree,” Khudainatov said
of the West Chernomorsky project. Chevron believed the block,
held by Rosneft’s Val Shatskogo unit, has the same
characteristics as an area in  Turkey ’s Black Sea waters where it
drilled a dry well, Khudainatov said.  Rosneft’s plans to tap international technology and
experience to develop offshore fields have gotten off to a shaky
start. A deal to swap $7.8 billion stakes with BP Plc and
explore the Arctic Kara Sea collapsed amid a challenge from the
U.K. producer’s billionaire partners in a Russian venture.  “Chevron continues to work closely with Rosneft on
opportunities to collaborate in business ventures,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman for the  San Ramon , California-based
company, said in an e-mailed message. “We do not discuss
ongoing business negotiations.”  Rosneft may consider new partners for the Black Sea
project, Khudainatov said.  Lukoil Partner?  The accord called for Chevron to invest an initial $1
billion to drill wells in West Chernomorsky. A final agreement
on the venture wasn’t signed.  “Lukoil has experience in the Caspian and the Baltic
Seas,” he said, referring to Russia’s second-largest oil
producer. “There may be three partners, or four, let’s see.”  Rosneft and Chevron are looking to work together on
offshore projects, Khudainatov said. Chevron is interested in
resources in the Laptev Sea, in  Russia ’s eastern Arctic, he
said. Laptev is less explored than the Pechora and Barents seas
to the west, according to the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  