-- 
Rousseff’s ‘Amazons’ Give Female Face to Brazil Cabinet in Wake of Scandal

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-06-13T19:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/rousseff-shuffles-brazil-cabinet-again-in-wake-of-palocci-resignation.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ,
who promised in her campaign to fight discrimination against
women, promoted last week two women to key political posts as
she seeks to mend relations with her congressional allies in the
wake of a scandal that toppled her closest aide.  Rousseff, who was elected Brazil’s first woman president
last year, named June 10 Fisheries Minister Ideli Salvatti to
become institutional affair minister in charge of relations with
Congress. Earlier in the week she named Senator Gleisi Hoffmann
her cabinet chief, replacing  Antonio Palocci , who resigned amid
allegations he used his position to enrich himself.  Rousseff is looking to surround herself with “aggressive”
negotiators like herself to discipline an unruly coalition in
Congress, Merval Pereira, a columnist for O Globo newspaper in
 Rio de Janeiro , wrote June 10. He called the new appointees, who
will be tasked with helping her government recover from the
Palocci scandal and advance its legislative agenda, the Workers’
Party’s “amazons” in reference to the race of female warriors
in Greek mythology.  “It shouldn’t cause surprise the fact that women are
appointed to powerful, decision-making positions,” Iriny Lopes,
Brazil’s special secretariat for women’s policies, said in an e-
mailed interview. “Women also have the competence to take over
key positions and this is in line with the message of the
president’s inauguration speech: yes, women can.”  At the swearing-in ceremony for the new appointees,
Rousseff said it’s time for her ministers and political allies
to “roll up our sleeves” and accomplish the government’s
agenda.  Unruly Coalition  Rousseff, 63, failed to rally support in Congress behind
Palocci after Folha de S. Paulo newspaper reported three weeks
ago that he made 20 million reais ($12 million) last year as a
financial consultant while managing her campaign. The opposition
and members of her party, known as the PT, were pressing for a
congressional probe of his surge in income to see whether he was
selling access to the government.  The fall of Palocci highlighted the president’s
vulnerability to political pressure from members of her
coalition, said  Christopher Garman , a director for  Latin America 
at Eurasia Group, a Washington-based political risk group.  “It exposed the extent to which the government’s
congressional base had accumulated tremendous discontent with
Rousseff,” Garman said in a telephone interview from
 Washington . “Rousseff’s appointment of Gleisi and Ideli sends a
clear message that while she was forced to give up her top
political adviser, she won’t bow to Congress’s demands easily.”  Approval Rating  Rousseff’s approval rating rose following the resignation
of her chief of staff, Folha de S.Paulo reported, citing a
Datafolha poll.  The poll, published yesterday by the Sao Paulo-based
newspaper, shows that 49 percent of the 2,188 people interviewed
consider Rousseff’s administration good or excellent, up from 47
percent in March. The poll, taken June 9-10, has a two
percentage point margin of error, Folha said.  Rousseff dedicated her victory last year to Brazilian
women, and since taking office in January has named 10 of them
to 38 cabinet-level posts. That’s double the five female
ministers her predecessor and mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ,
named during his eight years in power.  “I want to state my first commitment after the elections:
to honor Brazil’s women so that today’s unprecedented result
becomes a normal event,” Rousseff said in her victory speech
after being elected Oct. 31. “I would very much like that
parents look into their daughters’ eyes and say, yes women
can.”  Unlike Palocci, who served as Lula’s finance minister from
2003 to 2006 and was a close friend of the former president,
Rousseff’s appointees are newcomers to the presidential inner
circle.  Hoffmann, Salvatti  Hoffmann, 45, was a first-time Senator from the southern
state of Parana and better known as the wife to  Paulo Bernardo ,
who was transferred from budget minister to communications
minister when Lula handed power to Rousseff.  As Cabinet chief, Hoffmann will supervise marquee
government programs to reduce poverty, coordinate work among
ministries and help Brazil prepare to host the 2014  World Cup 
and 2016 Summer Olympics.  “Hoffmann has nothing to do with Lula. Her loyalty is
completely to Dilma,” said Senator Pedro Simon, from the PMDB,
the biggest member of Rousseff’s coalition in Congress.  Salvatti, who will replace Luiz Sergio Oliveira,
previously served as a lower house lawmaker and then senator
from Santa Catarina state in Brazil’s south. After losing a
gubernatorial bid in her home state last year, the 59-year-old
was named fisheries minister by Rousseff.  Coalition Parties  In her new role, Salvatti will be in charge of coordinating
Rousseff’s relations with members of Congress, where the PT
lacks a majority and requires the support of the PMDB and other
coalition parties to pass legislation.  “Dilma is forming a female  soccer team , with her on top of
a winning and competent group of players,” said Jilmar Tatto, a
deputy leader in the lower house for the PT. “She’s Pele with a
skirt,” said Tatto, referring to the Brazilian soccer legend.  While neither of Rousseff’s new aides is a “shrinking
violet,” they need to be tough to overcome Brazilians’
prejudice against powerful women in politics, said Rafael Cortez, a political analyst at Sao Paulo-based Tendencias
Consultoria.  “All successful women in politics carry this reputation,”
said Cortez in a phone interview. “Politics in  Brazil  is still
mainly dominated by men, and full of prejudice, so women need to
impose their will and be tough in negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  