-- 
Rupiah Is Near Seven-Year High as Policy Makers Tolerate Gains

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-06-10T08:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/rupiah-is-near-seven-year-high-as-policy-makers-tolerate-gains.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah traded near a
seven-year high after the central bank signaled it will tolerate
currency appreciation to keep inflation under control.  Overseas investors raised holdings of Indonesian bonds by
16 percent this year to 227.6 trillion rupiah ($26.7 billion) as
of June 8, according to  data  from the finance ministry’s debt-
management office. The central bank kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged for a fourth month yesterday and said the
“continuing trend of rupiah appreciation is in line” with
efforts to stem consumer-price increases.  “Bank Indonesia’s pledge to strengthen the rupiah has
helped bond sentiment,” said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based
regional economist at Forecast Singapore Pte. “The central bank
is looking for modest, stable appreciation.”  The rupiah traded at 8,523 per dollar as of 3:41 p.m. in
Jakarta, the same rate as yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency was little changed from a week ago
and touched 8,499 on June 8, the strongest level since March
2004.  Consumer prices rose 5.98 percent in May from a year
earlier after a 6.16 percent increase in April, official data
show. Inflation may be about 5 percent this year, Perry Warjiyo,
 Bank Indonesia ’s director of economic research, told reporters
today in Jakarta. A strengthening rupiah will reduce import
costs, easing price pressures, Warjiyo said.  Government bonds  fell this week. The yield on the 8.25
percent notes due July 2021 climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.38 percent, according to prices from the
Inter-Dealer Market Association. The rate rose four basis points
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Singapore at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  