-- 
Salgado Says Spain Wage Law Improved Since Employers Slammed It

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-10T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/salgado-says-spain-wage-law-improved-since-employers-slammed-it.html
Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado said the wage-bargaining law approved is “much
improved” on a draft that employers criticized as
“disappointing.”  “It has been very much improved in the last 48 hours
compared with the text that was sent to the unions and employers
representatives,” Salgado, 62, said in a telephone interview
from Madrid yesterday.  As part of its efforts to shield  Spain  from the sovereign
debt crisis, the Socialist government had pledged European
partners it would overhaul wage rules that have been criticized
by the  European Central Bank . After being sent a draft of the
proposed law, Spain’s CEOE business group said on June 8 it was
“disappointing” and didn’t reflect their proposals.  “As finance minister, I’m very happy with what we’ve
approved,” she said. “It’s a good reform.”  The new text, which will be published on June 13 or 14,
states “clearly” that wage deals negotiated on a company level
take precedence over provincial agreements, Salgado said.  That
allows the deals to adapt to the “specific characteristics of
the company,” which is “enormous progress,” she said.  The new  law,  passed by decree yesterday, also stops expired
wage agreements being indefinitely rolled over in the absence of
new deals. It forces parties into an “obligatory arbitration”
if they don’t come to a new agreement after as long as 14
months, Salgado said. That “obligatory” mediation wasn’t in
the original text, she said.  Election Setback  The ruling Socialist Party, which suffered its worst local-
election defeat in three decades on May 22, has to juggle
electoral interests with the need to tame a surge in Spain’s
borrowing costs just nine months before a general election that
polls suggest it will lose. The government risks failing to
convince investors it can bring down the highest  unemployment
rate  in  Europe  and spur enough growth to rein in the euro
region’s third-largest deficit.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish
debt rather than German equivalents surged 10 basis points
yesterday to 251 basis points. That is more than 10 times the
average in the first decade of monetary union.  The law comes into effect immediately, even as the
government plans to allow for amendments in Parliament. CEOE
Chairman Juan Rosell said on June 8 he would make proposals to
improve the legislation during that process.  No one at the CEOE was available to comment today after the
final text was approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  