-- 
Samsonite Said to Raise $1.25 Billion at Low End of Range in Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-10T06:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/samsonite-is-said-to-raise-1-25-billion-selling-stock-at-low-end-of-range.html
Samsonite International SA sold
shares at the bottom end of a revised price range in its  Hong
Kong  initial public offering, raising HK$9.73 billion ($1.25
billion) for the company and shareholders, two people with
knowledge of the IPO said.  Samsonite, the luggage maker backed by London-based CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., sold shares at HK$14.50 apiece, the
people said, declining to be identified because details are
private. The company yesterday narrowed an original price range
marketed to investors to HK$14.50 to HK$15.50, from HK$13.50 to
HK$17.50.  The IPO raised $250 million less than the maximum
originally sought, highlighting how companies are struggling to
obtain top valuations in Hong Kong as the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
suffers its worst monthly slump in a year. Two-thirds of
companies that went public in the Chinese city in 2011 have
fallen from their offer price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Weak market sentiment is working against high valuations
for IPOs,” said Nelson Yan, who helps oversee $90 million as
investment manager at Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in Hong
Kong. “When markets fall, companies that set price ranges
aggressively have to settle for relatively low final pricing.”  Huaneng Renewables Corp., the wind-power unit of  China ’s
biggest electricity producer, dropped as much as 11 percent
today, its first day of trading in Hong Kong. The company had
sold shares near the mid-point of a marketed price range.  Prada Valuation  Mansfield, Massachusetts-based Samsonite’s IPO values it at
18.3 times estimated earnings for this year, one of the people
said. The top end of the original price range would have valued
the company at 22 times forecast profit. Companies on the Hang
Seng Consumer Goods Index trade at an average 15.3 times
estimated full-year earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  An outside spokeswoman for Samsonite, who declined to be
identified citing company policy, had no comment.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are managing the offering. RBS owns 30
percent of the company.  Prada SpA, the Italian maker of Miu Miu handbags, is
scheduled to set a final price next week for an IPO in Hong Kong
that may raise as much as $2.6 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the deal. Prada’s sale may give it a maximum
valuation of 28 times full-year earnings, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Market Swings  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index has retreated 2.2 percent since
June 3, heading for its fourth straight weekly decline. The last
time the benchmark gauge for equities in Hong Kong dropped for
four straight weeks was in the period ended May 7, 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stock-market swings have made it more difficult for
companies to extract top valuations. Casino venture MGM China
Holdings Ltd. is the only company to price a $1 billion-plus IPO
in Hong Kong at the top end of its marketed range since October,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Samsonite was bought by CVC, a private-equity firm, for
about $1.7 billion in October 2007. Its U.S. retail division,
Samsonite Co. Stores, in 2009 sought  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors after the financial crisis caused a slump in demand
for travel-related products.  The company started as Shwayder Trunk Manufacturing in
Denver in 1910, with Samson as its first brand. The first
Samsonite-brand suitcase was introduced 29 years later,
according to Hoover’s, Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  