-- 
Santander Bond Risk Rises to 3-Month High on Funding Concerns

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-06-10T09:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/santander-bond-risk-rises-to-3-month-high-on-funding-concerns.html
The cost of insuring against default
on bonds sold by Banco Santander SA rose to the highest in three
months on concern Spanish lenders may struggle to fund
themselves amid the country’s deficit crisis.  Credit-default swaps tied to Santander’s senior debt
increased 1 basis point to 240, the highest since March 11,
according to CMA. The contracts are up from 233 on May 31, when
the bank said it was selling public sector covered bonds, and
compares with 165 basis points April 11.  Managers for the Santander issue last week sold only about
half the offering of 1 billion euros ($1.46 billion) of covered
bonds backed by loans to Spanish regional and local governments,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people
familiar with the transaction. Commerzbank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc
and Societe Generale SA were left holding the unsold portion,
the Journal said.  “It’s significant not just to Santander, but it’s
significant in that Spanish banks have exposures to regional and
local governments in  Spain  and this may complicate their ability
to fund with covered bonds using this as collateral,” said  Hank Calenti , head of bank credit research at Societe Generale SA in
London.  A Madrid-based Santander official, who declined to be
identified citing bank policy, wouldn’t comment when contacted
by Bloomberg News.  Swaps on Spain rose 4 basis points to 265, according to
CMA. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps linked to the
senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers rose 1 basis point
to 161, JPMorgan prices show. An increase signals deterioration
in investor perceptions of  credit quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.4 million) of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  