-- 
Saudis Signal They’re Ready to Increase Oil Output After OPEC Disagreement

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-06-10T18:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/saudis-show-they-re-ready-to-deliver-on-surge-in-oil-production.html
Saudi Arabia  signaled it’s ready to
deliver on a pledge to boost the supply of oil after the
collapse of OPEC talks two days ago.  The world’s largest oil exporter will increase production,
though it’s too early to say by how much, a Saudi industry
official with knowledge of the matter who declined to be
identified said today. Al-Hayat, citing senior officials,
reported earlier that the kingdom will boost output to 10
million barrels a day in July from the current 8.8 million. Oil
fell as much as 3.3 percent, the most in three weeks.  Saudi Arabia “wants everyone to understand that they’re
serious,”  Olivier Jakob , an analyst at Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,
 Switzerland , said today by phone. “It’s important that the
Saudis are signaling that they’re offering additional barrels.”  The June 8 meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Export
Countries broke down after six nations led by  Iran  opposed a
Saudi plan to replace lost output from  Libya  and aid the U.S.
economic recovery, Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said on the
day. The kingdom, along with Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates, wanted to increase production by 1.5 million barrels a
day. OPEC accounts for 40 percent of global supply.  “This leaves OPEC in a shambles and the Saudis having to
do it on their own,” said Leo Drollas, chief economist at the
Centre for Global Energy Studies in  London . “It shows OPEC is
dysfunctional. Saudi Arabia could almost break away with the
other Gulf countries and form their own organization.”  ‘Worst’ Meeting  Naimi described the Vienna meeting as “the worst” he’s
ever attended. It was the first time in more than 20 years that
the 12 members adjourned without a consensus on quotas.  Crude fell as much as $3.33 today on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $98.82 as 1:57 p.m. Prices are 32
percent higher than a year ago. Brent crude is 57 percent higher
than a year ago.  OPEC forecast a “tightening” oil market in its monthly
report today as demand for its crude rises. The organization
estimated it will need to pump 30.9 million barrels a day in the
third quarter, 1.9 million more than it supplied last month. The
group described global markets as “well supplied” in April.  “It’s clear we’re going to have more oil,” said
 Francisco Blanch , head of global commodity research at Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch in  New York . “The question now is how
much production will increase, and how much actually makes it
to the market.”  Saudi production in the last two weeks had “a pretty
significant uptick, and it’s likely to continue through July,”
Blanch said. He reiterated his forecast that  oil prices  will be
slightly lower in the second half of the year.  Well Supplied  The kingdom’s output rose to 8.86 million last month, the
most since 2008 and up from 8.8 million in April, according to
today’s OPEC report.  Saudi supplies may reach “a little” above 9 million
barrels a day this month, according to John Sfakianakis, chief
economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi Fransi.  “One million barrels per day is a lot of oil to add in July
to a well-supplied market,” he said today from Athens. “All the
crude the refiners need for the summer season has already been
shipped in April and May. I don’t see a strong reason why the
Saudis should hike output by this much in July.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said it will be a “stretch” for the
kingdom to provide all the production needed in the third
quarter. The world will require an additional 1.9 million
barrels a day of crude from OPEC in the period, analysts led by
 Lawrence Eagles  in New York, wrote in a report today.  Disagreement at this week’s meeting was heightened by the
wave of uprisings across the  Middle East  and North Africa. Saudi
Arabia has criticized Iranian support for Shiite Muslim protests
in the kingdom’s neighbor, Bahrain. Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates are contributing aircraft to NATO’s campaign against
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  