-- 
Saudis Said to Assess Oil Demand Before Decision on Amount of Output Boost

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i ,   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-10T15:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/saudis-are-said-to-assess-oil-demand-before-decision-on-production-boost.html
Saudi Arabia  will increase oil
production, though it is too early to say by how much, according
to a Saudi industry official with knowledge of the matter.  The country, the world’s biggest crude producer, is still
assessing demand, the person said, declining to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak for the government. Al-
Hayat newspaper said earlier today that Saudi Arabia will boost
output to 10 million barrels a day in July from 8.8 million now.
It cited senior OPEC and industry officials.  “They are headed to 10 million barrels per day this month
and through next month,” Bill Farren-Price, chief executive
officer at Petroleum Policy Intelligence, a Winchester, England-
based researcher, said today by telephone.  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries failed two days ago in Vienna to agree on production
levels in what Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said was “one of
the worst meetings” he had attended. Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait ,
Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  proposed a 1.5 million
barrel-a-day increase in output targets.  Libya , Angola, Ecuador,
Algeria, Iran and Venezuela opposed the move, al-Naimi said.  Crude fell as much 3.1 percent to $98.79 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  today following the Al-Hayat
report. It rose to more than $100 a barrel after the collapse of
the OPEC meeting.  `Tightening' Market  OPEC in a monthly report released today forecast a
“tightening” oil market as demand for its crude rises. Output
from Saudi Arabia rose to 8.86 million last month, the most
since 2008 and up from 8.8 million in April, according to the
group’s Vienna-based secretariat.  Saudi Arabia is “committed to supplying the needs of the
market regardless of the disagreement,” Naimi said June 8.  The country “wants everyone to understand that they’re
serious” about supplying more oil,  Olivier Jakob , an analyst at
Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,  Switzerland , said today by phone.
“It’s important that the Saudis are signaling that they’re
offering additional barrels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Cairo at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  