-- 
Schaeuble Pushes Greek Bondholder Haircuts

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-06-10T10:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/schaeuble-insists-the-private-sector-share-greek-aid-in-clash-with-ecb.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  stepped up his calls for bondholders to assume a
“fair” share of further Greek aid, setting Europe’s biggest
economy on a collision course with the European Central Bank.  In a speech to parliament in Berlin evoking the spirit of
German unity and European integration, Schaeuble appealed to
lawmakers to back a second bailout for  Greece  to ensure a stable
euro and bolster the global economy. In return, “we have to
insist on the participation of the private sector,” he said.
Lawmakers later backed a nonbinding motion allowing Greek aid.  “I have proposed a fair distribution of risks between tax
payers and private creditors for the phase of gaining time,”
Schaeuble said in his speech to the lower house today. “We
pointed out as early as last year that in the future mechanism
for the solution of debt crises in euro states a participation
of private creditors in cases of insolvency is indispensable.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is refusing to back
down in the face of an escalating clash with ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet, who rejected any direct ECB participation in a
second Greek bailout yesterday. Euro governments are scrambling
to forge a plan by a June 24 European Union summit to avert
Greece becoming the currency area’s first sovereign default.  Greek, Irish and Spanish benchmark bonds slumped after
Schaeuble’s speech.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield rose 16 basis
points to a record 10.45 percent at 10:01 a.m. in  London , while
Greece’s 10-year yield rose 11 basis points to 16.77 percent.
The euro declined 0.37 percent to $1.4474.  Default Warning  Credit analysts at Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have indicated in the past week that
pressure on private investors to participate under the threat of
a Greek bankruptcy would prompt a default rating on Greek debt.  Euro-area finance ministers agreed on a conference call
this week to establish a working group with the  International
Monetary Fund , the ECB and the European Commission “to sound
out the thin line between a meaningful involvement of the
private sector and the avoidance of negative financial market
reaction,” Schaeuble said.  In a June 6 letter addressed to Trichet, the IMF’s acting
chief,  John Lipsky , and fellow euro finance ministers, Schaeuble
said maturities on Greek bonds should be extended by seven years
to give the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its economy.  ‘Clear Mandate’  Any agreement on aid at a June 20 finance ministers’
meeting “has to include a clear mandate -- given to Greece
possibly together with the IMF -- to initiate the process of
involving holders of Greek bonds,” Schaeuble wrote.  Trichet warned against that approach yesterday, saying any
solution forcing private-sector involvement amounts to a
“ credit event ” and would be an “enormous mistake” for the
euro region.  “We’re taking skeptical voices and warnings from the
 European Central Bank  on the involvement of the private sector
seriously,” Schaeuble said. The working group set up this week
is charged with “finding a good solution for the involvement of
the private sector that can and has to be supported by the
European Central Bank.”  Schaeuble acknowledged the need to win over the German
public to more aid for Greece, saying that  Germany ’s export-
dependent economy is “drawing the biggest advantage” from the
euro, bringing with it responsibility for Europe and the world.  Berlin Wall   Evoking the building of the Berlin Wall 50 years ago in
August and reunification of East and  West Germany  in 1990,
Schaeuble said that bolstering European integration “is the
best guarantee we can deliver” for the future. “We have a
responsibility to  Europe  to show leadership,” he said.  Lawmakers voted in favor of a nonbinding motion from the
ruling parties to allow Greek aid. Eight conditions were
specified that are intended to guide Merkel as she negotiates
with her European counterparts.  The German parliament demands that the government “only
agrees to new financial help for Greece if there is an adequate
participation of private creditors,” the motion said. It calls
for parliament to be consulted on any future aid and urges added
pressure on Greece to sell assets, boost economic growth, cut
spending further and subject its economy to regular scrutiny.  The motion won’t hinder international efforts to agree on a
second aid package, Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert,
told reporters after the vote. Merkel’s government “feels
supported in the task to go to European institutions and fight
for what the motion says,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  