-- 
SEC Will Delay Some Dodd-Frank Swaps Measures as Regulators Take Comments

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-10T18:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/sec-will-delay-some-dodd-frank-swaps-measures-as-regulators-take-comments.html
The U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  will delay some Dodd-Frank Act derivatives measures
scheduled to take effect in July, giving regulators more time to
finish rules for the $601 trillion market.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last
year, set a mid-July deadline for measures designed to improve
transparency and reduce risk in the over-the-counter swaps
market. The SEC and the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  are
continuing to seek comment on rules, and have said they would
miss the scheduled completion date for some measures.  Swap users could face a “black hole” in the market if
regulators don’t explain which provisions take effect without
rules being finished, Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican,
said yesterday in a Bloomberg News interview. Dodd-Frank imposed
the first rules for the swaps market, which had gone largely
unregulated since its inception more than 30 years ago.  The SEC will publish guidance on which rules take effect on
July 16 and will provide “temporary relief” from some
provisions, the agency said today in a statement. The CFTC has
set a June 14 meeting to weigh effective dates for its rules.  The CFTC, which will oversee all but security-based swaps,
has “ample latitude” under the law to determine when the
provisions take effect, Chairman  Gary Gensler  said on June 2.  Once the SEC has proposed all of its derivatives rules, it
will publish a plan for when they will be implemented, according
to the statement released today. CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia 
has sought a similar implementation plan for his agency.  Registration Requirements  Separately today, the SEC proposed a rule that would exempt
security-based swaps from registration requirements when they’re
issued by clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers.
Registration of derivatives such as credit-default swaps could
“unnecessarily impede” use of clearinghouses meant to reduce
risk, the SEC said in the  proposal , which was released for
public comment.  “No one would transact in them because of the cost
involved in getting a registration statement together,”  Donald
N. Lamson , counsel at Shearman & Sterling, LLP in  Washington ,
said today in an interview. “It’s a commonsense approach.”  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events like changes in  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  