-- 
Wall Street Getting First Word on Research Nothing New as Sino-Forest Fell

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-10T20:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/selling-peeks-at-research-nothing-new-as-sino-forest-shares-hold-under-c-6.html
The assertion that a short seller
offered to sell market-moving research to other traders before
making it public is failing to sway investors after the biggest
plunge in the history of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)   Carson Block, whose analysis of Sino-Forest was published
before the shares lost 72 percent in Canadian trading, made the
offer to investors before releasing the report on his website,
according to Dundee Securities Ltd. analyst Richard Kelertas,
who didn’t say how he got the information. Block, founder of
Muddy Waters Research, declined to comment.  Scrutiny of the people who are betting against Chinese
companies is increasing after short interest in the shares
reached a record. Lawyers, analysts and investors said selling
the research is usually legal and while the practice may hint at
manipulation, it’s also a sign an analyst is confident enough to
make himself accountable to others.  “You have to recognize that firms like Muddy Waters aren’t
doing this research as a public service,” said  Paul Hickey , co-
founder of Bespoke Investment Group, a Harrison, New York-based
research firm. “As long as they didn’t have any inside
knowledge, it wouldn’t appear that they did anything wrong.
While it seems like a sleazy move at first glance, in principle
it’s no different than what most any other firms do.”  Probably Short  Block, 35, says in reports on his  website  that he has
clients and that his analytical services are available “on an
engagement basis.” The firm’s members, employees and
consultants are probably short stocks mentioned in his research,
according to a disclaimer in his reports. He declined to say who
receives his services or how much money he stands to make from
any investment or report.  “It has been a consistent policy since day one that  Muddy
Waters  does not comment on its revenue model beyond the contents
of the disclaimer it places on the cover page of its reports,”
he wrote in an e-mailed on June 8. His firm isn’t registered
under Canadian  securities law .  The June 2  analysis  said public disclosures by Sino-Forest,
a tree plantations operator based in  Hong Kong  and Mississauga,
Ontario, don’t match Chinese city records and that its
production figures may not be accurate. The stock fell to C$5.23
from C$18.21 in the two days after the statements were
publicized.  “The allegations contained in this report are inaccurate
and unfounded,” Allen Chan, Sino-Forest’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “Muddy Waters’ shock-jock
approach is transparently self-interested and we look forward to
providing our investors and other stakeholders with additional
information to rebut these allegations.”  Timber Holdings  RBC Capital Markets analysts said today that the company
has more extensive timber holdings than claimed in the Muddy
Waters report and may not have been subject to harvest limits
alluded to in the document. Analysts Paul Quinn and Hamir Patel
maintained an “outperform” rating on the stock in a note.  Kelertas, the Montreal-based analyst for Dundee who had
rated the stock a “buy,” said in a June 7 conference call that
the Muddy Waters report is inaccurate and there’s nothing
fraudulent about Sino-Forest. Dundee helped Sino-Forest raise
money in a stock offering as recently as December 2009, and
Kelertas recommended buying the shares from September 2007 until
June 3, when he put his rating under review. He didn’t return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment yesterday.  “I can’t say whether the way Block is doing this thing is
kosher or not, but it seems to me that he has thought a lot
about this,” said Steven Persky of Dalton Investments LLC, a
Los Angeles-based fund with $1.3 billion in assets. “He states
up front that they have a short position, so you know what their
bias is, but it also looks like he has done a massive amount of
research and has enormous conviction.”  Record Shorting  Short selling, the sale of borrowed shares with the hope of
profiting when they fall, more than doubled to a record 35
percent of Sino-Forest’s outstanding stock as of June 2,
according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm. The
figure started climbing four weeks earlier, from 17 percent on
May 2. Sino-Forest is the most-shorted stock in the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  Sino-Forest shares dropped 21 percent to C$14.46 on June 2,
the day the Muddy Waters report came out. They had traded at an
average of C$22.32 in 2011, Bloomberg data show. The stock
plunged 64 percent on June 3 as the company said it would
establish a committee of independent directors to examine the
accusations. Since the report, the company has lost C$3.21
billion ($3.3 billion) in market value, and the shares are
trading near the lowest level since 2006.  Five Stocks Targeted  They slipped 13 percent to C$4.50 at 4:36 p.m. in Toronto.  Muddy Waters has published analyses of  five companies  since
Block started releasing reports last year. Each has declined,
wiping out almost $4.5 billion in market value through
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Block’s firm said on Feb. 3 that it was betting against
 China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME) , a provider of advertising on
buses in China whose stock has since been delisted from the
Nasdaq Stock Market. By the day before he released the report,
short interest on the Hong Kong-based company had more than
tripled to 11 percent of outstanding shares, from 3.6 percent at
the beginning of December, according to Data Explorers. Short
interest didn’t rise before Block analyzed the three other
companies.  Short interest on the Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers
Index of U.S.-listed stocks rose to a record 6.3 percent of
shares outstanding on May 17, according to data going back to
January 2010. Bearish bets against the index were at 5.8 percent
as of June 7, up from 3.4 percent at the end 2010.  Raising Questions  Block’s combination of selling research and investing in
the stocks he reports on before publicizing his stance raises
questions about his motivation, said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer at Solaris Asset Management, which manages $2
billion.  “There are definitely reports out there from all sorts of
firms trying to gain a leg up by doing things like this,” said
 Bedford Hills , New York-based Ghriskey. “I would hope that that
kind of marketing wouldn’t be permitted.”  Muddy Waters could conceivably face regulatory review under
rules designed to protect investors from harm, according to
Philip Anisman, a Toronto-based securities lawyer. Anisman has
been an attorney for more than three decades and helped draft
insider-trading legislation.  “There’s an issue that could be raised as to whether a
securities professional who intends to make the information
public and pre-sells it is acting inconsistent with the public
interest,” he said. “Securities commissions in  Canada  have a
general discretion to discipline market participants when they
act contrary to the public interest, to bar them from trading.
It’s not necessarily based on a violation of law.”  No Office  Block, who says he doesn’t keep a permanent office, is “an
entrepreneur who’s practiced law and pioneered an industry in
 China ,” according to the Muddy Waters website. The company
specializes in what it says are under-researched Chinese
companies and is “available to work with institutional
investors on an engagement basis,” the website says.  Block said he passed his broker’s license exam at 19 and
received a degree in business administration from the University
of  Southern California  in 1998. He went on to attend Chicago-
Kent College of Law and ended up founding Love Box Self Storage
in  Shanghai .  “There are plenty of research firms out there that their
business model is to sell the material to the highest bidder
first and then roll out, shall we say, delayed quotes to other
people,” said James Angel, a professor at  Georgetown University 
in  Washington . “These guys seem like classic short sellers in
that they do their research, they make their bets, and once
they’ve made them, they trumpet them far and wide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  