-- 
South Africa’s Manuel Says He Won’t Stand as Candidate for Head of IMF

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-06-10T12:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/south-africa-s-manuel-says-he-won-t-stand-as-candidate-for-head-of-imf.html
South Africa ’s former finance
minister Trevor Manuel said he won’t stand as a candidate for
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund  as a
deadline for nominations closed today.  “I’m not available” for the position, Manuel told
reporters in Johannesburg today. “I haven’t thrown my hat in
the ring.”  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , who has the
backing of European Union nations, is the top candidate to take
over from Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned last month to
fight a charge of attempted rape in  New York . South Africa,
which has lobbied for a non-European to head the fund, failed to
win support from other emerging market countries for a joint
candidate.  “More could have been done and more should have been
done” by developing countries, Manuel said. “It would be most
unfortunate if we ended up with a European who is bound by EU
decisions about what to do,” given the credit crisis in  Greece ,
Portugal and Ireland.  Lagarde is in Lisbon today, holding talks with African
finance ministers and central bank governors attending the
annual meeting of the African Development Bank. She visited
 China , Brazil and  India  since last month to lobby support.  Morocco Support  Morocco backs Lagarde for the IMF job, Finance Minister
Salaheddine Mezouar said in an interview in Lisbon today. She is
the “best candidate with the best profile,” he said.  “There clearly is a contradiction between an economy that
is as globalized as the one that we live in now and institutions
that are still premised on the events of 1944, when decisions
about them were taken,” Manuel said.  Manuel, 55, earned plaudits from financial leaders around
the globe for his handling of the economy. As finance minister
for 13 years prior to heading the country’s National Planning
Commission from May 2009, Manuel brought the budget into a
surplus and introduced inflation targeting.  “Christine and I are friends, we get on amazingly well,”
Manuel said. “She’s very competent, she’s very charming. But
let’s depersonalize this issue.”  Lagarde is due to visit  Saudi Arabia  tomorrow and Egypt the
following day.  Egypt’s government has yet to take an official position on
who it will back as head of the IMF, said Gouda Abdel Khaleq,
the minister for social justice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Lisbon at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  