-- 
South Korean Won Extends Gain, Bonds Decline After Interest-Rate Increase

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-06-10T06:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/south-korean-won-extends-gain-bonds-decline-after-interest-rate-increase.html
South Korea ’s bonds declined, with
the yield rising the most in almost three months, after the
central bank raised  interest rates  for the third time this year
to rein in inflation.  Governor Kim Choong Soo boosted the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent, following
quarter-percent increases in January and March, the central bank
said in a statement in Seoul today. Eight of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the decision with the rest
having forecast no change.  “The move today is a clear message authorities are
determined to keep prices under control,” said Choi Seok Won,
head of research at Hanwha Securities Co. in Seoul. “Today’s
decision is likely to weigh on the bond and stock markets, while
remaining supportive for the currency.”  The yield five-year government bonds, notes due March 2016,
climbed 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point to 3.95
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The gain
in the yield was the biggest since March 16.  The won rose 0.03 percent to 1,082.65 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul  and fell 0.2 percent this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Kospi stock index fell for a
seventh day, bringing this week’s decline to 3.2 percent, most
since February.  The  Bank of Korea  said consumer prices are likely to
sustain a “strong” upward trend as economic growth drives
demand-side pressure and  oil prices  are high. The South Korean
economy appears to be on a “solid” growth track amid strong
exports, the central bank said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  