-- 
Spain Arrests Three Over ‘Anonymous’ Group’s Cyber-Attacks

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-06-10T21:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/spain-arrest-three-for-cyber-attacks-on-governments-companies.html
Spanish police arrested three
suspected members of the online hacking group Anonymous, which
has taken credit for carrying out cyber-attacks on governments
and companies including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and MasterCard Inc.  Anonymous hacked the websites of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, and  Enel SpA (ENEL) , the
Italian owner of Spanish power company Endesa, police said in a
statement in Madrid today. The arrests follow similar actions
against Anonymous in the U.S. and U.K. in December and January.  As part of Spain’s probe of the group, authorities had to
overcome “complicated security measures taken by its members to
protect its anonymity,” according to the police statement.
Anonymous previously hacked the websites of the governments of
Iran, Egypt, Libya and Algeria, police said.  Anonymous, composed of hundreds of hackers and activists in
several countries, gained attention in December when it targeted
EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit,  Visa Inc. (V)  and other companies deemed
hostile to WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that published
leaked U.S. military documents and diplomatic communications on
its website.  The arrests will have “little overall impact” in slowing
the group’s activities because many of the accused hackers are
minors and are widely dispersed geographically, said  John
D’Arcy , an assistant professor of information-technology
management at the University of  Notre Dame .  ‘A Couple of Regional People’  Barrett Brown, an unofficial spokesman for Anonymous, said
the three people arrested were not part of the core leadership
or among the members of the group who are skilled at hacking
networks.  “They weren’t anybody major,” he said.  Brown said that while he still speaks to the media on
behalf of Anonymous, he has reduced his participation after
recent infighting among the group’s members.  “They captured a couple of regional people who were
involved in Anonymous and got a server,” Brown said, referring
to a computer used in cyber attacks against government websites
that the Spanish policed seized in one of the suspects’ homes.
“It’s not a server anyone is going to miss,” he said.  Spanish police since October have analyzed more than 2
million chat registration lines and Web pages used by the hacker
group before reaching its leadership in  Spain , according to the
statement. The arrests were made in Barcelona, Valencia and
Almeria, it said.  After local Spanish elections on May 22, the group attacked
the websites of the country’s Congress, as well as the workers
union UGT and police in Catalonia.  The hacking group in April said it would wage a cyber war
against Tokyo-based Sony for trying to stop people from
tinkering with the PlayStation 3. Sony Chairman Howard Stringer
last month apologized to customers after more than 100 million
user accounts were compromised and said Anonymous had attacked
the websites of several Sony divisions.  Computers, Phones  A federal grand jury in  San Jose ,  California , in February
considered evidence collected by the FBI about Anonymous,
including computers and mobile phones seized from suspected
leaders as prosecutors probe the attacks.  London police  in January arrested five males, including
three teenagers, as part of a probe of corporate cyber attacks
related to WikiLeaks. Hours later in the U.S., agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  executed 40 search warrants in a
similar investigation.  The U.K. probe of so-called denial of service attacks was
carried out in cooperation with  law enforcement  in  Europe  and
the U.S., London police said at the time. The attacks require
“minimal knowledge” and consist of “exhausting the resources
of a computer,” London police said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  