-- 
Spain Cabinet Passes Wage-Bargaining Bill That Business Rejects

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-10T14:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/spain-cabinet-passes-wage-bargaining-bill-that-business-rejects.html
Spain ’s Cabinet approved changes to
collective wage-bargaining rules that the country’s main
employers’ group has said don’t go far enough to tackle the
highest jobless rate in  Europe .  The decree gives greater prominence to deals agreed within
companies than those at a provincial level, Labor Minister
Valeriano Gomez told a news conference after the Cabinet met in
Madrid today. It also stops expired wage agreements being
indefinitely rolled over in the absence of new deals, he said.  Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
pledged he would change wage rules criticized by the European
Central Bank as part of his efforts to shield Spain from the
sovereign debt crisis. The country’s main business group, the
CEOE, found fault with a draft of the bill, saying June 8 it was
“disappointing” and didn’t reflect employers’ proposals.  The legislation “goes in the right direction but it’s a
baby step,” Juan Jose Dolado, a professor at Carlos III
University in  Madrid  who specializes in labor issues, said in a
telephone interview. “With something that hasn’t changed in 30
years and the disaster we’re in, it has to be changed quite
radically and this doesn’t do that.”  The Socialist Party, which suffered its worst local-
election defeats in three decades on May 22, is weakened by the
approach of a general election in nine months that polls suggest
it will lose. Zapatero risks failing to convince investors he
can bring down unemployment and spur enough growth to bring down
the euro region’s third-largest deficit, prompting Spain’s
borrowing costs to rise further.  Debt Premium  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish
debt rather than German equivalents surged to 248 basis points
today from 241 basis points yesterday. That is more than 10
times the average in the first decade of monetary union.  CEOE Chairman Juan Rosell said on June 8 the plan is
“unbalanced” and that he plans to make proposals to lawmakers
on amendments as it goes through parliament. The legislation,
which the government drafted after talks between unions and
employers broke down, probably won’t get through parliament
before September, he forecast.  “Flexibility is the most important issue for us and less
progress has been made than we thought,” Rosell told reporters.  The  European Central Bank  and European Commission have
called on Spain to change  labor laws  that allowed wage costs to
rise as much as 4 percent a year during the recession. In a
report on June 7, the commission said existing agreements
prevent the “flexibility needed to speed up economic adjustment
and restore competitiveness.” ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said on April 26 that Spanish wage-
indexation rules that link salaries to inflation are “hard to
explain without blushing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  