-- 
Spielberg Protege Makes Zombie Flick; Judy’s Cool Summer: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/spielberg-protege-makes-zombie-flick-judy-s-cool-summer-film.html
As a 15-year-old filmmaking prodigy,
 J.J. Abrams  helped edit 8mm home movies that  Steven Spielberg 
shot as a kid. Now they’re reuniting for -- surprise -- a film
about a group of kids making a home movie.  “ Super 8 ” is written and directed by Abrams and co-
produced by Spielberg, whose influence on his protege is evident
in almost every frame.  They share a fondness for small-town settings, aliens, cute
children, starry skies, eerie lighting and dazzling special
effects, all of which are on display in the film.  Abrams, co-creator of TV’s “Lost” and director of
“Mission Impossible III” and “ Star Trek ,” has obviously
learned a lot from Spielberg. Like most students, though, he’s
not as skilled as the master.  “Super 8,” named for the kind of film the youngsters use,
is clever and eye-catching. It’s also imitative and repetitive.
It’s a good popcorn movie, but hardly merits the huge buildup
it’s been getting.  The story takes place in an Ohio steel town in 1979, where
chubby budding director Charles (Riley Griffiths) enlists
schoolmates Joe (Joel Courtney), Martin (Gabriel Basso), Cary
(Ryan Lee), Preston (Zach Mills) and Alice (Elle Fanning) to
make a zombie movie.  Train Wreck  While shooting a scene next to the railroad tracks, they
witness a horrific train crash and find their science teacher,
Dr. Woodward (Glynn Turman), bleeding profusely at the wheel of
his pickup. He warns the kids that if they say anything about
the accident, their lives will be in danger.  Joe’s widower dad, a local deputy sheriff played by Kyle
Chandler, tries to investigate but is blocked by an Air Force
colonel (Noah Emmerich) whose forces take over the town.
Meanwhile, dogs start to disappear, power outages spread and
there are reports of attacks that may be connected to mysterious
white cubes found at the train accident site.  To say much more would spoil the suspense. However, I would
advise you to stick around for the credits, which feature
amusing highlights of the home movie.  As in most early Spielberg films, acting is secondary to
action and atmosphere. But Courtney and Fanning, Dakota’s
younger sister, stand out in the youth ensemble and Ron Eldard,
who plays Fanning’s guilt-ridden single dad, is the most notable
adult.  “Super 8,” from  Paramount Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Judy Moody’  “ Judy Moody and the Not Bummer Summer ” chronicles the
adventures of a spirited third-grader whose pursuit of a “mega-
cool” vacation includes trying to find Bigfoot, watching a
horror movie and tightrope-walking across a creek.  It’s a cartoonish version of Megan McDonald’s best-selling
book series that’s strictly for little kids who will be amused
by Judy’s hyperbolic descriptions and slapstick exploits.  After one of her best friends leaves for circus camp and
another heads to Borneo for the summer, Judy’s parents go to
 California  and leave her home with her annoying little brother
Stink (Parris Mosteller) and their screwball Aunt Opal (Heather Graham).  Judy (Jordana Beatty) sets up a competition with her
friends to compile “thrill points” for exciting activities.
That’s pretty much it for the plot. The rest of John Schultz’s
movie is a series of escapades, some of which involve a roller-
coaster, an ice-cream truck and an elephant head.  “Judy Moody and the Not Bummer Summer,” from Relativity
Media, is playing across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 