-- 
Stark Sees No Need for Private-Sector Involvement in Greek Aid

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-10T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/stark-sees-no-need-for-private-sector-involvement-in-greek-aid.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark called on governments to end a
“fruitless” discussion about Greek debt restructuring and said
private-sector involvement is not needed to solve the crisis.  “With a strong commitment from Greek authorities, I think
there’s no need for private-sector involvement,” Stark told
reporters in  Frankfurt  today. “The ECB is not against
involvement of the private sector but conditions have to be
clear: The involvement of the private sector has to be purely
voluntary and not create a default. It’s time to stop this
fruitless discussion.”  European Union leaders are pushing for private investors to
share the burden of financing a second rescue package for
 Greece , which remains shut out of financial markets a year after
its 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet yesterday reiterated his opposition to any
solution forcing private-sector participation, saying it amounts
to a “ credit event ” and would be an “enormous mistake.”  “What’s key for us is to protect our independence and our
integrity and that the no-bailout clause is respected,” Stark
said. “All this discussion about private-sector involvement
distracts so many resources from implementing the program that
it’s no surprise that it “seems to be an easy way out,” he
added. “It’s not very likely that a substantial involvement of
the private sector will happen.”  Clash With Germany  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has proposed
extending Greek debt maturities by seven years to give the
country more time to gain control of its finances. “We have to
insist on the participation of the private sector,” he told
German lawmakers in Berlin today.  Another proposal gaining favor among European Union
officials would ask investors to buy Greek bonds to replace
maturing debt. Credit-rating companies have indicated that an
extension of debt maturities or a rollover would probably be
deemed a default.  “One should think twice about the idea of private-sector
involvement,” Stark said. “It’s pretty clear in the case of a
credit event first and in the case of a selective default, a
rating event, this prevents us from continuing to accept Greek
bonds as eligible bonds. For this reason policy makers should
know what they’re talking about.”  Stark said the bank lends to financial institutions against
eligible collateral and has a prudently designed framework.  Germany ’s Spiegel magazine reported on May 23 that the
ECB’s laxness in vetting asset-backed securities submitted as
collateral in peripheral European countries masks risks on its
balance sheet that may amount to as much as several hundred
billion euros.  “The statement made in public that huge amounts of low-
quality ABS have been” pledged to the ECB “is simply wrong,”
Stark said. “Only 44 billion euros has been originated in
Ireland and currently no ABS have been originated in Greece. The
ABS originated in Ireland provide euro-system borrowing of
around 10 billion euros.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at  smeier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  