-- 
Strategic CEO Says He Can Refinance as Banks Return to Lending

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-06-10T17:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/strategic-hotels-can-rework-its-debt-as-banks-return-to-lending-ceo-says.html
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE)  will
be able to rework or replace five loans approaching maturity as
financial institutions regain their eagerness to lend to lodging
owners, Chief Executive Officer Laurence Geller said.  “Provided your properties are in good physical condition
and have good  cash flow , you have many choices between lenders
today, whereas six months ago there were basically none,”
Geller said in a telephone interview today.  Strategic, based in Chicago, today said it amended and
extended debt on the luxury Fairmont Scottsdale Princess hotel
in  Arizona  after forming a joint venture with an affiliate of
real estate investor Walton Street Capital LLC. A recovery in
hotel occupancies and room rates is boosting lender confidence
and will allow the real estate investment trust to recapitalize
other properties, Geller said.  “Our experience has been we can choose between a bank,
insurance company or CMBS debt to refinance our loans,” said
Geller, referring to commercial mortgage-backed securities. “We
have received multiple bids on our debt.”  Strategic has $121 million of debt on its InterContinental
 Chicago  and $90 million on the InterContinental Miami coming due
in October 2011, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The REIT also
has loans of $118.3 million on the Loews Santa Monica Beach
Hotel and $76.5 million on the Ritz-Carlton Half Moon Bay
maturing in March 2012, and $97.5 million of debt on the Hyatt
Regency La Jolla coming due in September 2012. All three hotels
are in California.  The REIT is seeking to eventually have 100 percent
ownership of the properties, some of which it co-owns with
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., Geller said.  Hotel del Coronado  In February, Strategic restructured debt on its Hotel del
Coronado after  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy a majority
stake in the Southern  California  resort, which was the backdrop
of the film “Some Like It Hot.”  The reworking of the Scottsdale hotel loans included $47
million in payments by the Fairmont-Walton Street joint venture
to cut total debt to $133 million. The maturity of the remaining
CMBS portion was extended to Dec. 31, 2013, with an option for
another extension through April 9, 2015.  “We are encouraged that Strategic found a positive outcome
for the property and believe management continues to deserve
significant credit for doing all the right things in terms of
acquisitions and balance sheet initiatives,” Joseph Greff, a
New York-based analyst at JPMorgan, said in a note today.  Hotel occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets rose to 63
percent in the first quarter from 60 percent a year earlier,
according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,
 Tennessee . Revenue per available room, a measure of rates and
occupancy used by hoteliers, climbed 9.8 percent to $74.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  