-- 
Sudanese MiGs Bomb Border State of Southern Kordofan, United Nations Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-06-10T23:30:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/sudanese-jets-bomb-southern-forces-as-up-to-40-000-people-flee-un-says.html
Sudanese government MiG-29 fighter
jets and Antonov planes bombed units of Southern Sudan’s armed
forces as fighting in the north’s sole oil-producing state
entered its sixth day yesterday, the  United Nations  said.  As many as 40,000 of the estimated 60,000 people in
Kadugli, the Southern Kordofan state capital, have fled their
homes, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. It reported
looting, including of UN and aid agency properties, in Kadugli,
which the government says it controls.  “The military build-up is continuing in Kadugli and other
parts of Southern Kordofan,” UN spokesman Kouider Zerrouk said
yesterday by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. “We urge the
parties to end hostilities and to find a political solution.”  Clashes along the border have raised concern about a
resumption of the two-decade civil war that ended with a 2005
 peace agreement . While the two sides are still negotiating the
border, President Umar al-Bashir’s forces occupied the disputed
region of Abyei on May 21 and stepped up their attacks on what
it describes as rebels in Southern Kordofan.  Northern Sudanese Armed Forces and northern-allied militias
were engaged in “widespread abuses” in the state, as they
“carried out house-to-house searches and set up checkpoints,
where they stopped civilians trying to flee the violence and
killed some of them,”  Human Rights Watch  said today, citing
witnesses.  The forces were targeting civilians suspected of being
members in Southern Sudan’s ruling party, the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, the rights group said.  Oil-Rich States  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in  Southern Sudan , which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels of
oil at independence. The crude is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state pumps about 115,000 barrels per day, according to
Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled’s phone was
switched off when he was contacted for comment.  Under the peace agreement, the northern and southern armies
were due to jointly patrol Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile
states on the northern side of the border and Abyei. All three
areas were battlegrounds during the civil war.  The clashes in Southern Kordofan pit northern fighters who
served with the southern rebels during the civil war, mainly
from the Nuba ethnic group, against the Sudanese army, according
to Southern  Sudan ’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer.  Military Base  The June 9 bombing of a village in the southern state of
Unity may have been because some of the Southern Sudanese army
fighters at a military base there are from Southern Kordofan,
Aguer said yesterday by phone from Juba.  “They may think some support is coming from there and that
is why they are targeting it,” he said.  The former deputy governor of Southern Kordofan, Abdel-Aziz
Adam Al-Hilu, called on “all marginalized people” in northern
Sudan to struggle to topple al-Bashir’s government.  “The people want to topple the regime to achieve radical
change in the center to remove all forms of marginalization,”
Al-Hilu said in a statement on June 9. “Be it by armed
struggle, popular uprising, civil disobedience, strikes or
protests,” he said.  Al-Hilu lost the election for governor in May to Ahmed Haroun, who is wanted by the  International Criminal Court  over
allegations he was involved in  war crimes  in the Sudanese
western region of Darfur.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Richmond in Juba at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 