-- 
Swiss in Talks With U.S. on Untaxed Assets, Official Says

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-10T20:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/switzerland-in-talks-with-u-s-on-untaxed-assets-official-says.html
Switzerland  is in talks with the
U.S. to resolve the issue of untaxed assets held by U.S.
citizens in Swiss bank accounts, a government official said.  “We are in talks with the U.S. regarding fiscal problems
in the past,” Mario Tuor, a spokesman for the  State Secretariat 
for International Financial Matters in the Swiss capital, Bern,
told Bloomberg News by telephone.  Tuor declined to comment on a Reuters report that said the
current talks are about an agreement that would let several
Swiss and European banks join a settlement and avoid potential
U.S. prosecution for helping wealthy Americans evade taxes.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service and the  Justice
Department  have stepped up enforcement to combat offshore  tax
evasion .  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank by assets, was
charged in February 2009 with helping U.S. citizens evade taxes.
The bank avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting
that it fostered tax evasion, and agreeing to give the IRS data
on more than 250 accounts. UBS later handed over data on an
additional 4,450 accounts to resolve a lawsuit.  Under the new potential agreement, the Swiss banks would
pay a fine, no longer handle undeclared offshore banking
business for Americans, and turn over client names to
authorities, Reuters said, citing unidentified officials briefed
on the matter. The report said it couldn’t identify which banks
were involved.  ‘Creative Approach’  “The idea of a global settlement is a creative approach,”
 Scott Michel , a tax attorney with Caplin & Drysdale in
 Washington , said in an interview. “It would make sense for the
U.S. to now be able to devote investigative resources to other
parts of the world. It would make sense for the Swiss to obtain
peace on this issue.”  Since 2007, when the investigations into offshore tax
evasion began, the U.S. has charged at least two dozen UBS
clients with tax crimes, along with four UBS bankers, three
clients of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , and four other alleged offshore
enablers.  In February, four Europe-based bankers at  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS)  were indicted in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia,
accused of conspiring to help U.S. clients evade taxes. The
bankers haven’t appeared in court.  The U.S. filed a civil action in April against London-based
HSBC, the largest European bank by assets, seeking information
about U.S. citizens who may have banked in  India  to hide
accounts from the IRS.  Voluntary Disclosure  From March to October 2009, 15,000 taxpayers came forward
under the IRS’s voluntary disclosure program. After October
2009, about 4,000 more joined. To avoid prosecution, the
taxpayers had to disclose their offshore accounts, bankers and
advisers, as well as describe how they moved their money.  IRS agents have mined that data to investigate banks,
bankers, intermediaries and taxpayers, IRS Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman said in a May 18 speech. Prosecutors have interviewed
more than 200 taxpayers about the people who handled their
accounts.  Lawyers for some of the people questioned said prosecutors
and IRS investigators have asked about their dealings with
Credit Suisse, HSBC, the Swiss bank Julius Baer Group and Swiss
regional banks such as  Basler Kantonalbank. (BSKP)   “The major issue for resolution would be what type of
disclosure of account holders would be entailed,” Michel said.
“I can imagine a framework that prompts a large number of
account holders to initiate voluntary disclosures or potentially
face closure of their accounts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Vienna at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  