-- 
Syrian Women, Children Flee to Turkish Camps as Army Escalates Crackdown

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-06-10T08:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/syrians-send-women-children-to-turkish-refugee-camp-as-violence-increases.html
Minibuses carrying refugees from the
conflict in Syria arrived at a camp in southeast Turkey as Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , an ally of Syria’s rulers,
pledged to keep the border open.  Two vehicles full of women and children, their faces
pressed to the windows, entered the camp at a tobacco warehouse
in the town of Yayladagi late yesterday. Minutes later, a pair
of ambulances sped toward a hospital in the nearest city,
Antakya. Reporters were told that entrance to the camp was
forbidden by the local governor, and military police also
blocked roads leading to the town of Karbeyaz, an informal
crossing point for Syrians fleeing the town of Jisr al-Shughour.  Erdogan has expressed support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad -- the two leaders have vacationed together -- while
urging him to enact democratic reforms as protests spread
throughout  Syria  since mid-March. Instead, Assad ordered a
crackdown that has left more than 1,100 dead, according to local
human rights groups.  Outside another camp in the nearby town of Altinozu today,
about 200 refugees, with children in the front ranks, gathered
to shout “Down with Assad” and “Long live Erdogan.”  Turkey’s open-door policy for refugees shows it has
“started distancing itself from Assad,” said Kemal Kirisci, a
professor of international relations at Bogazici University in
Istanbul. “Turkey realized in the past few months that the
Syrian regime is not different than father Assad’s.”  Hafez al-Assad, Bashar’s father and predecessor as
president, suppressed a rebellion centered in the city of Hama
in 1982, killing about 10,000 people according to estimates
cited by  Human Rights Watch .  Restoring Order  At least 189 people have been killed in Jisr al-Shughour in
the past five days, according to the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights.  Syria’s military has begun operations to restore order in
Jisr al-Shughour, the state news agency Sana reported today. The
government says 120 members of the security forces were killed
there in an ambush by “terrorists.” Assad has blamed the anti-
government protests on Islamist militants and foreign saboteurs.  The Syrian president and many military leaders are from the
Alawite sect, with ties to Shiite Islam, while the majority of
Syrians and Turks, including Erdogan and most leaders of his
party, are Sunni.  A tent city run by the Turkish Red Crescent in Yayladagi,
located in a finger of land that juts downward into Syria, was
built in April. Since then, 2,500 Syrians have sought refuge in 
Turkey, more than 1,000 of them in the last few days, Foreign 
Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said yesterday.  Border Won’t Close  The Yayladagi camp has capacity for 10,000 people and a
third shelter has been set up in the nearby village of
Boynuyogun with room for 5,000, Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news
agency reported. Turkey is preparing to accommodate as many as 1
million Syrians, the Istanbul-based Sabah newspaper  reported
yesterday .  Journalists aren’t allowed to enter the camps because the
refugees said they didn’t want to be filmed, Selcuk Unal, a
spokesman for Turkey’s Foreign Ministry, said by phone from
Ankara today. While Turkey doesn’t want an increase in the
number of refugees, there has been no discussion of closing the
border, he said.  In an interview with Turkey’s Kral TV yesterday, Erdogan
said that he was “saddened” by the violence in Syria.  ‘Our Syrian Brothers’  “We will keep our doors open to all our Syrian brothers
taking refuge in our country,” he said. “When deaths are
getting heavy and our brothers are seeking this kind of refuge,
it would be impossible for us to close our doors.”  Erdogan has said that  Turkey  has a “special relationship”
with Syria and views events in that country “almost as domestic
affairs.” The two countries in recent years have lifted
restrictions on border crossings and trade.  On the road to Antakya, one of the Turkish ambulances blew
a tire and pulled over, and two Syrian men got out to smoke
cigarettes and wait for help. One of them was hopping, unable to
walk on his swollen left foot.  A medic from the ambulance, who declined to give her name
because authorities have forbidden press contact, said
increasing numbers of women and children have come from Syria in
recent days. Many of the men arrived seriously injured, most
with gunshot wounds to their legs and lower bodies, and at least
five were dead on arrival, she said. Their bodies were sent back
to Syria, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Yayladagi, Turkey at  bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 