-- 
Syrian Women, Children Flee to Turkish Camps as Army Escalates Crackdown

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-10T13:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/syrian-women-children-flee-to-turkish-camps-as-army-escalates-crackdown.html
Syria  said it deployed troops to
Jisr al-Shughour as residents of the northern town fled across
the border into Turkey to escape what human-rights groups say is
crackdown on anti-government protesters.  State television said troops will target gangs that
“terrorized” civilians and killed members of the security forces
and mutilated their bodies. Minibuses carrying refugees arrived
in southeastern Turkey yesterday, part of the 2,400 Syrians who
have fled the area since violence began in Jisr al-Shughour.
Turkey is preparing to accommodate as many as 1 million Syrians,
the Istanbul-based Sabah newspaper has reported.  Syria says 120 security personnel were killed in an ambush
in Jisr al-Shughour, while the opposition says they were shot by
police for refusing to fire on protesters. Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , an ally of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, has pledged to keep the border open.  “People across Syria are being tortured,” Hasan Kaplan, a
Turkish citizen with relatives in Syria, said outside the
refugee camp in the town of Altinozu. “These people have left
everything and come here to save their lives. There is no
security left.”  More than half of the almost 45,000 residents of Jisr al-
Shoghour’s have fled, Mahmoud Merhi, Damascus-based head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, said today in a telephone
interview.  Protests  Protests took place in most parts of Syria today, Mehri
said, including Busra al-Harir in the south, where four children
have been missing for a week. Two people, including a civilian
and a policeman, were killed there and three injured, he said.  In Homs, government forces fired on demonstrators, Al
Jazeera television reported, citing a witness. Protesters also
took to the streets in Halab, Salah el-Din and Daraa, it said.  International pressure is mounting on Assad to end the
clampdown on protesters calling for an end to his regime, or
step aside. The U.S. won a vote yesterday to send Syria to the
 United Nations   Security Council  over an alleged nuclear-weapon
facility destroyed by an Israeli raid in September 2007. On June
8, the U.K.,  France ,  Germany  and  Portugal  urged the  Security
Council  to adopt a resolution condemning Syria’s response to
protests.  Those measures follow sanctions levied by the U.S. and
European Union against senior Syrian officials in May after
Assad’s initial pledge to enact democratic reforms wasn’t
fulfilled. The security forces have killed more than 1,100
people since protests began in mid-March, according to local
human rights groups.  ‘Down With Assad’  Outside the refugee camp in Altinozu today, about 200
refugees, with children in the front ranks, gathered to shout
“Down with Assad” and “Long live Erdogan.”  Turkey’s open-door policy for refugees shows it has
“started distancing itself from Assad,” said Kemal Kirisci, a
professor of international relations at Bogazici University in
Istanbul. “Turkey realized in the past few months that the
Syrian regime is not different than Assad’s father.”  Hafez al-Assad, who was succeeded by his son Bashar after
this death, suppressed a rebellion centered in the city of Hama
in 1982, killing about 10,000 people, according to estimates
cited by  Human Rights Watch .  In  Abu Dhabi  yesterday, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S will continue to apply pressure on the Syrian
government to stop violence against civilian protesters.  Assad’s Promises  Russia wants the opposition to respond to Assad’s promises
of political reforms, the Kremlin’s envoy to  Africa , Mikhail Margelov told reporters in Moscow today. Syrian opposition
envoys will travel to the Russian capital for talks with
government officials “soon,” he said.  Navi Pillay, the  United Nations high commissioner for human
rights , yesterday called on Syria’s government to comply with
the UN Human Rights Council’s April 29 request for access for a
fact-finding mission. The government hasn’t responded, she said.  Increasing numbers of Syrian women and children have
arrived in  Turkey  in recent days, said a medic at the refugee
camp in Antakya, who declined to give her name because she isn’t
authorized to speak to the press. Many of the men arrived
seriously injured, most with gunshot wounds to their legs and
lower bodies, and at least five were dead on arrival, she said.
Their bodies were sent back to Syria, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 