-- 
U.K. Vegetable Prices ‘Relatively Stable’ After E. Coli

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-06-10T11:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/u-k-vegetable-prices-relatively-stable-after-e-coli-1-.html
U.K. vegetable prices have remained
“relatively stable” after an E. coli outbreak killed 31 people
and made more than 3,000 ill, Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman told Parliament today.  The price of lettuce, tomato, cucumber, sweet pepper and
courgettes grown in the U.K. have fared better than in other
countries in the European Union, Spelman told Parliament,
according to a release from the Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs.  “At retail level, prices for domestically produced salad
have remained relatively stable, although demand has declined,
with the result that more produce is being sent to the wholesale
market, which is experiencing movement in prices,” Spelman
said. “It is deeply regrettable that this outbreak has resulted
in the loss of life.”  The E. coli strain, which the European Center for Disease
Prevention and Control said has killed 31 people and sickened
3,082, is having a “disruptive economic impact” on fruit and
vegetable growers, wholesalers and retailers, Spelman said. The
outbreak also is hurting business in Hamburg,  Germany ’s
wealthiest city, as visitors cancel or delay trips.  Russia will lift its ban on vegetable imports from the EU
if a certification system is put in place, President  Dmitry
Medvedev  said today. The ban has been in place since June 2.  “One impact of the decision by the Russian Federation to
impose a ban on EU fruit and vegetable produce is that surplus
produce has been directed to alternative EU markets, including
our own,” Spelman said. “The consequence has been to depress
values in the wholesale market, with volumes down.”  Ministers and officials from the EU Fruit and Vegetables
Management Committee have discussed solutions, she said. No
plans have been implemented and talks will continue on June 14,
Spelman said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Dreibus at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net  