-- 
U.S. Urges ‘Extreme Caution’ as North Korea Opens Economic Zone With China

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-06-10T16:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/u-s-urges-extreme-caution-as-north-korea-opens-economic-zone-with-china.html
The U.S. urged other nations to use
“extreme caution and vigilance” in doing business with  North
Korea  as  China  announced it will develop joint economic zones
with the country.  “We urge transparency, extreme caution and vigilance in
any business dealings with North Korea,” said Mark Toner, a
spokesman for the State Department, in response to the reports.  North Korea announced June 6 that it would create the
Hwanggumphyong and Wihwa Islands Economic Zone to “boost
friendship with China and expand and develop external economic
relations,” North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency
said. The Chinese announcement followed yesterday.  China is North Korea’s closest ally and a source of
economic support as international sanctions against the North’s
nuclear program leave it increasingly isolated. The announcement
is the clearest sign yet that Leader  Kim Jong Il  may have won
China’s pledge for deeper economic cooperation during three
trips to China in the past year, according to analysts including
Cho Bong Hyun of the Seoul-based IBK Economic Research
Institute.  China last year accounted for 83 percent of North Korea’s
$4.2 billion of trade as global sanctions left the regime
increasingly isolated. With the development of Hwanggumphyong
and Wihwa, “economic cooperation between the two countries will
further accelerate,” Cho said in a telephone interview.  The concern for countries trying to punish North Korea for
its pursuit of nuclear weapons is that trade with China
undermines international sanctions against the regime.  Security Council Resolutions  Toner said the U.S. urges “all United Nations member
states to fully implement” Security Council resolutions that
“target North Korea’s continued involvement in proliferation,
nuclear weapons development and luxury goods procurement.”  The U.S., China,  Russia ,  Japan  and  South Korea  have
conducted talks on the North’s nuclear program in the past.
North Korea has recently expressed interest in restarting talks,
which it abandoned in 2009.  Kurt Campbell, assistant secretary of state for East Asian
and Pacific affairs, told reporters today in  Seoul  that the U.S.
had urged China to use its influence to encourage North Korea to
improve its relationship with South Korea.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  