-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Dow Heads for Longest Slump Since 2002

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-10T13:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-hewlett-packard-declines.html
U.S. stocks fell, extending the
longest weekly Dow Jones Industrial Average slump in more than
eight years, amid concern the global economy is slowing.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
paced losses in energy and raw material producers as oil and
metal prices fell.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  retreated 1.7 percent
after being downgraded at Macquarie Group Ltd.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.4 percent to
1,283.32 at 9:33 a.m. in New York. The gauge has also dropped
for six straight weeks, the longest retreat since July 2008. The
Dow fell 58.70 points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,065.66. Its last
six-week slump ended in October 2002, the start of a five-year
 bull market  for the stock market.  “People are more anxious now,” said  Mike Ryan , the New
York-based chief investment strategist for UBS Wealth Management
Americas, which oversees $761 billion. “Some people see these
economic releases as signs that perhaps the economy is going to
slip back into recession. Every time we get these economic weak
spots, people are going to react a bit more harshly to it.”  Global stocks fell today after  China  reported a less-than-
estimated $13.1 billion  trade surplus  in May, as surging imports
signaled the nation’s demand may support global growth while
adding pressure for higher  interest rates . Stocks also fell
after the Bank of  Korea  raised interest rates for a third time
this year to rein in inflation that has exceeded its target
range and curb record household debt.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. unexpectedly rose in
May as increasing costs for  consumer goods  like autos and
clothing overshadowed the first drop in fuel expenses in eight
months. The 0.2 percent increase in the import-price index, its
eighth consecutive gain, followed a revised 2.1 percent climb in
April, Labor Department figures showed. Economists projected a
0.7 percent decrease for last month, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Benchmark gauges rose yesterday, snapping a six-day
decline, as the  U.S. trade deficit  unexpectedly narrowed amid
record exports and  consumer confidence  improved. Still, the  S&P
500  dropped 5.5 percent since this year’s high on April 29
through yesterday amid weaker-than-expected economic reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  