-- 
U.S. to Fire 36, Suspend 12 in Honolulu Airport Failure

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-06-10T21:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/u-s-to-fire-36-suspend-12-in-honolulu-airport-failure-1-.html
The  U.S. Transportation Security
Administration  said it may fire 36 airport workers in Honolulu
and suspend 12, the largest number of proposed terminations in
agency history, for failing to properly screen bags.  The proposed firings, which include the airport’s security
director and assistant director for screening, follow failures
on one shift at one airport location in the final months of
2010, Nick Kimball and Nico Melendez, agency spokesmen, said by
telephone today.  “A limited number of flights each day” during the period
were affected, the Washington-based agency said in a statement.
TSA discovered the failures through checks and covert tests,
Melendez said.  The announcement coincides with the start of the U.S.
summer travel season, in which airlines forecast they will carry
206.2 million passengers from June through August, up by 3
million from the same period in 2010, according to the  Air
Transport Association , a trade group.  The TSA named Stanford Miyamoto as acting federal security
director in Honolulu, and temporarily assigned other managers
and officers to the airport, the agency said in the statement.  “We will not tolerate employees who in any way compromise
the security of the traveling public,” agency administrator
 John Pistole  said in the statement.  The proposed firings are the largest number for misconduct
since the agency was created two months after the Sept. 11
terror attacks, Melendez said. TSA has more than 700 workers in
Honolulu, he said.  The agency spokesmen declined to specify what the workers
failed to do during the screening process, citing the need to
protect security.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 