-- 
U.S. Asks UN to Separate Taliban, al-Qaeda as Step Toward Deal

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-10T21:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/u-s-asks-un-to-separate-taliban-al-qaeda-as-step-toward-deal.html
The U.S. is asking the  United
Nations   Security Council  to distinguish between Taliban and al-
Qaeda followers in enforcing sanctions, a bid to encourage
Taliban reconciliation with Afghanistan’s government.  The U.S. mission to the UN has circulated two draft
resolutions to council members that would split what has been a
combined list of Taliban and al-Qaeda adherents subject to the
travel ban and asset freeze imposed in 1999, according to three
diplomats who spoke on condition of not being identified because
the texts haven’t been made public.  The goal of adopting the measures on June 17 would be to
send a message to the Taliban that they may escape sanctions by
entering into negotiations with the government in Kabul, the
diplomats said. Legal and political considerations have
complicated efforts to remove selected members of the Taliban
from the list in recent years, discouraging reconciliation, they
said.  The sanctions list includes 138 Taliban members and 350 al-
Qaeda individuals and organizations. The Afghan government’s
preconditions for peace talks with the Taliban include a pledge
by the Taliban to sever all ties with al-Qaeda.  “We support this step,” Zahir Tanin,  Afghanistan ’s
ambassador to the UN, said in an interview. “It will give us
more flexibility for success of the process, making it easier to
get delisted by treating the two groups separately.”  Support Reconciliation  U.S. diplomats, who wouldn’t speak publicly about the
initiative, said they’re seeking to adapt the sanctions regime
to demonstrate support for Afghan reconciliation efforts.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  was in Islamabad today
seeking the help of  Pakistan ’s leaders in pursuing peace talks
with the Taliban, which has bases on Pakistani territory.  The visit comes two months after the governments agreed to
form a commission to support a  peace process . Concern over the
rising U.S. debt has led to growing calls in Congress for the
Obama administration to withdraw a substantial number of U.S.
troops from Afghanistan beginning next month.  A Karzai-appointed Afghan peace council, which includes
former Taliban officials, says it has opened secret contacts
with the guerrillas.  The U.S. has about 97,000 troops in Afghanistan fighting
alongside almost 50,000 soldiers from 47 other nations in an
effort to degrade the Taliban in its southern Afghanistan
stronghold while building up the central government’s ability to
secure the country.  The troops have been there since the U.S. toppled the
Taliban regime because of its support for al-Qaeda terrorists
who planned the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks.  Adoption of the resolutions would establish separate
committees of the  Security Council  to enforce the sanctions,
while extending for 18 months the mandate of the UN offices that
monitor the lists and deal with delisting requests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  