-- 
Huaneng Renewables Tumbles in Hong Kong on Company’s Trading Debut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-10T10:07:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/huaneng-renewables-shares-tumble-in-hong-kong-debut-after-800-million-ipo.html
Huaneng Renewables Corp., the wind-
energy unit of China’s biggest power producer, fell 2.8 percent
on its first trading day in  Hong Kong  as investors sold wind-
power stocks amid reports the government will halt subsidies.  The shares, after slumping as much as 11 percent from the
HK$2.50 offer price, closed at HK$2.43 as the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  fell 0.8 percent. Huaneng Renewables raised HK$6.23
billion ($800 million) in the nation’s second-biggest clean-
energy share sale this year. Three phone calls to the Beijing-
based company’s investor relations department weren’t answered.  “The timing isn’t good,” Peng Lin, a Beijing-based
analyst at BOCOM International Holdings Co., said today by
phone. “Investor concern over the market outlook is driving the
shares down.” Huaneng will rebound in a few days, Peng said.  Wind-power stocks declined this week after the U.S. Trade
Representative said  China  agreed to end subsidies to makers of
wind-turbine components, which could raise costs for developers.
China’s Special Fund for Wind Power Manufacturing illegally
required aid recipients to use Chinese-made parts, according to
a U.S. complaint in December with the  World Trade Organization .  The China Huaneng Group Corp. unit sold 2.49 billion
shares, near the middle of the range marketed to investors
earlier this month. The company scrapped an earlier listing plan
because of unexpected and excessive market volatility, the
company said on Dec. 13.  Windmill Target  China’s target of 110 gigawatts of installed wind capacity
by 2015 has spurred expansion in the world’s biggest market for
the alternative-energy source. The nation added 17 gigawatts of
wind capacity in 2010, about 67 percent more than a year
earlier, bringing its total to 42.5 gigawatts, according to New
Energy Finance.  Sinovel Wind Group Co., the country’s biggest maker of  wind
turbines , raised 9.5 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) in an initial
public offering in January. The stock has fallen 8 percent this
week and 38 percent since the IPO.  China Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co., the wind unit of
China Datang Corp., the nation’s second-largest power producer,
raised HK$5.3 billion in an initial public offering in December,
selling shares at HK$2.33 each. The stock traded at HK$2.01
today after declining 7.4 percent this week.  Turbine Quality  “Wind projects have become more attractive recently,
especially in the face of the rising cost of coal power in
China,” Justin Wu, the wind manager of Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said in an e-mail. “However, grid curtailment and the
turbine quality of domestic suppliers continue to remain serious
concerns.” More than 90 percent of Huaneng’s projects use
domestic turbines, the most of any large Chinese wind developer,
Wu said.  China Investment Corp., Temasek Holdings Pte and  General
Electric Co. (GE)  are among key investors who agreed to buy a
combined $415 million of stock in Huaneng Renewables’ IPO, the
prospectus shows. The Chinese sovereign wealth fund subscribed
for $60 million of shares, while Temasek,  Singapore ’s state
investment company, agreed to invest $50 million.  Huaneng Renewables plans to increase its installed wind
capacity by 45 percent to about 5.1 gigawatts this year, with
most projects located in Liaoning, Inner Mongolia and Shandong
provinces. At the end of last year it set a target of 73.5
gigawatts of projects, without saying when it expected to reach
that goal.  The company is also developing solar farms to diversify. It
has agreements to develop 1.74 gigawatts of solar projects,
mainly in Shaanxi,  Inner Mongolia  and Hebei provinces.  Huaneng may benefit from lower wind-turbine prices, which
declined about 5 percent in the first quarter from the previous
three months to an average of 3,797 yuan a kilowatt, according
to New Energy Finance.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  