-- 
Ukraine Pursues $1.5 Billion LNG Port Plan to Diversify Supplies

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-10T17:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/ukraine-pursues-1-5-billion-lng-port-plan-to-diversify-supplies.html
Ukraine is pursuing a plan to build
a $1.5 billion liquefied natural gas terminal on the Black Sea
after  Russia  refused to cut prices for shipments of the fuel.  “This is a matter of national security to us now as Russia
has refused, without grounds, to lower the price of its gas,”
Vladyslav Kaskiv, head of Ukraine’s State Agency for Investment
and National Projects, said today in an interview in  New York .
“We have absolutely no problem attracting investment. The
world’s biggest energy companies are interested.”  Talks between the Ukrainian and Russian prime ministers
this week ended without agreement on a requested reduction in
the price of gas shipped from Russia. Ukraine, the largest
consumer of Russian gas, pays $297 per 1,000 cubic meters, and
said May 24 it wants to cut the price to $240.  Kaskiv has discussed Ukraine’s plans to build an LNG
terminal with companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , he said. The Ukrainian government will
accept bids to conduct a feasibility study as early as two
weeks’ time and invite companies to submit construction
proposals as soon as October, he said.  “By our very rough estimate, we expect the terminal will
cost about $1.5 billion,” Kaskiv said. “It’s a question of
whether the state should invest the money. It is a major
consumer of the product, so there is room for discussion.”  LNG is natural gas that’s cooled to a liquid to allow its
transportation by tanker. Ukraine depends on Russian imports for
most of its energy needs, including gas, oil and nuclear fuel.  Quarter Stake  LNG arriving at the coastal terminal would be converted
back into a gas before distribution to customers by pipeline.
Gas produced at the facility will cost less than $200 per 1,000
cubic meters, Kaskiv said. Ukraine is seeking to own about a
quarter of the venture and will consider allowing a single
investor or group of investors to control the rest, he said.  Ukraine expects the terminal to produce as much as 2
billion cubic meters of gas in the first year of operation in
2013, Kaskiv said. Capacity would grow to 5 billion cubic meters
by 2016 and 10 billion cubic meters as soon as 2020, he said.  The government is studying four locations on the  Black Sea 
coast, including ports in Odessa and Mykolaiv, Kaskiv said. It
expects to buy LNG from countries such as  Azerbaijan , which has
a preliminary agreement to supply 2 billion cubic meters to 10
billion cubic meters a year, and will use most of the LNG for
its domestic needs, Kaskiv said.  Ukraine is the main transit route for Russian fuel to
European Union countries. Russian gas shipments to  Europe  were
halted for two weeks in 2009 because of a price dispute between
Russia and Ukraine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  