-- 
UN Vows to Double Number of Patients Receiving AIDS Drug Therapy by 2015

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-10T19:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/un-vows-to-double-number-of-patients-receiving-aids-drug-therapy-by-2015.html
World leaders meeting in  New York 
this week to mark the 30th anniversary of the first reported
case of AIDS have agreed to double by 2015 the number of people
receiving life-saving drug therapy, to 15 million, and to spend
an additional $6 billion a year fighting the disease.  A three-day special session of the  United Nations  General
Assembly, attended by 30 heads of state and ministers from 100
other nations, was to end today with adoption of a declaration
saying AIDS “remains an unprecedented human catastrophe” that
poses “one of the most formidable challenges to the
development, progress and stability of our respective
societies.”  Agreement to commit an additional $6 billion a year beyond
the $16 billion allocated in 2010 will be used to press the  U.S.
Congress  and governments around the world to maintain their
support in the face of budget cuts, according to Dr. Christoph
Benn, direct of external relations for the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.  “‘This declaration will be more than just words,” Benn
said in an interview. “We will go out to countries, applaud
them for their agreement and ask them for their commitment.
While economies have started growing again, the effect of the
financial crisis has been tremendous, so maintaining support,
particularly in Congress, will be a huge challenge.”  Benn said he would meet next week with the heads of the
House and Senate appropriations committees in an effort to
ensure approval of the $1.3 billion in 2012 funding for the
Global Fund that President  Barack Obama  has proposed. He plans
to make a similar appeal to the European Parliament and to other
governments in the coming weeks.  1.8 Million Deaths  While the number of AIDS-related deaths has been reduced by
20 percent in the past five years, the disease still kills 1.8
million each year and 9 million await life-saving treatments of
anti-retroviral drugs, according to the UN. More than 34 million
people worldwide are infected with HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS, and 30 million have died since 1981.  “The clock starts now,” Sharonann Lynch of New York-based
Doctors Without Borders said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in opening remarks to
the special session that the goal should be to eliminate AIDS
entirely by 2020. “That is our goal: zero new infections, zero
stigma and zero AIDS-related deaths,” Ban said.  10-Year Goals  Benn said that goal wasn’t entirely unrealistic if progress
over the past decade is accelerated through increased
commitments from the developing nations where most AIDS cases
originate, greater efficiency in reaching victims and scientific
innovations that could include a vaccine against HIV.  “If we get those elements together over the next 10 years
we might well be in a situation where we could control AIDS as a
public health problem,” Benn said.  While support for the Global Fund, which has raised $30
billion over the past decade, has remained level during the
financial crisis, Benn said the challenge will be to maintain
current funding of between $3 billion and $4 billion a year.  The UN declaration says it’s “imperative that the Global
Fund’s work be supported and also that it be funded
adequately.” It also commits to ending by 2015 all mother-to-
child transmission of HIV, which infected 370,000 infants in
2009, and for the first time in a UN document refers to the risk
of infection among “men who have sex with men.”  Islamic nations and the Vatican have combined at past AIDS
conferences to bar such references to homosexual transmission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  