-- 
Turkish Yields Fall for Third Day on Post-Election Rally Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-10T15:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/turkish-yields-fall-for-third-day-on-post-election-rally-bets.html
Turkish bond yields declined for a
third day on bets that a win for Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  at this weekend’s election will spur a rally.  Two-year benchmark yields dropped as much as 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 8.80 percent, and were 3
basis points lower at 5:30 p.m. in Istanbul. Yields declined 1
basis point on the week.  “There is a view that Turkey may perform well once the
election stress has passed,” Selim Gulkan, fixed-income trader
at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said by telephone. “Now
players who want to bet on this are buying bonds and we are
seeing foreigners buying bonds in particular.”  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , or AKP, may win 49
percent of the vote, almost double the 26 percent backing of the
main opposition  Republican People’s Party , according to the
average result of four surveys by Turkish research companies
Pollmark, Sonar, Konsensus and Genar. Benchmark bond yields have
dropped from more than 17 percent since July 2007, when Erdogan
won 47 percent of the vote, as economic policy pushed inflation
to a four-decade low and the central bank cut rates to a record
6.25 percent.  “The market is expecting AKP to gain the majority of
seats, but fall short of the number that would suffice to change
the constitution on its own,” Mete Demir, head of trading at
Yapi Kredi Investment, said by telephone from Istanbul.  Campaign  Erdogan’s plan for a new constitution, which would require
him to win 367 seats in parliament, or a two-thirds legislative
majority, has been a central campaign issue. Some investors are
concerned that a two-thirds majority would revive political
tensions with opposition parties, who say Erdogan will push
through constitutional changes without public consensus. His
party is rooted in a banned Islamic movement. Erdogan denies
charges he’s trying to change  Turkey ’s secular form of
government.  Justice and Development currently has 331 seats and would
win 338 seats based on the four-poll average, according to an
 application  that simulates election outcomes developed by the
 Ari Movement , an Istanbul think-tank. A poll by research company
Konda, published yesterday, showed Erdogan leading with 46.5
percent of the vote. That may translate into 327 seats.  The lira dropped 0.3 percent to 1.5782 per dollar. It was
little changed compared with a week ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  