-- 
Warren Says Consumer Protection Will Help Rebuild Middle Class

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-06-10T01:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/warren-says-consumer-protection-will-help-rebuild-middle-class.html
Elizabeth Warren , the adviser
appointed by President  Barack Obama  to set up the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, said the agency will help rebuild
the middle class while allowing markets to work.  “This is not about regulating shoes so there are no shoe
stores,” Warren, 61, said yesterday in a discussion at the
Roosevelt House Public Policy Institute at  Hunter College  in New
York. “I actually believe in competitive markets.”  The goal of the CFPB is to make prices clearer and
comparisons easier for consumers, which will help Americans
determine what they can afford, said Warren. The agency also
will reduce the “regulatory tangle” and apply “rules that
give the middle class a chance,” Warren said.  The consumer bureau, created by last year’s Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul, was designed to address what proponents
said was the failure of existing regulators to protect consumers
from risky financial products. It is scheduled to begin
operations on July 21.  The CFPB’s duties will include writing and enforcing rules
for financial products, including mortgages, credit cards and
payday loans. In May, the bureau began testing redesigned
mortgage disclosure  forms  to simplify the information customers
receive when applying for a mortgage.  The Roosevelt House Public Policy Institute offers public-
policy and human-rights academic programs and hosts lectures and
conferences on related topics, according to its  website .  Warren appeared at the institute with U.S. Representative
Carolyn Maloney, a  New York  Democrat, to speak about the CFPB
before an invitation-only audience.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  