-- 
World Bank Prototype Carbon Fund Syndicate Agreement Extended Through 2023

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-06-10T10:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/world-bank-prototype-carbon-fund-agreement-extended-through-2023.html
The  World Bank ’s Prototype Carbon
Fund extended an agreement until as late as 2023 to help govern
the syndicate including six governments and 16 companies.  “Diverging interests among PCF participants surrounding
the extension of the PCF instrument beyond 2014 were overcome to
reach a mutually beneficial solution,” said Martin Lawless,
chairman of the fund and London-based global head of
environmental financial products at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The fund’s accord was extended in December 2010 to the end
of the last signed emission-reduction purchase agreement, or
2023 at the latest, Lawless said in the 2010  annual report  of
the Washington bank’s Carbon Finance Unit, published May 25.  Governments including  Canada  and  Norway  and companies
ranging from  BP Plc (BP/) , Deutsche Bank and  RWE AG (RWE)  to Tokyo Electric
Power Co. can expect credits for the equivalent of 28.2 million
metric tons of carbon dioxide valued at $172.1 million from the
fund, which started in 2000 and now invests in 24 projects,
according to the report.  In 2008, the fund accepted an additional $39 million,
“securing the possibility of purchasing late-vintage emission
reductions from projects already in its portfolio,” according
to the Carbon Finance Unit’s 2009  report . The fund was designed
to help demonstrate the ability of carbon markets to help
protect the climate and sustainable development.  Groups of Demand  The 2010 report didn’t elaborate on the diverging
interests, and Lawless declined to comment by phone yesterday.
Credits can be used by companies meeting limits in the European
carbon market, as well as industrialized nations with targets in
the 1997  Kyoto Protocol  through 2012.  Japan  has appointed some
of its companies to buy on its behalf. Nations have so far
failed to agree on whether to extend or replace the Kyoto deal.  “The extension of the PCF Instrument does not suggest a
material change in the direction,” the World Bank said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The extension will
“formalize decisions taken by PCF participants some time ago to
enter into some long-term contracts to purchase emissions
reductions.”  The fund was designed to “prototype carbon transactions in
different sectors and different countries,” it said. “As
business and policy contexts evolve in different countries and
different companies, it’s quite normal in any organization for
diverse views to emerge among the 22 participants, but it’s also
quite normal that those views are resolved and decisions
taken.”  EU Ban  The European Commission  on June 8 adopted a ban  starting in
May 2013 on the use of industrial-gas credits in  Europe ’s
emissions trading market, the world’s largest. The ban includes
Certified Emission Reduction credits from plants cutting
hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas.  A Chinese HFC-23-cutting plant accounts for 24 percent of
the Prototype Carbon Fund’s credits, the biggest share of any
type, according to the report.  “The controversy surrounding HFC-23 projects also posed a
challenge for the fund this year, causing issuance delays that
have since been resolved,” Lawless said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  