-- 
Maple Group Says TMX Shareholders Need More Time to Vote

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-10T19:19:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/tmx-should-allocate-more-time-for-vote-on-lse-deal-maple-s-bertrand-says.html
Maple Group Acquisition Corp., the
group of nine Canadian pension funds and banks that offered to
buy  TMX Group Inc. (X) , said more time should be given for
shareholders to consider their unsolicited proposal.  TMX owners are scheduled to vote June 30 on a C$3.34
billion ($3.42 billion) takeover bid by  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc. (LSE)  Maple Group hasn’t officially filed documents on its
C$3.58 billion offer, which TMX has rejected.  “Holding this meeting on the 30th is unfair to
shareholders and regulators,” Maple Group spokesman Luc Bertrand said today in a telephone interview. Bertrand, the
former head of the Montreal Exchange who became deputy CEO at
TMX before leaving in 2009, is vice chairman at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , a member of Maple Group.  LSE’s takeover of TMX needs approval from  Canada ’s federal
government, which is required to decide if a foreign deal is a
"net benefit" to the country under the Investment Canada Act.
The deal, which was cleared by Canada’s competition authority on
June 3, still requires approval from provincial regulators
including those in Ontario and Quebec.  “After months of behind-the-scenes preparation, Maple is
still lacking any substance,”  David Lester , director of
information services at LSE, said today in an e-mail. “Still no
answer on the insuperable competition questions, still no vision
for the future of the industry or for customers or employees.”  Not Foreign  The Maple Group bid wouldn’t require Industry Canada
approval because it’s not a foreign transaction, though it will
face reviews by regulators and Canada’s competition bureau, the
group said in a May 16 presentation.  Bertrand said Maple Group hasn’t asked TMX for an
extension. Instead, the bidders have been focused on preparing
an information circular for its counteroffer. He declined to say
when the circular would be filed.  “Admittedly, this is a crucial decision for Canada,”
Bertrand said. “More time should be allocated so that everyone
has more information and more clarity as to what are the
consequences.”  Maple Group ’s backers also include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Caisse
de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta Investment
Management Corp., and Fonds de Solidarite FTQ.  Bertrand, 56, also declined to say whether other financial
companies including  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  have joined Maple
Group. Firms including GMP Capital Inc., Dundee Capital Markets
Inc. and Desjardins Financial Group are also in talks to join
Maple Group, according to a Dow Jones report.  “Until the proposal is out, we’re limited in scope in what
we can say,” Bertrand said. “There’s a growing body of people
who are increasingly concerned by the LSE proposal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  