-- 
Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Jumps Most in Three Months on $2.5 Billion Order

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-06-10T11:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/yangzijiang-shipbuilding-rises-after-700-million-container-vessel-order.html
Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings
Ltd. (YZJ)  climbed the most in almost one month in Singapore trading
after winning its first order to build 10,000-container vessels
in a contract worth as much as $2.5 billion.  China ’s third-largest shipyard outside state control rose
1.3 percent to S$1.55 at the 5:10 p.m. close of trading in
Singapore, the stock’s biggest advance since May 13. The
benchmark Straits Times Index dropped 0.6 percent.  The deal with lessor  Seaspan Corp. (SSW) , announced yesterday,
comprised firm orders for seven 10,000-container vessels, worth
$100 million apiece, and options for 18 more. The contract was
the first for such large vessels for a Chinese yard from
overseas as the country challenges South Korean shipbuilders for
deals to build more advanced and profitable ships.  “Securing these orders confirms our view that Yangzijiang
will take leadership by moving into larger vessels,” Barclays
Capital analysts led by Jon Windham wrote in a note today. The
deal may mark “a shift in container shipbuilding in China, over
the next five years.”  Chinese shipyards are targeting orders for larger  container
ships , liquefied-natural gas carriers and other advanced types
of vessels as a glut of dry-bulk ships damps demand in their
traditional market. The move may boost competition for Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co. and Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the
biggest South Korean yards.  Yangzijiang will deliver the first seven vessels to Seaspan
in 2014 and 2015, according to a statement yesterday. The
shipbuilder will use a new design that will help pare fuel usage
and emissions, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  