-- 
Hynix Creditors Plan to Receive Final Bids for Company Sale by September

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-06-10T07:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/hynix-creditors-plan-to-receive-final-bids-for-company-sale-by-september.html
Creditors of  Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. (000660)  aim to receive final bids for the controlling stake in the
chipmaker by September as they seek to initiate their fourth
attempt to unload their shares.  The shareholders are considering asking the company to sell
new stock, in addition to part of their combined 15 percent
stake in the world’s second-largest maker of computer memory
chips, Ryu Jae Han, Chief Executive Officer of Korea Finance
Corp., said in a phone interview. They aim to close the deal,
including payment, by the end of this year, Ryu said.  A group of creditors, including Korea Finance, plans to
sell all or part of a 15 percent stake in Hynix that it gained
through a government-initiated bailout of the chipmaker in 2001
following an industry downturn. The nine financial institutions
may announce the sale schedule by the end of this month, Kim Sun Gyu, a spokesman for Korea Exchange Bank, the lead creditor,
said on June 8.  While the creditors plan to invite preliminary bids in
July, they will reissue a tender or extend the period if they
fail to receive bids from more than one company, Ryu said.  Hynix fell 7 percent to 26,700 won at the 3:00 p.m. close
of trading in  Seoul  on speculation that the company would issue
new shares, while the benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  fell 1.2 percent.  The company isn’t considering a new share sale, Hynix said
in a filing after the bourse asked it to provide a clarification
on the speculation.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s largest shipyard,
said on June 8 that it may consider bidding for Hynix, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 