-- 
Zloty May Gain as PZU Sale Helps Polish Budget, BNP Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-06-10T15:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-10/zloty-may-gain-as-pzu-stake-sale-helps-polish-budget-bnp-says.html
The zloty may strengthen as  Poland ’s
sale of a $1.2 billion stake in PZU SA, the country’s largest
insurer, will help finance the  budget deficit , according to
analysts at BNP Paribas SA.  The government, which owned 45.2 percent of PZU before the
transaction, sold 8.6 million shares for 367 zloty each
yesterday, the Treasury Ministry said in a statement on its
website today. The sale was oversubscribed and half of the
shares were bought by foreign investors, Treasury Minister
Aleksander Grad said on TVN CNBC television today.  “The sale will help the fiscal gap and is part of the plan
to raise $5.6 billion from state assets sales,” strategists at
BNP including Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a research
note today. “The effort should be positive for the Polish
assets as it shows commitment on the part of the government to
stabilize the fiscal situation.”  Poland’s currency advanced less than 0.1 percent to 3.9392
per euro at 4:49 p.m. in Warsaw for a 0.5 percent appreciation
this week, a second week of gains. The PZU deal “benefited the
zloty” and “a close below 3.94 for the euro-zloty could open
up the way for more zloty strength in the week to come,” BNP
said.  Poland’s five-year bonds extended gains for 11th day,
pushing yields down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 5.35 percent, the lowest level since October. The
government this week sold $1 billion of 10-year bonds and raised
3 billion zloty ($1.1 billion) from the sale of two-year notes.  Poland has covered 67 percent of its borrowing needs for
this year, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  was
reported yesterday as saying by PAP newswire in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  