-- 
‘Cut the Rope’ for Free Helps GetJar to Challenge Google, Apple’s ITunes

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-12T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/-cut-the-rope-for-free-helps-getjar-challenge-google-apple.html
GetJar Inc. , the independent
provider of mobile applications that has handled more than 2
billion downloads, aims to expand by giving software away in a
market that may be worth more than $9 billion this year.  GetJar supplies free apps for more than 2,500 device
models, competing with stores run by vendors such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
for the iPhone, and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for the Android operating
system, as well as phone operators. Last month, GetJar got the
first-week exclusive for Android phones on  Cut the Rope , a game
developed by Moscow-based ZeptoLab that has topped charts on the
iPhone.  “Less than half of apps developers are seeking immediate
profits or even revenue at all,” Chief Executive Officer Ilja Laurs, 35, said in an interview from Vilnius,  Lithuania .
“Facebook isn’t trying to make revenue from their mobile
application. Their objective is to dominate the world.”  GetJar, based in  San Mateo ,  California , makes money by
auctioning positions on its screens to application developers.
Its investors include Accel Partners, which backed Facebook
Inc., and hedge fund Tiger Global Management LLC, which has
bought shares in Facebook and LinkedIn Corp.  Many “free” apps such as the version of Rovio Mobile Oy’s
“Angry Birds” on GetJar make money for developers from tiny
embedded ads, similar to those on Google sites. Such ads will
provide less than 10 percent of application revenue that is
expected to reach $9 billion this year from handset and Google
stores alone, said Stephanie Baghdassarian, an analyst at
Gartner Inc. in Paris.  Free Apps  Free applications will account for 86 percent of downloads
from the stores of Google and handset makers this year and more
than 88 percent in 2015, according to estimates by Gartner.  “We’re in favor of free and open systems in every way,”
Laurs said in the phone interview. “We don’t think developers
should have to pay a tax on downloads or future commerce through
their apps, or accept restrictions.”  Other application stores such as Apple’s encourage
developers to charge for downloads and then take 30 percent of
the  revenue . While saying this may be attractive for small
developers who want help with marketing and revenue collection,
Laurs called this a “tax.”  Many applications are mobile extensions of existing
businesses that operate over the Web, such as airlines, banks,
and communications and social networks such as Facebook and
Twitter, Laurs said.  ‘Angry Birds’  The free model is suitable for applications linked to
existing businesses because the companies can then sell apps and
other products to users without worrying about fees, he said. It
is also a better model for users who don’t have a convenient
method to make payments, he said. GetJar gave up on charging for
apps in 2006.  GetJar won the first-week exclusive to release the full
“Angry Birds” game on Android last October. It booked a
million downloads on the first day, choking GetJar’s servers and
motivating Rovio to open the game on Google’s store.  Apple’s application store is still the leader and claims
more than 15 billion cumulative downloads and 425,000 apps. It
has by far the most revenue, according to Gartner. Google’s
Android Market is growing fast with 4.5 billion downloads of
more than 200,000 available apps. GetJar  says  it has more than 2
billion cumulative downloads and 150,000 apps.  ‘Uphill Struggle’  “Independent stores face an uphill struggle to compete
against the platform stores,” said Nick Jones, a Gartner
analyst. “There are definitely things they can do such as
negotiating exclusive relationships for certain products, and
stocking combinations of things you can’t find in other
stores.”  GetJar already has some 55 partner agreements, including
arrangements to supply apps to customers of AT&T Inc. and Virgin
Mobile in  India . Laurs, who commutes between GetJar’s Vilnius
and San Mateo offices, said he’s constantly discussing deals and
with top-tier phone companies and handset makers as well as
Internet companies. Announcements are planned around the end of
the current quarter, he said.  GetJar will fight Apple to keep using the term “app
store” after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the
company last month, Laurs said.  “We launched this service in 2005, way before Apple’s
iPhone,” he said.  A U.S. federal judge last week struck down Apple’s lawsuit
to stop Amazon.com Inc. from using the term “Appstore.”
Apple’s online store for mobile software opened in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  