-- 
‘Plain-Spoken’ New Defense Chief Panetta Swears to Get Job Done

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-12T22:37:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/-plain-spoken-new-defense-chief-panetta-swears-to-get-job-done.html
In the Hope Chapel at the U.S.
military’s Camp Victory on the outskirts of  Baghdad , standing
before 150 soldiers, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  spoke on
public service, democracy and America’s global role in remarks
laced with more than a dozen expletives.  One made it onto the front page of Stars and Stripes, the
Defense Department’s editorially independent newspaper for
troops, as Panetta exhorted Iraqi leaders to “Damn it, make a
decision” on whether to allow U.S. troops in their country past
the end of the year.  “This is a plain-spoken secretary of defense,” said Doug
Wilson, a Pentagon spokesman.  Panetta yesterday wrapped up his first visit to  Afghanistan 
and Iraq in his new job. He’s made far more secretive visits for
the past two years as director of the Central Intelligence
Agency, getting to know foreign leaders. This time, he was the
public face of the Obama administration carrying messages from
 Washington .  “I’ve had the opportunity to meet with President Karzai in
my prior capacity a number of times,” Panetta told reporters
last week as he flew to Kabul, the Afghan capital,  on the first
leg of his trip. “We’ve always had a very good relationship in
terms of our ability to talk to one another in an honest way
about what needs to happen.”  Panetta, 73, made the war zones his first trip as he takes
on a full plate of issues besides winding down those operations.
The U.S. military is engaged in air operations over  Libya ,
supporting NATO-led attacks, while the Pentagon is drafting a
plan to cut $400 billion from the  defense budget  over the next
12 years.  ‘Continue the Fight’  With the troops, Panetta said the U.S. will finish off al-
Qaeda and stick with the fight to prevail in Afghanistan.  “The most important thing we can do is to continue this
fight,” he told soldiers at the Marine Corps’s Camp Dwyer in
Helmand Province, Afghanistan, as the U.S. prepares to start a
withdrawal of forces from the country.  The Pentagon will forge a long-term relationship with
Iraq, help oust  Muammar Qaddafi  in Libya, reform security
partnerships and cut Pentagon spending without compromising
defense, Panetta said.  “We are the best-equipped, best-trained. We are the
strongest military force on the face of the earth,” Panetta
said in  Iraq . “I want to maintain that.”  Still, he reiterated predecessor  Robert Gates ’s call in
Brussels last month for allies in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization to pull more of the weight in the alliance.  Salty, Imprecise  “You’ve got to be able to put up an equivalent of
capability so that you can really be partners when we have to go
to war,” Panetta told the troops in Iraq in response to a
question.  Panetta’s language was occasionally salty and also
imprecise at times.  Twice during the trip, he failed to distinguish, as U.S.
officials usually do, between the political goal of Qadaffi’s
ouster and the United Nations-sanctioned military mission to
protect civilians. Spokesman Wilson said he meant to.  Panetta also suggested a link between al-Qaeda and the U.S.
invasion of Iraq, even though the terror group lodged itself in
the country only afterwards. Wilson said Panetta was referring
to the group’s lingering presence now as part of the reason U.S.
forces are still there.  Panetta said he, like Gates, would fight for the equipment
troops need to stay safe, such as the thousands of new heavily
armored vehicles that Gates procured during his more than four
years in charge of the Defense Department.  Washington Fighter  “As you fought here, I intend to fight in Washington to
make sure that you’re protected,” Panetta said.  Panetta’s chats with soldiers young enough to be his
grandchildren often dwelled on the call to public service.
Panetta cited his background as the son of Italian immigrants
and urges his audience to “give back to the nation that has
done so much for us.”  “One of the things I’ve already had to do is sign
condolence letters” to the families of troops killed, Panetta
told reporters before landing in Kabul. “It makes me that much
more aware of the great responsibility we have to support these
men and women.”  In Iraq, he talked of honoring the sacrifice of the
approximately 3,500 American lives lost in combat there.  “We have a chance to put in place a nation that is going
to be extremely important to this region, as a model for
democratic government,” said Panetta, who served on the 2006
Iraq Study Group that conducted an independent assessment of the
then-deteriorating war.  He said there’s more work to be done.  “We’re going to be around for a helluva long time, making
sure that the world goes right,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  