-- 
Labaton Sucharow Adds Ex-SEC Lawyer Thomas to Start Whistleblower Practice

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T15:22:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/labaton-sucharow-adds-ex-sec-lawyer-thomas-to-start-whistleblower-practice.html
Labaton Sucharow LLP hired former
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission attorney Jordan A.
Thomas to start the New York-based law firm’s whistle-blower
representation practice.  Thomas was assistant director and assistant chief
litigation counsel in the SEC’s Division of Enforcement for the
past eight years and helped to develop the agency’s whistle-
blower program, Labaton said today in a statement. Thomas will
head Labaton’s practice focused exclusively on representing
individuals who report fraud to the SEC.  “After working on the whistle-blower and cooperation
initiatives, I have come to believe that these new partnerships
between government and private individuals will revolutionize
the enforcement of the federal securities laws,” Thomas said in
the statement.  The SEC’s whistle-blower program, part of the agency’s
rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, will let corporate tipsters
collect as much as 30 percent of penalties when they report
financial wrongdoing. The program expands a bounty system that
was previously limited to insider-trading cases.  Labaton’s whistle-blower practice will include an in-house
team of investigators, financial analysts and forensic
accountants with federal and state law enforcement experience,
the firm said.  “Approaching the first anniversary of the Dodd-Frank Act,
there couldn’t be a better time to demonstrate our firm’s
continuing commitment to secure remedies for victims of the
virulent greed and misconduct that has so damaged the economy
and eroded public faith in the markets,” Labaton Chairman
Lawrence A. Sucharow said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  