-- 
Madoff Judge Approves Trustee’s First Payments to Victims of Ponzi Scheme

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/madoff-judge-oks-trustee-s-first-payments.html
 The first payments to customers of
con man  Bernard Madoff  out of funds collected by a trustee for
his firm won approval from a bankruptcy judge, more than 2 1/2
years after the Ponzi scheme collapsed.  Trustee Irving Picard said in May he would initially pay
$272 million to customers with approved claims, out of a
$2.6 billion fund set up for Madoff investors. Yesterday’s order
approving the payouts was issued by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  Manhattan .  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking money
for Madoff investors, said May 4 that he had recovered
$7.6 billion. In June, he estimated the principal lost by all
Madoff investors was $19 billion. He and his  law firm , Baker &
Hostetler LLP, have collected about $179 million in fees for
their efforts.  Because of court challenges, most of the money recovered
isn’t available to put in the customer fund or distribute,
Picard said in May. Investors are challenging his share of a
$5 billion settlement with the estate of Jeffry Picower.  Picard’s lawsuits have targeted banks as well as
individuals who invested large sums with Madoff. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., sued for $19 billion for allegedly assisting the fraud,
and HSBC Holdings Plc, sued together with so-called feeder funds
for $9 billion, have challenged the trustee’s right to make such
fraud claims, or sue on behalf of customers.  Two U.S. District Court judges in Manhattan are reviewing
Picard’s right to sue banks and investors for damages.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 