-- 
Women Tolerate Beatings for Mobile Phones

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/afghan-women-tolerate-beating-for-cell-phones.html
Maryam’s husband was so outraged
when he discovered the device she had smuggled into their Kabul
home that he beat her with his fists and a whip. The contraband
was a cell phone.  “My husband’s family is very traditional,” says Maryam, a
24-year-old sheathed in a blue burqa who declines to give her
last name. “They are very much against mobile phones and
freedom for women.”  The connection Maryam sees between women and wireless is
apparent to the world’s biggest telecommunications companies,
which have begun a push to bring female customers in the
developing world to the same level as men. The U.S. and
Australian agencies for international development are backing
the effort by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and others
with $1 million to fund research into how to find and keep women
like Maryam, and to persuade men that handsets aren’t a threat.  For women in emerging markets, cell phones can be life
changing, offering banking services to free them from the
dangers of carrying cash, texting when the communal water tap
will open or sending instructions in prenatal care.  For the wireless industry, signing up 600 million female
subscribers in the developing world by 2014 could be a revenue
bonanza of $29 billion a year, according to the London-based
GSMA, formed in 1982 as the Groupe Speciale Mobile to design a
pan-European mobile technology.  “We are not ashamed to say that this will benefit business
too,” says Trina DasGupta, director of the GSMA’s MWomen
 program , whose members include AT&T Inc. in the U.S. and  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  in India.  Gift Bearers  Morten Singleton, a telecommunications analyst at Investec
Securities in London, says “there’s clearly an opportunity” in
women in poorer markets. They’re in an “underserved
territory,” he says, “and the fact they’re not necessarily
high-spending doesn’t mean you can’t make money.”  The GSMA estimates that 38 percent of women, compared with
48 percent of men, have cell phones in the 149 countries in
 Africa , Asia,  Latin America , the  Middle East  and Eastern Europe
that MWomen is targeting. A woman in those countries is 21
percent less likely than a man to have a handset, according to a
February 2010 report by the GSMA and the Cherie Blair Foundation
for Women.  In what the report called “gender gap hot spots,” the
disparity is greater, and the widest is in South  Asia , which
includes  Afghanistan , India and Nepal. There, a woman is 37
percent less likely to be a wireless customer, the report said, 
and closing that gap would generate close to $4 billion in
revenue for telecommunications companies.  Red Suitcases  The U.S. is helping fund MWomen to bring women’s handset
use on par with men’s and change “the all-too-common belief
that cell phones afford more freedom to women than they
deserve,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said at an Oct. 7
 press conference .  Companies have made inroads. Afghanistan’s biggest wireless
provider,  Telecom Development Company Afghanistan Ltd. , started
a campaign called Aali for Mother (Aali means “the best”) with
ads portraying men as gift bearers and the phones as tools that
benefit the family. After the ads appeared, women grew to 23
percent from 18 percent of all new customers, according to the
company, which operates under the name Roshan.  In Qatar, where it’s often taboo for females to interact
with strangers of the opposite sex, Vodafone created Al Johara
so women could sign up for service without having to enter
stores. It’s an all-female  sales force  that does business in
living rooms and kitchens, carrying paperwork in red suitcases.  No Hijacking  Women using wireless phones aren’t viewed with as much
suspicion in  Kenya . Still, just 34 percent of women have
handsets, versus 44 percent of men, according to the GSMA.  A cell phone’s importance can’t be overstated, says Salome
Mukuhi Kamau, who sells mangos, papaya and peppers along a road
near Nairobi. She says the device may have saved her life.  When she carried cash, she was robbed three times by
thieves who threatened her with knives and guns. Now she
deposits daily earnings with an agent from Nairobi-based
 Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ’s M-Pesa mobile money system, who works out of a
shack across the street from her stand. When she has to stock up
on goods, she takes the bus to the main market about three miles
away, and gets the funds she needs from an M-Pesa agent there.  “I store the money here and then withdraw it when I
want,” Salome, a single mother of two, says of her cell phone
as Swahili gospel music swirls around her wooden stand. “There
is no fear that I will be hijacked.”  Losing Control  Women can pay utility bills and school fees through M-Pesa
and transfer money to distant family members. In Nairobi, the
 Freedom from Fistula Foundation , started by Ann Gloag, co-
founder of the Perth, Scotland-based bus company Stagecoach
Group Plc, uses the service to provide free treatment at Jamaa
Mission Hospital; it transfers travel money via M-Pesa to women
who need operations to repair injuries caused during childbirth.  In 2008, Roshan, controlled by the Aga Khan Fund for
 Economic Development , started M-Paisa, based on Vodafone
technology. While women are eager to use it, the company has to
find a way around men’s apprehension, says Aleeda Fazal, a
mobile money specialist who helped establish M-Pesa and M-Paisa.  “In the Afghan woman’s mind, mobile phone technology helps
her to keep in touch with friends and can help her be
entrepreneurial,” Fazal says. “In the Afghan man’s mind, the
technology means he loses control of the woman.”  She says Afghan women would tell men they weren’t
interested in M-Paisa, because that’s what they thought men
wanted them to say. “The story I would get from the women was
completely different,” she says. “They were often saying,
‘Please, find a way to help us be a part of this.’”  Mapping Harassment  The industry’s focus on women comes with an explosion in
applications, spurred in part by a competition MWomen held this
year for the best apps for women. One of the winners of a
$10,000 prize was  NextDrop , a text message system in  India  that
sends alerts when engineers have turned on the communal taps
that millions in the country rely on for water.  Created by students from Stanford Business School and the
 University of California , it saves vital time for the poor, says
Anu Sridharan, chief executive officer of Hubli, India-based
NextDrop. “Women bear the brunt of the water carrying and
waiting around,” she says.  In Cairo, volunteers started  HarassMap  to collect text and
Twitter messages from women to plot sexual harassment -- from
catcalls and ogling to rape -- on an online map of the city.
Mamakiba is an app designed to help low-income women in Kenya
save and pay for prenatal care and childbirth.  Cloud Phone  Su Kahumbu of Kenya’s organic produce company Green Dreams
Ltd. created  iCow  for dairy farmers, many of whom are women who
tend small herds that are key sources of family income. A record
keeper and a calendar that tracks an animal’s fertility cycle,
iCow won a U.S. State Department competition last year for the
most innovative cell phone application in Africa.  The so-called cloud phone from London-based  Movirtu Ltd .,
aimed at people who live on $2 or less a day, gives a subscriber
a unique mobile number that can be used on any handset,
eliminating the need for the purchase of a SIM card or personal
device. Bharti Airtel’s Madagascar unit sells the service, and
the U.K.’s Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists is
working with media company Cerescom Ltd. to use Movirtu’s
technology in its programs for expectant mothers in Africa.  Nine out of 10 women in emerging markets feel safer having
a cell phone, a  survey  last year by Blair’s foundation and the
GSMA found, and 41 percent of women said the devices had helped
boost incomes.  Fastest Growing  “Putting a mobile phone in the hands of women is critical
for the development of Afghanistan,” says Roshan CEO Karim Khoja. “We see the mobile phone as much more than a
communication device.”  Khoja says a provincial government official thanked him for
making him a grandfather, because when his daughter had
complications in childbirth, the midwife used her mobile to call
a doctor, saving the mother and child.  Wireless technology isn’t new to  developing countries .
Afghanistan, where under Taliban rule cell phones were all but
nonexistent, is one of the world’s fastest growing wireless
markets, according to Roshan. The Afghan company had 400,000
customers in 2005 and today has more than 5 million, with a
network of towers that covers 60 percent of the population.  Whether the industry and MWomen can overcome men’s fears in
such countries is the question, says Thomas Molony, a lecturer
in African studies at the  University of Edinburgh  who has
researched cell phone use in Africa.  Forward Looking  “Even the relatively low cost of small segments of airtime
can be prohibitive in situations where the man in a household
controls access to cash,” he says. “There are ways around
this, such as sending airtime to the handset that the woman uses
-- but this also presupposes that the woman controls the use of
the handset.”  With MWomen, the GSMA can harness the ideas of its members
and the non-profits that participate, says Lee Epting, the
content services director for London-based Vodafone. They
include Blair’s group and the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation .  “It will take more than a single technology provider to
close the gender gap,” Epting says. “Often a phone is seen as
a tool for freedom, and men in some cultures might not want
women to have that freedom. You need a forward looking man to
help make those changes happen.”  Maryam, who has a 1-year-old son, says the man she married
two years ago isn’t one of them. The handset that aroused his
anger was a gift from her brother, she says, and without it she
can’t easily communicate with her siblings and parents, who live
north of Kabul.  For women, “using a cell phone in Afghanistan is quite
difficult,” she says. She won’t try it again, she says. “My
husband said he would divorce me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in  London  at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  