-- 
Lagarde Names Obama Aide Lipton Top Deputy at International Monetary Fund

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-12T21:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/lagarde-names-obama-aide-lipton-top-deputy-at-international-monetary-fund.html
Christine Lagarde  chose David Lipton, an adviser to President Barack Obama and a former U.S.
Treasury Department official in the Clinton administration, to
be her top deputy at the  International Monetary Fund .  A week after taking over as the IMF’s managing director,
Lagarde also created a fourth deputy managing director position
for China’s Zhu Min, a move that will raise that nation’s status
at the institution. Zhu, a special adviser to the fund’s chief,
will take up his post July 26. Lipton also will start then as a
special adviser and assume the deputy’s job on Sept. 1.  Lipton combines “international expertise, public sector
policy making and private sector experience and a proven track
record in economic  crisis management ,” Lagarde said in an e-
mailed statement.  Zhu “will play an important role in working with me and
the rest of my management team in meeting the challenges facing
our global membership in the period ahead, and in strengthening
the fund’s understanding of  Asia  and emerging markets more
generally,” she said.  The choices reflect the growing influence of China, the
world’s second-largest economy, and the U.S.’s traditional lock
on the fund’s second-ranking job. Both countries supported
Lagarde over Mexican Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens, who
failed last month to get enough support from emerging countries
to end a 65-year European monopoly on the IMF’s top job.  ‘Important Acknowledgement’  The ascension of a Chinese official to a top IMF management
position for the first time “is an important acknowledgement of
 China ’s primary role within the” membership, said Domenico Lombardi, a former IMF board official and a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington. It may “enhance the
ability of the IMF to act as a facilitator between the U.S. and
China.”  The new position follows the appointment of Justin Lin as
World Bank chief economist in February 2008.  Lipton, who worked at the IMF for eight years after
receiving a Ph.D. in economics from  Harvard University , held
various positions at Treasury from 1993 through 1998, including
undersecretary for international affairs at the time of the
Asian crisis.  Bonus Pay  Before the White House job, Lipton was head of global
country risk management at Citigroup Inc., taking home a
$1,275,000 bonus in 2008 and a $762,000 bonus in 2009, according
to White House financial disclosure reports. He will replace
 John Lipsky , whose term ends in August.  Lipsky stepped in as acting managing director after the
arrest and resignation of former IMF chief Dominique Strauss- Kahn, who has pleaded not guilty to sexual assault charges in
 New York City . Lipsky represented the IMF yesterday as finance
ministers from the euro region discussed a new strategy to
contain the debt crisis.  At the White House, Lipton, 57, served as special assistant
to Obama and at the National Economic Council and the National
Security Council, helping handle such matters as the sovereign
debt crisis in  Europe  and emerging economies.  “He will bring a very heavy political clout that will make
the institution closer to the senior political leadership of the
world,” Brookings’ Lombardi said.  Zhu, 58, who was a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of
China, joined the IMF in May 2010. He previously was an
executive vice president at Bank of China Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  