-- 
Lagarde: IMF Hasn’t Discussed Greek Aid With EU

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/lagarde-says-imf-hasn-t-discussed-new-greek-aid-details-with-eu.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
isn’t yet discussing details of a second joint bailout package
for Greece with the European Union, said  Christine Lagarde , the
fund’s new managing director.  “As regards a possible new program, in my view we’re not
at the stage of discussing the conditions and terms and length
and volume, and nothing should be taken for granted,” Lagarde,
who took up the job on July 5, told reporters in Washington
yesterday.  First Deputy Managing Director  John Lipsky  has been closely
involved in the current Greek program and is representing the
IMF at the finance ministers’ talks after “ample meetings all
together to properly define the position of the fund,” Lagarde
said.  She spoke before European finance ministers said they were
considering using bond buybacks to ease Greece’s plight as
surging bond yields in Italy and  Spain  brought the crisis closer
to the heart of the euro area. The announcement came after talks
with bondholders over a “voluntary” rollover of Greek debt ran
into opposition from the  European Central Bank .  Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said that private investors will
also be asked to shoulder part of the burden of a second rescue
for Greece.  The Mediterranean nation can’t return to international
markets next year as envisioned in last year’s 110 billion-euro
($154 billion) loan package by the EU and the IMF because of
surging borrowing costs. The fund committed to provide almost a
third of the program.  Italian Firewall  Italy ’s effort to build a firewall against the spreading
crisis formed the backdrop to yesterday’s meeting in Brussels.
The nation, struggling with Europe’s second-highest debt load
after Greece, curbed short selling as its 10-year bond spread
over  Germany  surged to 305 basis points, a euro-era high.  Lagarde said Italy is “facing issues at the moment which
are essentially market-driven.” She said growth in the euro
region’s third-largest economy needs to improve in parallel to
efforts to reduce the  budget deficit .  “It is clearly a fact that Italian growth has to improve;
that is essential to restore the situation in Italy, in addition
to the fiscal consolidation measures that have already been
decided,” Lagarde said.  Rating Companies  She also said credit ratings companies “play a role” in
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The euro earlier sank to a seven-week low against the
dollar, and stocks dropped amid concern that European
governments are powerless to prevent the financial distress
spreading from Greece.  Lagarde, 55, resigned as French finance minister to take
the helm at the IMF, becoming to first female head of an
institution that approved a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year. She is taking on Europe’s debt crisis as she
balances the demands of fast-growing emerging nations with the
needs of a recovering developed world.  She has pledged to implement governance changes approved
last year that will give  China  the third-largest  voting share  at
the fund and increase clout of countries such as Brazil and
South Korea.  After saying last week she may consider adding a fourth
position of deputy managing director, she told reporters to
expect an announcement on IMF management today.  Lagarde also has to pick a successor to Lipsky, who
indicated he would not seek a second mandate when his term ends
in August. The job has been traditionally held by an American.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  