-- 
Thai Baht Weakens on China Slowdown Risk, European Debt Concern

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-12T08:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/thai-baht-weakens-on-china-slowdown-risk-european-debt-concern.html
Thailand’s baht and  government bonds 
declined as concern the Chinese economy is slowing and  Europe ’s
debt crisis will spread sapped demand for emerging-market
assets.  The currency fell for a second day before data tomorrow
that will show Asia’s largest economy grew at the slowest pace
in almost two years last quarter, according to a Bloomberg
survey, hurting Thailand’s export outlook. China is the
Southeast Asian nation’s largest export market, purchasing 11
percent of shipments in the first quarter, official data show.  “Sentiment for emerging markets is weak due to growing
concerns over Europe’s debt problems,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a
global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “China’s
slowdown will also weigh on regional currencies.”  The baht declined 0.4 percent, the biggest drop in two
weeks, to 30.44 per dollar as of 3:23 p.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency may trade between
30.20 and 30.50 this week, Hayashi said.  China ’s gross domestic product increased 9.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, slowing from a 9.7 percent
pace in the previous three months, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Soaring yields on Italian government bonds stoked concern
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis is spreading to its largest
economies. Italy faces 175 billion euros ($243 billion) in debt
maturities this year and has 1.6 trillion euros of bonds
outstanding, the world’s third-largest debt pile after the U.S.
and  Japan .  The yield on the 5.25 percent bonds due May 2014 gained
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.87 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, dropped 1.5 basis points
to 3.41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  