-- 
Karzai Buries Brother as Killing Underlines Afghanistan Security Challenge

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-07-13T09:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/half-brother-of-afghan-president-karzai-killed-in-kandahar-1-.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  buried
his younger brother who was assassinated in the Taliban
stronghold of Kandahar yesterday, underscoring the country’s
security challenge as the U.S. begins to withdraw troops.  The funeral of Ahmed Wali Karzai, 50, took place today in
Karz, the family’s ancestral village in Kandahar, where he
dominated politics as head of the provincial council, Afghan
state television reported. Ahmed Wali was shot dead at his home
yesterday by a senior bodyguard. A spokesman for the Taliban
said the movement had secretly recruited the gunman.  President  Barack Obama  last month announced that the U.S.
will begin pulling its troops out of Afghanistan this year and
start transferring control to Afghan forces. Ahmed Wali’s death
raises questions over Karzai’s ability to provide security for
the country’s leaders, let alone ordinary Afghans, said
Waliullah Rahmani, director of the  Kabul Center for Strategic
Studies .  “This is a strategic and psychological blow for President
Karzai,” Rahmani said. “Afghans will now ask if Karzai’s
government cannot protect his own brother in his home and
stronghold in Kandahar, what security can he bring to
 Afghanistan  in general?”  A convoy carrying the governor of neighboring Helmand
province and his police chief to today’s funeral was hit by a
roadside bomb, wounding two guards, Lotfullah Mashal, spokesman
for the National Directorate of Security, said by phone.  Political Fiefdom  During Hamid Karzai’s near-decade as Afghanistan’s leader,
Ahmed Wali, his younger brother by four years, remained in
Kandahar, the country’s second-largest city and the political
center for the south.  Ahmed Wali ran a political fiefdom that was seen as corrupt
and suspected of drug-dealing and that for years undermined
support for his brother and for the U.S.-led coalition fighting
the Taliban, according to a  study of Kandahar politics  last year
by the Washington-based  Institute for the Study of War .  Ahmed Wali Karzai’s “influence over Kandahar is the
central obstacle to any of ISAF’s governance objectives,” the
report by the institute said, referring to the U.S.-led
 International Security Assistance Force  in Afghanistan.  “Wali Karzai’s behavior and waning popularity among local
populations promote instability and provide space for the
Taliban to exist,” Carl Forsberg, an analyst who specializes in
southern Afghan politics, wrote in the report.  ‘Tragic Destiny’  Hamid Karzai said his brother’s killing reflected the life
of the Afghan people, adding that hopefully their “suffering
will end.” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , appearing
alongside Karzai at a Kabul press conference yesterday, said the
shooting showed “the tragic destiny of every Afghan.”  Karzai was killed at 11:30 a.m. by a bodyguard, Sardar
Mohammad, Kandahar’s provincial government spokesman, Zalmai
Ayoubi, said by phone. Mohammad “had come to the house for some
work and he opened fire on Karzai,” Ayoubi said. Other guards
ran in and shot Mohammad, who had commanded Karzai’s guards for
seven years, he said.  General Abdul Razaq, the police chief of Kandahar, said at
a press conference that Karzai was shot in the head and chest as
he left a bathroom having washed before prayers. Provincial
Governor Tooryalai Wesa said several arrests had been made.  The Taliban in the past has claimed responsibility for
attacks that it has been found later not to have conducted.  The  New York Times  and other U.S. newspapers have cited U.S.
and Afghan officials as saying Ahmed Wali was suspected of drug
dealing, an allegation that both Karzai brothers denied.  Troop Withdrawals  He had been the target of previous attacks. In 2009,
Taliban guerrillas assaulted his office at the provincial
council headquarters in Kandahar. In the same year his convoy
came under rocket and machine-gun fire near Kabul,  Agence
France-Presse  reported.  Obama said last month that the U.S. will withdraw 10,000
troops from Afghanistan, where they are fighting the Taliban,
before the end of this year and an additional 23,000 by
September 2012. Other nations have announced their own troop
reduction plans.  France , which yesterday said it plans to withdraw a quarter
of its 4,000 troops in Afghanistan by the end of 2012, will pull
together a five-year France-Afghan development plan, Sarkozy
said in Kabul.  “We should not abandon Afghanistan, but the manner in
which we help them is going to change,” Sarkozy said. “The
withdrawal of troops is not disengagement. Afghanistan needs to
be taken charge of by the Afghans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  