-- 
Amazon Relies on Tax-Averse Californians in ‘Unusual’ Plan to Repeal Law

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/amazon-plan-relies-on-tax-averse-californians.html
Californians have shown a penchant
for rolling back taxes at the ballot box, a history  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Web retailer, may be banking on to
repeal a law aimed at forcing it to collect state sales levies.  Voters don’t have an appetite for new taxes given the lack
of trust in state government and will take a referendum “very
seriously,” said  Mark Baldassare , president of the Public
Policy Institute of  California  in  San Francisco . In November,
Californians refused to end $1.3 billion in corporate tax breaks
and made it harder to raise fees on businesses.  Amazon filed a proposed referendum to repeal the tax
measure with the California attorney general’s office last week.
If enough voters sign qualifying petitions, the issue may be
placed on a ballot as soon as February. A win for the retailer
may block more than $300 million in revenue from state coffers.  “It certainly makes sense that the company would go to the
voters on this, but the referendum is an unusual route,” said
Baldassare, whose organization is nonpartisan. “The referendum,
which is the ability to change the law that’s already been made,
is not something that is very commonly done.”  The Legislature required online retailers to collect sales
taxes last month, as part of the fiscal 2012 spending plan. The
change is forecast to generate about $317 million in receipts,
including $83 million from Seattle-based Amazon, according to
Anita Gore, a spokeswoman for the state agency that oversees
taxes. The budget projects $200 million in revenue.  Not Collecting  Amazon had called the measure “unconstitutional” and
“counterproductive” before it became law.  “We support this referendum against the recent  sales-tax 
legislation because, with unemployment at well over 11 percent,
Californians deserve a voice and a choice about jobs, investment
and the state’s economic future,” Paul Misener, vice president
of global public policy, said in a July 11 statement.  Amazon spokeswoman Mary Osako declined to comment yesterday
on the company’s strategy in seeking the referendum, deferring
to Misener’s statement.  The retailer has severed ties with its California
affiliates and hasn’t been collecting taxes on purchases made by
California residents since the law passed, Osako said. Misener
previously said that cutting off affiliates would affect more
than 10,000 website operators who get fees from the company.  Only Online Business  Amazon isn’t collecting sales taxes for the state because
it only does business in California online, Osako said.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1992 that states may
require companies to collect sales levies if they have a
physical presence in the state. States including  Massachusetts 
require consumers to declare online purchases that haven’t been
taxed and pay the levy on their tax returns.  Proponents of the California law say it puts Amazon on an
equal footing with retailers that already collect taxes on
online sales. The state levy is 7.25 percent.  “If I purchase from Nordstrom online, I pay a sales tax,”
Nancy Skinner, an Assembly Democrat from Berkeley who helped
draft the law, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Why
should Amazon operate under a different set of rules?”  Voters weren’t receptive to tax-increasing proposals on the
ballot in November, said Jennie Bowser, a senior fellow at the
 National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver. She said
Amazon’s strategy has been tried before.  Corporate Strategy  “This is far from the first time a corporation has funded
an initiative effort to further their own commercial gain,” she
said.  A proposition to delay the implementation of clean air
standards in California was sponsored almost entirely by the
 energy industry , Bowser said.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  was behind
a Washington initiative to end state-controlled liquor sales
while letting high-volume retailers buy direct from producers
instead of wholesalers, she said.  Amazon would need to present almost 505,000 signatures from
California voters to qualify the measure for the ballot, or
about 5 percent of the vote cast for governor in the November
election, according to the Secretary of State’s office.  Supporters have 90 days to collect and turn in those
signatures. Once the petitions are validated, the measure would
appear on the next statewide ballot. A bill pending in the
Legislature would move the February vote to June.  Losing $200 million if the referendum passes “is not
insignificant,” considering lawmakers cut more than $1 billion
from higher education, according to Senator Mark Leno, a San
Francisco Democrat who leads his chamber’s budget panel.  The measure may spark a battle between corporate titans,
pitting Amazon against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) ,
which operate stores in the state, Leno said yesterday by
telephone.  “There will be very deep-pocketed corporations opposing
the measure -- Wal-Mart, Target, Barnes & Noble and a long list
of corporations that are playing by the rules,” Leno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 