-- 
Anhui Water Rises to Record, Water Stocks Jump on Industry Investment Plan

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-12T06:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/anhui-water-rises-to-record-water-stocks-jump-on-industry-investment-plan.html
Anhui Water Resources Development Co.
rose to a record high in  Shanghai  trading on speculation the
government’s investment plan for the industry will boost
earnings.  Anhui Water, based in eastern  China ’s Anhui province,
jumped for a second day, gaining 7.9 percent to 16.88 yuan as of
1:50 p.m. local time in Shanghai, the highest level since it
started trading in April 2003. China Gezhouba Group Co.
increased 2.8 percent while China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index dropped 1.3 percent.  China will accelerate investment in water projects to
alleviate shortages and improve the environment, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported July 9, citing a politburo meeting
chaired by President  Hu Jintao . The country will make
agricultural irrigation projects a priority and boost
construction of dams and reservoirs, Hu said.  Anhui Water’s surge is “related to the investment plan,”
said Xie Wenjie, analyst at Northeast Securities. “It should be
connected with the policy as water shares are performing
relatively well these past two days,” he said by phone from
Shanghai today.  Anhui Water is involved in water resources construction
projects. The shares have climbed 12 percent over the past two
days, driving estimated price earnings to 16.6 times. The stock
still trades below the four-year average of 37 times, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China is facing water shortages that are hurting its
economy and should increase pricing to reduce waste, improve
allocation and spur investment,  Peter Orszag , vice chairman of
global banking at Citigroup Inc., said in a Bloomberg opinion
price on July 6.  --Penny Peng. Editor: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7719 or
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  