-- 
Manufacturing in South Africa Advanced by 0.6% in May, Less Than Expected

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-12T11:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/manufacturing-in-south-africa-increased-0-6-less-than-expected-in-may.html
South African manufacturing output
increased less than expected in May, threatening a recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy and reducing pressure on the central
bank to raise interest rates from a 30-year low.  Growth accelerated to 0.6 percent from a revised 0.2
percent in April, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on
its website today. The median estimate of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an expansion of 2.4 percent. Output rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in the month.  “The sector is under more pressure than we had
anticipated,” said Vuyo Guma, an economist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg. “This data certainly backs up our
view” that the central bank will not raise interest rates this
year.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate three
times to 5.5 percent last year to help spur  consumer spending 
and economic growth. The bank’s monetary policy committee is due
to announce its next interest-rate decision on July 21.  Manufacturing growth in May was driven by increased output
of iron and steel, metal products, machinery, petroleum and
chemical products, the statistics agency said. The effect was
partially offset by a decline in the production of food,
beverages, clothing, textiles and motor vehicle parts and
accessories.  Japan  Earthquake  The March 11 earthquake in Japan cut production of auto-
parts from that country, crimping supplies to vehicle
manufacturers in  South Africa .  The rand fell to as low as 6.9505 per dollar from 6.9394
before the release of the manufacturing data, and traded at
6.9415 at 1:24 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand has gained 8.9
percent against the dollar over the past year, curbing export
competitiveness.  Manufacturing, which accounts for 15 percent of gross
domestic product, may remain under pressure. The Purchasing
Managers Index, an indicator of factory output, dropped to 53.9
in June, the lowest level this year, Kagiso Securities Ltd. said
on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 