-- 
Applied Materials Affirms Forecasts, Citing Emerging Markets

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-12T20:50:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/applied-materials-reiterates-forecasts-cites-emerging-market-sales.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, reaffirmed its sales
and profit forecasts, saying demand for electronics in emerging
markets is helping offset declines in the U.S. and  Europe .  The  Santa Clara , California-based company expects the total
market for chip-manufacturing equipment to be $30 billion to $33
billion this year, Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter said at
a meeting with investors today. It reiterated its May 24
forecast for third-quarter profit of 31 cents to 37 cents a
share, excluding certain costs. Sales will drop 3 percent to 10
percent from the previous quarter.  In sticking to its outlook, Applied Materials is breaking
from the more dour forecasts of some rivals. Novellus Systems
Inc. projected third-quarter sales and profit yesterday that
fell short of analysts’ estimates, saying customers had become
more pessimistic about demand and were delaying orders. Today,
Applied’s Splinter said he’s optimistic that the chip industry’s
largest manufacturers will maintain their annual budgets.  “There is an awful lot of demand in emerging economies,”
Splinter said at the meeting, held in  San Francisco .  The outlook didn’t reassure investors, who have sent chip
stocks down for three straight days. Applied Material’s shares
fell 34 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $12.64 today on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The stock has lost 10 percent this year.  Industry Barometer  Investors and analysts track semiconductor-equipment orders
as an early indicator of demand for electronics. Chipmakers such
as  Intel Corp . and Samsung Electronics Co. vary their spending
on new equipment and factories according to how they foresee
demand as much as two years in the future. Their factories can
cost more than $3 billion to build and are run 24 hours a day,
which makes the companies careful with equipment purchases.  Emerging economies are outpacing the U.S. and Europe, and
there’s still plenty of room to grow in places like  India , where
people don’t currently own as much technology, Splinter said.  Still, demand for personal computers and tablets hasn’t met
predictions, he said. And chip foundries -- companies such as
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. that do production work
on a contract basis -- haven’t ordered as much equipment as
expected, Splinter said.  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , whose machinery helps chipmakers ensure
that each stage of production is completed successfully, also
updated its outlook today. The Milpitas, California-based
company said fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and bookings will
come in at the “upper end” of its earlier forecast.  The company had predicted on April 28 that earnings per
share, excluding certain items, would be $1.28 to $1.44 on sales
of $840 million to $900 million.  While the increasing complexity of making chips has raised
demand for KLA-Tencor’s machines, orders may decline as much as
20 percent in the second half versus the first six months, CEO
Rick Wallace said. A “softening” in the market means 2011
orders will be little changed from 2010, he said.  KLA-Tencor’s shares fell 98 cents to $41.31 today. The
stock has climbed 6.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 