-- 
Stocks, Euro Retreat, Treasuries Gain as Europe Concern Grows

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-12T20:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/asian-stocks-euro-decline-as-bond-risk-jumps-on-europe-contagion-concerns.html
Global stocks extended the biggest
three-day slump since March and the euro weakened as Ireland’s
debt rating was cut to junk, adding to signs Europe’s crisis is
spreading. Treasury 10-year yields touched a 2011 low.  The MSCI All-Country World Index lost 0.8 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York, extending its three-day plunge to 3.4 percent. The
 S&P 500  fell 0.4 percent to 1,313.64 and is down 2.9 percent in
three days. The euro weakened 0.4 percent to a four-month low of
$1.3978. Treasury 10-year yields decreased four basis points to
2.89 percent and slid as low as 2.81 percent. Sugar, wheat and
corn rose at least 4 percent to lead gains in commodities.  A late-day rally in U.S. stocks faded as Moody’s Investor
Service’s reduction of Ireland to non-investment grade wiped out
gains triggered by signs the  Federal Reserve  has not ruled out
further stimulus efforts.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, tumbled 1.3 percent after starting the second-quarter
earnings season following the close of trading yesterday.  “There’s not a whole lot of conviction in the market,” said
Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees about $80
billion in assets. “Most investors are following Europe, and
they are waiting to see if the earnings season will be good
enough for them to get excited about equity prices. If that
doesn’t happen, then you can add corporate performance to the
ugly mix.”  Earnings Season  Others companies reporting earnings this week include
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Google Inc. S&P 500
profits are forecast to have grown 13 percent in the quarter,
the smallest increase in two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Energy and raw material producers are forecast to
lead the growth among 10 groups, with increases in excess of 40
percent each.  Chipmakers slumped, with Intel Corp. falling 1.8 percent,
after  Novellus Systems Inc. (NVLS)  forecast lower-than-estimated third-
quarter earnings. Novellus sank 11 percent.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment
company, rallied 1.1 percent for the biggest gain in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average . The company may cut as many as 10,000
jobs, or about 14 percent of its workforce, to revive profit
growth, according to two people familiar with the plans.  The S&P 500 fell below the level of 1,316 that represents
the convergence of the index’s mean price over the last 50 and
100 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moving averages are
cited by analysts who use price charts as points where buying
may pick up or selling snowball as investors reconsider past
decisions. The gauge’s 200-day level is about 1,274.  Fed Minutes  The S&P 500 drifted between gains and losses for most of
the day before rising as much as 0.6 percent after the 2 p.m.
Washington time release of minutes from the Fed’s last policy
meeting. The minutes showed “a few members” of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  believed the central bank might have to
consider additional monetary stimulus if economic growth is not
strong enough to reduce the  unemployment rate .  Equities erased those gains as Ireland joined Portugal and
 Greece  to become the third euro-area country to be lowered to
junk.  Almost $1 trillion was wiped off the value of global
equities yesterday while  Italy ’s 10-year yield jumped more than
40 basis points in two days and the U.S. Treasury yield dropped
to the lowest this year amid concern the debt crisis was
spreading to Italy.  The link between sovereign risk and bank
risk is potentially “explosive,” and in Italy it poses an
“element of fragility,” European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said yesterday in Milan.  Europe  Talks  Riskier assets reversed some losses early today Italy and
Greece sold debt and Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden
said selective default on Greek debt is not an option envisioned
by euro-region finance ministers, while European Union Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said officials
reached agreement that investors should play a role in a second
bailout of Greece. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said he didn’t
rule out calling an emergency summit on the debt crisis, even as
no decision has been taken yet.  In the U.S., Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell
proposed a “last choice option” for increasing the U.S. debt
limit in three stages in case President Barack Obama and
Congress can’t agree on a deficit-reduction plan. McConnell’s
plan would let the president raise the limit, while accompanying
it with a larger amount of spending cuts, unless Congress
disapproved his plan with a two-thirds majority, the aide said.  “The market is going to be volatile around the information
that’s coming out of Italy and what the European Union is doing
with that, and as well as what’s going on with our own debt
talks,” said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for Chemung
Canal Trust Co., which manages $1.6 billion in Elmira,  New York .  Greece Strategy  European finance chiefs cast about for a strategy to halt
Greece’s debt crisis as the contagion spread to Italy. The 17
euro governments pledged to flesh out a new master plan
“shortly” after nine hours of talks yesterday. The meetings
resumed today with all 27 EU finance ministers plotting a
response to the release of bank stress tests later this week.  Spanish bonds erased earlier declines, with the yield on
the 10-year note decreasing 18 basis points to 5.85 percent. The
Irish 10-year yield rose 15 basis points to 13.35 percent, near
the highest since before the euro was introduced in 1999, while
the Greek 10-year yield slipped 24 basis points to 16.78
percent. The yield on the German bund reversed earlier declines.  Italy, Greece Auctions  Italy sold 6.75 billion euros of treasury bills in its
first auction since borrowing costs began soaring amid contagion
from the Greek debt crisis. The Treasury in  Rome  said it sold
the one-year bills, meeting its target, at an average yield of
3.67 percent. That compares with a yield of 2.147 percent when
similar securities were last sold on June 10. Demand for the
debt was 1.55 times the amount sold, compared with 1.71 times at
the June auction.  Greece sold 1.625 billion euros of 182-day bills, the
nation’s debt agency said. Investors bid for 2.88 times the
securities offered, the Public Debt Management Agency said.
Belgium’s borrowing costs for 12-month treasury bills rose to
the highest level in more than 2 1/2 years as demand fell in the
sale of 1.07 billion euros of the bills.  The euro pared its losses after weakening as much as 1.5
percent against the Swiss franc, falling to a record low of
1.15533. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency
against those of six trading partners, rose for a third day. The
 New Zealand dollar  declined against 15 of 16 of its most-traded
peers monitored by Bloomberg, sliding 1.3 percent against the
U.S. currency.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of government
credit-default swaps retreated from a record, slipping 7.5 basis
points to a mid-price of 283.5.  European Stocks  About five shares declined for every two that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which pared its loss to 0.6 percent
after slumping as much as 2.7 percent. Banks in the gauge
recovered most of a 3.8 percent, still falling 0.2 percent to a
two-year low.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-largest
tour operator, plunged 28 percent after cutting its full-year
profit forecast.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.9 percent. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index tumbled 3.7 percent, the most
since May 2010, after Moody’s said some Chinese companies are
engaging in potentially risky business practices. The Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped 1.7 percent as Infosys
Ltd., India’s second-largest software exporter, forecast sales
that missed analysts’ estimates.  The S&P GSCI index of commodities rallied 1.4 percent,
reversing an early 1.4 percent slide. Sugar prices rose 5.4
percent to a four-month high on speculation that supplies will
be lower than forecast in  Brazil , the world’s biggest grower and
exporter.  Oil futures for August delivery rose 2.4 percent to $97.43
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after earlier
dropping below the 200-day moving average for front-month
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  