-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Prices Climb to Record Settlement

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-07-12T21:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-prices-climb-to-record-settlement.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Futures Rise to Record Settlement on European Debt Crisis  Gold futures rose to a record settlement as Europe’s
escalating debt crisis boosted demand for the metal as a haven
investment.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Sri Lanka  Seeking to Catch Singapore With  China : Freight Markets  Sri Lanka aims to create an Asian shipping hub capable of
competing against Singapore and Dubai by pouring $3.4 billion
into expanding ports with Chinese help, after the island’s
container volumes surged to a record.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Futures Advance in  New York  as Chinese Imports Rebound  Copper rose for the first time in three sessions on signs
that demand is rebounding in China, the world’s biggest
consumer.  MINING:  Fresnillo Silver Mine to Produce 10 Million Ounces in 2015 (1)  Fresnillo Plc, the world’s largest primary silver miner,
will produce 10 million ounces of silver and 50,000 ounces of
gold in 2015 at its Saucito mine in north-central  Mexico , said
Alberto Bailleres, the company’s chairman.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Buy Gold ETF Options Amid Distrust of Currencies, Jefferies Says  Investors should trade options on a fund tracking gold
because distrust of currencies will drive up the metal’s price,
Jefferies Group Inc. said.  Economist Gartman Cutting Gold Held in Euros at Record Price (1)  Dennis Gartman , the economist and editor of the Gartman
Letter who correctly forecast 2008’s commodities slump, said
he’s cutting his euro-denominated gold holdings as “too many
people have joined the trade.”  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Futures Rally as USDA Reports Inventory Drop; Soybeans Gain  Corn rose to the highest price this month after the
government said U.S. stockpiles will be smaller than expected,
heightening concern that costs for food and fuel will climb.
Soybean prices also gained.  Cotton Tumbles as USDA Cuts Demand Outlook;  Orange Juice  Gains  Cotton dropped to a nine-month low on signs of slowing
demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter.
Orange juice advanced.  Wheat Rises on Signs U.S. Exports Will Erode Domestic Supplies  Wheat futures surged the most in almost eight weeks after a
government report showed demand for U.S. exports will outpace
gains in production.  Sugar Jumps to Highest Since March as  Brazil  Output May Tumble  Sugar prices rose to a four-month high on speculation that
supplies will be lower than forecast in Brazil, the world’s
biggest grower and exporter.  Hog Futures Decline on Signs of Slowing Demand; Cattle Drop  Hog futures fell the most this month on signs of slowing
U.S. demand. Cattle also declined.  Argentina Frost Damages Sugar-Cane Crop, Forecaster Markert Says  The sugar-cane crop in Argentina, the second-largest
producer in  South America , was damaged by frost last week,
according to Paul Markert, a meteorologist at MDA Information
Systems Inc.  SHIPPING:  Panamax Ship Rents Will Drop Through 2012, DVB Bank Forecasts  Rents for panamax commodity-hauling ships will fall through
the end of next year because too many of the vessels are being
built, according to German transportation lender DVB Bank SE.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Trade Deficit Unexpectedly Surges as Oil Prices Climb (2)  The trade deficit in the U.S. widened in May to the highest
level in almost three years, reflecting a surge in the cost of
imported  crude oil .  Ivory Coast  Unable to Pay Debt, Seeks Complete Reassessment (3)  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, said it’s
seeking “a complete reassessment” of $2.3 billion of Eurobonds
after ruling out payments this year because of damage to the
economy from post-election fighting.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Euro Retreat, Treasuries Gain as  Europe  Concern Grows  Global stocks extended the biggest three-day slump since
March and the euro weakened as Ireland’s debt rating was cut to
junk, adding to signs Europe’s crisis is spreading. Treasury 10-
year yields touched a 2011 low.  Euro Drops on Ireland Cut, Concern Debt Crisis Will Reach Italy  The euro weakened against the dollar after Moody’s
Investors Service reduced Ireland’s sovereign debt rating,
adding to concern the European debt crisis is deepening.  Crude Oil Rises Most in Two Weeks as Europe Tackles Debt Crisis  Oil climbed the most in two weeks in New York as European
governments worked to halt the region’s credit crisis.  SPORTS:  Mickelson Making Fresh Start in Quest for British Open Title  Four-time major winner  Phil Mickelson  said he’s taking a
new approach into this year’s British Open after just one top-10
finish in 17 appearances.  Watson Concerned for  Tiger Woods ’s Future After Knee Injuries  Eight-time major champion  Tom Watson  said he’s concerned
about Tiger Woods’s playing future because of the former top-
ranked golfer’s long-running knee problems.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 