-- 
Mauritius’s Rupee Depreciates to a One-Week Low on European Crisis Concern

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-07-12T08:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/mauritius-s-rupee-depreciates-to-one-week-low-on-european-crisis-concern.html
Mauritius’s rupee depreciated to a
one-week low against the dollar as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen.  The Indian Ocean island nation’s currency retreated as much
as 0.9 percent to 28.55 rupees and traded 0.5 percent down at
28.45, the weakest intraday level since July 5, by 11:13 a.m. in
Port Louis. Mauritius’s stocks index retreated the most in
almost four months, losing 0.6 percent to 2,077.61.  All emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
weakened against the dollar as European finance ministers
revived the prospect of bond buybacks to ease  Greece ’s plight
and declined to rule out a temporary default, struggling to
contain the debt crisis as investors pounded  Italy , the
continent’s third-largest economy.  “Domestic holders of euros are selling to minimize
exchange-rate losses, driven by the mounting debt crisis,”
Nitish Benimadhu, a foreign-exchange and fund manager at Anglo
Mauritius Financial Services Ltd., said by phone from  Port Louis 
today. In turn, exporters and local companies “can’t hold
rupees” as inflation is higher than the nation’s benchmark
interest rate, resulting in a negative real return, he said.  Mauritius annual inflation rate fell to a five-month low of
6.6 percent in June, while the central bank raised its benchmark
repo rate to 5.5 percent on June 13 to rein in price growth that
reached the strongest level in more than two years in March.  About 67 percent of Mauritius’s import bills are dollar-
denominated, Benimadhu said.  Investors are “accumulating the dollar, which is available
at a discount price today” compared to a “normal level” of 30
rupees, Benimadhu said.  The country, with a population of 1.3 million people, is a
net importer of food and fuels. Europe, which accounts for two
thirds of visitors, is also the main buyer of Mauritian exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  