-- 
Australia Business Confidence Dropped to Six-Month Low in June

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-12T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/australia-business-confidence-dropped-to-six-month-low-in-june.html
Australian business confidence fell
to a six-month low in June as a rising currency and signs of
weaker global growth weigh on industries including manufacturing
and retailing, a private report showed.  The confidence index dropped to zero from 6 in May,
according to a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of more than
400 companies from June 24 to June 30 that was released in
Sydney today. The business conditions gauge, a measure of
hiring, sales and profits, rose to 2 from a revised zero.  Weaker confidence and slower  consumer spending  add to signs
that the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will keep its key interest
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent until December, NAB said today.
Previously it predicted a quarter-point rise in August as the
economy rebounded from floods in early 2011.  “The high Australian dollar, continued cautiousness of
households and concerns about the global growth outlook appear
to be eroding sentiment,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said
in a statement. “An August rate rise appears unlikely given
recent softness in the labor market and a volatile international
situation.”  The jobless rate is likely to decline to 4.5 percent by the
end of 2011 from 4.9 percent last month, the Melbourne-based
bank said.  The Australian dollar reached $1.1012 on May 2, the
strongest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  China ’s Slowdown  China’s economy  probably grew by the least in almost two
years last quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The government is forecast to report gross
domestic product tomorrow. China is Australia’s largest trading
partner.  Australia’s gross domestic product contracted by 1.2
percent in the first quarter, the most since 1991, as floods in
the northeast slashed coal exports, a June 1 government report
showed. Economic growth is likely to be weaker than previously
expected in the second and third quarters, NAB said today.  “The loss of economic momentum over the first half of this
year, together with stalled asset prices, appears to be weighing
on business confidence,” Oster said. “The economy is still
struggling to find traction following the flood-induced
slowdown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  