-- 
Federal Reserve Needs QE3 to Boost Economic Growth, Berkeley’s DeLong Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-12T20:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/australia-n-z-dollars-fall-to-two-week-lows-amid-global-recovery-concern.html
The  Federal Reserve  should engage in
another round of quantitative easing as growth in the  U.S.
economy  remains slow and inflation concern remains low,
according to Bradford DeLong of the  University of California  at
Berkeley.  “I don’t see any argument against QE3,” Delong said
during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene. “The worry is always that it will
destabilize inflation expectations, that they’ll lose their
anchor, and yet when you look out as far as you can at the
prices of the TIPS and of the 30-year Treasuries, you see no
sign at all that there’s been any loss of confidence that the
Fed will keep inflation under control.”  Another round of asset purchases would increase
construction, creating jobs and boosting the economy, said
DeLong, a professor of economics and former Treasury official
during the Clinton administration. Fed policy makers disagreed
on whether additional stimulus will be needed even if the
outlook for economic growth looks weak, according to minutes
released today from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s meeting
June 21-22.  FOMC Debate  “Most” FOMC members said the rise in inflation would
“prove transitory” and that during the medium term inflation
would “be subdued as long as commodity prices did not continue
to rise rapidly and longer-term inflation expectations remained
stable,” according to the minutes.  The Fed has kept its target rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at the June press conference
said the central bank would be “prepared to take additional
action, obviously, if conditions warranted,” including the
purchase of more  Treasury securities .  Policy makers cut their forecasts for growth this year
before a July 8 government report showed employers added jobs at
the slowest pace in nine months in June. The Fed’s purchase of
$600 billion in U.S. Treasuries, known as QE2, was completed as
scheduled as the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  