-- 
BAE Says Hack on Sony Helped Spur Interest in Cyber Security

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-12T14:24:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/bae-says-hack-on-sony-has-helped-spur-interest-in-cyber-security.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said its division
supplying security against computer hackers is attracting more
potential clients after attacks on companies such as Sony Corp.  “We’ve seen a significant shift in the understanding of
cyber threats within board rooms, particularly in the last six
months,” Martin Sutherland, managing director at London-based
BAE Systems’ Detica unit, said at a press briefing today.  An April attack on Sony’s data centers in  San Diego , which
was the second-largest online data breach in U.S. history,
highlighted the vulnerability of commercial business. The attack
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts and will
cost Sony an estimated 14 billion yen ($176 million) this fiscal
year.  Detica expects a surge in revenue over the next couple of
years, judging by the number of enquiries, said Technical
Director Henry Harrison. Companies are realizing it’s not an
issue that can be addressed by a firewall contract, rather one
that “needs to be picked up at board level,” he said.  U.K. businesses incur an estimated 21 billion pounds ($33
billion) in costs from cyber-crime annually, according to a
government report released in February.  BAE bought Detica in July 2008. Its software supports
counter-terrorism operations by the U.K. government and tax-
fraud detection in the U.S. This year, BAE added Norkom Group
Plc, an Irish maker of software that helps banks prevent  money
laundering  and fraud to its portfolio.  State Security  Detica had revenue of 222 million pounds in 2010.
Government contracts account for 60 percent of its business, and
products originally designed for national security are being
transferred to private companies.  “We see private firms as the big market for cyber security
services,” Sutherland said, adding that governments have always
been traditionally more alert to the issue. Critical parts of
U.K. infrastructure, like utilities, are largely run privately.  Detica also operates in the U.S.,  Australia  and emerging
markets like the  Middle East  and  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  