-- 
Barracuda Lawyer Battles Mercenaries; Meth-Peddling Teacher: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-07-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/barracuda-attorney-close-battles-mercenaries-meth-peddling-teacher-tv.html
Barracuda attorney Patty Hewes takes
on a ruthless military contractor in the fourth season of
“ Damages .” My money is on Patty, played by Glenn Close with
delicious malevolence.  Last season, in another ripped-from-the-headlines storyline,
her  law firm  clashed with a financial con artist eerily similar
to  Bernie Madoff . The stakes are higher this time, as Hewes and
protege Ellen Parsons (Rose Byrne, better every season) go up
against High Star, a private war-fighting force that knows how
to battle.  The story begins when Ellen reconnects with old high-school
boyfriend Chris Sanchez (Chris Messina), a High Star soldier
just back from an illegal mission in  Afghanistan .  Suffering from post-traumatic stress, Sanchez has drawn the
attention of High Star’s politically connected leader Howard T.
Erickson (John Goodman, the latest in the show’s strong line of
against-type guest stars).  The juiciest role, though, goes to a full-tilt Dylan Baker
as a sadistic fixer who makes sure nothing and no one gets in
the way of High Star’s profits.  Sticking with chronology-hopping format, “Damages”
occasionally flashes forward three months with images of a
tortured, hooded figure in an overseas prison. Sanchez is the
most obvious guess, but the show has a way of surprising you.  Based on two reviewed episodes, it looks like “Damages”
isn’t tinkering with its proven formula. A little more risk-
taking would be nice, but it’s hard to argue with success.  One important footnote: After three seasons on the FX cable
network, “Damages” is moving to DirecTV’s Audience Network.
The network is only available to DirectTV subscribers, so if you
don’t have the satellite service, you’re out of luck.  “Damages” airs tomorrow on DirecTV’s Audience Network at 10
p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***1/2.  ‘Breaking Bad’  The drug kingpin on “ Breaking Bad ” speaks barely a line of
dialogue during a tense seven-minute interrogation scene in
Season Four’s first episode. But he’s got a box cutter in his
hand, and the show has the guts to let it do the talking.  Convincing the skittish that the pitch-dark series is worth
some stomach acid can be a tough sell. The comic moments that
lightened the show’s early days are mostly gone. What’s left is
a rich, compelling drama about the indecent choices of a
seemingly decent man.  Meth Maker  Bryan Cranston is Walter White, a cancer-stricken chemistry
teacher who started cooking meth to provide for his wife and
handicapped son. Over the course of three seasons, Walter’s
deepening involvement in  New Mexico ’s violent drug underground
has left him with options ranging from heinous to wretched.  Last season ended as Walter’s young partner Jesse (Aaron Paul, as good as Cranston) appeared to execute Gale (David
Costabile), a lovably goofy friend who turned into a potential
rival.  “When you make it Gale versus me or Gale versus Jesse, Gale
loses,” Walter tells drug boss Gus (Giancarlo Esposito).  Jesse’s emotional deterioration hardly looks like winning.
“Breaking Bad” isn’t always easy to watch, but turning away is
harder.  “Breaking Bad” airs July 17 on AMC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ****  ‘Rescue Me’  The 10th anniversary of 9/11 is a fitting and, frankly,
welcome end point for “ Rescue Me ,” Denis Leary’s sometimes
searing, often unsteady chronicle of Trade Tower survivor guilt
among New York’s firefighters.  The dramedy ran low on fresh ideas at least a season or two
ago, and this summer’s seventh and final batch of episodes does
little more than run out the clock on the 9/11 timeline.  “Normal is dead and buried underneath  Ground Zero ,” says
Leary’s cynical smoke-eater Tommy Gavin. Pregnant wife Janet
(Andrea Roth) has demanded that Tommy abandon the brotherhood in
favor of a safer job. So will he or won’t he?  If the question of Tommy’s fate seems less urgent than it
once did, the blame falls on the series’ stubborn resistance to
emotional follow-through. Tragedies on “Rescue Me” are routine,
honest consequences rare.  In the premiere episode, Tommy’s young firefighter nephew
Damien (Michael Zegen) remains severely brain-damaged after a
building collapse last season. Yet the horror of that situation
seems barely to register on the “Rescue Me” characters, most
jarringly so in Callie Thorne’s cartoonish Sheila, Damian’s mom.  Also in the first few episodes, “Rescue Me” rehashes old
plots and jokes. Is probie Mike (Michael Lombardi) really gay?
Will Lou (John Scurti) lose weight? Will Black Shawn (Larenz Tate) marry Tommy’s daughter Colleen (Natalie Distler)?  The show has earned enough goodwill to keep me around for
the answers. But I’m watching that clock too.  “Rescue Me” airs tomorrow on FX at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 