-- 
Baseball’s All-Star Game Faces Player Exodus, Slipping Television Ratings

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-12T13:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/baseball-s-all-star-game-faces-player-exodus-slipping-television-ratings.html
Major League Baseball  and  News
Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox network say interest in the All-Star Game remains
high, even if record player withdrawals and low ratings signal
otherwise.  Baseball’s 82nd All-Star Game will be played tonight at
Chase Field in Phoenix, home of the Arizona Diamondbacks.  With  Derek Jeter , Mariano Rivera and  Alex Rodriguez  of the
 New York Yankees  among 16 All-Stars not participating, a record
84 players were selected this season for the American and
National League teams. It surpasses the previous high of 82 set
last year, when ratings on Fox were the lowest in the history of
baseball’s midseason showcase.  “You’ve got hit cable shows that didn’t exist 10 years ago
to draw people’s attention,” Eric Shanks, co-president and
chief operating officer of Fox Sports Media Group, said in a
telephone interview. “The fact that sports and an event like
the All-Star Game can deliver a rating in the sevens and high
single digits I think is amazing considering people are being
pulled in a bunch of different directions.”  Fox’s 7.5 rating last year, when the National League ended
a 13-year winless streak with a 3-1 victory in Anaheim,
 California , was down 15.7 percent from the 2009 game at New
York’s Yankee Stadium.  The lowest previous rating was an 8.1 in 2005, according to
Nielsen Co., which lists data back to 1967, when the game drew a
25.6 rating. Last year’s game still drew more viewers than any
other program on any network that night, said Shanks, adding
that this year’s commercial slots sold out two weeks ago.  Player Absences  Player absences aren’t an indication that the All-Star Game
may be losing its pulling power, either, said Michael Weiner,
executive director of the MLB Players Association.  “Players for the most part want to participate in the All-
Star Game,” Weiner told  ESPN.com  yesterday. “They want to be
here. Look at the number of guys who can’t play but still come,
whether it’s the starting pitchers or a  Jose Reyes . So I think
it’s still a big deal.”  Reyes, the  New York Mets ’ shortstop, will be in the NL
dugout tonight although he’s on the disabled list with a
strained left hamstring. Six pitchers -- CC Sabathia of the
Yankees,  Seattle ’s Felix Hernandez,  Detroit ’s Justin Verlander,
Tampa Bay’s  James Shields , Philadelphia’s Cole Hamels and  San
Francisco ’s Matt Cain -- won’t participate because of a rule
that excludes them if they started their team’s final game
before the All-Star break.  Missing Yankees  Rodriguez of the Yankees will miss the game after having
knee surgery yesterday, while Rivera is sitting out this year
because of soreness in his pitching arm. Jeter isn’t attending
the All-Star Game, saying he wants to rest his injured calf. He
played six straight games and got his 3,000th career hit after
returning from the disabled list on July 4.  “It’s too bad that Jeter in particular is not here,
because of what he accomplished over the weekend,” Phillies
chairman Bill Giles said at a news conference in Phoenix. “It
is a bit of a problem and baseball should study it.”  Roy Halladay  of the Phillies will be the NL’s starting
pitcher against Jered Weaver of the Los Angeles Angels for the
AL.  “It’s a tremendous honor for me,” said Weaver, who made
his first All-Star appearance last year. “To be able to share
the mound with a guy like Roy Halladay and all of the other
pitchers, it’s a very humbling experience.”  Leadoff Batters  Yankees outfielder Curtis Granderson will bat first for the
American League, with Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Jose Bautista, the league leader with 31 home runs, batting fourth.
Yankees second baseman Robinson Cano, who won the Home Run Derby
last night, is batting eighth.  Milwaukee Brewers second baseman Rickie Weeks will lead off
for the NL, followed by Mets outfielder Carlos Beltran.  At stake again is home-field advantage for the winning
league in the  World Series . After the NL won last year, the
Giants got to host the first two World Series games -- winning
both -- and went on to capture the best-of-seven championship in
five games.  “Baseball’s All-Star Game has been a staple of America’s
summers,” said Shanks, 39. “It’s the point at which the second
half of the season kicks off, races become tighter and people
feel like games become that much more important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  