-- 
Berlusconi Vows to Hasten Passage of Italy’s $56 Billion Deficit Reduction

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-07-12T16:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/berlusconi-vows-to-hasten-passage-of-italy-s-56-billion-deficit-reduction.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  vowed to hasten passage of a 40 billion-euro ($56
billion) deficit-cutting plan to stop a market selloff that
threatens  Europe ’s single currency.  The “crisis prompts us to speed up” approval of the
budget cuts, the premier said today in an e-mailed statement,
his first public comments on a rout that saw Italian stocks lose
almost 7.5 percent over two sessions and bond yields soar to the
highest in a decade. Speaking of the austerity plan, Berlusconi
pledged “to bolster its content and draw up additional measures
aimed at balancing the budget by 2014.”  The government sold 6.75 billion euros of 12-month bills
today, its first auction since borrowing costs began soaring
amid concern that  Italy  may follow  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal 
in seeking a European Union-led bailout. After the sale, Italian
stocks emerged from a  bear market , defined as losses of more
than 20 percent from a previous high, and yields on 10-year
Italian bonds retreated from a euro-era high of 6.02 percent.  “The crisis in confidence that has battered financial
markets and hit Italy in recent days is a threat for everyone
and that effects the single currency, the most concrete element
of European unity,” Berlusconi said. The premier added the
country’s banks are “solid” and his government and opposition
parties are determined to defend Italy.  Tremonti, Berlusconi  The market’s plunge in Italy, the third most-indebted
nation in the world, overshadowed talks of the region’s finance
chiefs in Brussels on a second package for Greece to follow the
110 billion-euro lifeline it received in May 2010.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  left the meeting early
today to return to Italy to work on passing his budget-cut plan
in parliament. The EU supports Italy’s austerity plan and will
“closely monitor the implementation” of the measures, European
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters after the talks.  The bulk of the budget measures passed by the Cabinet
earlier this month won’t be taken until 2013, when general
elections are due. Market turmoil has been stoked by investor
concern about their implementation and growing tensions between
Tremonti and Berlusconi, who last week criticized his finance
minister for not being “a team player.”  “Berlusconi and Co. must back down and give Tremonti full
support immediately,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . Of all the
euro-region countries that are sensitive “to rising debt
servicing costs, Italy tops the list, so it can’t afford for
this colossal rise in long-term rates to be anything other than
very short-term.”  President Giorgio Napolitano yesterday urged the government
to seek an agreement with the opposition for a “very quick”
approval of the budget plan. The upper house of parliament will
vote to approve the package by the end of July 14, Senate
President Renato Schifani said in remarks broadcast on Sky TG24.  Italy’s opposition parties will allow the final vote on the
budget package in the lower house, or Chamber of Deputies, by
Friday in order to have the measures approved before markets
open July 18, according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  