-- 
MBIA Gains on Speculation of Accord With BofA on Mortgage-Debt Protection

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o ,   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-12T20:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/mbia-merrill-agree-to-drop-mortgage-debt-protection-suit-1-.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  shares surged after the
bond insurer agreed with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to dismiss a
lawsuit over protection against mortgage-debt defaults,
prompting speculation that the two firms are near a wider
settlement of claims tied to soured subprime home loans.  The suit is among several between Bank of America, the firm
that bought Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008 and Merrill
Lynch & Co. in 2009, and MBIA, which guaranteed Wall Street’s
toxic mortgage debt. The companies agreed to voluntarily dismiss
the case, not bring it again and pay their own legal fees,
according to a filing yesterday in New York state court.  “This is likely a precursor to a wider, comprehensive
settlement which resolves all outstanding litigation against
Bank of America and MBIA,” said Manal Mehta, a partner at
Branch Hill Capital, a San Francisco-based hedge fund that
invests in Armonk, New York-based MBIA. “Any meaningful
settlement would have dramatic positive implications for the
credit quality of MBIA.”  MBIA rose 58 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $9.04 as of 4:15
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Bank of
America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, slipped 14 cents to $10.21.  MBIA sued the bank to unwind or recover payouts on $5.7
billion of credit-default swaps and related insurance sold
against collateralized debt obligations. The firm, the largest
bond insurer during the 2008 financial crisis, claimed that
efforts by Merrill Lynch to market the swaps contracts were part
of a scheme to offload deteriorating loans from 2006 and 2007.  Breach of Contract  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, and  Bill Halldin  of Bank of
America declined to comment.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, is working to stanch losses tied to takeovers led by his
predecessor Kenneth D. Lewis. Moynihan announced $20.4 billion
in second-quarter charges last month, including an $8.5 billion
deal with institutional investors and $5.5 billion set aside for
future claims. That followed earlier settlements with  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  and bond insurer Assured Guaranty Ltd.  “We will fight and represent your interest to the point
where we got the interests represented,” Moynihan said in a
June 1 conference. “There is a point where fighting doesn’t
have any value.”  Bank of America had  $6.2 billion  set aside as of the first
quarter to cover claims from insurers and bond buyers, who said
that the lender created mortgages based on false or missing
information. There were $13.6 billion in outstanding claims at
the time, $5.3 billion of which came from bond insurers, the
bank said.  Estimated Recoveries  MBIA has booked $2.7 billion in estimated recoveries on its
balance sheet for mortgage-bond repurchase claims as of the
first quarter, the firm said in a May filing. The insurer said
it believes it is entitled to collect the full $4.6 billion of
losses it has incurred on the debt. Through September, MBIA had
paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage securities sponsored by
Countrywide, Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown said in February.  Bank of America and Merrill Lynch are among financial
institutions challenging a 2009 split of MBIA Insurance Corp.
that moved the insurer’s municipal bond guarantee business into
another unit, claiming that the restructuring was intended to
defraud policyholders.  Bank’s Lawsuits  The bank’s suits were “posturing to get a better price on
repurchase settlements rather than actually wanting to get the
MBIA split undone,” said Robert Haines, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc., in an interview.  An eventual settlement may cost Bank of America “in the
higher end” of a $2 billion to $3 billion range, Haines said.  Banks including Barclays Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Royal Bank of Canada have dropped out of the banks’ challenge of
MBIA’s restructuring. In addition to the fraudulent conveyance
suit, the banks also are suing under New York’s Article 78,
which allows court review of state administrative decisions.  The cost to protect against defaults by both MBIA and its
MBIA Insurance unit dropped amid the settlement speculation.
Five-year credit-default swaps on the parent company fell 2.6
percentage points to 17.9 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it
would cost $1.79 million initially and $500,000 annually to
protect $10 million of obligations for five years.  Swaps on MBIA Insurance fell 1.6 percentage point to 31.3
percent upfront, CMA prices show.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith, 09601324, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  