-- 
Bloomberg LP Appoints Daniel L. Doctoroff as CEO

-- B y  
-- 
2011-07-12T13:42:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/bloomberg-lp-appoints-daniel-l-doctoroff-as-ceo.html
                                
Press Release  Peter T. Grauer to remain Chairman and Tom F. Secunda Named Vice
Chairman  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg LP, the global business and financial
information, analytics and media company, announced today an
evolution of its senior management team.  Effective August 1,
Daniel L. Doctoroff will become Chief Executive Officer and
President of Bloomberg and will manage all aspects of the day-
to-day operations of the company.  Doctoroff will continue to report to Bloomberg Chairman, Peter
T. Grauer, who said “One of the critical elements of Bloomberg’s
remarkable growth over the past 30 years has been our capacity
to evolve to meet changing internal and external needs and
opportunities.  In addition to our very successful core
businesses, the Bloomberg Terminal and Bloomberg News, we have
started 8 new businesses just in the past few years.  Dan is
perfectly suited to manage our increasingly diversified business
model.”  Grauer will continue to serve as Chairman, a role he has held
for 10 years.  In this capacity, he will manage high-level
customer, government and other external relationships and will
oversee Bloomberg’s Legal, Compliance, Security, Talent
Development, Sustainability and Philanthropy functions.  Doctoroff, who currently serves as President of the company,
commented “Over the past three years, the pace of change in the
markets and in our organization has been extraordinary.
Bloomberg has invested aggressively to capitalize on the
disruptions and opportunities that we have seen emerge.  As a
result, we now have a more complex, and still uniquely
interdependent, web of businesses within the company.  I look
forward to working with Peter and the rest of my Bloomberg
colleagues to lead the company during this exciting new chapter
in the Bloomberg success story.”  Bloomberg has grown every year since its founding 30 years ago
and achieved record financial performance in 2010.  Grauer and Doctoroff also announced that Thomas F. Secunda has
been appointed as a Vice Chairman of the firm.  Secunda
currently manages Bloomberg’s largest business unit, Financial
Products, and is also the leader of the company’s Research and
Development Team.  Secunda was one of the four original founders
of Bloomberg LP.  Grauer and Doctoroff said “Tom Secunda has been at the forefront
of Bloomberg’s remarkable rise in the past 30 years.  Other than
our name founder, no one has been more responsible for our
success.  He continues to be our top product strategist and the
embodiment of the Bloomberg culture of hard work and innovation
on behalf of our customers.”  Grauer, before coming to Bloomberg full-time in 2002, was a
Senior Partner at CSFB Private Equity and a Managing Director of
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.  Doctoroff, who joined Bloomberg
in January 2008, was previously Deputy Mayor of  New York City 
for  Economic Development , Manager Partner of Oak Hill Capital
Partners and an investment banker at  Lehman Brothers .  Before
helping to found Bloomberg in 1982, Secunda was a fixed income
trader at Morgan Stanley and worked in system research at
 Salomon Brothers .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than
300,000 subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions
build on the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to
allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data
and information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Ty Trippet, +1 212-617-2443,  ttrippet@bloomberg.net 
