-- 
BMW Increases 2011 Earnings, Volume Outlook, Citing Stronger Vehicle Sales

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-12T17:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/bmw-increases-2011-earnings-volume-outlook-citing-stronger-vehicle-sales.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , raised its profit and
sales forecasts, saying strong second-quarter demand across
global auto markets will prevail in the next months.  BMW’s automotive division now anticipates that earnings
before interest and taxes will exceed 10 percent of revenue in
2011 on a sales of more than 1.6 million vehicles, the company
said. The previous forecast was for an Ebit margin wider than 8
percent and deliveries in excess of 1.5 million units.  “The revision is better than expected,” said Aleksej Wunrau, an analyst at BHF-Bank AG in  Frankfurt  with a “market
weight” rating on BMW. “A double-digit margin is great news.
Demand for luxury cars is undeniably in place and BMW is clearly
benefiting. They’re heading for excellent financial results.”  Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  is looking to
hire 2,000 people this year as BMW seeks to add capacity in
emerging markets and fend off Volkswagen AG’s Audi brand, which
has outsold  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz this year. Munich-based
BMW said today it’s aiming to strike a “reasonable balance”
in sales volumes between  Europe ,  Asia  and the Americas.  Stock Rebound  Shares of the maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce brand cars
jumped almost 4 percent from their intraday level following the
release and closed at 67.24 euros in Frankfurt, up 0.7 percent.  “Thanks to strong demand on the international auto markets
during the second quarter and for the full year, BMW now expects
that business performance and earnings will be significantly
better than previously forecast,” the group said in a statement.  Full-year pretax earnings will show a “greater
improvement” than originally predicted, the carmaker said,
while more attractive market conditions and a less acute risk
situation will allow its Financial Services unit to post second-
quarter earnings of more 100 million euros ($140 million).  Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on May 4
that second-half growth will likely slow because of tougher
year-earlier comparisons, while models including an overhauled
version of the 1-Series compact and a new Mini coupe will add
about 500 million euros to expenses.  No Slump  BMW said today that sales and earnings growth in the
automotive segment “is likely to be dampened” during the
second half by changes in the model portfolio, as well as new
products and the production start-up of successor models.  BHF’s Wunrau said that negative effects from model
changeovers and one-time items “won’t cause profitability to
slump as initially expected.”  BMW is expanding its lineup to reach a goal of selling more
than 2 million cars and SUVs annually by 2020. The “I” sub-
brand will debut in 2013 with the i3, a battery-powered city
car, and the company is also planning the i8, a hybrid supercar
based on the Vision Efficient Dynamics prototype.  BMW said today it will continue to target a return on
capital employed in excess of 26 percent and an Ebit margin of
between 8 and 10 percent in 2012. The number of vehicles handed
over to customers jumped almost 20 percent to 833,366 in the
first half. Second-quarter results will be released on Aug. 2.  Growing demand for luxury vehicles also spurred sales at
Porsche SE’s automotive division, which today reported a 29
percent gain in first-half deliveries to 10,667 cars.  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , seeking to merge with Porsche, said today six-month sales of
namesake-brand vehicles rose 12 percent to 2.53 million units.  BMW’s new guidance underlines its ability to benefit from
strong demand, though the potential for earnings improvement may
be “limited,” Jasko Terzic, an analyst with Frankfurt-based DZ
Bank AG, said in a note, adding that he favors Daimler and VW.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  