-- 
Bank of Japan Raises Economic Assessment, Leaves Key Interest Rate Near 0%

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-07-12T07:55:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/bofj-becomes-more-upbeat-about-growth.html
The  Bank of Japan  raised its
economic assessment for a second month after companies ramped up
production at the fastest pace in more than 50 years.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy board left the
benchmark lending rate between zero and 0.1 percent at a meeting
in  Tokyo  today, the central bank said in a statement. They also
kept unchanged a 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) fund to buy
assets such as corporate bonds and exchange-traded funds.  Automakers from Toyota Motor Corp. to Honda Motor Co. are
restoring facilities and hiring workers to make up for lost
output from the March 11 temblor, and companies expect profits
to surge 21 percent in the second half of the year. Increased
optimism about the rebound fueled gains in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average last month, making it the world’s best performing
developed market benchmark index.  “The BOJ is confident because supply-chain constraints are
easing faster than expected,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities in Tokyo and a former central bank
official. “They haven’t been factoring in risks like  Europe ’s
debt crisis, which has been making markets volatile, so they may
need to alter their stance if more negative factors emerge.”  Stocks slid 1.4 percent to 9,925.92 on concern Europe’s
debt crisis would spread, weakening earnings prospects exporters.
The yen, which has appreciated more than 4 percent against the
dollar in the past three months, traded at 79.80.  Risks to Outlook  The central bank  today said  developments in the U.S. and
European economies were among risks for the outlook. The Bank of
 Japan  is expected to keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged
until at least mid-2013, according to 11 of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The BOJ cut its growth forecast for the year ending March
2012 to 0.4 percent from an April estimate of 0.6 percent. It
kept its predictions for a 2.9 percent expansion in the
following year and inflation of 0.7 percent for both fiscal 2011
and fiscal 2012, according to today’s statement.  “Japan’s economic activity is picking up with an easing of
the supply-side constraints caused by the earthquake disaster,”
the central bank said in a statement. Increasing output has
resulted in an “upturn” in exports, and household and business
sentiment has improved, it said.  Toyota and Honda said last month they plan to add thousands
of workers in Japan as they increase production. Toyota, the
world’s largest automaker, said domestic plants were running at
90 percent of planned levels in June, up from 50 percent in
April and May, when output was depressed by a shortage of parts
from suppliers.  Spending Rebound  Manufacturers see business prospects improving later this
year and plan to spend more on plant and equipment while also
stepping up hiring of workers, the central bank’s Tankan survey
showed. Conditions for service providers have also been
improving. Retail sales fell at the slowest pace in May since
the disaster and wages rose for the first time since the temblor.  Economists said recent signs of a slowdown in the U.S.,
Japan’s second-largest export destination, and increased
electricity constraints at home in the aftermath of a nuclear
accident in Fukushima may cloud the outlook. The U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent in June, the highest this
year, as payrolls grew at the slowest pace in nine months.  Nuclear Plants Shut  Japan’s government yesterday pledged to keep all nuclear
reactors halted by the accident idle until it completes safety
tests. Almost two-thirds of the nation’s 54 reactors have been
shut by the earthquake or taken offline because of regular
checks.  Shirakawa said today he was “very concerned” about power
shortages prompting companies to move factories overseas,
lowering the nation’s growth potential.  “Japan’s medium-term growth prospects have stagnated since
the earthquake,” said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at
Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo. “Lack of clarity
over when the nuclear reactors will be re-started and the
electricity supply constraints related to that have increased
uncertainty and may prompt manufacturers to shift production
overseas.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has proposed a 2 trillion yen
second extra budget for rebuilding after the quake. The disaster
has left more than 22,000 people dead or missing, and the
government estimates it caused 16.9 trillion yen in damage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  