-- 
Brazilian Soybean Stockpiles Increase to Record, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-12T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/brazilian-soybean-stockpiles-increase-to-record-oil-world-says.html
Soybean stockpiles in  Brazil , the
world’s second-biggest producer, rose to a record at the end of
June on slower exports of the oilseed, Oil World said.  Inventories came to about 39 million metric tons as of June
30, up 19 percent from a year earlier, the Hamburg-based
researcher said in a report today. First-half Brazilian soybean
exports fell 2 percent, it said. Production will total a record
74 million tons, up 7.4 percent, as use gains 0.4 percent,
according to the report.  “Brazilian soybean stocks are high,” Oil World said.
“The decline of Brazilian soybean exports mainly reflected a
reduction of exports to  China . China still remained the by far
leading destination, receiving 68 percent of total exports in
the first half of 2011.”  Weaker Chinese demand contributed to the 4.8 percent drop
this year by soybean futures in Chicago trading. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  raised its stockpile estimate for the
marketing year starting Sept. 1 to 61.97 million tons in a
report released today.  Brazilian soybean exports and processing into oil and meal
totaled 49 percent of national soybean production in the first
half, down from 53 percent last year, according to the report.
Global exports from April through June fell 11 percent from the
prior year, Oil World said. Demand has dropped in Africa,
 Mexico ,  Japan  and the European Union, according to the report.  “Feed demand suffered in a number of countries in recent
months owing to high prices and poor profitability of livestock
feeding, which also hurt crushings of soybeans,” Oil World
said. “In some countries an unusually large share of demand was
covered by imports of soya meal, which also occurred at the
expense of soybean imports and processing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 