-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Fall as Debt Crisis Spurs Growth Concern

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-07-12T21:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-debt-crisis-spurs-growth-concern.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts maturing after November fell on bets that
 Europe ’s debt crisis may weaken global growth and help  Brazil ’s
policy makers curb inflation.  Yields on the contract due in January, the most-actively
traded in Sao Paulo today, fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 12.48 percent. The contract due in January
2013 fell two basis points to 12.69 percent.  European stocks tumbled and the euro weakened after
European Union finance ministers failed to defuse the region’s
escalating debt crisis. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 1.9
percent to 1,121.27.  “If things continue getting worse abroad, it could have an
impact on projections for global growth and the prices of
commodities,” Mauricio Junqueira, who helps manage about $300
million at Squanto Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  European finance chiefs cast about for a strategy to halt
 Greece ’s debt spiral, reviving previously discarded ideas and
sharpening a dispute with central bankers as the contagion
spread to  Italy . Nine hours of talks yesterday yielded a six-
paragraph statement in which the 17 euro governments pledged to
flesh out a new master plan “shortly.” The meetings ended
today with all 27 European Union finance ministers plotting a
response to the release of bank stress tests later this week.  The euro touched $1.3837, the weakest since March 11,
before trading little changed.  Europe Debt Concern  Interest-rate futures contracts fell as European debt
concern overshadowed data showing Brazilian retail sales
rebounded in May, said Ures Folchini, head of fixed income at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  Retail sales rose in May at the fastest pace in two months,
recovering from an unexpected decline the previous month. Sales
rose 0.6 percent from April, in line with the median forecast of
30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 6.2 percent from a
year ago.  “The Brazilian economy continues growing, so the central
bank will continue to raise rates, which will in some way
control inflation,” Folchini said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo . “After that, this international scene of lower
growth will help them control inflation in the long term,” he
said.  The real weakened for a third straight day, falling 0.1
percent to 1.5791 per dollar, from 1.5775 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  