-- 
Break Media Said to Seek Investors to Expand Its Male-Oriented Websites

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-12T20:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/break-media-said-to-seek-investors-to-expand-its-male-oriented-websites.html
Break Media , the website operator
42-percent owned by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , is seeking
new investors to fund its expansion, three people with knowledge
of the situation said.  The Los Angeles-based Internet company, which reaches more
than 120 million male visitors a month through sites such as
Chickipedia, has hired Raine Group LLC for a strategic review,
said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Break Media is seeking partners to speed its growth and
drive more traffic to its websites. The company operates a Web
ad network and sites that include Mademan.com and
ScreenJunkies.com. They stream humor, TV shows, sports news and
short videos to 18-to-34-year-old men, according to the company
 website . Break.com, the namesake site, ranks 299th on
Alexa.com’s list of most-visited U.S. Internet addresses.  Peter Wilkes, a spokesman for Vancouver-based  Lions Gate ,
declined to comment, as did  Mary Beth Grover, an outside
spokeswoman for the Raine investment bank. Michael Kirkland, an
outside spokesman for Break Media, declined to comment.  Lions Gate, the independent studio and distributor of the
“Saw” horror movies, acquired its Break.com stake for $21.4
million in stock in June 2007, according to the studio’s
regulatory filings. The company, run from  Santa Monica ,
 California , also lent Break Media $9.7 million, the company
reported.  The film and TV company has said in the past it wants to
sell non-core assets, including digital properties. The company
is considering a sale of the TVGuide.com website, one of the
people said.  Closely held Break Media, led by Keith Richman, lost $5.7
million in the fiscal year that ended March 31, based on the
film’s studio’s reported losses on the holding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  