-- 
Buiter Says ECB to Revive Bond-Buying to Protect Italian Auction This Week

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-07-12T13:07:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/buiter-says-ecb-will-revive-bond-buying-program-to-protect-italy-auctions.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Willem Buiter  said the  European Central Bank  will revive its
bond-buying program to safeguard this week’s auction of Italian
bonds.  “The ECB will intervene on whatever scale is necessary to
allow Italy to conduct its auction on Thursday,” Buiter, now
chief economist at Citigroup Inc., told reporters in  London 
today. “If the ECB doesn’t come in, the Italian bond auction is
likely to fail.”  The ECB said yesterday it refrained from buying government
debt for a 15th week after the purchase program issued 74
billion euros ($103 billion) of liquidity in the last 14 months.
Italy sells a series of bonds on July 14 with maturities ranging
from 2016 to 2026 at a time when investors are pushing up its
bond yields amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading.  “What we’re going to have is the ECB are going to be doing
the heavy lifting,” said Buiter.  The Frankfurt-based bank may try to get greater guarantees
for the debt it buys and will seek to extract “a pound of
flesh” from governments by using the purchases to demand they
impose greater austerity and avoid steps that could spur credit
rating companies to declare a nation is in selective default, he
said.  October’s retirement of President  Jean-Claude Trichet  may
make the ECB less dogmatic in its aversion to so-called
selective defaults and credit events, Buiter said.  Trichet’s past leadership of the Paris Club, which oversees
debt restructurings, likely makes “intolerable” to him the
idea that a default could occur on his watch in Europe and
successor  Mario Draghi  will be more pragmatic, he said.  “Logic will be applied instead of dogma and there will be
progress,” said Buiter, who expects a restructuring of Greek
debt in 2012 at the latest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  