-- 
BYD’s First-Half Profit May Drop Up to 95% on End of Perks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-13T00:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/byd-co-s-first-half-net-income-may-drop-as-much-as-95-on-year.html
BYD Co., the Chinese automaker part-
owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said first-
half profit dropped as much as 95 percent after sales fell
because of the end of preferential taxes for small cars.  Net income for the six months ended June 30 may be 121.1
million yuan ($19 million) to 363.2 million yuan, compared with
2.42 billion yuan a year earlier, according to a preliminary
forecast filed to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. The
Shenzhen, China-based automaker had an 84 percent decline in
first-quarter profit.  “There was a decline in automobile sales volume and
revenue as a result of cancellation of preferential  tax policy 
on passenger vehicles with emission below 1.6 liters and
intensifying market competition,” BYD said in the statement.  BYD’s vehicle sales fell for 11 straight months through
June, dropping 8 percent last month to 32,515, as demand slowed
and rivals including General Motors Co. and Nissan Motor Co.
introduced new models. The decline in June compared with a 6.2
percent industrywide increase in deliveries of cars to dealers,
the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said last week.  Chinese auto sales have increased at a slower rate this
year after surging 32 percent to a record in 2010, as the
government phased out incentives and imposed purchase
restrictions to curb traffic congestion.  Handset Business  BYD’s handset component and assembly business declined
because one of the company’s major customers deferred some sales
orders, according to yesterday’s filing. The company said the
financial information was prepared in accordance with Chinese
accounting standards.  Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger said July 2 that BYD
has the ability to recover from missteps and that its executives
“just put their head down and try harder” when they fail.  BYD dropped 6.1 percent to close at HK$23 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday, before the filing. The shares have dropped 44
percent this year, compared with the 6 percent decline in the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The company’s Shenzhen-traded
shares have risen 75 percent since their June 30 debut.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  