-- 
California Schools Suffering as Proposition 13 Tax Cap Breeds Fiscal Chaos

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/california-schools-suffering-as-proposition-13-tax-cap-breeds-fiscal-chaos.html
Three decades after Californians
voted to limit their property taxes and helped start a national
revolt with Proposition 13, some consequences are still
emerging.  The average  California  real-estate tax rate is 60 percent
lower than when the law passed in 1978, according to the Board
of Equalization, the state’s tax administrator. The most
populous U.S. state  ranks  28th nationally in combined state and
local property-tax collections per person in a 2011 study by the
Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Yet the measure that inspired tax-limiting laws in New York
and  New Jersey  is also blamed for California’s perennial budget
crises, the proliferation of strip malls and auto dealerships, a
decline in the state’s once top-10 ranking for spending on
students and unequal tax bills among neighbors.  “Prop. 13 helped usher in the modern anti-tax movement,”
said  Robert Ward , the deputy director of the  Rockefeller
Institute  of Government in  Albany ,  New York . “Now, other states
look at Prop. 13 as an example of what to avoid.”  Proposition 13 was born in a petition drive that gathered
enough signatures to get on a statewide ballot, bypassing the
legislative process. It passed with 65 percent of the vote.  The measure rolled back and froze assessments for both
residential and commercial property at 1976 levels. It set the
tax rate at 1 percent of that valuation, and limited annual
increases of the value to 2 percent. Only when property is sold
is its value reassessed. That means people who have owned the
same property for years may have a far lower tax bill than a
neighbor who just bought a comparable home.  More Oregonians  If it weren’t for the tax cap, “a lot more Californians
would be called Oregonians or Nevadans,” said Kris Vosburgh,
executive director of the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association,
named after the initiative’s late author. “We have a high-tax
state. People see jobs and taxpayers leaving the state. People
see that the only defense they have is Prop. 13.”  In the first year under the new system, property tax
collections dropped 52 percent to $4.9 billion from $10.3
billion in 1978, according to Board of Equalization data.  Cities and counties, unable to raise property taxes,
realized that one way to get more revenue was to encourage
businesses that generate sales taxes, such as auto dealerships
and strip malls. California’s statewide sales-tax rate, which
was lowered to 7.25 percent from 8.25 percent this month, is
still the highest in the U.S. Local governments are allowed to
add as much as another 1.5 percent.  Cities, Counties, Schools  Before Proposition 13, cities, counties, school districts
and other local agencies could set their own tax rates and
collect and spend the proceeds as they saw fit. The ballot
measure changed that, putting the state in charge of allocating
proceeds of a property tax set at a statewide, uniform rate.  “Very few people anticipated the increased role of
Sacramento as a byproduct of 13’s passage,” said  Dan Schnur , a
Republican former political consultant who now directs the  Unruh
Institute of Politics  at the University of  Southern California ,
in  Los Angeles . “Arguably that’s had as great an impact on how
California functions as the freeze on property taxes did.”  Proposition 13 also required that any statewide tax
increase be approved by a two-thirds vote of each chamber in the
Legislature. The struggle to find compromise to fill deficits
without higher levies led to a record 100-day late spending plan
in 2010. The previous year, the state ran out of cash and had to
issue $2.6 billion of IOUs.  Critics such as Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, a San Francisco
Democrat, say Californians eventually will have to come to terms
with what he called an inequitable tax structure that sapped
schools of funds and lets business avoid assessments.  Education Funding  Since Proposition 13 became law, California has slid from
7th place among states to 27th place in spending per pupil,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, as the law constricted the
biggest traditional source of education money.  Ammiano, a former public-school teacher, has introduced a
 bill  that would create a tiered system that would assess
commercial and industrial property differently from residential.
It would require land and buildings owned by publicly traded
companies to be reassessed every three years instead of just
when the assets change hands.  “I know there is a way to do it, where seniors are
protected and without making public education suffer,” Ammiano
said in a telephone interview. “There’s a way to do to it that
makes commercial property man up and stop playing Three-Card
Monte with this law for their own advantage.”  Effort to Weaken  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat who was also governor when
Proposition 13 was enacted, said in June at a San Francisco
housing conference that his failure to win Republican support to
extend $11 billion of now-expired taxes and fees to offset
deeper spending cuts may spur a move to weaken Proposition 13’s
commercial property protections.  “I believe there will be efforts to accelerate the
reassessment of commercial property,” he said. “I think the
core of Prop. 13 is very important to Californians.”  Vosburgh of the Jarvis Taxpayers Association said any
attempt to weaken Proposition 13 is doomed to fail, as
opposition is driven by a “fringe element” of public-employee
unions with limited support. Proposition 13 remains as valid now
as it was in 1978, he said, with only one possible change.  “Well, maybe they could reduce the tax rate,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  