-- 
Canada May International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-12T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/canada-may-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international merchandise trade report for May
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada's merchandise exports increased 1.2% in May
while imports rose 1.1%. As a result, Canada's trade
deficit with the world narrowed from $857 million in April
to $814 million in May.  Exports increased to $36.9 billion as volumes rose 1.5%
while prices decreased by 0.3%. The higher volumes were
mainly led by the machinery and equipment as well as the
automotive products sectors. The energy products sector
was the main contributor to the decline in prices.  Imports increased to $37.8 billion, as all sectors
except energy products recorded gains. Prices rose 2.1%,
with the increase led by energy products and industrial
goods and materials. Volumes decreased by 1.0%.  Canada's trade surplus with the  United States  narrowed
from $4.0 billion in April to $3.7 billion in May. Exports
to the United States edged up 0.1% to $27.1 billion.
Imports increased 1.1% to $23.4 billion in May, a third
straight monthly increase.  Exports to countries other than the United States rose
4.4% to $9.8 billion in May, on the strength of higher
exports to the European Union. Imports increased 1.1% to
$14.4 billion, as most of Canada's principal trading areas
registered gains. As a result, Canada's trade deficit with
countries other than the United States narrowed from $4.8
billion in April to $4.6 billion in May.  Industrial goods and materials lead the increase in
exports  Exports of industrial goods and materials rose 4.0% to
$9.5 billion in May, on the strength of metals and alloys
as well as chemicals, plastics and fertilizers. The main
contributors to the gains in these respective sub-sectors
were higher exports of gold to the  United Kingdom , and
potash to  China .  Exports of machinery and equipment gained 4.8% to $6.3
billion, as volumes rose 5.3%. Exports of aircraft,
engines and parts increased 34.7% to $1.0 billion. Exports
of television, telecommunication and related equipment
also contributed to the gain in the sector.  Exports of automotive products increased 3.9% to $4.9
billion in May. The majority of this increase was in
exports of passenger autos and chassis. Gains in exports
of motor vehicle parts also contributed to the increase in
the sector.  Strong gains in most sectors were partially offset by a
decrease in exports of energy products, which fell 3.6% to
$9.1 billion. Crude petroleum made up the bulk of the
decline, falling 5.8% to $5.2 billion.  Imports increase in most sectors  Imports of automotive products rose 3.6% to $5.8
billion in May. Imports of passenger autos and chassis
increased 12.4%, following a 22.2% decline in April.  Imports of industrial goods and materials increased for
the third consecutive month, rising 2.2% to a record high
of $8.3 billion in May, as a result of higher prices.
Imports of precious metals and alloys, mainly gold and
silver, accounted for over half of this growth and reached
a record high.  Imports of machinery and equipment edged up 0.7% to
$10.3 billion in May, as gains were observed in aircraft
and other transportation equipment, and industrial and
agricultural machinery. Higher imports of aircraft,
engines and parts led the increase. Imports of industrial
and agricultural machinery posted a fourth straight
monthly increase, mainly on the strength of imports of
engines, turbines and motors.  Plant shutdowns due to maintenance were the main factor
behind lower imports of energy products, which fell 5.2%
to $4.3 billion. Imports of crude petroleum and other
energy products decreased 7.2% and 2.8%, respectively.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada's
international balance of payments, which also includes
trade in services, investment income, current transfers as
well as capital and financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are
available on both a balance of payments (BOP) and a
customs basis for the United States,  Japan  and the United
Kingdom. Trade data for all other individual countries are
available on a customs basis only. Balance of payments
data are derived from customs data by making adjustments
for characteristics such as valuation, coverage, timing
and residency. These adjustments are made to conform to
the concepts and definitions of the Canadian System of
National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a balance of payments
basis, seasonally adjusted in current dollars. Constant
dollars are calculated using the Laspeyres volume formula.  Revisions  In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current
year revisions are reflected in both the customs and BOP
based data. The previous year's customs data are revised
with the release of the January and February reference
months as well as on a quarterly basis. The previous two
years of customs based data are revised annually and are
released in February with the December reference month.
The previous year's BOP based data are revised with the
release of the January, February and March reference
months. Revisions to BOP based data for the previous three
years are released annually in June with the April
reference month.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of
import and export documentation, incorrect information on
customs forms, replacement of estimates produced for the
energy sector with actual figures, changes in
classification of merchandise based on more current
information, and changes to seasonal adjustment factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM
tables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  