-- 
Canada Dollar Climbs on Economy, Haven Appeal as Crude Oil Price Advances

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-12T20:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/canada-s-dollar-weakens-for-a-third-day-on-increased-global-risk-aversion.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated as
commodities such as crude oil advanced on speculation debt woes
in  Europe  may ease, making higher-yielding currencies more
attractive.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known, pared
gains against the greenback and extended its rise versus the
euro after Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s sovereign
debt rating to junk. The  Bank of Canada  will sell C$3.5 billion
($3.6 billion) of two-year notes tomorrow.  “There’s a ‘safe-haven lite’ association with the Canadian
dollar,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“The Canadian economy is still relatively well-positioned. We
still expect rate increases to come somewhere down the road.”  The Canadian currency advanced 0.3 percent to 96.58 cents
per U.S. dollar at 4:51 p.m. in Toronto, from 96.88 cents
yesterday. It rose as much as 0.8 percent to C$1.3487 per euro,
the strongest since March 11. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0355.  Crude for August delivery climbed 1.6 percent to $96.65 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil is Canada’s
biggest export. The MSCI World Index of stocks in developed
economies fell 0.6 percent.  Oil Boost  “ Oil prices  moving from $93.5 a barrel to $97 likely
helped” the Canadian dollar move higher,  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at the RBC Capital Markets unit of Royal
Bank of Canada, said in an e-mail. Auctions in Greece and  Italy 
as well as some buying of European Union periphery debt “seemed
to help cap periphery spreads and thus contagion fears,” he
said. “It wasn’t until sentiment improved that the Canadian
dollar started to move through the field.”  Canadian bonds were little changed, with the benchmark two-
year yield rising two basis points to 1.44 percent before
tomorrow’s auction of the debt. The price of the 2 percent
security maturing in August 2013 decreased 4 cents to C$101.12.  The two-year notes being sold tomorrow mature in November
2013. The previous two-year auction fetched an average yield of
1.57 percent and a bid-to-coverage ratio of 2.42 times, versus
an average of 2.6 times over the past five sales.  European Bonds  Italian and Spanish bonds fluctuated amid speculation the
 European Central Bank  will buy securities of the euro region’s
most-indebted nations to stabilize markets amid concern that the
debt crisis is worsening.  Italian bonds 10-year bond yields rose as much as 33 basis
points to 6.02 percent, a 13-year high, before erasing the
advance and falling 14 basis points to 5.55 percent. The rise
pushed the premium investors demand to hold the debt over German
bunds to a euro-era record of as much as 348 basis points. Italy
has more bonds outstanding than any other member of the 17-
nation euro area.  Canada’s currency was the best performer today after the
yen and Swiss franc among the 16 most-traded. The 17-nation
currency weakened against the dollar after Moody’s reduced
Ireland’s sovereign debt rating to Ba1 from Baa3 with a negative
outlook.  “We do seem to be in a situation of greater concern over
financial stability and we have long said that such scenarios
should see the Canadian dollar outperform as a bastion of
relative financial stability,” RBC’s Watt said.  The loonie, which earlier dropped as much as 0.9 percent
against the greenback, erased that loss after a report showed
the  U.S. trade deficit  increased in May to the widest level in
almost three years, reflecting a surge in crude oil imports.  The gap grew 15 percent to $50.2 billion, exceeding
forecasts of all 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
the biggest since October 2008, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . Exports held near April’s record.  “The  U.S. dollar  sold off on the worse-than-expected
data,” Osborne said. “The larger deficit may see U.S. growth
expectations nudged lower still.”  Canada’s trade deficit narrowed to C$814 million in May,
from a revised C$857 million a month earlier,  Statistics Canada 
said today. The figure was in line with the C$800 million
shortfall forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 23 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  