-- 
Catastrophes Cost Insurers $60B in First Half

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-07-12T09:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/catastrophes-cost-insurers-60b-in-first-half.html
Natural disasters, including the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , cost insurers about $60 billion
in the first half of this year, almost five times the average
since 2001,  Munich Re  said.  “Most of the losses were accounted for by the earthquake
in Japan,” the Munich-based company said in an e-mailed
 statement  today. The total economic losses of $265 billion in
the period exceeded the figure for all of 2005, previously the
costliest year on record.  Insurers such as Allianz SE and Axa SA and reinsurers,
which help them shoulder risks for clients, had their most
costly first quarter this year because of disasters including
the record earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March, a
cyclone and floods in  Australia  and the quakes that hit
Christchurch in  New Zealand  in February and June.  The Japan quake caused an overall economic loss of $210
billion, making it the costliest natural catastrophe on record,
Munich Re said. Losses assumed by insurers, which Munich Re
estimates at $30 billion, will not reach the $62.2 billion
caused by  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005, the reinsurer added.  Typically, the first six months of a year see lower insured
losses than the final six months, which are often affected by
hurricanes in the North Atlantic and typhoons in the Northwest
Pacific, Munich Re said.  Hurricane Season  No major hurricane has hit the U.S. coast so far this year.
Forecasts suggest the 2011 Atlantic season to be more active
than in an average year, which produces 11 named storms.  Hurricanes are watched closely because they are a threat to
oil and natural gas interests in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
agriculture in the U.S. South. Florida is the second-largest
citrus producer behind  Brazil , while the Gulf accounts for 31
percent of U.S. oil output and 43 percent of refining capacity.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, said in May it
had a first-quarter loss of 947 million euros ($1.3 billion) on
claims related to the disasters, while Swiss Reinsurance Co.,
its largest rival, posted a loss of $665 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  