-- 
Obama’s Proposals ‘Smoke, Mirrors’: McConnell

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-12T15:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/mcconnell-likens-obama-s-deficit-cutting-proposals-to-smoke-and-mirrors-.html
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said President  Barack Obama  is putting an expansion of
government ahead of the goal of a bipartisan plan to cut the
U.S. deficit, and said Democrats have prevented a large-scale
“grand bargain.”  ‘I was one of those who had long hoped we could do
something big for the country,’’ McConnell said in remarks on
the Senate floor today. “But in my view the president has
presented us with three choices: smoke and mirrors, tax hikes,
or default. Republicans choose none of the above.”  Instead, he said, “Republicans will choose a path that
actually reflects the will of the people -- which is to do the
responsible thing and ensure the government doesn’t default on
its obligations.”  McConnell scheduled a private meeting with Senate
Republicans today to get their views on the negotiations at the
White House scheduled to continue this afternoon.  Obama and congressional leaders in both parties are working
on a deficit-reduction plan that will gain enough Republican
support to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling
before an Aug. 2 deadline.  “After years of discussions and months of negotiations, I
have little question that as long as this president is in the
Oval Office, a real solution is unattainable,” McConnell said
in his toughest comments about the negotiations since bipartisan
talks began.  2012 Elections  Obama is pushing for a plan that would reduce projected
deficits by as much as $4 trillion over a decade or more and
include some tax increases that Republicans reject. Obama wants
a boost in the debt limit that would extend beyond the 2012
elections.  McConnell said Democrats’ proposals, including spending
cuts, are far too small, and fail to address fundamental changes
to Medicare and Medicaid that would sustain the programs in
future years.  The Obama administration is “too committed to big
government” and wants to freeze in place the expansion of
government over the last two years, McConnell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 