-- 
McConnell’s ‘Last-Choice’ Debt Plan Gives Mixed Signals on Reaching a Deal

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-13T18:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/mcconnell-said-to-propose-three-stage-process-for-raising-u-s-debt-limit.html
Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell ’s offer to hand President Barack Obama unilateral
power to raise the national debt ceiling got a warmer reception
on  Wall Street  than it did on  Capitol Hill , where lawmakers on
both sides of the aisle raised concerns.  While the proposal gave some market analysts confidence
that the U.S. will avert default, Republicans like Senator  Tom Coburn  and some Democrats like Senator Kent Conrad rejected it
as a political hoax that fails to address the debt. Leaders from
both parties in the House and Senate either offered cautious
praise or held back from publicly criticizing the plan.  In an effort to put the burden on the White House to
identify future spending cuts, McConnell offered his “last-
choice” plan as an alternative to deficit-reduction talks at
the White House that have yielded little progress. Officials
from both parties are scheduled to meet again today at 4 p.m.  “It would make it much easier to raise the debt limit,
which should reassure markets,”  Gus Faucher , director of
macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , said in response to an e-mail today. “It does
imply much greater willingness to make a deal, which is a
positive.”  ‘Worst Ideas’  The reaction from some lawmakers was negative. Conrad, who
heads the Senate Budget Committee, called the McConnell plan
“one of the worst ideas I have ever heard.” Any plan that
extends the debt limit without doing anything about the debt
“is an abdication of responsibility that is stunning,” said
the North Dakota Democrat.  “That dog don’t hunt,” said Representative Allen West, a
freshman Republican from  Florida . “Seems like an acquiescence
to me.”  The proposal’s chances of passing the Republican-controlled
House are obscured because of objections from Tea Party and
freshman Republicans like West. Still,  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics, said markets are comforted, at
least to a degree, because the plan suggests that lawmakers
recognize the gravity of a default.  “As soon as I heard that, I thought, well, that’s
positive,” Zandi said in an interview.  Ethan Siegal, who tracks Washington policy for
institutional investors, said McConnell’s plan adds to “the
market’s already decided certainty” that there will be some
resolution that prevents a default of government obligations.  ‘Going to Get Done’  “Investors firmly believe it’s going to get done,” said
Siegal, who is president of the Washington Exchange.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  described McConnell’s
proposal as “thoughtful and unique,” even as he called on both
sides to pull together on a more ambitious deal. House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said the plan by the Kentucky Republican has
some “merit” because it recognizes the debt ceiling must be
lifted.  Nonetheless, the absence of an agreement after several days
of talks among congressional leaders and the president augurs a
possible breakdown, said analyst Chris Krueger.  Even with McConnell’s alternative, “we are no closer to a
deal, votes, or a raise in the debt ceiling with the sand
continuing to run out of the hourglass,” Krueger, an analyst at
MF Global Washington Research Group, told clients in a note. He
said the odds are 40 percent that Congress won’t pass a debt-
ceiling bill before the Treasury’s stated Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the borrowing limit to avert a U.S. default.  ‘Major Crisis’  A newsletter to clients from FBR Capital Markets today
stated “roughly, a 25 percent probability that a final deal
will not be reached by the Aug. 2 deadline.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that
a failure by Congress to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit would lead to a “major crisis” and throw “shock waves”
through the financial system. Bernanke responded to a question
at a House Financial Services Committee hearing.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today that the
McConnell plan “is not the preferred option,” although the
administration doesn’t reject it out of hand. The White House
would prefer a more comprehensive plan, he said.  “Bigger is better,” Carney told reporters.  The White House is holding out hope the president can reach
a deal of $2.5 trillion or larger that includes revenue
increases and they expect other backup proposals between now and
Aug. 2, said a Democrat familiar with the negotiations.  Low Bond Yields  Even as politicians haggle over the debt ceiling,
government bond yields are at about the lowest this year. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries was 2.90 percent as of 1:32 p.m. New
York time after falling to a low this year of 2.81 percent on
July 12. That compares with an average of 7 percent during the
past four decades.  McConnell said his plan is intended to “do the responsible
thing and ensure the government doesn’t default on its
obligations.”  The proposal would let the president increase the limit in
three steps unless Congress disapproves by a two-thirds majority
-- a near impossibility with the Senate controlled by the
Democrats -- while Obama would also be required to offer
spending reductions. Those cuts would be advisory, and the debt-
ceiling increase would occur regardless of whether lawmakers
enact the cuts, McConnell said.  Onus on Obama  Don Stewart , a spokesman for McConnell, said the plan would
let Obama raise the debt limit while putting the onus on him and
congressional Democrats to cut spending.  At the same time, Republicans wouldn’t have to agree to tax
increases. The proposal would force Democrats to cast multiple
votes to raise the debt ceiling before the next election, while
giving Republicans the chance to vote against that without
risking a default.  The increases would come in amounts of $700 billion, $900
billion and $900 billion, McConnell said. They would occur over
the remainder of Obama’s presidential term, in keeping with the
president’s call for an increase in the debt limit that would
carry through the 2012 elections.  Speaker  John Boehner  told  Fox News  he wasn’t sure it could
pass the House. “Senator McConnell said it’s a last-ditch
backup plan,” Boehner said yesterday, according to a release
from the network. “When we get here a couple weeks from now, we
may be looking for all kinds of ideas.”  ‘Real Long Shot’  Senator  Mike Lee  of  Utah , a Republican who doesn’t support
raising the debt limit unless it’s paired with a constitutional
amendment to balance the budget and immediate spending cuts,
said the plan “seems like a long shot -- a real, real long
shot.”  Carney said McConnell’s plan is an acknowledgement that
“there is no alternative to the  United States  honoring our
obligations.” He said the president is focused on a mechanism
“to make sure that Congress takes action to do that.”  Grover Norquist, head of the anti-tax Americans for Tax
Reform, said the Republican leader’s proposal was an acceptable
“fallback plan.”  Norquist said the requirement that Obama accompany a debt-
limit increase with a list of proposed spending cuts would
accomplish “an incredibly important thing” by “smoking out”
Obama on how he would cut the budget.  “If he presents a phony plan, the world can see and we go
into the 2012 election and deal with those Democratic senators
and president who didn’t take this seriously,” added Norquist,
who has said most House and Senate Republicans have signed a
pledge he distributes vowing not to raise taxes.  Patrick Griffin, who was President  Bill Clinton ’s chief
congressional lobbyist from 1994 to 1996, said McConnell’s
proposal shows the Republican leader’s leverage in the
negotiations is slipping.  “I would read it as weakness, at least on McConnell’s
part,” Griffin said. “He blinked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  