-- 
Kenyan Central Bank Cuts Its Discount Window Rate to 6.25%, Reversing Rise

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-12T13:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/central-bank-of-kenya-says-it-cuts-its-discount-window-rate-to-6-25-.html
Kenya ’s  central bank  cut the
interest rate it charges commercial lenders by 1.75 percentage
points, reversing an increase it imposed just two weeks ago,
even as inflation soars.  The overnight discount rate was reduced to 6.25 percent
from 8 percent, the Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said on
its website today. That brought the rate back in line with the
main policy rate.  The Central Bank of Kenya raised the overnight rate to 8
percent from 6.25 percent on June 29 to rein in inflationary
expectations and curb speculative trading in the shilling. That
pushed up the average interbank rate to 8.12 percent in the week
to July 6 from 6.68 percent the week before, raising concerns by
the central bank that it may choke off  consumer lending .  “Their main concern is to keep interest rates low and
promote credit extension,” Phumelele Mbiyo, head of economic
research for East Africa at CFC Stanbic Holdings Ltd., said in a
phone interview from Nairobi today.  Inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy accelerated to
14.5 percent in June, the highest in more than two years, from
13 percent in the previous month, the statistics office said on
June 29. The shilling has dropped 12 percent against the dollar
this year as investors bet the central bank will struggle to
curb inflation.  Rate Increases  “They’re not overly concerned about inflation,” Mbiyo
said. “I don’t believe inflation will decline as quickly as the
central bank says.”  The central bank increased its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point in March, reversing a January rate
cut of the same magnitude. The rate was then increased by 25
basis points in May.  “If you look from the beginning of the year, every move in
interest rates has been reversed,” Mbiyo said.  The overnight rate was cut because it “is being used as a
base for setting the interbank rate and has resulted in
distortions to the money market,” the central bank said today.  At least four Kenyan lenders have raised their base lending
rates over the past month.  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , the
country’s largest lender by assets, and  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  this month
raised their base lending rates by 1.5 percentage points to 15
percent and 16 percent, respectively.  “By cutting the rate, the central bank is signaling the
desire to have lower fund lending rates as opposed to the
current situation where banks are raising their rates,” Bernard Matimu, chief dealer at Nairobi-based NIC Bank Ltd., said in a
phone interview today.  The central bank also capped banks’ weekly borrowing in a
bid to halt arbitrage after interbank rates climbed, Mbiyo said.  Kenyan bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on July 7
commercial banks threaten to undercut their own “huge profits”
by demanding too much on loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 