-- 
Chavez Cites Nietzsche to Revive Superman Image as He Recovers From Cancer

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-12T21:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/chavez-quotes-nietzsche-to-revive-superman-image-after-cancer.html
President  Hugo Chavez  greeted
Venezuelans in a video this month reading from Friedrich
Nietzsche on the attributes of a superman. The days when Chavez
played that role himself with six-hour speeches and midnight
meetings are gone for now, a casualty of cancer.  Compatriots once accustomed to hours-long appearances on
state television now get Chavez in 30-minute doses since he had
a malignant tumor removed in Cuba. That may make it harder for
him to hang onto power, said  Christopher Sabatini , senior
director of policy at the Council of the Americas.  Being forced to cut his schedule and spend less time on the
airwaves could hurt his chances of re-election next year as
annual inflation at 23.6 percent in June, waning oil production,
a devalued currency and shortages sap his popularity, said
Sabatini, whose New York-based organization is supported by
businesses with operations in  Latin America .  “This is a blow to his image,” Sabatini said. “As he
starts to look frailer and is less present in the public eye, it
will irreparably damage his omnipotent aura.”  An official at the Information Ministry said that Minister
Andres Izarra wasn’t available to comment.  Venezuela ’s bonds have rallied since the announcement of
his surgery on speculation that he may not be able to run for
re-election, which could pave the way for someone to reverse his
socialist policies.  Benchmark Bonds  The yield on the 9.25 percent benchmark bonds due in 2027
has fallen 77 basis points, or 0.77 percentage points, to 13.03
percent since June 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That still makes it the highest among all emerging markets. The
price has risen 3.96 cents on the dollar to 74.75 cents.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps has fallen 128 basis
points to 1,001 today in that same period, according to data
compiled by CMA in  New York .  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  In the short term, there is no clear successor to Chavez
within his circle, and no indication he will accede to
opposition demands that he relinquish authority as he recovers,
said Alberto Barrera Tyszka, co-author of the Spanish-language
biography  “Hugo Chavez Out of Uniform.”   ‘Stay in Power’  Chavez’s “most important project” up to now has been “to
stay in power,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Voluntarily yielding it isn’t likely unless he is incapacitated,
he said.  “The opposition and the counterrevolution are going around
claiming Chavez is finished, that he’s dying, that a transition
is coming before the elections,” Chavez told students at a
state-run university today in a phone call broadcast by  state
television . “The only transition that’s going on here is the
transition from capitalism, which is ruining the world, to the
socialism, which is humanity’s salvation.”  Chavez spoke for about 10 minutes, ending the call by
saying it was time for a five-minute snack prior to “physical
rehabilitation and treatment.”  And even if Chavez did step down, or is forced to abandon
his re-election bid, it may not reduce the appeal of his
movement, UBS AG said in a July 5 note to clients.  “Irrespective of Chavez’s fate, Chavism is highly unlikely
to go away,” Zurich-based UBS said in the note. “Even in post-
Chavez Venezuela, we think a large enough cadre of supporters
would vote for Chavista candidates no matter what, just as
 Argentina  has continued to vote for Peronist candidates after
their leader passed away more than 35 years ago.”  Return From Cuba  Chavez, 56, who has held power since 1999, surprised
compatriots by returning from Cuba on July 4 after a month
convalescing and revealing that he was in intensive care for
four days after a six-hour operation. The government hasn’t said
what kind of cancer Chavez has, his prognosis or the expected
length of treatment.  While in Cuba, Chavez said he’d taken up Nietzsche’s
writings. He was filmed reading passages to his two daughters
from  “Thus Spoke Zarathustra,”  in which the 19th-century
German philosopher broached the concept of the “ubermensch,”
or superman, who is able to transcend normal human attributes.  Citing Nietzsche helps Chavez cultivate an image of
strength, said Ana Teresa Torres, author of  “The Inheritance of
the Tribe,”  a Spanish-language historical account of Venezuelan
military strongmen.  “He has to transmit the message to his followers that he
is strong, that he will recover and overcome his difficulties,”
Torres said in a phone interview from Caracas.  Sunday Show  Before his health crisis, the president hosted his own
 television show  most Sundays that lasted up to seven hours
without commercial breaks and sometimes featured spontaneous
expropriations of businesses after followers complained of
exploitation. The former army paratrooper’s improvised speeches
have ranged over philosophy, baseball and diatribes against the
U.S. “empire.”  Chavez also appears in billboards across the country
lauding his social programs and in the international airport’s
immigration wing. His speeches are often broadcast on all
television and radio channels.  His penchant for working late has seen him holding Cabinet
meetings at midnight and sending messages on his  Twitter account 
at 3 a.m., including one describing the exhumation of his hero
 Simon Bolivar , the liberator of Venezuela. Now Chavez says he
has to undergo physical therapy daily, reduce his coffee intake
and go to bed early.  ‘In the Rearguard’  “Now I need to be a patient -- I’m in the rearguard,”
Chavez said July 9 in comments broadcast on state television.
“Bolivar sometimes used to direct battles from up on a hill.”  While economic growth accelerated in the first quarter as
higher  oil prices  allowed Chavez to boost spending on the poor,
the country’s inflation rate last month was still the fastest
among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rising prices and a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar
in January have eroded the buying power of Chavez’s working-
class base. The country has also been plagued by a surge in
murders and power outages that have persisted more than a year
after Chavez declared a national emergency to fix the aging
electricity grid.  Even before his illness, Chavez’s electoral punch was
waning. In congressional elections in September, his party won
less than half of the popular vote and lost its two-thirds
majority needed to pass some legislation unilaterally.  Political Strongmen  Chavez fits into a long line of political strongmen, or
caudillos, who have governed Venezuela for much of its 200 years
as an independent nation. He has added an extra element: a
powerful, Messianic connection with the poor who believe he is
the only politician who cares about their plight, Torres said.  “We want him to recover as soon as possible because
without him all the ministers will do whatever they want,” said
Ana Maria Gonzalez, 39, who works at a toy store in Caracas.  Still, a physically weakened Chavez, whose approval rating
was already near its lowest in eight years, may have trouble
fueling the class conflict that has been at the heart of his
mass appeal, said Saul Cabrera, vice president of Caracas-based
pollster  Consultores 21 .  “Keeping Venezuela polarized requires a president who is
very active and confrontational,” Cabrera said. “This has
worked for him, but now that he’s sick people are going to turn
their attentions to the country’s problems instead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  