-- 
China’s Stocks Slump on Europe Debt Crisis, Property Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-12T02:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/china-s-stocks-slump-on-europe-debt-crisis-property-curbs.html
China ’s stocks fell, driving down
the benchmark index by the most in almost two weeks, on concerns
 Greece ’s debt crisis may spread to bigger economies in  Europe 
and the Chinese government is intensifying property curbs.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and China Shenhua Energy Co., the
nation’s biggest producers of copper and coal, slumped more than
1 percent on speculation demand for commodities will falter.
Poly Real Estate Group Co. retreated the most in a week after
Xinhua News Agency reported Shanghai will start a trial to cap
prices of newly built residential properties in some areas.  “The European debt crisis seems to be spreading and that
will undoubtedly shatter confidence in global financial
markets,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 25.7 points, or 0.9 percent, to
2,777.04 at 9:42 a.m. local time. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  fell 1
percent to 3,083.02, led by energy and financial stocks.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 1.8 percent
yesterday as concern grew Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  Euro-area countries may have to double their bailout fund
to 1.5 trillion euros to cover a crisis in  Italy , the  European
Central Bank  said, according to German newspaper Die Welt,
citing unidentified “high-ranking” people at central banks.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said “there’s
no discussion whatsoever” of doubling the European Union’s
rescue facility after the Die Welt report. The Financial Times
cited unidentified senior officials as saying European leaders
are prepared to accept that Greece should default on some of its
bonds. The EU is China’s biggest export market, accounting for
about a fifth of the Asian nation’s overseas shipments.  Commodities Slump  Crude oil for August delivery fell 1.1 percent to $95.15 a
barrel in  New York  yesterday, the lowest level since July 1.
The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals including copper and aluminum dropped 1.6 percent, the
biggest drop since June 2.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, fell
1.7 percent to 35.34 yuan. China Shenhua, the nation’s largest
coal producer, lost 1.7 percent to 30.37 yuan.  The Shanghai gauge has fallen 1.1 percent this year after
the central bank raised  interest rates  five times and reserve-
requirement ratio 12 times since the start of 2010 to tame
inflation that quickened to a three-year high last month. The
index has pared a loss of as much as 6.7 percent on speculation
fiscal policies such as spending in affordable housing will
support the economy and after Premier Wen Jiabao said on June 24
efforts to stem inflation have worked.  “Inflation is still a big problem in China now and the
government won’t ease tightening until inflationary pressure
really recedes,” said Wu.  Property Curbs  Chinese inflation is being driven by property price
increases, which will be key to controlling consumer prices, Yi
Xianrong, a researcher at the  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences ,
wrote in a commentary in the Hong Kong Economic Times today.  Shanghai  will start a trial to cap prices of newly built
residential properties in planned urban areas in Pudong New
District in the second half of this year, Xinhua reported
yesterday, citing the city’s Mayor Han Zheng.  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, dropped 2.6 percent to 10.95 yuan. China Vanke
Co., the nation’s biggest listed property developer, slid 1.8
percent to 8.60 yuan.  China’s economy  probably grew 9.3 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
It expanded 9.7 percent in the first quarter. The figure and
other June data including industrial production and retail sales
are due tomorrow.  State Council  The State Council may discuss China’s economic development
direction for the second half during a regular meeting tomorrow,
the National Business Daily reported today, without saying where
it got the information.  The country’s top leaders may also meet at the Beidaihe
seaside resort area near Beijing in late July to set the tone
for measures during the second half, the report said.  In  Hong Kong , the  Hang Seng Index  fell 2.1 percent after
Moody’s Investors Service said some Chinese companies are
engaging in potentially risky business practices.  West China Cement Ltd. tumbled by a record 13 percent after
Moody’s said the cement producer faced the biggest risk on
governance or accounting standards of 61 Chinese companies it
analyzed.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  