-- 
China New Loans, Money Supply Growth Rebound Even After Cooling Measures

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-12T09:57:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/china-new-loans-money-supply-growth-rebound-even-after-cooling-measures.html
China ’s new loans exceeded estimates
in June and foreign-exchange reserves jumped by $153 billion in
the second quarter, bolstering the case for more increases in
bank reserve requirements.  New loans were 633.9 billion yuan ($98 billion), compared
with the 622.5 billion yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. M2, the broadest measure of money supply,
rose by a more-than-forecast 15.9 percent, and foreign-exchange
reserves climbed to $3.2 trillion. The People’s Bank of China
released the data on its website today.  The central bank last week raised  interest rates  for the
third time this year ahead of a report that showed consumer
prices jumped the most in three years, indicating the
government’s priority is still fighting inflation. Premier  Wen Jiabao  may be reluctant to ease monetary policy even amid
slowing growth as state planners forecast “elevated”  price
levels  for the rest of the year.  “This suggests more tightening on the horizon,” said Joe
Lau, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA. “This
may be more likely through further reserve ratio hikes,” he
said, adding that slowdown risks and the debt burdens of local
governments mean policy makers may be more reluctant to raise
interest rates.  Lau said he expects one or two more increases in banks’
reserve requirements by year end. Economists at Nomura Holdings
Inc. estimated in a July 8 report the ratio could rise by
another 100 basis points in the second half of the year.  Record Reserve Requirements  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index dropped 1.7 percent
to 2,754.58 at the 3 p.m. local-time close, the most in seven
weeks, on concerns  Greece ’s debt crisis may spread and higher-
than-estimated new lending in China will make it difficult for
the government to ease tightening policies. The yuan fell 0.1
percent to 6.4722 per dollar as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The central bank has raised requirements nine times since
mid-November to a record 21.5 percent for the biggest banks,
with the most recent increase announced on June 14. Inflation
accelerated to 6.4 percent in June from a year earlier and
Mizuho Securities Ltd. estimates consumer prices could jump 6.2
percent to 6.5 percent in July.  The government will stabilize prices, curb “unreasonable”
housing demand and increase supplies of hogs to promote a stable
market for pork, Wen said in a statement posted on the
government’s website today after meetings to discuss the
country’s economic situation.     The price of the meat surged 57
percent in June from a year earlier, a government report showed
last week.  Slowing Growth  Policy makers are trying to cool the fastest inflation in
three years without choking growth in the world’s second-largest
economy. A report tomorrow may show that gross domestic product
rose 9.3 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the
least in almost two years, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. That compares with 9.7 percent in the previous
quarter.  “The main contradiction in the economy is still the large
pressure on price increases and the financing difficulties faced
by small and medium-sized enterprises,” Wen said in today’s
statement.  He said last month the government may fail to keep price
gains within this year’s 4 percent target although they could be
kept below 5 percent.  Not As Tight  M2 growth in June rebounded from the slowest gain since
2008 the previous month, although still within the central
bank’s full year target of 16 percent. It compared with the
median forecast of 15.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 18
economists. New local-currency lending in the first six months
amounted to 4.17 trillion yuan, 10 percent lower than the same
period a year ago.  “Monetary conditions in the past few months have not been
as tight” as the  money-supply  data suggests, said Chang Jian, a
Hong Kong-based economist at  Barclays Capital . “M2 growth has
become less accurate an indicator to measure liquidity
conditions and aggregate demand in the past few months as the
rapid growth of wealth management products” has shifted loans
off banks’ balance sheets, she said.  Chinese banks helped arrange 320 billion yuan of loans
between companies in the first quarter that weren’t recorded in
the lenders’ balance sheets, central bank data show. Ningbo Bird
Co., a maker of cellular phones, said April 30 it had lent 50
million yuan through an entrusted loan at a rate of 18 percent
to a property company in Jiangsu province.  Selective Easing  Still, other economists say the June money supply and
lending figures show central bank has already started loosening
curbs at the margin.  “Some selective easing has already been in progress,”
said  Ken Peng , senior economist for China at BNP Paribas SA in
Beijing. “If local governments don’t get financing, it will
affect the normal operation of the economy and could raise the
risks of a hard landing.”  Central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last week
inflation can’t be the government’s only policy target and that
it needs to consider goals including growth, employment and the
 exchange rate . The PBOC also said yesterday that loans to local
government financing vehicles can be contained and that only a
“small portion” of loans likely to need “financial grants.”  The second-quarter rise in foreign-exchange reserves was
the smallest quarterly gain in a year, according to Bloomberg
data.  The growth “still points to solid demand and continued hot
money inflows,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “There may be more foreign
pressure on China to speed up yuan gains but we think
appreciation will slow in the second half as inflation eases.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  