-- 
Christchurch ‘War Zone’ Forces Out Locals as Suburbs Condemned After Quake

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-07-13T05:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/christchurch-war-zone-forces-out-locals-as-suburbs-condemned.html
Paul Ward imagined retiring in his
“dream home” on Christchurch’s landmark river, the  Avon , where
he watched his two children grow up. Instead he’s selling his
five-bedroom house to the government so it can be demolished
along with half the suburb.  “We have loved living in Avondale from the time we went
there and loved our home,” Ward, a 59-year-old real estate
agent, said in an interview. “Now it’s just like living next
door to an open sewer with a bog around it.”  Ward’s home is one of about 5,100 in Christchurch marked
for destruction after a series of devastating earthquakes, one
of which killed more than 180 people. While the wrecked business
district of  New Zealand ’s second-largest city is to be rebuilt,
entire  neighborhoods  will vanish from the map, driving up rents
elsewhere and adding to an exodus of residents.  A resulting drop in demand for new homes in the city may
slow the pace of Christchurch’s recovery, forcing central bank
Governor Alan Bollard to keep borrowing costs at a record low to
rekindle economic growth. The timing of rate increases will be
based on the speed of the economy’s recovery, including the
South Island city’s reconstruction, Bollard said last month.  “The big uncertainty is where those 5,000 households
decide to move to,” said  Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman
Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd. “I still view negative
 population growth  as a negative for the country.”  Borkin expects Bollard will keep the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 2.5 percent until the first quarter of 2012.  ‘Worse and Worse’  The government offered to buy properties in the city’s
condemned “red zone” from insured owners, which will cost a
total of as much as NZ$635 million ($521 million), according to
a June 23 statement. Alternatively, residents can negotiate with
insurers on their homes and the government will offer to buy
their land only.  The condemned houses are mainly in Christchurch’s eastern
suburbs, toward the coast, where the earthquakes caused soil to
melt. Many streets are coated in layers of sludge in a
phenomenon known as liquefaction.  “This road has been dug up and resealed about five times.
It’s just getting worse and worse,” said  Tony Bennett , a 54-
year-old resident of Avondale Road, which is on the border
between the condemned “red” and the livable “green” zones.
Bennett owns two homes on the road, a red-zoned rental property
and his own green-zoned residence two blocks down the street.  “I’ll actually be a bit better off,” said Bennett, who
plans to accept the government’s offer for his red-zoned house,
which will be based on 2007 state valuations. “I had it on the
market for sale just before the earthquakes, so obviously we had
to take it off.”  Economic Growth  New Zealand faces a NZ$15 billion damage bill from the
February earthquake and an earlier, magnitude 7 temblor that hit
Christchurch and surrounding districts in September. The first
temblor prompted the economy to shrink for the first time in six
quarters. The city’s council today raised NZ$100 million from a
bond sale, according to a statement from Westpac Banking Corp.  The rebuilding of Christchurch is likely to boost New
Zealand’s economic growth even as it displaces thousands of
residents. Bollard said reconstruction may boost gross domestic
product growth by 2 percentage points in 2012, in comments on
June 9 after he held the official cash rate at 2.5 percent.
Interest-rate swaps show a 100 percent probability he will keep
borrowing costs unchanged until at least December to ensure
growth, according to prices from Westpac Banking Corp.  The first quarter’s GDP, which includes the effects of the
deadly February earthquake, will be released tomorrow after
being delayed twice. It rose 0.3 percent from the prior quarter,
when it increased 0.2 percent, according to the median estimate
of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Ghost Town  Ward, an agent for Christchurch-based  Homes Realty Ltd .,
lives on a red-zoned street parallel to Avondale Road. He works
in the worst-hit eastern suburbs, where about 80 percent of his
clients are. Many local agents have closed as new leases are
rare and sales non-existent. Rental markets are stronger in the
least-affected areas as people flee wrecked suburbs, he said. As
many as 10 people may compete for one house, offering to pay
above-market rates, he said.  Parts of Avondale have been largely abandoned, with
workers’ trucks occasionally interrupting the silence. Bexley, a
suburb to the east of Avondale, is mostly deserted. Many houses
are part-wrecked or empty, with front yards and footpaths
transformed into swamps of silt.  “There’s hardly anybody left. They’ve gone,” said Karl
Stewart, a 53-year-old produce worker who rents a red-zoned
house on Avondale Road. “Everybody was getting back on their
feet and then they just got slammed again.”  Red Zone  The first Christchurch earthquake on Sept. 4 struck in the
early morning, wrecking homes and parts of the central business
district. A 6.3-strong temblor hit Feb. 22 in the middle of the
day, devastating much of the city center in New Zealand’s
deadliest quake for 80 years. Aftershocks have struck almost
daily since, the worst ones coming on June 13, when two major
temblors caused more damage throughout the city.  The government on June 23 split Christchurch into four
zones -- red, orange, green and white -- according to the
degrees of land and property damage. The red zone may not be
livable for a “prolonged period of time,” Earthquake Recovery
Minister Gerry Brownlee said in a statement that day. Some areas
would need up to 3 meters (10 feet) of new soil to bring land to
a legally compliant height, he said.  “There’s nowhere for people to go,” said Fiona Lucas, 37,
who lives in her parents’ house on Avondale Road in the red zone.
She is worried that her parents won’t be able to afford to stay
in Christchurch.  Residents Flee  Residents have little option but to relocate out of the
city or face higher prices within Christchurch, said Ward.
 Prestons , a suburban development 5.5 kilometers from the center,
is to create homes for 6,000 people on about 200 hectares,
according to its website. Pegasus is a new town being created on
the coast 25 kilometers north of the city, and will offer homes
for up to 7,000 residents.  “I don’t think they want to leave, but I think financially
people will have to,” Ward said.  Permanent departures of Christchurch residents in the three
months through May were 1,300 more than the year-earlier period,
according to  Statistics New Zealand . The country’s home-building
approvals rose in May for the second time in the same quarter,
bolstered by new houses for Canterbury residents displaced by
the earthquakes, according to the same agency.  More areas in Christchurch are likely to be red-zoned.
About 10,000 properties are in the “orange zone,” where
engineers need time for further assessment. Some of the damage
in those areas was caused by the magnitude 5.6 and 6.3
earthquakes on June 13. The homes’ fate will be decided in the
coming weeks and months, according to the June 23 statement.  “You don’t know until you wade around through the mud and
get around the back of houses or get inside some of the houses
what we’re living like,” said Ward. “It’s like living in a war
zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  