-- 
Climate Change Capital, Oraxys Invest in Orege Water Treatment

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-12T18:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/climate-change-capital-oraxys-invest-in-orege-water-treatment.html
Climate Change Capital Ltd. led an 8
million euro ($11.2 million) investment in the French industrial
wastewater-treatment company  Orege (MLORE)  SA, the London-based  fund
manager  said.  Orege has developed technology to treat effluent and sludge
from the oil, gas, mining and chemical industries. It received 6
million euros from Climate Change Capital and 2 million euros
from Luxembourg-based renewable energy investor  Oraxys SA  to
develop its mobile wastewater-treatment units and to expand into
international markets.  The deal shows increasing investor interest in companies
developing water-management technology as the growing global
population puts pressure on limited supplies of drinking water.
The United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification has
 predicted  that nearly half the world’s population will be living
in areas affected by water shortages by 2030.  “We see a lot of activity and a lot of growth” in
wastewater-management investments, said Dimitra Christakou, head
of water insight services at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 London . “The municipal side is heavily regulated and prices are
capped. On the industrial side it’s up for grabs.”  Orege’s technology can treat even the most “toxic
sludge,” according to Alex Betts, a partner at Climate Change
Capital.  “Currently, wastewater from industrial effluent and sludge
is incinerated -- from a carbon point of view, that’s a
disaster,” Betts said today in a telephone interview. “Orege
has developed a unique way to clean up water and enable it to be
released safely back into the environment and substantially
reduce waste-disposal costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  