-- 
Clinton Links Foreign Policy, U.S. Economy as Companies Applaud

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-13T04:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/clinton-links-trade-commercial-diplomacy-to-economic-renewal-in-u-s-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
is strengthening the link between  foreign policy  and U.S.
prosperity, stressing the role of trade and diplomacy in
generating economic growth.  “Our foreign policy must be a force for economic renewal
here in America,” Clinton said yesterday in an address to the
 U.S. Global Leadership Coalition , a group of businesses that
support federal spending for international affairs.  Clinton has made commercial diplomacy a hallmark of her
tenure, promoting U.S. trade interests and investment in the
almost 600,000 miles of travel she has logged as secretary of
state.  As lawmakers and the administration seek to pare federal
spending, the top U.S. diplomat is making the case that State
Department resources must be protected so the agency can
continue to open markets for U.S. companies and create U.S.
jobs. She is getting the backing of major U.S. companies as she
does.  “The 1 percent of our budget we spend on diplomacy and
development is not what is driving our deficit,” Clinton told
the business group. “Not only can we afford to maintain a
strong civilian presence, we can’t afford not to.”  The pressure to cut the international affairs budget, which
makes up 1.4 percent of the federal budget, “is enormous and
that’s why we’re talking about the importance of that 1
percent,” Chris Policinski, the president and chief executive
officer of  Minneapolis , Minnesota-based Land O’ Lakes Inc., the
farm-owned  marketing company , said in an interview. “In tough
economic times, cutting this budget would actually be harmful to
our ability to have jobs here at home.”  Trade Benefits  Clinton’s emphasis on commercial diplomacy reflects an
awareness that 95 percent of the world’s consumers live outside
the U.S., according to  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  figures. It is
also driven by her belief that economic engagement can promote
political stability and more transparent government in countries
such as Vietnam and  Iraq .  “Developing our commercial ties, two-way trade, investment
relations are ways of also strengthening our overall
relationship with these countries,”  Robert Hormats , under
secretary for economic affairs, said in an interview.
“Commercial diplomacy works hand in hand with strengthening
ties in various areas of foreign policy and national security.”  Clinton has backing in her mission from the Chamber of
Commerce and major U.S. companies ranging from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
the Peoria, Illinois-based maker of mining and construction
equipment, to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the Bentonville, Arkansas,
operator of  discount stores  and supermarkets.  U.S. Jobs  Land O’ Lakes is a member of the Global Leadership
Coalition along with Caterpillar, Wal-Mart, defense contractors
and drug companies. The coalition draws a link between the State
Department’s efforts to help them expand exports, the spread of
political stability and democracy, greater access to markets and
the creation of jobs at home.  “We really do understand and respect the deficit
discussions that are going on now, but folks need to look at
spending in terms of its return,” Policinski said. “These
development dollars that are spent are really dollars spent on
U.S. jobs programs.”  As an example of the importance of having a State
Department that can advocate for open markets, Policinksi points
to a Land O’ Lakes plant in Central Valley,  California , that
produces butter, cheese products and milk powder. With much of
that going to  Asia , the plant employs 2,000 people, making it
the largest of its kind in the U.S., Policinksi said.  “If you don’t have a market, you don’t have jobs,” he
said.  ‘Economic Opportunity’  Clinton described development aid as “a major economic
opportunity.”  The U.S. spent about $110 billion in today’s dollars on the
Marshall Plan rebuilding  Europe  after World War II, Clinton
said. “We now export $240 billion of goods to the EU every
single year,” she said.  Export opportunities are growing, particularly with the
developing world, Clinton said. As urban centers grow by 65
million people a year, countries are building ports, stadiums
and highways, she said.  She pointed to  India ’s announcement of a $1 trillion plan
to improve its infrastructure over the next five years and
 Brazil ’s plan to pour $100 billion into preparations for the
2016 Olympics.  “We need to make sure that American construction companies
are positioned to compete for contracts and take part in this
global construction boom,” Clinton said.  China’s Shadow  As she urged U.S. companies to “lean forward” into
overseas markets, Clinton pointed out that there are larger
stakes, as economic strength often translates into political
influence.  “If we don’t seize the opportunities available today,
other countries will,” she said in one of a few veiled
references to China. Those countries will fight for their
companies, promote their own economic models, win the jobs “and
even claim the mantle of global leadership,” Clinton said.  The effort to promote U.S. trade is being taken up across
the administration, including the departments of Treasury and
Commerce. Within her own agency, Clinton has announced the
creation of a chief economist position, an Under Secretariat for
Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment and a Bureau for
Energy and Natural Resources.  Clinton has also expanded the practice of “reverse road
shows,” in which U.S. diplomats travel domestically to promote
opportunities in the region where they are posted, particularly
to smaller- and medium-sized businesses.  ‘Level Playing Field’  Those companies willing to make the plunge will get the
administration’s “full support,” Clinton promised.  Clinton referred at one point to  China ’s procurement policy
of favoring domestic companies, saying her agency will push back
against such steps.  “We work to protect intellectual property, resist
favoritism for state-owned enterprises and protest
discrimination against our companies in procurement,” she said.
“And we insist on a level playing field for our investors.”  Doing that will take resources, she said. “To win the
resources, we need political will,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  