-- 
Coffee at $3 a Pound Is Needed to Boost Production, Broker Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-12T09:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/coffee-at-3-a-pound-is-needed-to-boost-production-broker-says.html
New York  coffee prices need to rise
to $3 a pound to encourage farmers in Brazil, the world’s
largest grower, to boost production enough to meet demand from
domestic roasters and exporters, according to Santos, Brazil-
based broker Escritorio Carvalhaes.  The crop in Brazil has to start to average 55 million bags
with the 2013-14 season to meet future demand, Eduardo Carvalhaes Jr., director of Escritorio Carvalhaes said by phone
from Santos yesterday. Production averaged 47.9 million bags in
the past four seasons, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data. Coffee in New York was at $2.5695 a pound by
10:36 a.m. in London.  “Prices in New York would have to rise to $3 a pound for
some time to give farmers an incentive to produce,” Carvalhaes
said.  New York coffee futures have climbed 57 percent in the past
year because of crop losses in Colombia and  Mexico .  Brazil 
shipped a record 35 million bags of coffee overseas in the 2010-
11 season, according to the nation’s export council, known as
CeCafe. Consumption in the South American country rose by about
4 percent last year, the London-based International Coffee
Organization estimated in April.  “Inventories in Brazil are at critical levels, while
consumption continues to grow,” Carvalhaes said. “Even if we
have ideal weather and a good flowering for the next crop,
supplies will continue to be tight.”  “If there is an effort to increase planted area, the first
results will start to show two and a half years later, the
minimum time necessary for an experienced and capitalized coffee
producer to gather a first harvest from a new area,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 