-- 
Copper in London Declines for Third Day on European Debt, China Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-12T08:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/copper-in-london-drops-for-third-day-on-european-debt-china-concerns.html
Copper dropped for a third day in
 London  on concern that Greece’s debt crisis may spread and as
the Chinese government intensified property curbs, possibly
reducing demand in the largest consumer of the metal.  The metal for three-month delivery fell as much as 0.9
percent to $9,480 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange and
traded at $9,492.25 at 4:01 p.m.  Shanghai  time. Copper for
September delivery on the Shanghai Futures Exchange closed 0.5
percent lower at 71,130 yuan ($10,989) a ton.  “Worries over the European debt crisis linger, especially
whether it will spread further, which is weighing on the
markets,” said Wang Ning, an analyst at Xiangyu Futures Co.  European finance ministers revived the prospect of bond
buybacks to ease  Greece ’s plight, struggling to contain the debt
crisis as investors pounded  Italy , the continent’s third-largest
economy. Prodded by investors and the  European Central Bank , the
euro’s guardians said a bailout fund set up last year may be
used to buy bonds in the secondary market or enable Greece to
retire its debt at a discount. They offered another cut in rates
on its emergency loans.  In China, Shanghai Mayor Han Zheng said the city will start
a trial to cap prices of newly built residential properties in
planned urban areas in Pudong New District in the second half of
this year, the Xinhua News Agency reported.  “If the  property market  feels further pressure from the
government, it is not good for base metals demand,” Wang said.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger
of the country’s stock exchanges, closed 1.7 percent lower at
2,754.58. The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against
six trading partners, climbed as much as 0.8 percent.  Strikes End  In Chile, contract workers at Escondida mine ended a strike
yesterday after reaching a collective labor agreement, union
umbrella group Federacion Minera said.  Workers at Codelco, the world’s largest producer, held the
first companywide strike yesterday in 18 years to protest
planned job cuts as management revamps century-old mines in
northern Chile. Mining Minister Laurence Golvorne said the
government expected the strike to end as planned and production
will resume from today.  Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc are “normalizing”
operations at their Collahuasi mine in northern  Chile ,
spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said by e-mail yesterday. The
mine was hit by rain and snowstorms last week.  In  Indonesia , Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. said it
reached an agreement with a union to end a strike at its
Grasberg mine that began July 4 and caused the suspension of
copper mining and processing. The workers will report to their
positions tomorrow, Eric Kinneberg, a spokesman for Freeport,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  Aluminum in London fell 0.9 percent to $2,455 a ton, zinc
rose 0.2 percent to $2,320 a ton, and lead declined 1.3 percent
to $2,641 a ton. Nickel dropped 1.8 percent to $22,808 a ton,
and tin slid 4.1 percent to $25,500 at 3:22 p.m. in Shanghai.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  