-- 
Corinthians Offer Brazilian Record $56 Million for Manchester City’s Tevez

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-13T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/corinthians-bid-brazilian-record-56-million-for-manchester-city-s-tevez.html
SC Corinthians Paulista , Brazil’s
biggest soccer club by revenue, made a 40 million-euro ($56
million) bid for  Carlos Tevez  as it seeks to beat the trade
deadline to sign the  Manchester City  striker.  “Corinthians has made an official offer for Tevez,” club
president Andres Sanchez said yesterday at a news conference in
 Sao Paulo . “The transfer window closes on July 20 so if we have
no news by Sunday I don’t think we’ll get him this year.”  Sanchez said he decided three days ago to make the offer
for Tevez, whose 20 Premier League goals last season helped City
finish in third place to qualify for the  Champions League  for
the first time. City also won its first major trophy in 35 years
by beating Stoke City in the F.A. Cup final.  The offer, which surpasses the previous Brazilian record
when Corinthians paid  Argentina ’s Boca Juniors $20 million for
Tevez in 2004, won’t be increased, Sanchez said. City rejected
the bid, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  The 27-year-old Tevez, who’s currently playing for host
nation Argentina at the Copa America, said this month that he
doesn’t want to continue to live in the northwest of England
without his two daughters.  Tevez, who signed a five-year contract with City in July
2009 after leaving crosstown rival  Manchester United , withdrew a
transfer request in December before restating he wanted to
leave. City spokeswoman Vicky Kloss declined to comment.  “Living without my children in Manchester has been
incredibly challenging for me,” Tevez said in a July 4
statement. “Everything I do, I do for my daughters, Katie and
Florencia. I need to be closer to them and to spend more time
with them. I need them to be happy because my life is about them
now. I need to be in a place where they can adapt.”  Controlled By Agent  Tevez played for Corinthians when the club was owned by a
company controlled by his agent, Kia Joorabchian. He moved to
 England  in 2006 to join West Ham.  Sanchez said Corinthians would use a quarter of its
television revenue to pay Tevez, who earns about 200,000 pounds
($318,000) a week at City, according to U.K. media reports.  “In 2012 Corinthians will make $70 million from its
broadcast sales,” Sanchez said. “If Manchester City accepted
our offer, Tevez would be offered a four-year contract.”  The effort to sign Tevez signals that the sport in Brazil
“can be the biggest soccer industry in the world, no doubt
about that,” Sanchez said.  The country’s 20 major teams had a combined debt of 3.1
billion reais ($1.96 billion) at the end of 2009, 11 percent
more than the previous year, while revenue grew 10.5 percent to
1.9 billion reais, according to accountants at BDO RCS.  ‘Biggest Wish’  Corinthians had sales of $63 million for the four first
months of 2011, according to team accounts.  A new board restructured the club after it was relegated
from  Brazil ’s elite league in 2008. A year later it signed World
Cup record-scorer Ronaldo and former national teammate Roberto Carlos. Ronaldo has since retired while Roberto Carlos moved to
a Russian club.  “Tevez is Corinthians’ biggest wish since he left us,”
said Luis Paulo Rosenberg, the team’s vice president for
marketing. “Ronaldo’s retirement has created space on our
balance sheet for this kind of paycheck.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  