-- 
Czech Inflation Unexpectedly Slows, Supports Rates Stability

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-07-12T15:25:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/czech-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-supports-rates-stability-1-.html
Czech June inflation unexpectedly
slowed to less than the central bank’s 2 percent target, which
may support arguments for keeping  interest rates  at a record low
as policy makers debate when to begin raising borrowing costs.  The inflation rate dropped to 1.8 percent from 2 percent in
May, the Statistics Office in Prague said today on its website.
The median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey was
2.1 percent. Consumer prices fell 0.2 percent in June. Lower
food and non-alcoholic beverage costs were the main factor in
bringing the rate down, the office said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at 0.75 percent since May 2010 as central banks
across  Europe  raised interest rates to curb inflation. Two board
members voted for a quarter percentage-point increase on June
23, with five voting to keep borrowing costs stable.  “It’s clear that inflation won’t rise significantly above
2 percent in the coming months,” said Patrik Rozumbersky, an
analyst at UniCredit SpA in  Prague . “We consider thoughts of
raising interest rates in August to be over after June
inflation.”  While the result was 0.1 percentage point above the central
bank’s forecast, the development of price growth is in line with
the bank’s overall outlook, it said in a statement posted on its
website.  The bank is weighing differing signals from the economy as
growth accelerates, while state spending cuts curb domestic
demand, according to the minutes of June’s rate-setting meeting.  Weak Demand  Some policy makers said domestic demand was weak and
economic growth driven by exports wasn’t creating inflation
pressures because it strengthens the koruna and tames prices,
the minutes showed, without identifying the speakers. Others
said the current recovery marked the start of stable economic
growth, which may be an inflationary risk.  Policy makers in May moved forward their forecast for a
rate increase, saying it will probably take place in the fourth
quarter of this year rather than the first quarter of 2012.  Investors scaled back bets on higher interest rates after
the June inflation data, with forward-rate agreements locking in
three-month interest rates in six months dropping to 1.52
percent from 1.54 percent yesterday. The three-month Prague
interbank offered rate was 1.19 percent. The Czech koruna was
little changed against the euro at 24.264 as of 4:18 p.m. in
Prague.  The central bank will hold its next policy meeting Aug. 4,
when it will also present new quarterly economic forecasts with
an indication of the interest-rate path.  A lack of inflationary risks combined with the expected
economic slowdown and risks related to euro-area debt problems
“are speaking in favor of stable interest rates,” David Marek,
chief economist at Patria Finance as, a Prague-based brokerage
owned by KBC Groep NV, said in a report to clients.  “We expect a rate increase may occur in the final three
months of the year, and only if the European debt crisis doesn’t
escalate further,” Marek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  