-- 
D&D Targets City of London With Two New Restaurants, Wine Store

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-07-12T10:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/d-d-targets-city-of-london-diners-with-fish-steak-restaurants-wine-store.html
D&D London Ltd.,  the former Conran
Restaurants, whose venues include Coq d’Argent, Paternoster Chop
House and Quaglino’s, plans to open a new steak and chop house,
a fish restaurant and a wine shop serving the City.  They will be housed in the Old Bengal Warehouse, off
Bishopsgate. D&D  London  is redeveloping the ground floor and
basement, with interiors by Conran & Partners. The
establishments are scheduled to open in the first half of 2012.  D&D London has already announced two projects in London’s
financial district: a hotel that is being built on South Place,
and an outdoor cafe at the Royal Exchange. The company said it
is focusing on the City and that sales are increasing.  “I’m very confident about how things look for our London
restaurants,” Chairman and Chief Executive Des Gunewardena said
in a telephone interview. “We’re specifically investing in the
City because it’s a good place to do business and will be for
years to come. City people used just to have lunch but now they
stay for dinner and Coq d’Argent even opens at weekends.  “Our trading is very strong and has been for the past 18
months, two years. Our numbers have been good and now we have
the run-up to the Olympics. London seems to be at a different
stage in the economic cycle from the rest of the country.”  Both new restaurants will feature outdoor seating. The wine
shop will specialize in Bordeaux and Burgundy and will be
available for tastings as well as private dinners. The 10,000
square-foot (929 square-meter) development forms part of the
Devonshire Square Estate, where restaurants include Cinnamon
Kitchen, Devonshire Terrace and Kenza.  The warehouse was built by the East India Co. in 1769-70 on
the site of property purchased from  Joseph Eyre  for 4,650 pounds
($7,355), according to the  National Archives . The company
brought in imports along the Commercial Road from the East India
Docks, according to  TapestryBuilding.com . The premises fell into
disrepair and the building now also features new apartments.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 