-- 
Defaulted Greece May Have to Aid Trichet to Save Face as ECB Stands Firm

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-07-13T11:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/defaulted-greece-may-have-to-aid-trichet-to-save-face-as-ecb-stands-firm.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  might need to rely on Greece for assistance
if the nation defaults.  Trichet’s threat to refuse defaulted Greek bonds as bank
collateral for ECB liquidity remains in force after European
finance ministers failed to agree on measures to stem the
region’s debt crisis. In a default, Greek lenders could instead
get Emergency Liquidity Assistance, a short-term loan program by
national central banks in use in Ireland, said economists at
Deutsche Bank AG, Barclays Capital and BNP Paribas SA.  That would leave the Greek central bank to firefight a
banking crisis that Trichet has staked the ECB’s credibility on
keeping clear of. The danger of such an event has gained
credence as persistent speculation on the prospect of Greece
defaulting transformed into regional contagion that sent bond
yields soaring and stocks plunging from  Portugal  to  Italy .  Emergency liquidity “would save Trichet’s face, at least
in the short term,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank in London. “It’s relatively painless
for the banks as they can just replace old collateral with new
that will be accepted by the Greek central bank. The ECB can
then stick to its guns.”  ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann from  Germany 
told Die Zeit newspaper in an interview published today that “a
red line had to be drawn” to protect the central bank from
having its credibility undermined. “It’s not our job to finance
insolvent banks, never mind countries” which is “why the
Eurosystem only lends money against adequate collateral,” he
was cited as saying.  Funding Source  The ECB is the main source of finance for Greek banks,
which borrowed 97.5 billion euros ($136 billion) in May, up from
86.8 billion euros the previous month. The institution last year
suspended the minimum credit-rating threshold for  Greece ’s bonds
after its banks were shut out of credit markets. Lenders can now
borrow as much as they need for up to three months against
collateral determined at the central bank’s discretion.  ECB officials have insisted tougher austerity measures are
the only way out of Greece’s debt quagmire, conflicting with a
German-led bloc of finance ministers that sought to inflict part
of the burden of a second bailout onto investors. At a July 7
press conference, Trichet repeatedly said that “we say no to
selective default or credit event” as he faced a barrage of
questions on whether the ECB would stick to its approach.  Rating Threat  Ratings companies including Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have said Greece would be at least temporarily and
partially rated in default if plans where implemented under
which creditors would roll over bonds maturing until 2014.  Using liquidity assistance, banks could pledge “non-
traditional ECB collateral such as  mortgage loans , small-and-
medium size company loans or shipping loans” to the Greek
central bank in exchange for liquidity, said  Laurent Fransolet ,
head of European Fixed Income Strategy at Barclays Capital in
London. At the end of May, Greeks banks had 78.9 billion euros
in household loans.  The program is very much run at the central bank’s
discretion, “making it very flexible but also intransparent”
leading to “concerns over the Greek central bank’s balance
sheet,” Fransolet said.  The liquidity the central bank lends, which in the Greek
case would likely exceed the central bank’s capital base of 1.7
billion euros, is created by expanding the bank’s balance sheet.  ‘Printing Money’  “It’s in effect printing money,” said  Nick Matthews , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . ‘it’s
all a bit off the radar but in practice ELA could be financed by
the central bank creating deposits or could also potentially be
financed by selling other assets.”  In May, the Greek parliament passed legislation permitting
the Ministry of Finance to guarantee the Greek central bank’s
financial exposure stemming from support provided to  credit
institutions . That suggests the central bank was readying itself
to step into the breach. A spokesman declined to comment on the
matter yesterday.  While emergency liquidity is supposed to be provided in
exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis to
“temporarily illiquid but solvent institutions,” Irish banks
have received about 50 billion euros in that so far, according
to estimates in a  Barclays Capital  report on July 5.  Europe ’s finance ministers failed to come up with a plan to
contain the crisis at a two-day meeting in Brussels on July 11
and 12. That roiled financial markets, wiping $1 trillion off
the value of global equities, sending 10-year Italian yields to
a 14-year high and pushing the euro to a four-month low.  Bond Market   Irish bonds dropped for a sixth day today after Moody’s
Investors Services cut the country’s credit rating to below
investment grade last night. The 10-year yields increased 43
basis points to a euro-era record 13.78 percent as of 12:49
p.m. in London. The nation’s two-year note also slid, raising
yields by 92 basis points to 18.65. They reached a record 18.68
percent earlier.  Italian 10-year bonds rose, pushing yields down 8 basis
points to 5.48 percent, while yields on equivalent-maturity
Spanish debt fell 10 basis points to 5.75 percent. Greece’s 10-
year bonds fell, pushing the yield up eight basis points to
16.86 percent.  Using ELA for Greek banks is “feasible but this issue is
turning into a side show now, the issue has gotten so much
bigger,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas in London. “While one can have sympathy for the ECB’s
position, it adds to the alarm in markets as political decisions
take so much longer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  