-- 
Deleveraging Done in U.S. With DirecTV Rewarding Shareholders

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T20:21:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/deleveraging-done-in-u-s-with-directv-rewarding-shareholders.html
After two years stockpiling cash and
trimming debt,  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  did what U.S.
companies collectively are doing for the first time since the
nation pulled itself out of the worst recession in seven
decades: It borrowed some more money.  The owner of cable television’s Animal Planet and Discovery
Channel sold $650 million of bonds in June that it may use to
help fund an increase in stock buybacks, at a yield 0.3
percentage point above November’s record low average of 4.16
percent for companies in the same BBB ratings group. The deal
will increase  Silver Spring , Maryland-based Discovery’s debt to
2.9 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization costs, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
measure of leverage is up from 2.6 times before the deal.  Corporate executives are signaling that they’re gaining
enough confidence in the economic recovery to begin deploying
some of the record $1.9 trillion in cash they amassed after the
2008 credit crisis. By raising debt loads for the first time in
almost two years, they’re rewarding shareholders at the expense
of bondholders. While DirecTV Chief Executive Officer  Michael White  is buying back stock, others such as  Sealed Air Corp. (SEE) 
President William Hickey are issuing debt to buy businesses.  “We’ve reached the apex” of credit improvement, said
 Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economic research at Aladdin
Capital Management LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, which oversees
about $11 billion. “But I don’t think it’s going to be a rapid
decline by any means. If you’re a corporate CEO, you’re sitting
here looking out and asking, ‘How aggressive do I want to get?’
And the answer is: ‘Not terribly aggressive.’”  Slashing Leverage  After investment-grade non-financial companies slashed
leverage to as low as 1.92 times earnings in December from a
peak of 2.2 times in the third quarter of 2009, the ratio has
climbed to 1.95 times, the first increase since September 2009,
data from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  show.  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television provider,
and clothing chain  Gap Inc. (GPS)  led businesses announcing bond sales
to fund a 57 percent increase in share buyback authorizations
this year from 2010.  Since the end of 2010, 53 percent of non-financial
companies in Barclays Capital’s U.S. Credit Corporate index have
increased total debt, with less than 40 percent reducing,
strategists for the firm led by Jeffrey Meli in  New York  wrote
in a June 3 research note.  Total Debt  Total corporate debt in a JPMorgan corporate debt index
rose 3 percent, or $60 billion, to $2.4 trillion in the three
months ended March 31 from the final quarter of 2010. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization costs
increased 6 percent, or $21 billion, during the same period.  “We’re at a point where companies feel reasonably
comfortable with their balance sheets,” Eric Aboaf,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s treasurer, said in an interview. The New York-based bank
has more than doubled a measure of its capital and slashed
short-term borrowings since receiving a $40 billion government
bailout during the crisis.  Growth in average cash holdings by companies slowed to 17
percent from 23 percent a year earlier, Barclays analysts said.
Since December, median cash balances declined by 3 percent, they
said, “suggesting that while the biggest companies continue to
grow cash balances, smaller firms have begun decreasing their
cash holdings.”  Commercial Paper   Companies also are wading more deeply into short-term debt
markets that locked up during the financial crisis. Outstanding
commercial paper sold by non-financial companies jumped 58
percent this year through July 6 to $191.8 billion, the highest
since February 2009, according to Federal Reserve data. The
short-term borrowings typically mature within 270 days and are
used to finance everyday activities such as payroll and rent.  A measure of leverage that gives greater weighting to
short-term debt compared to the market value of a company’s
assets, known as market leverage, climbed to as high as 25 on
June 13 for non-financial companies, after reaching a more than
three-year low of 22.9 in May, according to data from Moody’s.  “This is very typical of the early stages of an economic
recovery,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital
Markets Group in New York. “All else the same, you would rather
not have companies increase leverage, but given that they’re
doing so from a financially stronger position, the increase will
not present a material increase in credit risk.”  Slower Growth  For bondholders, who have benefited from a 46 percent
return since the end of 2008 while relative yields tightened by
5.6 percentage points, the improvement in creditworthiness may
be as good as it gets as economic growth slows and Europe’s debt
crisis threatens to infect credit markets globally.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for U.S.
growth June 17 for the second time in two months, predicting the
economy will grow 2.5 percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2012,
down from the 2.8 percent and 2.9 percent projected in April.  Bond sales globally have remained below the 2011 average
for six straight weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
as Greece’s struggle to avoid a default curbed investor appetite
for risk and fueled concern that it could cause a seizure
resembling the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy filing in September 2008.  Bondholders are punishing San Francisco-based Gap, the
largest U.S. apparel chain, after it sold $1.25 billion of 10-
year bonds in April, more than three years after eliminating its
long-term debt. The bond sale, which  Standard & Poor’s  labeled
as part of a “somewhat more aggressive financial policy,” may
be used to buy back shares.  Gap’s Strategy  “Our confidence has grown that we need not be as
conservative as we were,” Sabrina Simmons, Gap’s chief
financial officer, said in an April 8 telephone interview,
saying the company isn’t “going to do anything to jeopardize”
its investment-grade  credit rating . “We don’t need any more
cash to invest in our business because we can do that from the
cash we generate. This is an opportunity to bring some leverage
onto our balance sheet, lower our cost of capital and perhaps
increase our distribution to our shareholders.”  After Gap cut its annual profit forecast by 22 percent on
May 19, its $1.25 billion of 5.95 percent notes due in April
2021 fell as much as 5.1 cents to 96.3 cents on the dollar on
June 17, according to prices from Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The bonds have since risen to 97 cents. The company’s
shares have dropped 15 percent this year, rising 11 cents to
$18.75 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  ‘Sound Financial Policy’  “Just as we’ve been over the past decade, we are committed
to maintaining a sound financial policy, a strong credit profile
and a focus on liquidity,”  Louise Callagy , a spokeswoman for
Gap, said in an interview. While 2011 is a “tough year,” she
said, “we expect things to normalize in 2012.”  Bondholders should be concerned that the second-biggest use
of borrowed cash among companies increasing leverage was to fund
share buybacks and dividend payments, said Meli, Barclays
Capital’s head of credit strategy.  Utilities, consumer non-cyclical and basic material
companies, all of which both increased debt and decreased cash,
had the biggest gains in stock price versus the  S&P 500 index (SPX) , a
trend that he said should give creditors pause.  “The sectors that have increased leverage in aggregate have
also been outperformers in the equity market, which is somewhat
troubling looking forward for credit investors,” Meli said in a
telephone interview. “Pressure on the companies that have not
started to do this could grow.”  Biggest Increases  The biggest increases in debt were at companies closing
acquisitions, including Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the
cable company that acquired 51 percent of General Electric Co.’s
NBC Universal and increased its net debt by $13 billion,
according to the Barclays strategists.  After spending about $167 million buying back common stock
in the first quarter, Discovery Communications tapped the  bond
market  last month for the first time since May 2010, selling
$650 million of 4.375 percent, 10-year notes priced to yield
4.45 percent.  Chief Financial Officer Brad Singer told investors and
analysts on a conference call in April that they should expect
the company “to deploy more capital at a higher level” than in
the past.  ‘Holding Cash’  “There is a cost of holding cash,” Singer said during a
March communications and media conference hosted by Credit
Suisse Group AG, noting that the company had already spent more
than half of its $1 billion cash hoard since the third quarter.
“We are below our current leverage rates than where we would
like to be, and so we’d like to put that money to work.”  Discovery Communications declined to comment further, said
Michelle Russo, a spokeswoman for the company.  DirecTV (DTV)  moved to increase its leverage last year after
hiring White to help the satellite-television provider fend off
competition from cable and the Web. The El Segundo, California-
based satellite-television provider said in May 2010 it’s board
had set a target to increase debt to 2.5 times operating profit
before depreciation and amortization from about 1.7 times in
2009.  The company said a year later it reached the target after
raising a $2 billion unsecured revolving loan to replace an
expiring $500 million secured facility, selling $4 billion of
notes and repurchasing $6.5 billion of shares in the 15 months
ended in March.  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for DirecTV, declined requests
for interviews with executives for this story, instead providing
transcripts of conference calls.  ‘Smartest Thing’  “The smartest thing I can do when I got 2 percent or 3
percent after-tax interest cost is to buy back shares,” White,
a former PepsiCo Inc. executive, said Dec. 2 at the company’s
investor day meeting. “We’re in a unique environment with all-
time record low interest rates.”  DirecTV shares have gained 57 percent since White became
CEO and are up 31 percent this year in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. They fell 39 cents to $52.42 today.  Sealed Air, the maker of Cryovac food packaging and Bubble
Wrap, plans to sell debt to finance its $4.3 billion purchase of
Diversey Holdings Inc. as it seeks to expand in emerging
markets. Sealed Air agreed to pay Diversey shareholders $2.1
billion in cash and 31.7 million shares of Sealed Air common
stock. The purchase also includes $1.4 billion of net debt to be
refinanced.  The acquisition will raise the company’s leverage to as
high as 5 times its Ebitda from about 2.5 times on March 31, S&P
said in a June 1 statement in which the ratings firm put Sealed
Air’s corporate credit rating of BB+ on watch for a downgrade.  Facing Pressure  Credit-default swaps on Elmwood Park, New Jersey-based
Sealed Air, which investors use to hedge against losses on the
company’s bonds or to speculate on its creditworthiness, have
almost doubled since the deal was announced, to 288 basis
points.  The swaps, which rise as perceived creditworthiness
declines, are trading at levels that imply the company’s debt is
rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, a speculative-grade
ranking that’s two steps below its actual rating of Baa3,
according to Moody’s capital markets research group.  Other companies are asking how much additional debt they
can take on without having their credit grades lowered, said
 Rizwan Hussain , a strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, a
signal that they may face pressure from shareholders to
capitalize on such a low cost of capital, he said.  Their thinking may be that “my shareholders are going to
be very upset at me if at some point down the road I didn’t
access this cost of capital,” Hussain said. “Because if I
didn’t, it’s inherently admitting I don’t have any great
investment opportunities I can get over that very low hurdle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  