-- 
Deutsche Bank Should Name Ackermann Chair, Board Member Says

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-07-12T16:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/deutsche-bank-should-name-ackermann-chair-board-member-says-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  supervisory board
member Marlehn Thieme urged Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  to become chairman and said she’s open to replacing
him with a dual CEO structure.  “I’ve asked Dr. Ackermann on behalf of many executive
employees to put himself up for election as chairman of the
supervisory board so that his skills and network will remain at
the bank,” Thieme, who is also the head of the representative
committee of executive employees, said in an interview today.
He “definitely didn’t reject the idea of becoming chairman.”  The lender is considering making investment-banking head
Anshu Jain co-CEO alongside a German-speaking management board
member such as Juergen Fitschen to allay domestic doubts about
his ability to fulfill the political role of leading the
country’s biggest bank, people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday. Chairman  Clemens Boersig  convened the nominations
committee of the supervisory board on July 9 to push for a two-
CEO solution, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are confidential.  “I could imagine a dual CEO structure because we’ve had
that in the past and it would stress how global the bank has
become while maintaining the lender’s tradition in  Germany ,”
Thieme said.  ‘Structured Process’  The 20-member supervisory board, which decides appointments
with a simple majority, has a regularly scheduled meeting before
the bank’s July 26 earnings release, she said. While succession
is likely to be on the agenda, she couldn’t predict whether a
decision will be made then. There are no signs that an
extraordinary meeting is planned beforehand, Thieme said.  “As long as we don’t have a proposal, nothing can be
decided,” Thieme said, declining to comment on her preference
for CEO. “We agreed to follow an orderly, structured process
and that should produce a decision soon,” she said. “There is
a lot of insecurity among employees at the bank because of the
speculation.”  Ackermann turned the 141-year-old-institution into one of
the world’s top five investment banks by fees and acted as an
informal adviser to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  during the
financial crisis of 2008. Boersig, 62, is accelerating his
effort to find a successor to Ackermann after former Bundesbank
president  Axel Weber , 54, a contender for the job, chose to join
 UBS AG (UBSN) , people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Investors including Hermes Equity Ownership Services, which
represents more than 20 pension funds and asset managers, have
urged the Frankfurt-based bank to map out a  succession plan  for
Ackermann, whose contract expires in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  