-- 
Diageo Expects ‘Exponential’ India Premium Vodka Sales Growth

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-07-12T11:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/diageo-expects-exponential-india-premium-vodka-sales-growth.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie
Walker scotch and Smirnoff vodka, expects an “exponential”
jump in sales of its premium vodkas in India this year, as
rising incomes encourage consumption.  “Ultra premium vodka is growing at exponential rates in
India,” Mark Barnard, Diageo’s chief commercial officer for
Asia-Pacific, said in  New Delhi  today. “The category will grow
at about 35 percent for the next five years and we plan to grow
about 55 percent, outstripping category growth.”  Vodka sales in India may expand by 12 percent between 2009
and 2015, helping  Asia ’s third-biggest economy overtake both
 Germany  and the U.K. in consumption of the spirit, according to
the London-based  International Wine & Spirit Research . Salaries
in the world’s most populous nation after  China  will grow an
average 12.9 percent this year, the fastest in Asia, according
to a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC, boosting disposable incomes.  “We see consumers, with more wealth being created in Asia,
aspiring for more international premium brands,” said Gilbert Ghostine, president of Asia Pacific operations at the London-
based company. Consumers in the region are upgrading from local
spirits, he said.  Diageo, the world’s largest distiller, expects sales in
India to rise by more than 30 percent annually for the next
three to five years, Ghostine said.  “We strongly believe in the potential of the Indian
market,” he said. “We are expanding our distribution footprint
and are also looking at introducing new brands.”  India will overtake  Russia  to be the world’s second-largest
spirits market in 2013, IWSR said in November.  Diageo aims to double revenue from the Asia Pacific to 20
percent by 2015, Ghostine said. The region has contributed an
average 11 percent to the distiller’s sales for the last five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  