-- 
Dodd-Frank Rulings on Risk Make Mortgages Less Profitable: One Year Later

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/dodd-frank-rules-make-mortgages-less-profitable-one-year-later.html
Mortgage lender Mike McHugh has
already had to license his loan originators, change the way
they’re paid, and adopt new underwriting standards -- steps
needed to comply with new rules and realities in the wake of the
collapse of the housing bubble.  It’s not over yet. McHugh, president and chief executive
officer of Continental Home Loans Inc. in Melville,  New York , is
about to endure even more change as the Dodd-Frank Act, designed
to prevent another mortgage-fueled frenzy like the one that led
to the 2008 credit crisis, kicks in this summer.  “The rules have been changed so many times,” McHugh said.
“If you’re not on top of all the issues it’s very, very
difficult to stay in business today.”  Lots of changes that have already taken place in the almost
$11 trillion U.S. mortgage market have nothing to do with Dodd-
Frank. Government-backed mortgage securitizers  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  have raised underwriting standards, the  Federal
Housing Administration  more than doubled its fees, and many
banks remain reluctant to lend at all. Even without the new law,
mortgages are more expensive and harder to get.  Still, Dodd-Frank, which marks its one-year anniversary on
July 21, is expected to take those changes a few steps farther.
The new rules are designed to tighten additional weaknesses in
the mortgage system that contributed to the crisis, including
no-downpayment loans, the “originate-to-distribute” business
model, and mortgages with confusing terms and deceptively low
teaser rates.  Risk Retention  For mortgage originators like McHugh, the most notable
Dodd-Frank provision is a risk retention measure that would
require most lenders and investors to keep a 5 percent stake in
loans they bundle or sell. For McHugh, the outcome could mean
life or death for his business.  “We don’t make 5 percent on a loan. To put 5 percent up on
risk retention would put us out of business,” he said.  The rule is being drafted by six banking and housing
agencies including the  Federal Reserve ,  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation  and Department of Housing and Urban
Development and numbers more than 350 pages. It was designed to
make sure that mortgage originators don’t just pass loans on to
others; they must retain a financial stake in the mortgage.  Larger Downpayments  The risk retention rule could also affect homebuyers by
requiring them to keep their own “skin in the game” with a 20
percent downpayment on a house in order to get the cheapest
loan. The housing boom and the cheap and easy credit that fueled
it made big downpayments rare. Today, many buyers expect to get
a loan with 10 percent down or less.  More than 40 housing, financial and consumer groups have
aligned to fight the plan, saying it would restrict lending and
discriminate against low- and moderate-income buyers. The
proposal also threatens the $759 billion  mortgage insurance 
market, which sells policies on loans with small downpayments.
Regulators are unconvinced that mortgage insurance reduces the
risk of default and have told the industry to make its case.  Nearly 300 members of Congress have criticized the risk
retention proposal. On June 7, regulators extended comment on
the rule from to Aug. 1, effectively delaying implementation.
After that, regulators will work on revising the draft plan.  “This is one area where Congress may take another look.
There could be some fine tuning,” said financial services
lawyer Richard J. Andreano Jr., a partner at  Patton Boggs LLP  in
Washington.  Shopping Sheet  Perhaps the biggest change for mortgage shoppers is a new
form that will make it easier to decipher fees and rates and
comparison shop for deals. The forms are one component of a set
of new consumer-protection rules on mortgages required by Dodd-
Frank.  In May, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau released
two versions of the new “shopping sheet,” and asked for public
feedback. It got over 13,000 comments on the first two model
disclosure forms it released, and is now analyzing the feedback,
according to the agency’s website. The bureau -- which
officially starts work on July 21 -- will oversee many of Dodd-
Frank’s new consumer protections.  “These forms were a huge move forward,” said Deborah
Bosley, an associate professor of English at the University of
 North Carolina  in  Charlotte  who studies how to simplify
language. “Much of the information is much, much clearer.”  For banks, the forms herald changes that could give an
advantage to smaller lenders.  More Competition  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser setting
up the consumer bureau, has touted disclosure simplification as
a way for smaller community banks to better compete against
financial giants such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  Wall Street banks can be more adept at hiding costs, Warren
says, so with better disclosure, consumers will rely more on
intangible factors such as their personal relationship with a
bank.  Jerry Little, president of the New Hampshire Bankers
Association, said the forms appear to be an improvement although
community bankers remain concerned about the regulatory burden.  “The real cost of compliance is not the form in front of
consumers, it’s the internal paperwork involved in proving to
the next examiner that you’re doing the mortgage properly,”
Little said in an interview.  The law will also protect homebuyers with anti-predatory
lending rules that ban banks and originators from steering
borrowers to more-expensive loans. Lenders also will be required
to verify a borrower’s income and debt.  The consumer bureau must propose the new regulations by
July 21, 2012.  While McHugh prepares, he worries he could expose his
company to litigation if he makes a mistake. Ultimately, Dodd-
Frank will make home loans more expensive and “erode the buying
power of the American homebuyer,” he said.  For now, “the biggest change has been the unknown. It
creates a lot of extra anxiety.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 