-- 
Dodgers Paid JPMorgan’s Highbridge $5.25 Million Fee for Loan, MLB Claims

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-12T14:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/dodgers-paid-jpmorgan-s-highbridge-5-25-million-fee-for-loan-mlb-claims.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers paid the
lender temporarily financing the team while in bankruptcy a
$5.25 million fee that wasn’t properly disclosed,  Major League
Baseball  claimed in a court filing.  The filing is part of a dispute between baseball and
Dodgers’ owner  Frank McCourt  over who will fund the team while
it tries to reorganize and exit bankruptcy. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Gross on June 28 gave the team temporary approval to
borrow as much as $60 million from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Highbridge Capital Management LLC.  Baseball officials said in a letter to Gross that it is
“critical” for them to examine any documents related to the
Highbridge fee because the Dodgers’ have refused to let McCourt
be questioned under oath.  “MLB has been fully aware of the fee and the guarantee
since the hearing on the first day of the Chapter 11 process,”
Lyndsey Estin, a Dodgers spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This knowledge is furthermore reflected in MLB’s
opposition motion, which it filed on July 6.”  Commissioner  Bud Selig  has urged Gross to reject the
Dodgers’ request to increase the Highbridge loan to $150
million. The Highbridge financing charges higher fees and a
higher interest rate that one offered by Major League Baseball,
according to baseball officials.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on June 27 after Selig
rejected a proposed cable television-rights deal McCourt
negotiated with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports. The team plans to sell
the rights while under court protection.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 