-- 
Dynegy Sacrifices Bondholder Interests to Duck Default: Corporate Finance

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T15:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/dynegy-sacrifices-bondholder-interests-to-duck-default-corporate-finance.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  is refinancing debt and
altering its corporate structure to avoid a default, putting
bondholders at a disadvantage by reducing their claims on the
assets of the third-largest independent U.S. power producer.  Dynegy is seeking $1.7 billion in new loans to replace an
existing facility on which it expects to default later this
year. The company’s $1.05 billion of 8.375 percent bonds due May
2016 fell 5 cents since the company announced its refinancing
plans July 10 to 75 cents on the dollar at 9:10 a.m.  New York 
time, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The utility has posted four straight quarterly losses as
low power prices and tougher  capital requirements  led it to
consider bankruptcy earlier this year. Robert C. Flexon, named
chief executive officer on June 22, needs a new credit agreement
because Dynegy expects to be out of compliance with an earnings-
to-interest ratio requirement in its current loan package by the
end of the year, according to a May 9 regulatory filing.  “The new management team’s first requirement is to get
liquidity, get the new bank facilities and then once that’s done
to go after some of these long-dated maturities,” said  Andy DeVries , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York.  The proposed financing package includes term loans of $1.3
billion and $400 million, the company said in a regulatory
filing yesterday. Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are arranging the six-year facilities, which Dynegy expects
to be completed at the end of July.  ‘Asset Stripping’  Dynegy’s plan adds a layer of debt senior to its bonds,
whose holders are also at risk of having company holdings sold.  “The bondholders have no covenants protecting them against
asset stripping,” said CreditSights’ DeVries. “They caught the
market off guard, and senior unsecured bondholders are saying
that management is no longer looking at the whole company as one
big portfolio and that is telling bondholders they may try to
strip some assets out from under them.”  Neither Flexon, 52, nor Chief Financial Officer Clint Freeland, 42, would comment on yesterday’s filing, Millie
Brinkley, a company spokeswoman said in a telephone interview.
Flexon was hired by a new board backed by the company’s two
largest owners,  Carl Icahn  and Seneca Capital, after
shareholders rejected two takeover bids.  Gas, Coal  Dynegy said it will restructure itself with one unit owning
eight primarily natural gas-fired power generation facilities
and another owning a group of six primarily coal-fired baseload
facilities, according to the filing. The $1.3 billion debt will
be available to the natural-gas unit, while the coal subsidiary
would get the $400 million loan, Dynegy said.  Separating debt at its natural-gas fueled plants, which
have been running more, from its coal-burning plants, which have
been running less based on fuel costs, will make it easier for
Dynegy to sell either unit, Brandon Blossman, a Houston-based
analyst for Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., said in a telephone
interview.  Dynegy must increase the ratio of its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest
expense to 1.6 times or more by Sept. 30 to remain in compliance
with its covenant and avoid default, according to the  SEC
filing .  It is “virtually certain that we will not be in compliance
with this covenant at some point over the next twelve months
unless we reach agreement on an amendment to or replacement of
the credit facility, or obtain a waiver of its terms,”
according to the company’s 10-Q filing received May 9.  Bond Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service assigned Dynegy a rating of Ca,
10 steps below investment grade, on March 28.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut its level to an equivalent CC on March 18 and said it could
downgrade the company further, citing the “near-term
possibility of a bankruptcy filing” if lenders don’t agree to
modify the terms of the loans.  The company’s 8.375 percent bonds have fallen 12.75 cents
since touching 87.75 cents, the highest in a year, on May 3,
Trace data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own Dynegy’s $4.31
billion of bonds instead of similar-maturity Treasuries widened
to 13.24 percentage points on average yesterday from 11.75 on
June 22, even as spreads on high-yield debt narrowed 6 basis
points over the same span, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  New Loans  Dynegy had $68 million outstanding under its term loan B
due April 2013, as of March 31, according to the regulatory
filing. The utility also has $850 million outstanding under a
term facility also due April 2013 that is fully collateralized
by $850 million of restricted cash, which means current
bondholders are behind $68 million in the  capital structure .
After the refinancing, they will be subordinated to the new $1.7
billion facility.  “This structure gets them down the road a year or two, and
you just don’t know how much more new debt will be ahead of
you,” Peter Thornton of KDP Investment Advisors in Montpelier,
 Vermont . said in a telephone interview. “You’re going to be
facing increasing structural subordination, and in that case the
recovery value just goes down as more and more debt is layered
on to those new subsidiaries.”  Dynegy has risen 66 cents, or 11.6 percent, to $6.36 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading since the Houston-based
utility announced April 13 it had hired Lazard Ltd. to refinance
its debt. The company reported its fourth consecutive quarterly
loss on May 9 as electricity prices fell from a year earlier.  Energy Prices  Falling  gas prices  have hurt Dynegy’s earnings. Gas costs
set energy prices in most market because plants powered by it
usually provide the marginal power needed to meet demand. Coal
is easy to store, and plants powered by it are usually slow to
be turned on and off.  The first-quarter net loss was $77 million, or 64 cents a
share, compared with net income of $145 million, or $1.20, a
year earlier, the Houston-based company said in the May 9
statement. Sales fell 41 percent to $505 million.  NRG Energy Inc. and Calpine Corp. are the two largest U.S.
independent power producers.  Natural gas for May delivery rose 3 cents to $4.31 per
million British thermal units yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Natural gas futures traded at $4.405 per
million Btu on Dec. 31 and as high as $13.577 on July 3, 2008.
Dynegy failed to hedge at that time, and it sold eight natural-
gas powered plants to LS Power Group in 2009.  The spot price of Illinois coal rose 16 percent from a year
earlier to $47.80 a ton in the past quarter, trailing a 31
percent increase in power prices in PJM Interconnection LLC, the
largest U.S. power market over the same period, Bloomberg data
show. Natural gas prices fell 5.2 percent, to $4.37 a million
Btu, in the same period.  ‘More Time’  Dynegy’s loss excluding some items such as adjustments to
the value of fuel and power sales contracts probably doubled to
55 cents a share in the past quarter, the average of four
estimates by analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “If this works, they’ve bought themselves a little more
time,” said Tudor Pickering Holt’s Blossman. “Presumably, the
covenant language in the new facilities will allow them
essentially the six years to right the ship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  