-- 
Heat Anchored in Central U.S. Shifts East, West Through July

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-12T12:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/heat-anchored-in-central-u-s-shifts-east-west-through-july.html
The heat baking the central U.S. is
expected to blanket the East Coast from Florida to Massachusetts
by the end of next week, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC.  By the time the hot weather reaches the East, in the July
22 to July 26 forecast period, temperatures won’t be “as severe
or as sustained” as those breaking records across the center of
the country, Rogers, based in Bethesda, Maryland, said in a note
to clients today.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
if temperatures may boost heating or cooling needs. Natural gas
futures rose for a second day in  New York  yesterday on forecasts
for hot weather in the East and Midwest.  Rogers’s 6- to 10-day forecast, covering July 12 to July
16, calls for heat to move west into  Southern California  and the
Rocky Mountains. The heat then shifts east in his 11- to 15-day
outlook.  Heat advisories and excessive  heat warnings  stretch from
Oklahoma across the South into  New Jersey  and New York. The high
temperature yesterday in New York’s Central Park was 91 and it’s
forecast to reach 95 today before moderating later this week,
according to the National Weather Service.  Temperatures reached into the 100s across Oklahoma,
Arkansas and Missouri again yesterday, according to the weather
service. A daily record high of 107 degrees Fahrenheit (42
Celsius) was set in  Fort Smith , Arkansas, yesterday, the second
day a high temperature mark was broken, the agency said. Fort
Smith has seen only one day below 100 since June 29.  In Tulsa, eight of the past 11 days have seen highs above
100, and the three other days the temperature reached 99, 98,
and 97, according to the weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 