-- 
Heatstroke Deaths Quadruple as Japan Shuns Air Conditioners to Save Power

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-07-13T05:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/heatstroke-deaths-quadruple-as-japan-shuns-ac.html
Deaths from  heatstroke  in  Japan 
quadrupled in the early part of summer as temperatures rose and
air conditioners were switched off in line with government
appeals to curb electricity usage to avoid power blackouts.  From June 1 to July 10, the latest period available, 26
people died from heatstroke, compared with six in the same
period last year,  according to  the Fire and Disaster Management
Agency. The number of people taken by ambulance to hospitals for
heatstroke more than tripled to 12,973, with 48 percent in the
most-at-risk group aged 65 years or older.  “There’s a risk the number of patients will continue to
rise if people stop using air conditioners at home,” said
Yasufumi Miyake, associate professor at Showa University
Hospital, who led a nationwide study of heatstroke. “Elderly
people are the most vulnerable as they try to tough it out.”  Temperatures in eastern Japan, including  Tokyo , were 3.8
degrees higher than the 30-year average in the last 10 days of
June or the highest since at least 1961, according to Hajime
Takayama, a forecaster at  Japan’s Meteorological Agency . The
average temperature in Tokyo in the 10 days was 26.4 degrees
Celsius, and temperatures in coming weeks are forecast to be
above average, he said.  ‘Requires Sensitivity’  Japan has shut 35 of its 54 atomic reactors for safety
checks after the March 11 earthquake triggered the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl, reducing total power capacity by 11
percent. Conservation efforts amid hotter temperatures are
raising concern of a repeat of last year, when  a record 1,718
people  died of heatstroke as the summer heat broke records.  In the northern prefecture of Yamagata, the government
asked businesses and families to either switch off air
conditioners or raise the temperature settings for two hours
between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. on July 7 to conserve power. The
government also warned of the risks of heatstroke.  Families were encouraged to stay in one room to cut the
number of air conditioners being used and to close their
curtains to block sunlight, according to the government  website .
Consumption on that day dropped 19 percent from a year earlier,
exceeding the target of 15 percent, the government said.  “Power-saving also requires sensitivity to heatstroke
risk,” Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said July 8 in parliament.  Monitor Temperatures  Workers at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant crippled by the March quake and tsunami are facing
heatstroke risk from working in high temperatures in sealed
suits that protect them from leaking radiation.  Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, has about 1,300 workers at the
plant. Since March, 27 workers required medical attention for
heatstroke or dehydration, said Ryoko Sakai, a spokeswoman.  The company has procured an additional 660 coolant vests
worn under the sealed suits to prevent heatstroke, said Hajime
Motojuku, a spokesman.  Heatstroke is an escalation of heat cramps and heat
exhaustion and becomes life-threatening when body temperature
reaches 40 degrees or higher, according to the  Mayo Clinic’s
website . It can lead to  brain damage , organ failure and death.  The health ministry has  printed  leaflets advising people to
use fans and air conditioners, drink water and monitor their
body temperatures.  ‘Lived Alone’  Supervisors at construction sites and factories should
raise heatstroke awareness and have workers drink water and take
salt even if they show no symptoms, the ministry said on May 31.
Farmers should work shorter work hours, the  agriculture ministry 
said.  Social workers will visit the homes of elderly people to
advise them on heatstroke, the Tokyo government said in June.
Officials in the Bunkyo ward of Tokyo said it will send out
leaflets explaining measures to prevent heatstroke to those over
75 years old who live alone.  The record deaths from heatstroke  last year  came amid the
hottest summer in Japan in 113 years, or since records began in
1898, as temperatures peaked at 39.9 degrees Celsius (103.8
Fahrenheit) on Sept. 5 in Kyoto. About 80 percent of those who
died were aged 65 years and older, and almost half were found in
their homes, according to Japan’s health ministry.  “People who developed severe cases and died were generally
elderly people, who lived alone who were found too late to
treat,” said Miyake, who led nationwide studies on heatstroke
in 2006, 2008 and 2010. “They are less sensitive and more prone
to bear the heat, so they don’t turn on air conditioners.”  Drink Sales Increase  Otsuka Holdings Co., maker of the sports drink “Pocari
Sweat,” says sales of the drink rose 25 percent in April from
last year to 2.63 million cases, and rose 12 percent in May. The
drink contains electrolyte minerals, including magnesium and
sodium, to replenish fluids lost through perspiration, according
to the company’s website.  Otsuka, which has given annual heatstroke seminars for the
past 20 years, has had requests to give talks from companies,
schools and local governments a month earlier than usual this
year, Risa Date, an Otsuka spokeswoman, said by telephone.  “We feel people are becoming more conscious about the need
for rehydration, driven by energy conservation efforts,” Date
said. “The production lines for Pocari Sweat are in full
operation 24 hours a day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  