-- 
Lebanon’s Hariri Blames Hezbollah, Assad for Government’s Fall

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-12T21:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/lebanon-s-hariri-blames-hezbollah-assad-for-government-s-fall.html
Former Lebanese Prime Minister  Saad
Hariri  for the first time publicly blamed the collapse of his
government in January on the leader of the Shiite Hezbollah
movement, Hassan Nasrallah, and its backer, Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.  Hariri, speaking in an interview in Paris with Lebanon’s
MTV channel, said yesterday that the new government headed by
billionaire Prime Minister  Najib Mikati  is a Hezbollah
government. Mikati formed a new government June 13, dominated by
a majority from Hezbollah and its allies.  Mikati has asserted his independence from Hezbollah, saying
that he isn’t a member of the group and his government will
adhere to international obligations to comply with UN
resolutions and international law.  Hariri’s national unity government collapsed after 11
ministers from Hezbollah and its allies resigned from the
cabinet, amid an investigation by a United Nations tribunal into
the 2005 assassination of his father, former Prime Minister
 Rafiq Hariri .  “The decision to bring down Saad Hariri from the
premiership was made by two people,  Hassan Nasrallah  and Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad,” Hariri said in the MTV interview.  Hezbollah wanted Hariri’s government to end Lebanon’s
financing of 49 percent of the UN tribunal’s costs. The
political rift has threatened a return to sectarian violence in
a country that emerged from a 15-year civil war in 1990.  Arrest Warrants  The UN tribunal on June 30 handed Lebanese authorities an
indictment in the killing of Rafiq Hariri. Arrest warrants were
issued for four people. LBC television and other local media
said at least two of them are connected with Hezbollah.  Nasrallah has pledged that Hezbollah won’t hand over anyone
from the group. He has repeatedly said the UN court is biased
and part of a U.S. and Israeli plot to target it and its backer,
 Syria .  Lebanon has 30 days to make the arrests, with the aim of
transferring the defendants to the court. A trial can be held in
absentia if the accused are not arrested.  Hariri said Lebanon “will pay the price” if Hezbollah
refuses to turn over members of the group indicted in the
assassination.  The United Nations tribunal asked Interpol to issue so-
called red notices to alert all states that warrants have been
issued for the arrest of the defendants in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  