-- 
EBay May Be Liable in L’Oreal Trademark Suit, EU Court Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-12T14:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ebay-may-be-liable-in-l-oreal-trademark-suit-eu-court-says-1-.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  may be held liable for
trademark breaches on its auction site if it has knowledge of
the infringing data, the European Union’s highest court said in
a dispute involving cosmetics maker L’Oreal SA.  The  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today that
national courts can order an online marketplace like EBay to
stop infringements if it “played an active role” that would
“give it knowledge of or control over the data relating to the
offers for sale.”  “EBay isn’t doing enough,” said Dominic Batchelor, a
partner with Ashurst LLP in  London . “It’s going to be up to
member states to work out on a case by case basis what is the
right sort of remedy.”  The EU court was called in at the request of U.K. judges,
who sought guidance in 2009 after a local tribunal found EBay
wasn’t liable for trademark breaches by users. A French court
ordered the two companies into mediation in 2009 after saying
EBay’s efforts to block sales of counterfeits showed its good-
faith, and in 2008 a Belgian case rejected similar claims by
L’Oreal, the world’s largest cosmetics company.  ‘Moved On’  “The judgment provides some clarity on certain issues, and
ensures that all brands can be traded online in  Europe ,” said
 Stefan Krawczyk , EBay’s European government-relations director.
“A lot of cases will still have to be assessed by the national
courts. We’ve moved on -- we fulfill most of these conditions
now anyways.”  The EU court decision “is in line with the position
L’Oreal has taken for several years and is applicable in courts
throughout the European Union,” said Laurence Balmayer, a
L’Oreal spokeswoman. “National courts must be able to order
companies operating Internet marketplaces to take measures to
prevent the sales” of fakes, products outside their original
packaging, not-for-sale items and goods imported without the
rights-owner’s consent.  L’Oreal has argued EBay, the world’s largest online
marketplace, is liable for trademark breaches, citing its active
involvement in the pre-sale, sale and after-sale processes.  Google,  Louis Vuitton   EBay, based in  San Jose ,  California , had hoped the EU court
ruling would provide enough guidance to help settle pending
trademark disputes with L’Oreal, Krawczyk said. The EU court
ruled last year, in a dispute between  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , that Internet hosts may benefit from
an exemption under the  EU’s e-commerce law  only if their role in
processing potentially infringing data is neutral.  “What EBay wants is a checklist, ‘If we are following
this, we’re ok,’” Batchelor said. “What we don’t have here is
that sort of certainty.”  It will be up to each country to work out what is the right
remedy, Batchelor said, though national courts “can’t go so far
as to say, ‘EBay, you’ve got to monitor absolutely everything
and make sure every product that is put up for sale on your site
is not infringing.’”  The case dates back to 2007 when L’Oreal sent a letter
expressing its concerns about the “widespread” sale of fake
products on EBay’s European websites and asking it to address
those concerns. L’Oreal sued, saying EBay hadn’t done enough.  Trademark-protected words EBay bought to bring visitors
using  search engines  to its site via sponsored links were a
point of contention raised by L’Oreal. While Paris-based L’Oreal
said the practice helps guide people faster to fake products,
EBay and the U.K. government argued it is meant as an EBay
advertisement.  The case is C-324/09,  L’Oreal SA (OR) , Lancome parfums et beaute
& Cie SNC, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie, L’Oreal (UK) Limited v.
EBay International AG, eBay Europe SARL, eBay (UK) Limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  