-- 
ECB’s Bond-Buying Pause Tested as Italy Prepares Debt Auction: Euro Credit

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ecb-bond-buying-halt-tested-as-italy-plans-auction-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank ’s resolve
in staying out of the bond market since March is being tested as
soaring interest rates endanger the funding programs of  Europe ’s
most indebted nations.  Italian 10-year yields surged above 6 percent this week on
concern that Europe’s third-largest economy may fail to
implement a 40 billion-euro ($56 billion) austerity package.
Borrowing costs for the nation, which plans to sell more than 3
billion euros of bonds in four auctions with maturities from
2016 to 2026, retreated yesterday amid speculation about ECB
purchases. The Frankfurt-based central bank declined to comment.  “The ECB will intervene on whatever scale is necessary to
allow  Italy  to conduct its auction on Thursday,”  Willem Buiter ,
chief economist at Citigroup Inc. and former  Bank of England 
policy maker, told reporters in London yesterday. “If the ECB
doesn’t come in, the Italian bond auction is likely to fail.”  The ECB suspended its bond-market support 15 weeks ago as
policy makers including incoming president  Mario Draghi  stressed
that the program is temporary and designed to enforce the bank’s
monetary policy aims. Opponents of the so-called Securities
Markets Program have argued the purchases stretch the ECB’s
mandate and may fuel inflation.  With the crisis moving closer to the heart of the 17-nation
currency region and policy makers failing at a meeting in
Brussels this week to agree on measures to curtail contagion and
cut  Greece ’s debt load, the ECB may have to restart the program,
economists said.  Unlimited Funds  “The central bank can create an unlimited amount of money
to purchase as much debt as it wants without anything
troublesome like parliamentary approval,” said David Mackie,
chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London.
“However, our judgment is that the central bank would be very
reluctant to get engaged in this way. The ECB would prefer a
fiscal solution to what is obviously a fiscal problem.”  Warnings by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
over Italy’s ability to trim its debt burden, coupled with
infighting in Silvio Berlusconi’s government over budget cuts,
fueled the selloff that started last week. The country yesterday
sold 6.75 billion euros of 12-month bills, the first auction
since borrowing costs began soaring.  A bigger obstacle to the ECB re-entering bond markets may
be that, with the total outstanding amount of Italian government
debt amounting to 1.6 trillion euros, the financial firepower
would need to be much larger than for smaller states.  Too Big to Rescue?  “The practical problem is that the Italian  bond market  is
many times bigger than those of even Greece,  Portugal  and
Ireland put together,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The ECB might find it
difficult to have the necessary impact while still sterilizing
the purchases.”  Since the beginning of the ECB’s bond purchases in May
2010, the central bank has purchased bonds worth 74 billion
euros from the region’s debt-strapped periphery. Unlike the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s Quantitative Easing program, the ECB re-
absorbs the cash it lays out, to restrain money supply growth.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has repeatedly said the
bank has done its part in fighting the debt crisis and that it’s
now up to governments to design solutions.  “We are not the decision makers and we do not want to
substitute for decision makers,” Trichet said on July 7 after
the ECB raised  interest rates  for the second time this year.
“We are not the actors. The governments and authorities are the
actors.”  Buyback Program  Trichet has also called for more flexibility of the
European Financial Stability Facility, suggesting that bond
buybacks should be added to the facility’s instruments. Ireland
and Portugal, which both received external aid over the past
year, have tapped the EFSF.  European finance chiefs this week debated adding buybacks
to the fund’s arsenal and increasing its size from the current
440 billion euros, in an effort to stem the crisis and restore
investor confidence in the 17-member region. Officials are still
working on a second package for Greece to follow the 110
billion-euro lifeline extended in May 2010.  “ECB bond purchases are the most powerful circuit
breaker,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London . “The earlier the ECB
delivers on its duty to tackle contagion risks, to safeguard
financial stability and to prevent harm to the euro-zone economy
as a whole, the easier it will be to contain the damage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  