-- 
Medicine’s Big Mystery, What Does Treatment Cost?: Mimi Ferraro

-- B y   M i m i   F e r r a r o
-- 
2011-07-12T04:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/medicine-s-big-mystery-what-does-treatment-cost-mimi-ferraro.html
The next time I see my oncologist,
my main complaint will be not the side effects of my cancer
treatments, though I have plenty of those, but the impossibility
of finding out how much those treatments will cost before I have
them.  In 2006, I was diagnosed with  breast cancer . I was 29. The
cancer was small and, in terms of surgery and immediate
recovery, things went well.  But my five-year follow-up treatment has been an endless
loop of side effects that generate their own costs and -- often
just as stressful -- a dizzying accumulation of medical debt.  Repeatedly I have been stunned by bills I didn’t expect
because no one -- not doctors, hospitals or insurance companies
-- could tell me in advance how much their services would cost.  This problem is getting worse as more people are forced, as
I have been, into high-deductible health-insurance plans. As a
freelancer -- I am a singer, an actress and a yoga teacher,
among other things -- I have no other affordable option for
medical coverage. But such plans are increasingly favored by
employers, too, to help contain costs. Eighteen percent of
insured adults had deductibles of at least $1,000 last year, up
from just 10 percent in 2005, according to the  Commonwealth
Fund’s 2010 Biennial Health Insurance Survey .  By 2010, more than 54 percent of large employers offered
their employees at least one high-deductible health plan,
according to a  Rand Corporation survey . The 2010 health-care
reform law will probably expand the use of high-deductible plans
because they will be a key component of the health-insurance
exchanges being set up by the states, according to  Rand .  Patients Don’t Decide  This kind of insurance is expected to help reduce health
costs. Given a need to make higher upfront payments, patients
may be more selective about the services they buy and keep
spending low. But there is a significant flaw in this reasoning:
Patients aren’t the ones who make the decisions about which
tests and procedures to purchase. Doctors are. And doctors,
along with hospitals and insurance companies, don’t let on how
much the services cost.  In December, I needed an injection of Lupron as part of my
cancer treatment. It would cost about $2,000 at my local
pharmacy, but if I bought it there, my payment wouldn’t count
toward my insurance plan’s $5,000 deductible. So I wanted to
find out how much the shot would cost at the oncologist’s
facility, where it would count toward the deductible.  The people managing my doctor’s office didn’t know the
price of the injection and sent me to the cancer-center billing
office. There, the staff took the procedure code and insurance
information, and said they couldn’t tell me how much the shot
would cost until after I had it. (Yes, you read that correctly.)  When I called my insurance company to see if anyone there
could tell me what the price would be, I was transferred to the
pharmacy department, which determined that my shot didn’t
qualify for reimbursement in that category and transferred me
back to medical benefits, which again suggested I contact
pharmacy.  Finally, I went back to my oncologist’s office and waited
until someone would help me. A nurse promised an answer -- and a
week later I got one. The shot, she said, would cost $900 to
$2,000.  I knew that it wouldn’t be a simple charge. Rather, the
cancer center would bill my insurance company a far greater
amount, and later on, based on its contract with my insurer,
adjust the cost. I asked my insurance company what the final
amount would be. In an e-mail, I learned that its “allowance”
for the shot was $2,600.  OK, cool. That wasn’t much more than buying the medication
at the pharmacy, and it would count toward my deductible. I had
the injection at the cancer center.  The Actual Charge  Three months later, my bill arrived in the mail: $4,099.51.
When I phoned the cancer-center billing office, I was informed
that the price the nurse had quoted had been only an
“estimate.” The insurance company, for its part, explained that
the procedure cost more because it was done in a hospital
facility, rather than a doctor’s office. The person on the phone
acknowledged that the service had been billed with a “J code,”
the kind that designates a doctor’s office rather than a
hospital. Nevertheless, he said, Lupron costs more in hospitals.
I still don’t understand how the company could use the doctor’s-
office code and come up with a hospital price.  Doctors are little help in such situations. Most have no
idea how much their services, tests and prescriptions cost. A
 2010 study in Spokane, Washington , found that only one in 10
doctors who work in hospitals could say with even 10 percent
accuracy what their services cost. When asked to name the price
for a CT scan, for instance, their estimates ran from $150 to
$1,800. The actual price in their area: $2,200.  Asked to price an overnight stay in the intensive-care
unit, which costs $1,100, they guessed anywhere from $750 to
$6,000.  Stress and Health  Many doctors seem to have no interest in finding out what
services cost, even though their patients’ anguish over medical
debts is profoundly stressful and unhealthy.  Very often, doctors and other health-care providers
insulate themselves from their patients’ financial realities by
hiring outside agencies to manage their billing.  When the cost of medical services is a mystery, it is
difficult for a doctor and patient to discuss options for care.
We are asked to be medical “consumers,” to choose the best
treatments at the best prices from among competing providers.
But we lack the information that requires. I wouldn’t buy an
iPad without knowing what it costs, but I’m expected to pay
whatever the medical bill demands months after I have treatment.  Decoding the serpentine systems and attitudes that keep
patients in the dark about medical costs will not be easy. It
will require that either doctors or insurance companies step up
and take responsibility for providing the transparency that
patients need.  But patients can start by demanding accountability from
doctors, hospitals and insurance companies. We can and should,
before doctor visits and treatments, request -- in writing --
lists of anticipated procedure codes and their costs based on
whatever contracts the insurance companies have with the doctors
or facilities.  If your experience is anything like mine, you will be told
this is impossible. But making this question a regular part of
the conversation -- affirming it as a patient’s right -- will
force change. After all, we are consumers.  (Mimi Ferraro, a singer, songwriter and actress, is writing a
rock-soul musical about young adults with cancer and teaches
yoga in  Brooklyn ,  New York . The opinions expressed are her own.)  For more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the author of this column:
Mimi Ferraro at  mimiferraro@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  