-- 
Einhorn Is Ousted From Poker Series Along With Defending Champion Duhamel

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T13:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/einhorn-is-ousted-from-poker-series-along-with-defending-champion-duhamel.html
David Einhorn , the hedge-fund
manager who agreed in May to buy 33 percent of the  New York
Mets , was eliminated from the  World Series of Poker ’s main
event.  Jonathan Duhamel, the defending champion of the $10,000
buy-in tournament, officially known as the No-Limit Hold’em
World Championship, also exited during Day 2 play in Las Vegas,
as did the Boston Celtics’ Paul Pierce.  Einhorn, the president of Greenlight Capital Inc. who
finished 18th in the main event in 2006, entered play yesterday
with 94,400 in chips, more than twice the average stack among
the 4,521 entrants who were left.  He joined about 1,200 players in failing to advance to Day
3. More than 800 survived, including former champions Jamie Gold
and Robert Varkonyi.  Past champions who were eliminated included Johnny Chan,
Scotty Nguyen, Dan Harrington and Duhamel, who won $8.9 million
with his main-event victory last year.  The leader, with 478,600 in chips, is Aleksander Mozhnyakov
of  Russia .  Pierce, the nine-time All-Star for the Celtics, saw his
pair of twos topped by a pair of jacks to end his tournament at
the Rio All Suite Hotel & Casino, according to the  World Series 
of Poker website.  The half of the field not in Day 2 action yesterday --2,490
players -- will compete today before a rest day for all
remaining contestants tomorrow. The tournament is scheduled to
play down to nine by July 19. Those players will compete at the
final table on Nov. 7 to crown a champion.  Einhorn agreed to buy a stake in the Mets for $200 million
from the club owners, who are trying to pay off debt and resolve
a $1 billion suit by the trustee representing people who lost
money in the  Ponzi scheme  run by Bernard L. Madoff. The deal
between Einhorn and the Mets has yet to be completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 