-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Plunge Most Since May; Currencies, Bonds Retreat

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-12T21:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/emerging-stocks-fall-in-biggest-two-day-loss-since-february-on-europe-debt.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled the
most in seven weeks, currencies weakened and borrowing costs
rose as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index sank 1.9 percent to
1,121.27 at 4:40 p.m. in  New York , the biggest loss since May
23.  China ’s benchmark equity index slid the most in seven weeks
while India’s Sensex Index fell to a three-week low after
factory production growth slowed.  Brazil ’s equities fell for a
sixth day. Poland’s zloty weakened 1.3 percent and Hungary’s
forint slid to the lowest level since March versus the dollar.  The MSCI index posted the largest two-day drop since June
2010 as Spanish bond yields soared to a euro-era record and
Ireland’s credit rating was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service. The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries jumped five basis points to 3.18
percentage points, the highest level in two weeks, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  “Risk appetite nosedived with the contagion concerns from
Eurozone issues coming to the forefront again,” David Hauner, a
London-based strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote
in a report today.  Infosys Ltd.,  India ’s second-largest software exporter with
22 percent of its sales from Europe, lost 4.4 percent in Mumbai
as its sales forecast trailed those of analysts. Technology
stocks led MSCI’s gauge of emerging-market stocks lower with a
2.9 percent slide, the biggest among 10 industries.  China, East Europe  China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.7 percent as new
loans and  money supply  exceeded estimates, spurring speculation
that it will be difficult for policy makers to ease tightening
policies. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index tumbled 3.7
percent, the most since May 2010, after Moody’s said some
Chinese companies are engaging in potentially risky business
practices.  Poland’s WIG20 retreated 0.3 percent, the Czech PX Index
declined 0.6 percent and  Hungary ’s BUX extended losses after
sliding yesterday the most since April. The ISE National 100
Index in  Turkey  declined for a third day as the lira fell to the
weakest versus the dollar since April 2009.  Nine hours of talks yesterday by European finance chiefs
resulted in a six-paragraph statement in which the 17 euro
governments pledged to flesh out a new master plan “shortly”
to end the 21-month-old crisis, without setting a timeline. The
meetings ended today with all 27 European Union finance
ministers planning a response to the release of bank stress
tests later this week.  Gerdau SA and Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais, Brazil’s
largest steelmakers, both fell for the sixth consecutive day.
YPF SA,  Argentina ’s largest oil company, lost 4.7 percent, the
most among decliners on the Merval Index.  Record Yields  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds rose above 6 percent for
the first time since 1997 while the yield for similar-dated
Spanish bonds reached 6.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Italy has 1.6 trillion euros ($2.24 trillion) of bonds
outstanding, the world’s third-largest debt pile after the U.S.
and  Japan , while  Spain  owes 655 billion euros. Moody’s cut
Ireland’s rating to Ba1 from Baa3, after it downgraded
 Portugal ’s by four levels to Ba2 on July 5. The euro fell to the
lowest in almost four months versus the yen today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Information Technology Index sank
the most since March 15. Infosys said sales in the year to March
will range from $7.1 billion to $7.3 billion, missing the $7.5
billion average of 56 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Overhang’  The European debt crisis may put pressure on the profits of
banks and financial services companies and that’s an
“overhang” for the Indian  software industry , said Girish Pai,
an analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.  Moody’s cited five Chinese companies as having more “red
flags” on corporate governance than others out of 61 firms it
examined, sending shares of  West China Cement Ltd. (2233)  to a record
14 percent decline.  The ratings company looked at criteria that “highlight
issues meriting scrutiny to identify possible governance or
accounting risks,” analysts led by Elizabeth Allen in  Hong Kong 
wrote in a report issued yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  