-- 
Tetangco Says Inflows to Persist, May Complicate Policy Making

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-07-12T07:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/tetangco-says-inflows-to-persist-may-complicate-policy-making.html
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor
Amando Tetangco in an interview in  Manila  yesterday said policy
makers will closely monitor prices and stand ready to use
monetary tools to rein in inflation at a 26-month high. The next
policy meeting will be on July 28.  On monetary policy:  “The BSP does not pre-commit to any particular policy
action in the future. Our policy decisions remain guided by our
evolving assessment of the balance of risks of the inflation
outlook. As developments happen, we have to reassess.”  “In the coming weeks, the BSP would continue to evaluate
the sufficiency of the recent policy adjustments; policy rate
hikes and reserve requirement increase; and draw up additional
measures if required based on our latest assessment of more
recent developments.”  “We have seen some easing of the pressure but we’re not
home free yet because there are still uncertainties in the
commodity markets as well as in global fronts.”  “The policy rate remains the primary policy instrument of
the BSP. We also look at other instruments.”  “The recent crisis has taught us that policy makers need
to monitor the financial sector. If liquidity is allowed to
remain slosh in the system, it could distort risk perceptions.”  On capital flows:  “The increase in the reserve requirement allows monetary
tightening without necessarily encouraging further short-term
capital flows, compared to an increase in policy rate which can
attract more flows and lead to a policy dilemma.”  “This is the complication that strong capital inflows play
on the conduct of monetary policy. Given the realities we face
nowadays, it looks like capital inflows to emerging markets will
continue to persist.”  “Earlier this year, in a meeting among central bank
governors, the consensus was that the global recession is over
and the concern is shifting from growth to inflation. The
assessment then was that the tightening cycle of advanced
economies would begin sooner rather than later, which in turn
would rebalance capital flows.”  “Unfortunately, the case for such a scenario may not be as
strong now as it was in the earlier part of the year.”  “Inflows to emerging markets including the  Philippines 
will continue. In our case, this is underpinned by positive
 market sentiment  about the growth prospects of the economy. Just
like in other emerging markets, the positive interest-rate
differentials plus the expectation that advanced economies will
continue to maintain accommodative monetary policy will lead to
continuation of the flows. There’s also lingering uncertainties
in European financial markets.”  On China:  “In the case of China, growth has somewhat moderated. For
the first time in so many years, China is experiencing single-
digit economic growth. They’ve been trying to pull down their
growth rate, which is good because it will make the growth more
sustainable. I personally don’t see a hard landing for  China .
Given what we’ve seen so far, I believe Chinese authorities will
be able to manage the situation and make the growth of the
Chinese economy more manageable over the medium to long term.”  On non-deliverable forwards:  “It’s not only the portfolio investment, there’s also a
certain amount of dollar liquidity coming from the NDF’s and
NDF’s have grown substantially over the years.''  The central bank would like to see ‘‘a more transparent
market because pricing of NDF is not very transparent.”  “We’re not saying we will stop” the NDF’s. “We’re just
saying we want to study.”  On the peso:  “We’re still bullish” on the peso. “We don’t target any
specific  exchange rate  and we will continue to monitor the
market and adopt appropriate policy measures to ensure stability
of the peso. Our concern really is not so much the level of the
exchange rate but the peso’s volatility. We’re in the middle of
the range for both.”  “Based on market players’ survey as of July 5, and this is
not by the central bank, it ranges from 40.75 per dollar to
42.92 per dollar by the end of the year.”  On diversification of reserves:  “Diversification of reserves should be in line with a
number of things including trade settlement, currency
denomination of liabilities, liquidity and marketability of
reserves and credit grade of assets.”  “Given that, the bulk or 75 percent of our reserves are
still in  U.S. dollar , 15 percent in yen, 5 percent in euro and
the balance in SDR and other currencies.”  “We’re open to diversification, if there’s an opportunity.
Yuan is always a candidate for diversification. They want to
liberalize their foreign-exchange system and allow the
internationalization of the yuan gradually.”  “One important consideration for a currency to be
considered a  reserve currency  is its convertibility. Right now
the yuan isn’t fully convertible. But I wouldn’t be surprised if
it becomes convertible sooner rather than later. I think the
yuan can form part of the SDR basket (of the  International
Monetary Fund ) in a few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  