-- 
Tetragon Financial Shareholder Sues Directors, Alleging ‘Abusive Scheme’

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-12T19:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/tetragon-financial-shareholder-sues-directors-alleging-abusive-scheme-.html
A  Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. (TFG) 
shareholder sued a group of company officers and directors, the
firm’s investment manager and Polygon Investment Partners LLP,
an investment firm, claiming “an ongoing abusive scheme” by
the directors to profit at Tetragon’s expense.  “Instead of faithfully serving the company’s investors,
defendants have engaged and continue to engage in the looting of
TFG,” investor Daniel Silverstein said in his complaint, filed
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court. “The investment manager,
with the active complicity of the TFG board, has expropriated
almost $205 million in unjust fees.”  Silverstein’s case is a shareholder derivative suit, which
is a claim filed on behalf of the company to enforce legal
rights the company’s officers and directors have allegedly
failed to assert.  In the suit, Silverstein claims Tetragon’s directors
allowed the company to manipulate its net asset values to
maximize performance fees paid to its  investment adviser , which
is owned by Polygon, a London-based hedge-fund firm run by Reade Griffith and Paddy Dear, both of whom are among the defendants
in the Silverstein case.  Carissa Ramirez, an outside spokeswoman for Tetragon
Financial Group, had no immediate comment. Tetragon is based in
Guernsey in the  Channel Islands .  $300 Million IPO  Tetragon, which invested in collateralized debt
obligations, raised $300 million in an initial public offering
managed by Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley. Silverstein said
Tetragon’s voting shares are held by a Polygon entity. Other
investors hold non-voting shares.  According to Silverstein, Tetragon’s investment manager is
paid 1.5 percent of the fund’s net asset value, plus a 25
percent performance fee on increases in the net asset value. The
firm wrote down its net asset value in 2008, below its fair
value, allowing the Polygon-owned investment adviser to reap
tens of millions of dollars in performance fees when credit
markets improved and Tetragon’s net asset value increased.  According to Silverstein, former Tetragon director
Alexander Jackson sued his fellow board members in a Guernsey
court in February, claiming they violated duties to shareholders
to enrich themselves.  Excessive Fees  Silverstein claims unspecified damages and seeks a court
order requiring the board to end the alleged diversion of
Tetragon’s assets to the defendants.  The complaint quotes a letter to Tetragon’s board from  Leon Cooperman , the founder and chief executive officer of Omega
Advisors Inc., calling the performance fees “blatantly
excessive.”  Cooperman, who is not involved in the Silverman suit, said
his firm owns about 10 percent of Tetragon’s shares.  “They’ve been as abusive to stockholders as anyone I’ve
ever seen,” Cooperman said in a telephone interview today.  The case is Silverstein v. Knief, 11-CV-4776, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 