-- 
EU Carbon Falls to Lowest Since March 2009 Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-07-12T12:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/eu-carbon-falls-to-lowest-since-march-2009-amid-debt-crisis.html
European Union carbon permits fell
to their lowest level in more than two years because an
oversupply through 2012 may overwhelm demand amid faltering
efforts to limit the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Carbon allowances for December dropped as much as 4.6
percent today to 11.54 euros ($16.06) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London, the lowest level since March
2, 2009, and were at 11.72 euros as of 1 p.m. local time.  Allowances in the program, the world’s biggest by traded
volume, have dropped 17 percent this year on concern an
oversupply through 2012 may be more than enough to satisfy
utility demand as economic growth falters in the region. EU
carbon permits could fall further in the next 12 to 18 months
because the bloc is suffering “stability issues” and the
commitment to the emissions market could be fading,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said.  Most emitters have already bought the carbon permits they
need for 2012 and “it wouldn’t surprise me” if power utilities
were selling allowances, Per Lekander, an analyst at the bank in
Paris, said today by phone.  Utilities have more carbon permits than they need and those
are decreasing in value, Lekander said. Because the power
generators have “generally stretched balance sheets, they could
be reluctant to buy further large quantities near term even if
the CO2 price is low,” he said earlier today in an e-mailed
research note.  ‘Natural Floor’  Carbon prices may reach a “natural floor” around 9 euros
to 10 euros a ton, underpinned by the cost of creating United
Nations offsets, Lekander said. Prices may rebound as high as 23
euros around 2013 as the market becomes tighter, he said.  “We do not see any lack of commitment to the European
carbon trading scheme and from 2013, when the scheme gets
tightened by 12 percent to 13 percent, we believe that the main
risks on the carbon price are on the upside.”  Carbon will probably stop falling or rebound quickly, said
OTC Europe LLP. Further extension on the downside is for the
moment “probably unsustainable,” Brett Genus, a broker and
technical analyst at OTC in London, said today by e-mail.  The European Commission, regulator of the market, will
probably need to choose between providing emitters with
certainty on emission targets or permit-price upside,  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  said yesterday.  The commission has said it might temporarily remove some
allowances from the program to help deal with an oversupply
through 2012, a policy tool known as a set aside. Phase three of
the market begins in 2013 and runs through 2020.  The regulator may face “a difficult trade-off,” Barclays
analysts including  Trevor Sikorski  in London said. “Either it
provides the market with certainty over the phase-three cap and
effectively abandons thoughts of deepening the cap through the
set-aside, or it maintains uncertainty in the market but looks
to provide price upside by attempting to get a set-aside
proposal operational.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  