-- 
EU Officials Flail About for Solution to Debt Crisis, Revive Buyback Plan

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-12T13:58:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/eu-officials-flail-about-for-solution-to-debt-crisis-revive-buyback-plan.html
European finance chiefs hunted for
ways to cut  Greece ’s debt burden, floating ideas from bond
buybacks to a temporary default in an overhaul of a strategy
that has failed to contain the debt panic.  As a surge in bond yields in Italy and  Spain  brought the
crisis closer to the heart of the euro area, Europe dusted off
previously discarded plans under the glare of markets that have
lost confidence in governments’ ability to still the turmoil.  “They are taking it one step a time and you never get
ahead of the snowball,” said Matt King, Citigroup Inc.’s global
credit strategy head in London. “You need a fundamental shift
that deals with the whole crisis.”  The brainstorming at a two-day Brussels meeting whipsawed
financial markets, sending 10-year Italian yields to a 14-year
high before bonds recovered. The euro fell to a four-month low.
Milan’s stock index dropped to its lowest in two years before
rebounding.  Nine hours of talks yesterday yielded a  six-paragraph
statement  in which the 17 euro governments pledged to flesh out
a new master plan “shortly” to end the 21-month-old crisis,
without setting a timeline. The meetings ended today with all 27
EU finance ministers plotting a response to the release of bank
stress tests later this week.  The midnight declaration centered on Greece, “the core of
the problem,” according to German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . “The question of improving the debt sustainability
in Greece is the solution to the crisis.”  Emergency Summit  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  considered
convening an emergency summit of euro leaders, which would put
the  crisis management  back in the hands of the government chiefs
who first pulled Europe back from the brink by creating the
bailout fund in May 2010.  The decision to have another look at reinforcing the 440
billion-euro ($618 billion) fund, beefed up only last month,
came after talks with bondholders over a “voluntary” rollover
of Greek debt ran into a threat by credit-rating companies to
put Greece in default and opposition from the  European Central
Bank .  Prodded by the ECB, the euro’s guardians said the fund,
known as the European Financial Stability Facility, may be used
to buy bonds in the secondary market or enable Greece to retire
its debt at a discount. They offered another cut in rates on its
emergency loans.  Finance ministers gave themselves until late August to work
out a second package for Greece to follow the 110 billion-euro
lifeline extended in May 2010. Schaeuble said no extra aid will
come about without an accord to keep bondholders exposed to the
Greek market.  New Package  Greece’s next three-year package will also include lower
 interest rates  and longer repayment times for official loans,
the statement said. In a nod to demands by Finland and Slovakia,
it said Greece might be required to put up collateral.  Finance ministers offered conflicting interpretations of
the commitment to explore a wider range of options. Dutch
Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager , a Schaeuble ally, insisted
on getting bondholders to roll over Greek debt even if that
results in the “selective default” opposed by the ECB.  A “selective default” “is not excluded anymore,” De
Jager said. “We have more options, a broader scope to work
with.”  The statement didn’t foreclose that path, singling out the
ECB as opposing a “ credit event  or selective default.”
Schaeuble later insisted on a “voluntary” rollover and
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said a brief phase of
Greek non-payment is “not an option that we envisaged.”  Debt Buybacks  With Greek 10-year debt fetching less than 55 cents on the
euro, buybacks were forced back onto the table by the  Institute
of International Finance , a group representing more than 400
banks and insurers that has tried to broker an accord on the
French rollover proposal.  Rejected by  Germany  earlier this year, the buybacks would
pare Greece’s debt burden of 142.8 percent of gross domestic
product by enabling it to retire bonds at a discount. German
resistance centered on using taxpayer money to help spendthrift
countries wriggle out of their debt.  Italy, a focus of German concern in the 1990s runup to the
euro with debt over 100 percent of GDP, returned to the
forefront with a six-day bond plunge that ran out of momentum
today. Italy now has  Europe ’s second-highest debt load, at 119
percent of GDP in 2010.  Italian Auction  Italy sold 6.75 billion euros of bills in its first auction
since borrowing costs began soaring. The Treasury in  Rome  sold
the one-year bills, meeting its target, at an average yield of
3.67 percent, up from 2.147 percent in the last sale on June 10.  Italian assets were upended by doubts whether Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , plumbing record-low approval ratings
with two years left in office, will muster the strength to push
through 40 billion euros in planned deficit-cuts.  “Euro-area financial markets will be caught in a tension
between, on the one side, cheaper valuations and the knowledge
that something is brewing, and on the other, nervousness for the
lack of a coordinated final decision,” Francesco Garzarelli,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s London-based chief interest-rate
strategist in  London , wrote in a note today.  The bond rout also abated in Spain, the fourth-largest euro
user, bringing yields off euro-era highs. Spanish 10-year yields
fell 13 basis points to 5.90 percent, narrowing the spread over
German debt to 322 basis points.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero lashed
out at Europe’s “most powerful” countries for fumbling the
crisis response. Speaking at  Van Rompuy ’s side in  Madrid , he
called on Europe’s leaders to “assume their responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling
at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  