-- 
Euro Declines on Ireland Rating Cut, Concern Debt Crisis Will Reach Italy

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-12T21:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/euro-falls-to-4-month-low-versus-yen-on-concern-debt-crisis-to-reach-italy.html
The euro weakened to a four-month
low against the yen after Moody’s Investors Service reduced
Ireland’s sovereign debt rating, adding to concern the European
debt crisis is deepening.  The 17-nation currency dropped to the lowest level in four
months versus the dollar and traded near a record low against
the Swiss franc amid investor concern the region’s debt crisis
will spread to  Italy , the euro-area’s largest debtor. The yen
rose to the highest level against the greenback since the day
before the Group of Seven countries jointly intervened in the
foreign-exchange market.  “The market is seeing this as another blow, just as risk
was starting to get used to the new reality, things
stabilizing,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, referring to the
Ireland downgrade. “Risk is transferring to another country in
the periphery and it increases the risk there could be a
downgrade to a bigger country, like Italy, where the capacity of
politicians to help is very small.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to 110.41 yen, at 6:20 a.m. in
 Tokyo . It reached 109.58 yesterday, the least since March 17.
The 17-nation currency was little changed against the dollar
after touching $1.3837, the weakest since March 11 yesterday.
The dollar traded at 78.92 yen after earlier touching 78.50 yen,
the lowest level since March 17.  Quantitative Easing  The U.S. currency fell for a fourth day versus the yen as
the  Federal Reserve ’s minutes from its June meeting released
today show policy makers were divided on whether additional
monetary stimulus will be needed if the outlook for economic
growth remains weak.  “Speculation of QE3 will hurt the dollar and today it’s
hurt the dollar against the euro, even with this sovereign-debt
overhang,” said  Kathy Lien , director of research with online
currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “You’re seeing the
dollar has fallen since the release of the minutes. The prospect
is slowly being priced in to the market and the only currency
it’s going to affect is dollar-yen.”  Ireland’s credit rating was cut to non-investment grade
joining  Portugal  and  Greece  to become the third euro-area
country to be lowered to junk. Portugal’s rating was cut four
levels to Ba2 July 5, by Moody’s.  The franc rose against all its major counterparts excluding
the yen, adding 0.1 percent against the dollar to 82.94
centimes. It fetched 1.1587 per euro.  “When the euro drops this fast people kind of want to get
away from  Europe  and everything that can be tagged with the euro
and that’s why you’re seeing move this out to the yen and not
just the Swiss,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10
foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.
“Market sentiment indicators look quite extreme and it wouldn’t
surprise me if we go through a period of consolidation in the
euro.”  Kiwi Weak  The  New Zealand dollar  fell against all 16 of its major
peers as investors fled assets perceived to be more linked to
economic growth. The kiwi fell 0.1 percent to 81.77 cents.  The shared European currency pared losses yesterdayas
Italian bonds recovered on speculation that  China  may buy debt
issued by Europe’s high-deficit nations. The yield on two-year
securities fell ten basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to
4.107 percent after rising as much as 61 basis points to a
record 4.815 percent.  Italy is the euro region’s biggest  bond market , with 1.8
trillion euros of outstanding debt as of Dec. 31, compared with
1.1 trillion euros of German debt outstanding on March 31,
according to websites from the nations’ debt agencies.  China Demand  “These huge moves are as a result of rumors in the bond
market that the Chinese central bank is preparing to buy
significant quantities of the distressed European government
debt market,” said Ian Williams, chief executive officer of
Charteris, whose funds’ investments include U.K. government
bonds, said today by e-mail. “This has caused a reverse flight
to quality.”  “Something wild has gone on today,” Williams said in a
telephone interview. “You don’t usually get smoke without
fire.”  The cost to protect against a drop in the euro against the
dollar reached the most since June 2010.  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro versus
the dollar declined to 22.6, the lowest since Nov. 30, falling
below the 30 level for the third day. Readings below 30 indicate
a currency’s decline may have gone too quickly and may be due
for a reversal.  The so-called risk reversal rate on three-month options on
the euro versus the dollar had as much as a 3.23 percentage-
point premium for contracts that grant the right to sell the
euro over those allowing for purchases. That’s the most since
June 8, 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  