-- 
European Stocks Fall for Third Straight Day Amid Debt Concern

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-12T16:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/european-stock-index-futures-fall-on-debt-concern-volkswagen-might-move.html
European stocks fell, dragging the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index to the biggest three-day drop since
March, amid growing concern that the region’s government-debt
crisis is spreading.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  slumped 28 percent after Europe’s
second-largest tour operator cut its forecast.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  led semiconductor shares lower as U.S. rivals
Microchip Technology Inc. and Novellus Systems Inc. reported
results that missed estimates.  Italy ’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index
erased an earlier 4.8 percent drop as  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  rebounded.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 lost 0.6 percent to 268.16 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has fallen 2.8 percent over
the past three days as contagion from  Greece ’s debt crisis
threatened to spread to the bigger economies of Italy and  Spain .
That brings the decline since this year’s high in February to
7.9 percent.  “We have two negative themes for the equity market, with
on the one hand increasing tensions in Italy and Greece and on
the other hand the earnings season giving signs of an economic
slowdown,” said Christian Stocker, a Munich-based strategist at
UniCredit. “We remain cautious for the second half of the year
and defensive in terms of sector allocation.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  became the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report second-quarter earnings after the
close of New York trading yesterday. The largest U.S. aluminum
producer posted per-share profit that trailed estimates.  European Talks  European finance chiefs cast about for a strategy to halt
Greece’s debt spiral, reviving previously discarded ideas and
sharpening a dispute with central bankers as the rot spread to
Italy. Nine hours of talks yesterday yielded a six-paragraph
statement in which the 17 euro governments pledged to flesh out
a new master plan “shortly.” The meetings resumed today with
all 27 European Union finance ministers plotting a response to
the release of bank stress tests later this week.  Three days of losses have left the Stoxx 600 trading at
about 12.6 times its companies’ reported earnings, near the
cheapest valuation since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Stocks are fairly valued and it could be a support in the
short term, but if tensions escalate in the euro zone it won’t
be,” UniCredit’s Stocker said.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Italy, Portugal and Luxembourg.
Germany’s DAX Index declined 0.8 percent, France’s CAC 40 and
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 each lost 1 percent.  VStoxx Jumps  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a measure of the cost of insuring against
losses in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, rose 7.6 percent to 28.25,
the highest level since March.  The Stoxx 600 pared a drop of as much as 2.7 percent today
as Italian and Spanish bonds rebounded amid speculation the
 European Central Bank  bought the debt of the euro region’s most-
indebted nations to stabilize markets.  Thomas Cook  plummeted 28 percent to a record low of 87.85
pence. The company said its underlying operating profit for the
year ending in September may fall to 320 million pounds ($506
million) from 362 million pounds in 2010. That’s below forecasts
given in May and less than the 382 million-pound average
estimate of nine analysts compiled by the company.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  tumbled 7.5 percent to 204.7 pence, the
biggest decline in almost nine months. International
Consolidated Airlines Group, the parent of British Airways,
dropped 2.3 percent to 231.7 pence.  Infineon, ASML  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker, lost 3.6
percent to 7.48 euros. Microchip Technology, a U.S. maker of
analog chips, said sales and profit didn’t meet its forecasts on
weaker demand from automakers and computer producers.  ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s biggest semiconductor-gear maker,
declined 3 percent to 25.70 euros after Novellus, a maker of
machinery used in semiconductor production, forecast third-
quarter sales and profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  A gauge of technology shares posted the worst performance
of 19 industries in the Stoxx 600.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the U.K.
designer of chips that power Apple Inc.’s iPhone, sank 4.9
percent to 596.5 pence.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , a banking software
provider, lost 1.4 percent to 24.05 Swiss francs.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  fell 3.3 percent to 692
pence, the lowest in more than a year. Prime Minister David
Cameron’s government will support an opposition  Labour Party 
motion calling for  News Corp . to withdraw its bid to take full
control of BSkyB, Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field said.  Allegations last week that News Corp. staff hacked into the
phones of murdered schoolgirls and terror victims and paid
police for stories prompted  Rupert Murdoch  to close the News of
the World tabloid.  Stora Enso, UniCredit  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV)  slid 2.1 percent to 6.79 euros after
Europe’s biggest papermaker said its second-quarter operating
profit will be reduced by about 32 million euros in non-
recurring items including restructuring measures.  UniCredit, Italy’s largest bank, rose 5.9 percent to 1.22
euros after earlier plummeting 8 percent.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) 
gained 3.3 percent to 1.58 euros, erasing a drop of 7.3 percent.  Italy sold 6.75 billion euros ($9.4 billion) of treasury
bills in its first auction since borrowing costs began soaring
amid contagion from the Greek debt crisis. Demand for the debt
was 1.55 times the amount sold, compared with 1.71 times at an
auction in June.  Italy will survive the European debt crisis given the
country has many exporters and more than half of its debt is
held by local investors, according to SLJ Macro Partners LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 