-- 
Levin Says Better Offshore Tax Compliance Would Reduce Deficit

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-07-12T18:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/levin-says-better-offshore-tax-compliance-would-reduce-deficit.html
U.S. Senator  Carl Levin  said the
congressional focus on reducing the federal  budget deficit 
should enhance the chances for passage of legislation to crack
down on offshore  tax havens .  Improving offshore tax enforcement would allow the  U.S.
Treasury  to recoup a significant chunk of an estimated $100
billion in revenue that Levin said is lost annually to
“offshore trickery and tax shelter abuses.” He made the
remarks today at a press briefing unveiling the legislation.  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, heads the Senate  Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations , which has examined offshore
transactions for the past decade. He has introduced similar
legislation in four previous congressional sessions.  “Our great hope is that deficit discussions will give it
momentum,” Levin said.  The  bill’s 18 provisions  include several that would
require improved reporting of offshore transactions by banks and
corporations, and allow for more tax information-sharing among
U.S. regulatory agencies.  The legislation would require that corporations registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission annually disclose
country-by-country figures for employees, sales, financing, tax
obligations and tax payments.  The bill would treat non-U.S. corporations that are
publicly traded or have $50 million or more in assets and are
managed and controlled primarily from the U.S. as U.S.
corporations for income tax purposes.  Taxable Income  It also would treat credit-default swap income payments
sent offshore from the U.S. as taxable U.S. income. Levin said
U.S. regulators currently treat such payments as coming from a
foreign source.  “It’s absurd that you source money where it’s received
instead of where it comes from,” he said.  Levin declined to comment on recent reports that the
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations has sent letters
seeking information on how certain U.S. corporations, including
Cisco Systems Inc. and DuPont Co., would use offshore cash if
they were able to bring it into the U.S. at a low  tax rate .  Cisco, along with Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Pzifer Inc.,
are lobbying Congress for a tax holiday that would allow them to
bring home overseas profits while paying a tax rate lower than
the current 35 percent top U.S. corporate rate.  Levin, who opposes a tax holiday, said the letters are part
of an investigation and “a report is about to be issued on that
subject.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
azajacbloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  