-- 
Ex-BearingPoint Directors to Face Lawsuit Over Bankruptcy in State Court

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-12T21:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ex-bearingpoint-directors-to-face-lawsuit-over-bankruptcy-in-state-court.html
Former BearingPoint Inc. directors
will face a $1.88 billion lawsuit over their role in the
consulting company’s insolvency in state court, a repercussion
of a recent  Supreme Court  decision that could affect many
bankruptcies.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber, who in 2009 approved
BearingPoint’s exit from court protection, said in an order
yesterday in  New York  that he will lift the usual restrictions
that force creditors to argue their claims against officers and
directors in  bankruptcy court . Gerber said he changed his mind
partly because of last month’s Supreme Court ruling that
Congress violated the Constitution by giving too much power to
bankruptcy judges.  “Gerber’s decision gives a lot of courts much to think
about in terms of what the Supreme Court intended in Stern v.
Marshall,” said Jeffrey Sabin, a partner at Bingham McCutchen
LLP, who said it’s probably the first decision based on the
Supreme Court’s ruling.  The 5-4 high court decision, in a case involving the late
Anna Nicole Smith and the estate of Texas billionaire J. Howard Marshall, clamped down on the ability of bankruptcy judges to
rule on disputes governed by state law.  Chief Justice  John Roberts , writing for the majority, said
a 1984 law violated the Constitution by giving powers to
bankruptcy judges that were reserved for Article III judges,
which refers to the section of the Constitution that establishes
the federal judiciary. Those judges, including district,
appeals, and Supreme Court judges, have life tenure, are
confirmed by the Senate and are protected from having their
salaries reduced.  Procedural Complications  “Concerns emerging from my fear that, if litigated here,
this action would be bogged down in procedural complications,
aggravated by the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Stern v.
Marshall,” led him to grant a request to send the lawsuit to
Virginia state court, Gerber wrote.  The Supreme Court ruling applies when companies or
individuals have a “counterclaim” or legal argument that falls
under state law, and is related, but not core, to a creditor’s
financial claim. In a dissenting opinion, Justice  Stephen Breyer 
argued the ruling could have a major effect on bankruptcies,
creating “jurisdictional ping-pong” and adding cost and
suffering for those already in bankruptcy.  The ruling creates “logistical difficulties” for
bankruptcy judges, and could force lawsuits to change locations
mid-dispute, adding costs, said Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP in a
July 7 note.  Seek Vengeance  In the bankruptcies of chemical maker Chemtura Corp.,
General Motors Corp.’s unwanted assets, and DBSD North American
Inc., Gerber said he’s stated a case for why bankruptcy courts
should review claims about the fiduciary duty of directors
similar to those in BearingPoint; “stakeholders all too often
blame others for failures to get the recoveries they desire;
seek vengeance against other parties; or simply wish to second
guess the decision makers in the chapter 11 case,” Gerber
wrote.  Bankruptcy judges face some limitations which other courts
can overcome, he added: “It’s a cliché, but still a correct
observation, that what we bankruptcy judges see in our chapter
11 cases is the tip of an iceberg.”  Bankruptcy judges often oversee lawsuits about whether
company executives are liable on the grounds they’ve broken the
law that holds them responsible to public shareholders.
Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur Gonzalez  dismissed a lawsuit that argued
fraud leading up to the bankruptcy of Chrysler Corp., the car
company. In Charter Communication Inc.’s bankruptcy, Judge James Peck approved a reorganization plan that freed officers,
directors, advisers and lawyers from lawsuits including those
for violations of  securities law  and breach of fiduciary duty.  ‘Diminished’ Recoveries  Sabin, who represented the trustee in BearingPoint, said
that Gerber’s ruling may not set a precedent for other
bankruptcy court disputes over fiduciary duty, as it was
specific to the facts of the BearingPoint case.  In the BearingPoint lawsuit, a trustee assigned to recover
money for creditors in the Chapter 11 case is accusing former
Chief Executive Officer Edwin Harbach and eight former directors
of breaching their fiduciary duty by ignoring opportunities to
sell the company or some of its assets in 2007 and 2008.  Creditor recoveries were “diminished” as a result in
BearingPoint’s bankruptcy, trustee John DeGroote Services LLC
said in court papers filed in November.  BearingPoint, based in McLean,  Virginia , was spun off from
the accounting firm KPMG LLP in 2000. It sold most of its assets
in bankruptcy, including a $350 million sale to Deloitte LLP.
Its financial-services business was sold to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  The case is In re BearingPoint Inc., 09-10691,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 