-- 
Ex-Morgan Stanley Trader Settles SEC Claims Over Hiding Risk

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-12T18:09:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ex-morgan-stanley-trader-settles-sec-claims-over-hiding-risk.html
A former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  trader
agreed to pay $25,000 to settle U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that she concealed proprietary trades that
exceeded the firm’s risk limits.  Jennifer Kim and her supervisor, Larry Feinblum, used
“fake” swap orders at least 32 times from October to December
2009 to hide their risk of losses, the SEC said in an  order 
today. New York-based Morgan Stanley ultimately lost about $24.5
million from the unauthorized trades, according to the agency.  Feinblum, who is no longer employed by Morgan Stanley,
agreed to pay $150,000 to settle related claims May 31,
according to a separate  order . In resolving the matters, Kim and
Feinblum didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  Kim and Feinblum entered into swap orders that they
intended to cancel almost immediately, which had the effect of
“tricking” the firms’ monitoring systems into recording
reduced net risk positions, the SEC said. After being told by
his supervisor not to increase his exposure to India-based Wipro
Limited, Feinblum instead distorted his position with the fake
swaps and continued to accumulate more risk, the SEC said.  The misconduct came to light in December 2009 after
Feinblum told his supervisor he had lost $7 million in one day
and that he and Kim had repeatedly exceeded risk limits and
hidden the positions, according to the order.  SEC Commissioner Luis Aguilar said the terms of Kim’s
settlement were “inadequate,” according to a written  dissent 
posted on the agency’s website. The settlement “fails to
address what is in my view the intentional nature of her
conduct,” Aguilar said.  Phone calls to Daniel Chaudoin, Feinblum’s attorney at
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, and Christopher
Caparelli, Kim’s lawyer at Torys LLP, weren’t immediately
returned. Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 