-- 
Ex-Premier Brown Says News Corp. Papers Used Criminality, Tells of Tears

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-12T11:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ex-premier-brown-says-news-corp-papers-used-criminality-tells-of-tears.html
Former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  accused News Corp. newspapers in the U.K. of using
criminals to get stories about him while he was in office.  Brown also said that he was reduced to tears when the Sun
tabloid phoned him to say its reporters had obtained his son
Fraser’s medical records showing that he had been diagnosed with
cystic fibrosis.  “The level of criminality involved, which is going to be
exposed, meant that there were links between that newspaper, and
that group of newspapers, and well-known criminals in this
country,” Brown said in an interview with  BBC  television
broadcast today. “This is an issue and will become an issue
about the abuse of political power as well as the abuse of civil
liberties.”  Brown said reporters accessed his family’s legal, financial
and medical records using “blagging” techniques, where people
impersonate someone over the phone in order to obtain private
information. Reporters for the Sunday Times accessed his bank
account so they could run a story “with the purpose of bringing
me down as a government minister,” Brown, who was chancellor of
the exchequer at the time, told the BBC.  “There’s absolutely no doubt that News International was
trying to influence policy -- their editorials show that they
were publicly wanting to influence policy -- but of course they
used all channels to try to do this,” Brown said. “The record
will show that some people at News International abused their
power, there’s no doubt about that.”  Last Issue  News International, the British publishing division of New
York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , publishes the Sun, the Times and the
Sunday Times. It also owned the News of the World, which
published its last issue on July 10 after allegations the
newspaper hacked into voicemails of terror and murder victims
and paid police for stories triggered a public outcry.  Brown said he couldn’t answer questions about whether News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks sent a text
message saying he should sack a defense minister. He said it was
a matter for his wife, Sarah, as the allegation referred to a
text that she received.  Asked what his reaction was on hearing the Sun had details
of his son’s diagnosis, Brown said “in tears, your son was now
going to be broadcast across the media. Sarah and I were
incredibly upset about it.  “We were thinking about his long-term future, we were
thinking about our family,” Brown said. “But there’s nothing
that you can do about it, you’re in public life and this story
appears.”  Legitimate Source  In a statement today, News International said it is
satisfied the Sun obtained the story from a legitimate source
and pledged to look into the allegations made by Brown.  “So that we can investigate these matters further, we ask
that all information concerning these allegations is provided to
us,” it said.  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband , who today met
the parents of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler to discuss
allegations that their daughter’s phone was hacked shortly
after she disappeared, said the treatment of Brown was
“disgusting.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the reporting about
Brown’s son “looks like yet another example of the appalling
invasion of privacy.”  “To have your children’s privacy invaded in that way,
particularly when your child isn’t well, is heartbreaking,”
Cameron told  BBC television . He said his government “won’t rest
until we get to the bottom of what is clearly an appalling
mess.”  Cameron has pledged to hold separate public inquires into
the police handling of the original phone-hacking allegations
against the News of the World and the conduct of media
organizations. Police investigations into the hacking
allegations and claims officers were paid for stories are under
way.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  