-- 
Mexico Antitrust Agency Starts Second Investigation of Telecom Market

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-07-12T18:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/mexico-antitrust-agency-starts-second-investigation-of-telecom-market.html
Mexico ’s antitrust agency is opening
an  investigation  into “relative monopolistic practices” in the
markets for  cable television , fixed-line phone and internet
service.  The  Federal Competition Commission , known as the CFC, will
review actions or agreements by companies that have the
“objective or effect of inappropriately displacing other market
participants.” Competitors may also have attempted to increase
costs for rivals or reduce demand for their services, according
to a statement published in Mexico’s official gazette today.  The probe follows another CFC investigation into possible
collusion in the same markets, announced June 1. Telefonos de
Mexico SAB, the Mexico City-based company that controls 80
percent of the nation’s fixed-line market and is the largest
Internet provider, filed a complaint with the CFC in March,
saying commercial agreements between  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  and
Megacable Holdings Inc. hurt competition.  Televisa, also based in Mexico City and the world’s largest
Spanish-language broadcaster, controls three cable operators
that offer packages of TV, phone and Web service, and it shares
a brand, Yoo, with Megacable, the nation’s largest cable
carrier.  The companies, which have been taking customers from Telmex
with their package of services, have denied their collaboration
hurts competition. Telmex, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, is banned from offering a video
product by Mexico’s government, which says the company must
first comply with rules governing phone-network connections.  Telmex shares were unchanged at 9.45 pesos at 2:11 p.m. New
York time. Televisa fell 1 percent to 53.30 pesos and Megacable
rose 3.2 percent to 27.24 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  