-- 
Fannie Mae Consensus Absent as GSE Bills Move in U.S. House

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-13T00:42:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/fannie-mae-consensus-absent-as-mortgage-bills-move-in-u-s-house.html
A House subcommittee approved a
slate of Republican-backed bills aimed at the broken U.S.
housing finance system as lawmakers said Congress was far from
devising a coherent plan to overhaul  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  The panel approved the six bills today, bringing to 14 the
number of measures dealing with the mortgage system pushed
through the panel by Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican and chairman of the subcommittee on capital markets
and government-sponsored enterprises.  Republicans on the full  Financial Services Committee  have
split in their approach to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which
have drawn about $130 billion in taxpayer support since they
were seized by the government in September 2008. One faction,
led by Garrett and Representative Jeb Hensarling of  Texas ,
supports proposals that would lead to the elimination of any
government role in mortgage finance. Another group, including
 California  Representatives  Gary Miller  and  John Campbell , favors
preserving some federal backing for residential home loans.  “We would like a comprehensive bill,” Representative
 Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican and Financial Services
chairman, said during the debate. “Now, can we get a
comprehensive bill? I don’t know, I don’t think so.”  Representative Maxine Waters of California, the senior
Democrat on the subcommittee, said the problem was illustrated
by the sheer number of measures being introduced.  ‘Piecemeal Bills’  “It’s becoming clear to me that the majority is putting
forth these piecemeal bills because they are split on how to
approach comprehensive reform,” Waters said.  Among the bills passed by the subcommittee today was one
that would cap the amount Fannie and Freddie can receive from
the government and another that would require the companies to
reduce their portfolios.  Campbell, who introduced a  bill  with Michigan Democrat Gary Peters that would replace the government’s guarantee behind
housing bonds with a system of privately run associations,
joined with Democrats in criticizing the subcommittee’s approach.  “I don’t think we should be doing this today. Until we
have a replacement mechanism in process at least, we are
threatening this economy,” Campbell said. “This hearing and
these bills are a mistake and I think they are out of order.”  Treasury Dividends  Washington-based Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  of McLean,
 Virginia , were put under government control when failing
subprime loans took them to the brink of insolvency. The
Treasury told investors the U.S. would make good on the
companies’ debt and promised the firms an unlimited line of
credit. As of the first quarter, the firms had drawn about $160
billion and paid $26 billion in dividends back to the Treasury.  The political split over the firms’ future comes as housing
industry groups including the National Association of Realtors
and the National Association of Homebuilders flood Capitol Hill
to lobby for preserving government support for home lending.  The pace of the process has been set by President Barack Obama’s administration, which asked Republicans to move slowly
while government officials work on a comprehensive proposal for
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Bachus said.  The Treasury in February released a 31-page outline of
possible paths for the wind-down of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Garrett and Bachus, at the time of the release, issued
statements saying they would work with the administration on
crafting legislation.  Meeting with Geithner  The Republican leadership of the Financial Services
Committee met with Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan in April,
when the administration officials asked for a few more months to
come up with a plan, Bachus said. He added that the
administration, which is in the midst of last-minute
negotiations to increase the debt ceiling, is running out of
time to work with the Republicans.  “If they want to bring forth a comprehensive proposal,
they’ve got two or three more weeks to do it,” Bachus said.  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and
former chairman of the full committee, chided the Republicans
for not moving the bills further along, at one point asking for
Republicans to explain “the extraordinary incompetence and
incoherence in this committee.”  Garrett said that lawmakers have been pushing over the past
three months for a way forward on legislation.  “As we can see, it is not a simple problem to solve,”
said Garrett.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  