-- 
Fed Officials Divided on Further Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-13T01:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/fed-officials-divided-on-further-stimulus-if-u-s-economy-remains-weak.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
disagreed on whether additional monetary stimulus will be needed
even if the outlook for economic growth remains weak, minutes of
their meeting last month showed.  “A few members noted that, depending on how economic
conditions evolve, the committee might have to consider
providing additional monetary stimulus, especially if economic
growth remained too slow to meaningfully reduce the  unemployment
rate  in the medium run,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
in the minutes of its June 21-22 meeting, released today in
Washington.  “On the other hand, a few members viewed the increase in
inflation risks as suggesting that economic conditions might
well evolve in a way that would warrant” the FOMC “taking
steps to begin removing policy accommodation sooner than
currently anticipated.”  Policy makers cut their forecasts for growth this year
before a July 8 government report showed employers added jobs at
the slowest pace in nine months in June. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at a June 22 news conference said growth will pick up
as energy prices subside and disruptions of parts from Japanese
factories ease, while also leaving the door open to additional
stimulus. In their meeting, policy makers also agreed on a
strategy for withdrawing record monetary stimulus and adopted a
new set of communications guidelines.  Stocks Rise  Stocks rallied after the report before giving up gains as
Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s debt rating to junk.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,313.64 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading in  New York  after rising as much as
0.6 percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.88
percent from 2.92 percent late yesterday.  A divided FOMC means officials are likely to prolong their
low interest-rate policy, said  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN
Financial in New York.  “The majority view is that they can’t ease because
inflation is rising but at the same time they can’t tighten
because the unemployment rate is too high, so they’re on hold,”
Low said.  The minutes show some officials have doubts about whether
their policy toolkit has anything more to offer. “A few
participants expressed uncertainty about the efficacy of
monetary policy in current circumstances but disagreed on the
implications for future policy,” the minutes said.  Slower Growth  Some members of the FOMC “saw the recent configuration of
slower growth and higher inflation as suggesting that there
might be less slack in labor and product markets than had been
thought,” the minutes said. In that case, “the withdrawal of
monetary accommodation may need to begin sooner than currently
anticipated in financial markets.”  The Fed’s Washington-based governors and regional
presidents agreed to complete their $600 billion bond buying
program, known as QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing, as scheduled at the end of June.  “The Fed will be watching and waiting to learn more about
the economy,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York. “One camp is worried about
what happens if growth slows more than expected. The other camp
is worried about what happens if the rise in inflation isn’t
transitory.”  ‘Extended Period’  Policy makers also renewed their pledge to hold interest
rates “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” The Fed
has kept its target rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008. Bernanke at the June press conference said
the Fed would be “prepared to take additional action, obviously,
if conditions warranted,” including the purchase of more
 Treasury securities .  “Most” FOMC members said the rise in inflation would
“prove transitory” and that over the medium term inflation
would “be subdued as long as commodity prices did not continue
to rise rapidly and longer-term inflation expectations remained
stable.”  “A few participants saw a continuation of the current
stance of monetary policy as posing upside risk to inflation
expectations and actual inflation over time,” the minutes said.  Policy makers discussed adopting an explicit target for the
rate of inflation, with “a few” saying it “could help keep
longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.” One
participant said an inflation target could “alter the relative
importance of the two components of the committee’s dual
mandate.” The Fed has a mandate from Congress to achieve both
stable prices and maximum employment.  Target Rate  Economists predict the central bank’s target rate will
remain near zero until the second quarter of 2012, according to
the median estimates of a Bloomberg News survey from June 28 to
July 7. Investors who trade Fed funds futures, or bets on the
central bank’s target rate, see an 86 percent chance that
 interest rates  will remain unchanged until at least the second
quarter of 2012, according to Bloomberg data.  The committee said that “the recovery remained subject to
some downside risks” such as a further decline in housing
prices, a larger-than-expected tightening of fiscal policy in
the near future, and “potential financial and economic
spillovers” from the European debt crisis.  Policy makers also said that “even a short delay in the
payment of principal or interest on the Treasury Department’s
debt obligations would likely cause severe market disruptions”
and have a “lasting effect on U.S. borrowing costs.”  Steps to Exit  The minutes showed that all but one of the FOMC members
agreed on the sequence for an exit from record monetary stimulus.
The minutes said the discussion was part of “prudent planning”
and didn’t imply that an exit would take place soon.  The minutes said the committee will determine “the timing
and pace of policy normalization.” The first step will be to
“cease reinvesting some or all payments of principal” on
securities holdings in the Fed’s portfolio.  “At the same time or sometime thereafter, the committee
will modify its forward guidance on the path of the federal
funds rate and will initiate temporary reserve-draining
operations aimed at supporting the implementation of increases
in the federal funds rate when appropriate,” the minutes said.  When economic conditions warrant, the committee would raise
the federal funds rate, which would become the “primary means
of adjusting the stance of monetary policy.” Sales of agency
securities from the Fed’s portfolio would likely begin after the
first federal funds rate increase, with the timing and pace of
sales communicated to the public in advance. The pace of sales
will be aimed at eliminating agency securities from the Fed’s
portfolio over a period of three to five years.  Fed’s Portfolio  Policy makers said they expected the Fed’s portfolio to
return to a more normal size “over a period of two to three
years” once the sales begin.  When officials met in April, crude oil was trading close to
its highest since 2008. Inflation expectations, as measured by
the breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, had climbed to 2.41 percentage points from 1.73
points at the end of 2010. Some inflation pressures have
declined in recent months, with the five-year breakeven rate
falling to 2 percent.  The national average price of a gallon of gasoline has
fallen to $3.63 from a three-year high of $3.99 on May 4,
according to the American Automobile Association. After the
slide, gasoline prices remain 34 percent higher than they were a
year ago, as high prices continue to dent consumer spending and
confidence.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index decreased to minus
45.5 for the period ended July 3 from minus 43.9 the prior week,
as consumers’ views of the economy slipped to a three-month low.  ‘Moderate Pace’  In the public statement after its meeting, the FOMC said
“the economic recovery is continuing at a moderate pace, though
somewhat more slowly than the Committee had expected.”  Since that meeting, the Labor Department reported that the
economy added 18,000 jobs in June, less than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists,
and the jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 9.2 percent.  “We don’t have a precise read on why this slower pace of
growth is persisting,” Bernanke said in his news conference
after the Fed’s meeting. Referring to “frustratingly” slow job
growth and weakness in the financial and housing industries,
Bernanke said “some of these headwinds may be stronger and more
persistent than we thought.”  In the minutes of the meeting, “several” policy makers
said that reallocating workers into new industries and workers
losing skills after long bouts of unemployment may have
“temporarily reduced the economy’s level of potential output.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  