-- 
Bernanke ’Lays Down Law’ on Fed Public Statements Before Policy Meetings

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-12T21:17:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/fed-issues-guidelines-on-officials-public-communications.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  offered this communications tip to his central bank
colleagues: Watch what you say.  The Fed, in a document released today, provided some
parameters on talking about the business of the central bank.  The guidelines called for Fed policy makers to refrain from
characterizing the views of other members of the  Federal Open
Market Committee , the central bank’s main decision-making group,
and from publicly discussing the contents of meetings beyond
what is eventually published in minutes of the closed-door
sessions.  The guidelines also called on Fed officials to observe a
“blackout period” during which they will not offer their views
on monetary policy and economic conditions. The time span will
begin on Tuesday the week before scheduled Fed meetings, and end
on the Thursday following the gatherings.  “Looks like the Fed chairman is laying down the law when
it comes to talking about the outlook and policy,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “The Fed’s miscommunications last fall
damn near derailed QE2 before it was out of the blocks,” Rupkey
said, referring to the second round of quantitative easing.  Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , who left earlier this year, had
publicly expressed doubts that the Fed’s recently ended $600
billion bond-buying program would do much to bolster the
economy. He still was among the 10 Fed officials who voted for
the program in early November.  Sharpening Communication  The Fed has taken other steps this year to sharpen its
communications. The action comes after the Fed’s role in bailing
out Wall Street firms during the 2008 financial crisis provoked
public and congressional anger. The bailouts prompted calls on
 Capitol Hill  for the central bank to be more open and
accountable.  For the first time in the Fed’s history, Bernanke in late
April began holding quarterly news conferences.  The Fed said the new guidelines are aimed at making the
central bank more transparent, helping the public and investors
better understand the policy decisions. “Two-way communication
with the public is a crucial element” in the policy-making
process, the Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net  