-- 
First Gulf to Sell First Sukuk Under $3.5 Billion Program as Yields Drop

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-07-12T07:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/first-gulf-bank-to-sell-first-islamic-bond-as-yields-decline.html
First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the  United
Arab Emirates ’ lender controlled by  Abu Dhabi ’s ruling family,
plans to sell its first Islamic bond under a $3.5 billion sukuk
program as yields on Islamic debt reached a six-year low.  The lender, the country’s fourth-biggest by assets, hired
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to
manage the sale, according to a  prospectus  filed to the London
Stock Exchange yesterday. The Islamic bond will be the first
from Abu Dhabi since  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the
country’s second-biggest bank by assets, raised 500 million
Malaysian ringgit ($160 million) in December from the sale of
10-year bonds paying a coupon of 4.9 percent.  Sukuk sales by borrowers in the six Gulf Cooperation
Council countries have dropped 5 percent so far this year to
$2.34 billion compared with the same period last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield on sukuk in the
region fell to 4.1 percent yesterday, the lowest in six years,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  First Gulf Bank in April reported a 5 percent decline in
first-quarter profit to 875 million dirhams ($238 million),
missing analysts’ estimates, after a one-time gain in the
previous year. Lending grew 1.6 percent in the quarter to 97.1
billion dirhams from December, according to the prospectus.  The “majority of the growth” in the bank’s loans since
2009 “is concentrated in the retail, real estate and services
sectors,” according to the prospectus. Retail personal loans
made up 34.3 percent of overall lending at the end of December
and real estate accounted 18.6 percent, the prospectus said.  Loan Rules  First Gulf Bank is among banks likely to be most affected
by new consumer loan guidelines implemented by the U.A.E.
central bank in May, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report
last month. The new central bank rules include a cap on personal
loans at 20 times a borrower’s monthly salary and the repayment
period at 48 months.  Goldman Sachs has cut its earnings estimates for U.A.E.
banks by 10 percent on average for the period from 2011 to 2014.
First Gulf Bank is forecast to report a profit of 873 million
dirhams in the second quarter, according to the mean estimate of
four analysts on Bloomberg.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  PJSC, the emirate’s biggest Islamic
bank, in October 2010 raised $750 million from the sale of five-
year sukuk at a margin of 248.9 basis points over similar
maturity U.S. government debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  