-- 
Foster’s Value Falls to Lowest Since SABMiller Offer

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-13T08:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/foster-s-falls-to-lowest-since-sabmiller-offer-on-bid-stalemate.html
The gap between the market value of
 Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  and  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s rejected A$9.5 billion
($10.1 billion) takeover bid has almost halved as speculation
of a higher offer fades.  Foster’s traded as low as A$5.08 today, 18 Australian
cents higher than SABMiller’s A$4.90 cash offer, before closing
at A$5.09 today, up by 0.2 percent. The stock had traded as
high as A$5.23 since the deal was rejected by Australia’s
biggest brewer on June 21 as too low.  The Australian beermaker hasn’t been in contact with the
London-based brewer of Peroni and Grolsch since last month,
when it turned down the offer and SABMiller said it would
“seek engagement.” The Melbourne-based company is instead
focusing on cutting costs and boosting spending on brand
promotion to stem market share losses in  Australia  for its top-
selling beer Victoria Bitter.  “The market is starting to realize that it appears no one
else is going to come in with a counterbid, and that SABMiller
is in no hurry to re-engage,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  SABMiller Rebound  SABMiller shares have rebounded from as low as 2,074.5
pence on June 23, climbing to their highest price ever on July
8 as concern eased about the rationale of acquiring Foster’s.  Foster’s has gained 12 percent since June 20, the day
before the offer was rejected. SABMiller fell 0.7 percent to
2,323 pence yesterday. SABMiller rose 0.2 percent to 2,328.5
pence as of 9:05 a.m. in  London  trading.  SABMiller could afford to pay more for Foster’s, according
to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News, even though an
acquisition would dilute the London-based brewer’s exposure to
faster-growing emerging markets. Any purchase would give
SABMiller access to about half the Australian beer market,
including the eponymous Foster’s brand, as well as a business
with some of the highest margins around the world.  Andrew Butcher, a spokesman for Foster’s external media
adviser Butcher & Co., declined to comment, affirming there has
been no change in the company’s stance on the bid.  Wine Spinoff  Foster’s spun off its Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. unit in
May, spurring speculation that both parts of the business would
attract bids. Grupo Modelo SAB de CV, the Mexican brewer of
Corona, and Molson Coors Brewing Co. had explored a possible
joint bid for Foster’s, five people with knowledge of the
matter said June 3.  Japan ’s Asahi Breweries Ltd. may also be
interested in the company, two people close to the situation
have said. No brewer apart from SABMiller has made a public
offer for Foster’s.  “SABMiller is the only bid out there and may be the only
one made,” said  Theo Maas , who holds Foster’s shares and helps
manage about $5.4 billion at Arnhem Investment Management in
Sydney. “I wouldn’t be overly happy as a SABMiller shareholder
if they go higher than this. Going hostile at A$4.90 probably
won’t get them anything, so it’s a bit of a stalemate.”  The gap between Foster’s shares and SABMiller’s offer was
33 cents on June 27. At today’s low, the spread was 45 percent
narrower at 18 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  