-- 
Italian Debt Risk Puts France’s BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole on Frontline

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-07-13T10:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/france-s-bnp-credit-agricole-on-frontline-with-italian-risk.html
French banks, including BNP Paribas
SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , have the most at risk from the euro-
region’s debt crisis infecting  Europe ’s largest borrower,  Italy .  At the end of 2010, French banks carried $392.6 billion in
Italian government and private debt, according to data from
Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements.
That’s the most for financial institutions from any foreign
country and more than double held by German lenders.  “They’re on the frontline,” said Julian Chillingworth,
who helps manage about 16 billion pounds ($25 billion) at
Rathbone Brothers Plc in London. “French banks like BNP Paribas
have taken substantial positions in Italy when the market opened
up to foreign players and now they face the downside.”  Italian stocks and bonds have been roiled on concerns about
the country’s ability to trim debt after warnings by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  and infighting in Silvio Berlusconi’s government over a budget-cutting plan. Italy’s woes
may overshadow efforts to fix  Greece ’s finances, which have left
European policy makers struggling to find a strategy that won’t
spark a region-wide debt panic.  Italy, whose 1.6 trillion euros ($2.23 trillion) of bonds
outstanding is the largest debt load in Europe and behind only
the U.S. and  Japan , had avoided being sucked into the financial
crises engulfing Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . Confidence eroded
after both Moody’s and S&P in the past two months said they were
reviewing ratings for Italy and its banks.  Bear Market   Italian stocks entered a bear market on July 11, defined as
losses of more than 20 percent from a previous high, and 10-year
Italian yields reached the highest in 14 years. Stocks recovered
and yields on 10-year Italian notes retreated from a euro-era
high of 6.02 percent after the completion yesterday of an
auction of 6.75 billion euros of treasury bills and Berlusconi’s
reassurances on hastening the passage of a 40 billion-euro
deficit-cutting plan.  “These are positive signs, but it would be better to
anticipate markets rather than to react to them,” said
Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based analyst at AlphaValue. “It’s
as if politicians got down on their knees before the markets.”  BNP Paribas (BNP) , which slid to its lowest level in 7 ½ months
this week, rose 1.2 percent to 47.51 euros in Paris trading as
of 12:30 p.m.  France ’s biggest bank has fallen 11 percent this
month, more than double the 5.1 percent decline in the 49-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. Credit
Agricole has dropped 13 percent, while Societe Generale,
France’s third-largest bank by assets, slid 11 percent.  Big Bets  “The French banks’ case is being tested because of Italian
wobbles coming in the wake of the Greek uncertainty persisting
longer than expected,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at
 Collins Stewart  in London.  Pascal Henisse, a spokesman at BNP Paribas in Paris, Credit
Agricole’s spokeswoman Stephanie Ozenne and  Societe Generale (GLE) ’s
spokeswoman Astrid Brunini all declined to comment on the
turmoil in Italy and its impact on their banks.  About 45 percent of Italian debt held by foreign banks is
carried by French institutions, according to BIS data.  French banks’ Italian debt holding is more than their
combined exposure to Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece, which
stood at $253.8 billion at the end of 2010, according to BIS
data. The lenders had $97.6 billion in Italian sovereign debt at
the end of the year, dwarfing their $57.5 billion of such debt
from the four other countries, the data show.  Italian Acquisitions  Drawn by the lucrative financial industry in Italy, French
financial companies spent at least 20 billion euros since 2006
to buy banking and insurance assets in the euro-area’s third-
largest economy.  BNP Paribas and  Credit Agricole , France’s second-largest
bank, bought two of Italy’s 10 largest lenders. At the end of
2010, BNP Paribas held more Italian than French sovereign debt.  BNP Paribas, which acquired Rome-based Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro SpA in 2006 for 9 billion euros, has about 900 branches
in Italy. Credit Agricole operates about 960 branches in Italy.
BNP’s 19,000 and Credit Agricole’s 12,000 employees in Italy are
the most outside their home market.  Paris-based BNP had 71.2 billion euros of loans at its BNL
unit at the end of March, compared with BNL’s 31.7 billion euros
of deposits, according to its website. Credit Agricole’s Italian
retail-banking unit, Cariparma, had 31.6 billion euros of loans
and 30.3 billion euros of deposits at the end of March, company
data show.  Overblown Fears  “Credit Agricole’s funding position in Italy is more
conservative compared with BNP Paribas’s,” said Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “BNP makes up the
gap by channeling funds from the corporate center.”  Investors’ concerns about commercial and sovereign debt
held by BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole in Italy may be
mitigated by the overall funding capacities and deposits base of
the French banks, analysts and investors say.  “When you break down the exposures into their major
components, the asset quality implications do not seem as
negative as the share price movements often indicate,”
Czepliewicz said. “Do recent sovereign debt movements change
something in the quality of BNL’s lending book? Probably not.”  Also, the fears of a contagion may be overblown, the
Collins Stewart analyst said.  “The question is if an Italian contagion would be
fundamentally grounded or is just panic,” he said. “My sense
is: it is just panic.”  Market Panic  Italy has “big advantages” over other southern European
nations as it has low foreign debt, a primary  budget surplus ,
long debt maturity and lack of a housing-market “bubble,” a
team of strategists at Credit Suisse Group AG led by  Andrew Garthwaite  in  London  wrote in a report yesterday.  Those advantages may matter little in a market gripped by
panic, and may require European leaders to act firmly and
quickly, some investors said.  “We’ve seen fever spikes,” said  Valerie Cazaban , who
helps manage 100 million euros at Stratege Finance in Paris and
holds shares in BNP Paribas. “European policy makers should
contain it as soon as possible before the illness bursts out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 