-- 
U.K. Stocks Fall for Third Day; Thomas Cook, ARM Holdings Slide

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-12T16:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ftse-100-stocks-slide-in-biggest-three-day-drop-since-march-arm-tumbles.html
U.K. stocks retreated for a third
day as concern intensified that the euro-area’s sovereign-debt
crisis has spread to Italy.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  tumbled 28 percent after cutting its
profit forecast because of popular revolts in North Africa and
squeezed consumer spending in Britain. British Sky Broadcasting
Plc, lost 3.3 percent after the British government said it will
support a motion calling for News Corp. to drop its bid for
BSkyB.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the designer of chips for Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, dropped 4.9 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 1 percent to 5,868.96 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London as the benchmark measure posted its largest
three-day retreat since March. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also
declined 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index decreased
0.5 percent.  “Its all this Italy stuff, clearly, that’s driving it,”
said David Jones, a market strategist at IG Index in  London .
“We’ve seen a very negative reaction on the FTSE. It’s a
similar pattern to when the Greek and Irish crises started.”  Early in the day yields on benchmark Italian 10-year bonds
rose above 6 percent for the first time since 1997, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, before retreating to 5.57 percent.  Shares across Europe pared losses on speculation that the
 European Central Bank  bought the debt of the euro-area’s most-
indebted nations to stabilize markets. Former Bank of England
policy maker Willem Buiter said the European Central Bank will
revive its bond-buying program to safeguard this week’s auction
of Italian bonds.  “The ECB will intervene on whatever scale is necessary to
allow  Italy  to conduct its auction on Thursday,” Buiter, now
chief economist at Citigroup Inc., told reporters today.  Credit Suisse upgrade  U.K. stocks tumbled even as Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded
the country’s shares to “overweight” from “benchmark.” The
bank’s global strategy team, led by  Andrew Garthwaite  in London,
cited favorable earnings momentum, monetary policy, sentiment
and a weaker pound against the dollar that may boost FTSE 100
companies with overseas operations.  U.K. consumer-price inflation fell to 4.2 percent in June,
the Office for National Statistics said. Economists had
predicted that the measure would remain at 4.5 percent, the same
rate as in May.  Thomas Cook plunged 28 percent to 87.9 pence, its lowest
price since at least 2007, after Europe’s second-largest tour
operator cut its full-year profit forecast. Underlying operating
profit will drop to 320 million pounds ($510 million) from 362
million pounds in 2010, the company said.  TUI Travel, IAG  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  slid 7.5 percent to 204.7 pence, its biggest
slide since October. International Consolidated Airlines Group,
the parent of British Airways and Iberia, retreated 2.3 percent
to 231.7 pence.  ARM sank 4.9 percent to 596.5 pence. Microchip Technology
Inc., a U.S. maker of analog chips, said sales and profit didn’t
meet its projections because of weaker demand from carmakers and
computer makers. Novellus Systems Inc., a maker of machinery
used in semiconductor production, forecast third-quarter revenue
and earnings that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s biggest
mining companies, declined 1.4 percent to 2,402 pence and 1.4
percent to 4,388.5 pence, respectively.  British Sky Broadcasting Plc slipped 3.3 percent to 692
pence, its sixth day of losses, after the U.K. government said
it will support an opposition Labour Party motion calling on
 News Corp . to scrap its bid for the country’s largest listed
broadcaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  