-- 
GAO’s Revolving-Door Study of SEC Cites Ethics-Advice Record

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T22:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/gao-s-revolving-door-study-of-sec-cites-ethics-advice-record.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission employees who leave the regulator for work with
private companies often find positions with firms most heavily
involved with the agency, the Government Accountability Office
said.  More than a third of 224 recently departed SEC employees
who returned before the SEC with business from 2005 to 2010,
represented 16 financial, legal or consulting firms often in
contact with the SEC, the GAO said in a  report  released today.
Of 2,127 employees who left from 2006 to 2010, 37 percent took
jobs as attorneys, economists, examiners or accountants,
occupations that are “relevant” to SEC examination and
investigative work, the GAO said.  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz has issued four reports
since 2009 on revolving-door problems at the agency. The GAO
report didn’t highlight systemic issues with former SEC
employees joining regulated firms. The report’s primary
criticism was that the SEC hasn’t kept track of ethics advice
the agency gives employees.  “SEC has not consistently documented ethics-related
advice,” the GAO reported. Recording such advice could show
“that its officials are providing appropriate advice to current
and former employees, and that the agency is taking steps to
minimize the potential for post-employment violations or
conflicts of interest,” the report said.  In response, the SEC “has begun drafting standards
concerning the documentation of ethics advice,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  told the government research office in a letter.  The average number of years of service in the SEC’s core
positions has increased to 13.5 in 2010 from 8.3 in 2006 because
the financial crisis and economic recession “made private-
sector employment less available and attractive,” the report
said.  In a revolving-door proposal filed with the SEC yesterday,
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said it will ban
former officers from making client appearances or testifying as
experts in Finra cases within one year of leaving the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 