-- 
Geithner Says Administration Seeking Debt-Limit Deal This Week

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-12T14:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/geithner-says-administration-seeking-debt-limit-deal-this-week.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the Obama administration is aiming to forge a deal
on raising the debt ceiling as soon as this week.  “We want to wrap up the broad outlines of this agreement
by the end of this week, certainly by the end of next week,”
Geithner said today at a symposium in  Washington .  Congressional leaders will meet again today at the White
House to negotiate raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit before
Aug. 2, when Geithner has said the government will exhaust its
borrowing authority. Geithner said today that a deal will be
reached in time to avoid a default.  “The debt limit will be raised,” he said in prepared
remarks. “Failure is not an option. Both sides understand what
is at stake and will come to an agreement.”  Geithner also said that President Barack Obama’s goal is
“the largest deal possible.” He said an agreement must
preserve the economic recovery in the near term and reinforce
growth in the long term.  The president is “willing to achieve savings across
government from defense to entitlements as long as they are done
responsibly, over time,” Geithner said. “But the Republicans
are going to have to do some difficult things too. You can’t ask
middle-class families and retirees to bear the entire sacrifice
for those savings on their own.”  Republicans have rebuffed Democratic calls for more  tax
revenue  and are pushing to cut programs such as Medicare and
Social Security. The White House has indicated a willingness to
consider savings including an increase in the Medicare-
eligibility age as part of a larger deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  