-- 
Gilead Allows Generic HIV-Drug Sales in Developing Nations

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-07-12T20:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/gilead-agrees-to-generic-hiv-drug-sales-in-developing-countries.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  will allow
sales of generic versions of four HIV treatments in developing
countries in the first agreement between a  drug company  and a
patent-sharing body backed by the  United Nations .  The deal permits copies of Gilead’s Viread and Emtriva
medicines in 111 countries, while two experimental drugs,
cobicistat and elvitegravir, will be available in 102 and 99
nations, respectively, after they’re approved by regulators, the
 Medicines Patent Pool Foundation  said today. Gilead also
announced new terms under which three Indian drugmakers will
make and sell versions of three treatments.  “This license will help increase access to much-needed
medicines for the treatment of HIV, and help accelerate the
development of productive formulations of these medicines,”
Ellen ‘t Hoen, executive director of the foundation, said at a
London news conference. The Geneva-based organization said it’s
negotiating to obtain licenses from six other patent holders.  Viread and Emtriva accounted for about 10 percent of
Gilead’s $7.4 billion in sales last year. The  Foster City ,
California-based company will get royalties of 5 percent for the
generic sales, except for Viread revenue, which will carry
royalties of 3 percent, Gilead said. Royalties will be waived
for any medicines developed to treat children.  Besides the four drugs, the agreement also covers a one-
pill mixture of the four medicines known as “the quad,” which
is in clinical trials.  Indian Manufacturers  Gilead rose 28 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $41.55 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock
has gained 15 percent this year.  Indian drugmakers  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  Strides
Arcolab Ltd. (STR) , Matrix Laboratories Ltd. and Hetero Drugs Ltd.
also will have the right to make and sell copies of the
elvitegravir, cobicistat and the Quad once they’re approved for
sale by regulators, according to a statement from Gilead, the
world’s largest seller of AIDS medicines. The company first
licensed Viread and Truvada to Indian drugmakers in 2006.  The original agreement, which covered 95 countries, is
being expanded to include 16 additional nations, plus the
experimental drugs, Gilead said. It also allows Viread to be
sold for treatment of hepatitis B.  “What we realized is, if we could transfer our
manufacturing technology to Indian generics non-exclusively, and
have some competition develop there, access would increase,”
 John Martin , CEO of Gilead, said at the news conference.  Drug Access  Gilead doesn’t have an estimate for how much money will be
generated by the royalties, he said. The company’s program to
expand drug access to poor populations is meant to be non-
profit, the company said.  The deal with Gilead “will enhance our capability to
provide quality affordable medicines for the treatment of
HIV/AIDS in the developing countries,” Rajiv Gulati, president
of the global pharmaceutical business at Ranbaxy, said in a
statement sent to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  About 2.6 million people became infected with HIV in 2009,
and more than 1.8 million people died with AIDS-related causes,
according to the Joint  United Nations  Programme on HIV/AIDS.  The patent pool is in talks with other makers of HIV drugs,
except for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Merck & Co. and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , ‘t Hoen said. “We hope that the remaining three
companies not yet in negotiations will come forward now and
enter into formal negotiations,” ‘t Hoen said.  ‘Very Competitive’  Abbott has had discussions with the pool and more talks are
scheduled, said Dirk van Eeden, director of HIV communications
and policy for the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based drugmaker. He
declined to discuss details.  Abbott’s top-selling AIDS drugs Kaletra and Norvir already
have “very limited patent protection” that allows generic
versions in all of  Africa  and other UN-designated “least
developed countries,” van Eeden said in a telephone interview.
The company’s HIV medications are “very competitive with any of
the generic drugs that are on the market,” he said.  “Merck in principle supports the objective of the
Medicines Patent Pool Foundation for expanding access to care,
and we’ll continue to monitor and assess the patent pool
proposal,” Pamela Eisele, a company spokeswoman, said in an
interview. The  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company said
June 9 it would reduce prices for its Isentress HIV drug in low-
income countries.  Messages weren’t immediately returned by Tricia Geoghegan,
a spokeswoman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  The agreement with Gilead doesn’t go far enough toward
extending treatment to people with HIV in  developing countries 
in part because it confines production to  India  and limits the
supply of certain ingredients, Doctors Without Borders, a
humanitarian agency, said in a statement.  “Most critically, people living with HIV in certain
middle-income countries are excluded,” said Michelle Childs, a
director at the aid group. “This license should not become the
template for future agreements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in London at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  