-- 
Gillard Support Drops as She Starts Australia Carbon Push

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-12T04:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/gillard-support-drops-as-carbon-campaign-starts.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s support declined further, underlining the challenge
she faces in selling her carbon emissions plan to the public.  Gillard had 38 percent support, while 43 percent of
respondents said they preferred opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as
prime minister, according to a Newspoll survey published today
in the Australian newspaper. Backing for Gillard’s Labor
government fell to 42 percent while support for the opposition
Liberal-National coalition rose to 58 percent, the poll of 1,142
people taken July 8-10 showed.  Gillard had 39 percent support and Abbott 40 percent in a
poll conducted by Newspoll on June 24-26. Labor had 45 percent
support and the opposition 55 percent in the poll.  “Democracy is not one long opinion poll. Democracy is
making the right choices for the nation’s future,” Gillard, who
took office in June last year, told Melbourne radio 3AW today.
“I’m determined to build a clean energy future for this country
and I’m happy to be judged on it.”  A carbon emissions program was opposed by 59 percent of
1,203 people also surveyed by Newspoll on July 8-10. Both
surveys had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  ‘Toxic Tax’  “This is a toxic tax,” Abbott told Radio 2GB in Sydney
today. “It’s just offering people tax cuts brought about by a
tax increase -- it’s a money-go-round.”  Gillard, who announced details of the plan July 10 in
Canberra, will visit every Australian state and regional capital
in the next two weeks, and will run ads on popular television
shows in an effort to reverse public opposition to the plan.  “We knew we’d lose some paint,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “These are tough
reforms.”  To sweeten carbon trading for the public the government has
promised that nine out of 10 households would get either a  tax
cut  or increased benefits to help cope with a forecast A$9.90
($10.53) per week increase in prices from the carbon plan. Some
500 companies will be taxed under the proposal, which aims to
reduce  Australia ’s emissions by 159 million tons by 2020.  “This is history making,” Greens party leader  Bob Brown 
told reporters in Hobart today. “This is great for our nation’s
future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  