-- 
General Motors Sees Imports to Brazil as Bigger Threat Than Rivals’ Growth

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-07-12T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/gm-sees-imports-to-brazil-as-bigger-threat-than-rivals-growth.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, sees competition from importers as a greater threat
to its business in  Brazil  than investments there by rivals who
face similar cost and currency hurdles, a top executive said.  The strengthening real has boosted sales of imported
vehicles to 24 percent of the market in May from 18 percent a
year earlier. For the first five months of 2011, imports make up
22 percent of auto sales, up from 16 percent in all of 2009,
according to Anfavea, the car manufacturers’ association in
Brazil.  “I’m much more worried about importers than about
manufacturers investing in Brazil, which will have exactly the
same cost structure we have and, therefore, market conditions
will be leveled among us,” said Jaime Ardila, GM’s president
for  South America  and Brazil, said in a July 8 interview at
Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “My concern related to imported
cars is the uneven conditions since they’re arriving from
countries with very competitive currency exchange rates.”  Brazilian authorities blame China, the U.S. and other
countries for trying to spur their economies by weakening their
currencies. In September, Brazil’s Finance Minister,  Guido Mantega , coined the term “currency war” while referring to
these practices. The real increased 47 percent since January
2009 to lead gains among 25 emerging countries’ currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Coming Investments  Many rivals have announced plans to invest in Brazil’s
growing auto industry. Nissan Motor Co. said June 27 it plans to
build a factory to make 200,000 cars per year in Brazil and
boost its share in the country to 5 percent from 1.2 percent,
without giving a schedule for beginning work on the plant. In
May,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  said it’s evaluating the
construction of an assembly plant in Brazil.  In April,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  said it will invest 1
billion reais ($632 million) in the next five years to boost
capacity in the Brazilian state of Goias.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  is
investing 600 million reais to expand its plant in Anapolis,
also in Goias.  At exchange rates less than 2 reais per  U.S. dollar , GM
loses money exporting from Brazil, said Ardila. It also makes
manufacturers there vulnerable to imports, he said.  GM’s third-place market share in Brazil fell at least 1.1
percentage points to less than 20 percent, according to June
data from Fenabrave, the dealerships’ association.  Fiat SpA (F) 
leads the ranking in Brazil, followed by  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Asian Gains  Automakers importing from  Asia  have made the biggest gains
in Brazil. Seoul-based Hyundai increased its share to 2.4
percent from 1.5 percent and the share of the group including
most of the Chinese importers more than doubled to 7.2 percent
from 2.8 percent in the same period.  “The competitiveness for exporting we’re now losing, we’re
also losing to compete with imported products,” said Ardila.
“It’s much more difficult today for manufacturers already in
Brazil, which have huge structures, employees, suppliers, to
stay competitive facing imported products.”  Automobile manufacturing in Brazil costs as much as 60
percent more than in  China  and 20 percent more than in  Mexico ,
according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP study sponsored by
Anfavea and released June 29 in Sao Paulo.  South Korea ’s costs weren’t included in the report, said
Ardila. A GM study found 40 percent higher costs in Brazil, he
said.  Hyundai Hatchback  Hyundai has increased the i30 midsize hatchback’s leading
share of the segment to 21 percent in the first half this year
from 18 percent the same period last year, while GM’s  Chevrolet 
Astra fell to a fourth-place 12 percent share from a third-best
15 percent in the same comparison.  Sales growth may slow in the second half, after increasing
10 percent in the first six months, and may rise about 5 percent
for the year, Ardila said. GM’s results will be in line with the
industry, he said.  The problem with the growth in the first half is that it’s
mostly the result of sales to government branches and other
fleet operators, said Ardila.  “Almost all is coming from what we call special sales, or
sales to fleets, to the government and corporative clients,” he
said. “Retail sales are growing very little,” said he.  Government policies since December have damped consumer
demand by making it more difficult to finance a loan for buyers
who can’t make down payments of 20 percent or more, Ardila said.  “Since January we have been noticing a difference,
especially in the popular segment -- the cheapest -- where the
size of the installments does make a difference to the client,”
he said. “The problem is the cost of financing. If the
government had in mind to cool down the economy, I guess it was
successful.”  -- Editors: Jamie Butters, Donna Alvarado  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino 