-- 
Goldman, Madoff, DSK, EMG, Nakheel, Conrad Black in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/goldman-madoff-dsk-nakheel-conrad-black-strauss-kahn-in-court-news.html
Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, can proceed with a lawsuit claiming
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission violated his rights
when it filed an administrative action accusing him of passing
illegal stock tips.  The SEC initiated the administrative proceeding in
 Washington  on March 1, claiming Gupta passed information to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also on the board.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled yesterday that Gupta,
who hasn’t been charged criminally, may argue that the agency
intentionally singled him out for unfair treatment in
retaliation for claiming his innocence. Rakoff said that all of
the other suits filed in the Galleon case, against 21 people and
seven companies, are in federal court.  “We have the unusual case where there is already a well-
developed public record of Gupta being treated substantially
disparately from 28 essentially identical defendants, with not
even a hint from the SEC, even in their instant papers, as to
why this should be so,” Rakoff wrote in an opinion yesterday.  Rajaratnam was found guilty of 14 criminal counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud on May 11. He is awaiting
sentencing.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-CV-1900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  SIPC Opposes Attempt by Mets Owners to Dismiss Madoff Suit  The Securities Investor Protection Corp. opposed a request
by the owners of the New York Mets baseball team to dismiss a $1
billion suit by the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , is suing Fred Wilpon and Saul
Katz and their firm, Sterling Equities, seeking the return of
$700 million in principal and $300 million in profit from
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Picard claims the team’s owners had a
duty to investigate “red flags” warning of possible fraud.  SIPC yesterday asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan to let the suit go forward, arguing that Picard has
the legal authority to pursue the claim.  Rakoff agreed this month to review the case, which Picard
filed last year in bankruptcy court. He said judges have
struggled with the duty of inquiry into fraud for more than half
a century and the duty may not have applied to the Mets owners.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Strauss-Kahn’s French Accuser Makes Statement to Paris Police  Paris police took a statement yesterday from French writer
Tristane Banon, who has accused Dominique Strauss-Kahn of
attempting to rape her.  Banon met with the police yesterday, said Agnes Labregere-
Delorme, a spokeswoman for the prosecution, which began a
preliminary investigation on July 8 into her claim that the
former International Monetary Fund chief assaulted her in 2003.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, stepped down from the IMF after being
charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a New York hotel in
May. He was released from home confinement this month and had
his bail returned after U.S. prosecutors uncovered evidence the
32-year-old woman who accused him had lied about key aspects of
her life. Strauss-Kahn denies the claims in both cases.  Banon’s lawyer David Koubbi declined to comment on her
police statement.  Strauss-Kahn has called Banon’s claims “imaginary” and
asked that a slander complaint against her be prepared,
according to his lawyers.  At the time of the alleged incident, Banon was an intern
with magazine Paris Match and had just signed a contract for a
book on politicians’ regrets. She met Strauss-Kahn for a follow-
up interview at his friend’s apartment in Paris, she said in an
interview published in the July 6 issue of L’Express.  Strauss-Kahn turned off her tape-recorder and began
assaulting her, touching her breasts and putting his hands in
her mouth and underwear, she said, according to the magazine.
She kicked him and said “you’re not going to rape me,” then
ran out, got in her car and called her mother, the magazine
quoted her as saying.  EMG Shareholders Seek $8 Billion in Pipeline Damages  Shareholders of East Mediterranean Gas Co. will take legal
action against  Egypt , seeking more than $8 billion in damages
for interruptions in natural gas supply through a cross-border
pipeline, a company official said.  The shareholders from  Israel , the U.S. and  Thailand  agreed
on the action in the wake of three explosions in the past five
months that damaged the pipeline, which carries gas from Egypt
to Israel, Nimrod Novik, a member of the EMG board, said
yesterday. The company will pursue the claims through the
International Court of Arbitration, a dispute resolution service
run by the Paris-based International Chamber of Commerce.  “The lawyers have advised the government of Egypt as well
as the  United States  and other relevant governments that this
process is under way,” Novik said in a telephone interview from
his office in Herzliya, north of Tel Aviv .  Egypt restored gas exports to Israel last week at 20
percent of contracted amounts after a July 4 explosion disrupted
the network. Among the shareholders in EMG are Egypt National
Gas Co., Israeli businessman Yossi Maiman, U.S. billionaire Sam
Zell and  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest energy company.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Pfizer Sues Apotex Over Generic Version of Pain Drug Lyrica  Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, accused Apotex
Inc. in a lawsuit of infringing two U.S. patents for the nerve-
pain drug  Lyrica .  Apotex, based in Toronto, plans to market a generic version
of Lyrica before the newest patent expires in 2018, Pfizer said
in a complaint filed July 8 in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware . Pfizer claimed it “will be substantially and
irreparably harmed” by the alleged infringement.  Lyrica generated more than $800 million in sales in the
first quarter for New York-based Pfizer, which is selling units
and trimming jobs in preparation for pending loss of patent
protection for its best-selling drug Lipitor, used to control
cholesterol.  Elie Betito, a spokesman for closely held Apotex, didn’t
immediately return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on
the filing.  The case is  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  v. Apotex Inc., U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 6,197,819 and 5,563,175.  Nakheel’s Ex-CEO Suing Developer for $3.7 Million in Dues  Nakheel PJSC’s former chief executive officer, Chris
O’Donnell, is suing the developer of palm-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast for $3.7 million in unpaid dues, interest and
damages.  The CEO, who quit last month after five years at the
developer’s helm, filed the lawsuit in the Dubai World Special
tribunal on June 22, according to a court filing dated June 22
and made available on the court’s website yesterday.  O’Donnell is seeking $3 million in long-term incentives as
well as $290,850 in losses tied to currency fluctuations. He is
also asking Nakheel to pay $180,000 in interest, calculated at
12 percent per year, the documents show.  Nakheel, which is restructuring $13 billion of debt, was
forced to cut hundreds of employees and cancel or delay property
projects after the global credit crisis caused demand in Dubai
to evaporate. Home prices in Dubai dropped more than 60 percent
from their peak in mid-2008.  The former CEO was paid 3.8 million dirhams ($1 million) in
basic annual salary and was given a business class ticket to his
home country of  Australia  every year, the documents show.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here. For the latest trial and appeals
news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Conrad Black Must Go Back to Prison by Sept. 6, Court Says  Conrad M. Black, the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman and chief executive officer sentenced to serve an
additional year in prison, must report by Sept. 6, a federal
court in  Chicago  said.  Black’s original 6 1/2-year term was reduced to 3 1/2 years
last month by U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve after the
former newspaper publisher successfully appealed two of three
mail fraud counts of which he was convicted in 2007.  St. Eve, in an order dated July 5 and posted on the court’s
electronic docket yesterday, recommended that Black, 66, be
returned to the low-security prison at  Coleman ,  Florida , where
he spent 29 months before being granted bail last year.  Hollinger International was once the world’s third-biggest
publisher of English-language newspapers. Its publications
included the U.K.’s  Daily Telegraph ,  Canada ’s National Post and
the Jerusalem Post.  Black was originally found guilty for his role in the theft
of $6.1 million from the Chicago-based company now known as Sun-
Times Media Group Inc. Convictions overturned on appeal reduced
the total value of the theft to $600,000.  Each court reviewing the case upheld the jury’s finding
that Black obstructed justice when he removed boxes from his
Toronto office that prosecutors said contained documents sought
by the U.S. government.  The U.S. Bureau of Prisons has final say on where Black
will serve the remainder of his punishment.  The case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  Illinois ‘Jobs Now!’ Stimulus Plan Upheld by Top State Court  Illinois Jobs Now!, the $31 billion economic stimulus
package of Governor Pat Quinn, was upheld by the state  Supreme
Court  in a ruling on the legality of the legislation that
created the program.  The court’s decision yesterday reversed a Jan. 26 ruling by
an intermediate-level appellate panel that held the legislation
creating the plan violated a state constitutional requirement
that bills be limited to a single subject.  “What this means is our jobs recovery program can go
forward, full speed ahead,” Quinn said yesterday in a televised
press conference.  The lower-court’s ruling derailed projects approved by the
state legislature in 2009 and cast doubt on the future of
economic-development plans that were part of the stimulus
package.  Among those plans were investments in state roads,
railways, schools and broadband Internet access, said Quinn, who
said he wanted to be “the builder governor.”  The now-overturned decision had also blocked a revenue
stream generated by higher liquor taxes, privatization of the
state lottery and levies on video poker operations.  Objecting to the tax increases, W. Rockwell Wirtz, the
owner of the Chicago Blackhawks hockey team, and his liquor
distributorship, Wirtz Beverage Illinois, sued to block the
program.  The  Wirtz group , in an e-mailed statement issued by outside
spokesman by Guy Chipparoni, said while it was disappointed by
the outcome, it respected the court’s opinion.  “Our issue was not with the lawmakers, but the law,”
Chipparoni said.  The case is Wirtz v. Quinn, 111903, Illinois Supreme Court
(Springfield).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 