-- 
Greece Won’t Manage to Sell All Assets Required in Aid Plan, Economou Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-07-12T10:55:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/greece-may-not-complete-all-planned-asset-sales-economou-says.html
Greece ’s deputy finance minister,
Pantelis Economou, said the country won’t manage to sell
everything on its list of planned state-asset sales and real-
estate developments.  “We will sell a lot less than planned,” he told lawmakers
yesterday, according to a transcript posted on the  Parliament’s
website .  Greece aims to raise 50 billion euros ($69 billion) through
asset sales and property developments by the end of 2015, part
of a package of fiscal measures demanded by the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund  in exchange for financial
support. Parliament approved the measures in two votes at the
end of last month.  The 78 billion-euro medium-term package of measures and
asset sales and an accompanying implementation law that contains
technical details, “will be fully implemented” by all
ministers, government spokesman Elias Mosialos said when asked
about Economou’s comments, according to state-run Athens News
Agency. Mosialos confirmed the report by phone today.  Greek bonds fell for a third day today, pushing the 10-year
yield spread over German securities to 1,416 basis points.
Finance ministers are meeting in Brussels today to discuss a
further rescue package for Greece as they seek to halt contagion
in the euro region.  Buying Time  “Selling state holdings to reduce Greece’s debt is a
necessary condition to get what we are entitled to,” Economou
told lawmakers. He added that eliminating  tax evasion  can “buy
time” for Greece and help to meet revenue targets through 2015,
according to the transcript.  The  Finance Ministry  announced the board of the agency
that’s been set up to supervise the asset sales. The program
includes plans to sell stakes in  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  and
gambling company  Opap SA (OPAP) , as well as Greece’s two biggest port
operators and banks.  Economou said there isn’t enough investor interest in the
assets for sale as “credit default swaps and spreads are the
kinds of thing they have their eyes on.” Concrete assets are
“riskier,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story
Natalie Weeks in Athens 
 Nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 Acullen8@bloomberg.net  