-- 
Greens’ Brown Calls for Watchdog, Inquiry on Media Intrusion in Australia

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-12T08:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/greens-brown-calls-for-watchdog-inquiry-on-media-intrusion-in-australia.html
Australian  Greens  party leader  Bob
Brown  called for talks on establishing a domestic media watchdog
following reports of phone hacking carried out by News Corp.’s
London tabloid News of the World.  Australia  should have an “arms length” body to assess
acts of media intrusion, Brown told reporters in Hobart today.
Brown said he has no evidence of complaints against Australian
media.  “We’ve got a Press Council in Australia and we can stick
with that, but that’s effectively established by the media
itself,” Brown said. “In these days of huge potential for
invasion of privacy we ought to have a watchdog.”  Rupert Murdoch Murdoch shut down the 168-year-old News of
the World, owned by  News Corp. (NWS)  since 1969, following allegations
it hacked into the mobile phone of a 13-year-old murder victim.
Murdoch got his start in 1953, when he inherited a daily
newspaper with a circulation of 75,000 in Adelaide, after which
he built a media empire with newspapers, satellite television
and movie studios spanning the globe.  The News of the World, which closed on July 9, was
Britain’s largest circulation Sunday publication. A public
outcry prompted Prime Minister  David Cameron  to launch an
independent inquiry. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News,
competes with News Corp. units in providing financial news and
information.  Media Holdings  News Ltd., the Sydney-based Australian division of News
Corp., owns 120 metropolitan, regional and rural newspapers,
including The Australian and the Daily and Sunday Telegraph, 14
magazines including Vogue and GQ, and websites including
News.com.au, taste.com.au and TrueLocal. The group also owns
about 44 percent of Sky Network TV in  New Zealand . Its non-media
holdings include the  Melbourne Storm  rugby league team and a 69
percent share of the Brisbane Broncos team.  Greg Baxter, Sydney-based spokesman for News Ltd., declined
to comment on Brown’s call for an inquiry when reached by phone
today, saying the remarks apply to all media in Australia, and
the events in the U.K. are unrelated to the company’s Australian
operations.  “Phone hacking is the antithesis of everything we stand
for,” News Ltd. Chairman and Chief Executive John Hartigan said
in a memo to staff dated July 8 that was obtained by Bloomberg.
“Adherence to our ethical code is fundamental to our right to
publish.”  Support from the Greens helped Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
form a government after the August 2010 election delivered the
closest result for 70 years. The party has one member in the
lower  House of Representatives  and its nine Senators, including
Brown, have control of the upper house vote.  Murdoch’s New York-based media company tumbled $1.27, or
7.6 percent, to $15.48 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday,
the biggest drop since April 2009. It was the fourth straight
decline in the company’s closing price, cutting its market value
by 15 percent to $41.2 billion.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  