-- 
Greipel Beats Cavendish in Sprint Finish at Tour de France; Voeckler Leads

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-12T22:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/greipel-beats-cavendish-in-sprint-finish-at-tour-de-france-voeckler-leads.html
Andre Greipel of  Germany  beat former
teammate  Mark Cavendish  by a wheel length yesterday to win his
first  Tour de France  stage. Thomas Voeckler kept the race-
leading yellow jersey.  Greipel, who rides for the Omega Pharma-Lotto team, passed
the 17-time stage winner in a sprint finish to the 98-mile 10th
stage over rolling terrain between Aurillac and Carmaux.  “It’s an incredible feeling: a stage win in the biggest
race in the world,” Greipel, 28, told Eurosport television.
“I’m the happiest person in the world.”  France’s Voeckler retained a 1 minute, 49 second lead over
 Spain ’s Luis-Leon Sanchez with Cadel Evans of  Australia  37
seconds further back. Defending champion  Alberto Contador  is
16th, 4 minutes, 7 seconds off the lead, after hurting his knee
in two falls during the first week.  Johnny Hoogerland kept the polka-dot jersey as top-ranked
climber yesterday. He needed 33 stitches three days ago when a
 France  Television car veered into a group of riders and he was
catapulted into a barbed-wire fence. Yesterday he finished
111th, almost six minutes behind the leading pack of riders.  “He’s not doing the best, but it’s the Tour de France and
he’s in the polka-dot jersey,” Ard Bierens, a spokesman for his
Vacansoleil team, said before the stage.  Marco Marcato led over three climbs as he sought to protect
his teammate Hoogerland’s rankings lead. The Italian was part of
five-man breakaway and was the last to be caught on the fourth
ascent with 10 miles remaining. Voeckler of the Europcar team
was first over the fourth and final climb.  Solo Break  Belgium ’s Philippe Gilbert, wearing the green jersey as the
top-ranked sprinter, staged a solo break for another two miles
before he too was reeled in, allowing Greipel and Cavendish --
seeking his third stage victory this year -- to battle for the
win.  Greipel previously played a support role to Cavendish at
HTC-Highroad before leaving the team at the end of last year.  “He is probably the best sprinter on the Tour de France,
so to beat him is pretty special,” Greipel said. “We’re big
rivals, and I hope we get a chance to contest another stage
win.”  Today’s stage is over 104 miles from Blaye-les-Mines to
Lavaur, which may offer a last opportunity for the sprinters
before the Pyrenees.  Two days ago, Russian rider Alexandr Kolobnev withdrew
after becoming the first cyclist to be accused of doping during
this year’s race. Kolobnev, who rides for the Katusha team, was
found with the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide in a urine sample
taken July 6, cycling’s ruling body said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  