-- 
Iceland’s Eurobond Success Opens Door to Longer Maturities

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T12:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/iceland-eurobond-success-paves-way-to-longer-debt-minister-says.html
Iceland is considering selling
foreign-currency debt with longer maturities after last month’s
$1 billion sale of five-year dollar bonds was twice
oversubscribed, Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said.  “We’re very satisfied with how things have developed, how
successful our auction was,” Sigfusson said in a phone
interview in Reykjavik yesterday. “Issuing bonds with a
longer maturity is an option that we’re looking closely at.”  The cost of insuring against an Icelandic default is now
lower than guarding against a  credit event  in  Italy , the third-
largest member in the euro area. Investors are rewarding the
Atlantic island for delivering austerity cuts that created trade
surpluses and narrowed its budget deficit. The island averted a
sovereign default in 2008 by letting its biggest banks renege on
$85 billion in debt and imposing  capital controls , a model Nobel
Economics laureate  Paul Krugman  in November praised as
“bankrupting yourself to recovery.”  Now, Iceland’s main concern in determining the timing of
its next Eurobond sale is market turmoil triggered by the euro
area’s debt crisis, Sigfusson said.  “For the time being, the market isn’t all that feasible,”
he said. “Instability in  Europe  has meant that even issuers
with good credit ratings haven’t been making any moves.”  Credit Grades  Iceland’s debt is ranked junk at  Fitch Ratings , and carries
the lowest investment grades at Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s .  The $1 billion bond is due in 2016 and carries a fixed-rate
4.993 percent semi-annual yield, reflecting a 3.2 point premium
over mid-swaps, the ministry said June 9. The sale followed a
six-day roadshow in Europe and the U.S. Barclays Capital,
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG managed the issue.  The yield on Iceland’s five-year note fell 3 basis points
to 4.76 percent today, according to Bloomberg data. It’s down
from more than 5 percent last month.  Iceland, which at the end of 2008 was forced to take a $4.6
billion International Monetary Fund-led loan to stay afloat
after its biggest banks failed, is now growing faster with a
smaller  budget deficit  than a number of economies in the
European Union.  The $13 billion economy will grow 2.2 percent this year and
2.9 percent in 2012 as its budget deficit narrows to 1.4 percent
of gross domestic product, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimates. The country’s jobless
rate dropped 0.7 point to 6.7 percent in June, the lowest level
since January 2009, the Directorate of Labor said today.  Outperforming  France   France, the euro area’s second-biggest member, will grow
2.2 percent this year and 2.1 percent in 2012, according to the
OECD. Its budget deficit will reach 5.6 percent of GDP in 2011
and 4.6 percent in 2012. The 17-member euro region will grow 2
percent this year and next, the OECD said May 25.  Credit default swaps on five-year Iceland debt traded at
241 basis points yesterday, compared with 302 basis points on
Italian debt, according to CMA prices available on Bloomberg.
CDS on Spanish debt were at 349 basis points yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  