-- 
High-Speed Tax Rewrite Falters as Lawmakers Bicker Over Basics

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/high-speed-tax-rewrite-falters-as-lawmakers-bicker-over-basics.html
The collapse of efforts to kick off
a U.S.  tax code  overhaul through a debt-ceiling compromise
demonstrates how difficult it will be for lawmakers to rewrite
the nation’s revenue laws.  Republican congressional leaders and President  Barack Obama 
discussed a rewrite of the tax code over the past week and
couldn’t resolve even the basic outline of what it should look
like. They disagreed on revenue targets, the progressivity of
the code, international taxation issues and the treatment of
large businesses that aren’t currently taxed as corporations,
according to two Republicans familiar with the talks.  Those disputes on important parameters that would guide an
overhaul led House Speaker  John Boehner  to abandon efforts for a
bigger deficit deal on July 9. Regardless of what happens in the
debt-ceiling talks, the barriers that Obama and Boehner faced
will recur if and when Congress attempts to restructure  tax
policy .  “This is a far more difficult and far more complicated
process than, at least publicly, people have been willing to
admit,” said  John Buckley , the former chief Democratic tax
counsel at the House Ways and Means Committee.  That challenge awaits Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  and
Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , who have each been holding a
series of hearings on a tax overhaul and preparing to write
major tax bills. The two committees tomorrow are set to hold
what they are calling their first joint hearing on tax policy in
more than 70 years, focused on how the tax code treats debt.  Bedeviling Issues  When Camp, a Michigan Republican, and Baucus, a Montana
Democrat, start legislating on a tax overhaul, they will face
the same issues that bedeviled Obama and Boehner.  The president and the speaker couldn’t resolve what a tax
code rewrite should look like, the people familiar with the
talks said. Obama’s team said any overhaul must shift more of
the nation’s tax burden to high earners, extending current tax
rates for lower- and middle-income people while raising them to
pre-2001 levels for the highest-income taxpayers.  Boehner’s side said such a plan would skew the tax burden
to the wealthiest Americans more than it had been in the past,
said the Republicans familiar with the discussions.  Republicans said a tax code revamp should ensure that most
households pay at least some federal income tax, the people
said. Republicans cite an  April 2011 analysis  by the Joint
Committee on Taxation, Congress’s tax-estimating panel, which
said about 51 percent of U.S. households owed no income tax in
2009. That percentage is a byproduct of the recent recession and
policies designed to ease the tax burden on low-income workers.  Taxation of Businesses  Differences also emerged as to how multinational businesses
are taxed. Boehner proposed moving the U.S. toward a system that
would tax only income earned domestically, while Obama’s team
didn’t embrace that idea, the people said.  Boehner’s team was concerned that businesses that operate
as pass-through entities, whose owners pay taxes on their
individual returns, would lose out in the overhaul. They were
worried that some of these businesses would lose deductions or
face higher taxation as so-called C corporations. Republicans
say such moves would hurt small businesses.  “When you actually try to design a plan, there’s no way
that you can keep everybody equal,” said former Representative
Bill Archer of  Texas , a Republican who headed the Ways and Means
Committee from 1995 to 2000. “And so the losers then say,
’Well, wait a minute. That’s not what I meant by tax reform.’
And it is extremely difficult to do.”  Archer, now a senior policy adviser at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Washington, said large companies
represented by the accounting firm are already concerned about
potential trade-offs.  ‘Scared to Death’  “There’s a bunch of them that are scared to death about
what revenue-neutral tax reform means for them,” he said.  Obama laid out some of his preferred parameters at a news
conference yesterday. He said he wants to eliminate tax benefits
for “corporate jet owners or oil companies” starting in 2013
and raise taxes on taxpayers such as himself. Obama and his
wife, Michelle, reported $1.7 million in adjusted gross income
for 2010, mostly from sales of his books.  “And what I’ve also said to Republicans is, if you don’t
like that formulation, then I’m happy to work with you on  tax
reform  that could potentially lower everybody’s rates and
broaden the base, as long as that package was sufficiently
progressive so that we weren’t balancing the budget on the backs
of middle-class families and working-class families, and we
weren’t letting hedge fund managers or authors of best-selling
books off the hook,” he said.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said at his own news
conference yesterday that he had a “big conversation” with the
administration about revenue in the context of a tax overhaul.
He reiterated that Republicans won’t support a tax increase.  Disagreement on Taxes  “Our disagreement with the president is not about closing
loopholes,” he said. “None of us are fond of loopholes. Our
disagreement is over raising taxes on the very people that
create jobs in our country.”  Even those points of consensus may be less than they
appear, said Buckley, now a visiting professor at  Georgetown
University Law Center  in  Washington . There are few, if any,
special-interest loopholes large enough to drive significant
reductions in individual and corporate tax rates.  Almost all of the estimated $1 trillion a year in tax
breaks that could be curtailed to reduce rates have strong
constituencies or economic justifications, and most survived the
last tax-code rewrite in 1986. They include benefits such as the
mortgage interest deduction, the exclusion of employer-provided
health insurance, tax treatment of veterans’ benefits and
incentives for retirement savings.  ‘A Major Reduction’  “If you’re going to have a major reduction in rate, you’re
not going to do that through carried interest or getting rid of
the executive jet loophole,” Buckley said. “This is what
you’re talking about.”  Carried interest refers to the share of an investment
partnership’s profits that are treated as  capital gains  and
taxed at 15 percent.  Senator  Kent Conrad  said yesterday that solving the
country’s tax and budget challenges will require lawmakers to
shift some of their long-held positions.  “It just can’t be so rigid,” said Conrad, a North Dakota
Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committee. “You’ve got to
actually focus on solving a problem rather than just being
rigid.”  To move a tax code overhaul forward, Archer said, the
administration should advance a specific proposal, and Congress
should engage in the details.  “You can have a lot of general utterance of support. Oh,
this code’s too complicated and it needs to be made simpler, and
it needs to be fairer,” he said. “You can go through all of
that and you can have those utterances on both sides, but I
don’t see that moving anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  