-- 
Militants Blow Up Egypt-Israel Gas Pipeline Terminal in a Predawn Attack

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-07-12T12:41:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/militants-blow-up-egypt-israel-gas-pipeline-terminal-in-a-predawn-attack.html
Masked militants blew up a terminal
on the Egyptian pipeline supplying natural gas to  Israel ,
forcing a halt in exports after the fourth such attack this
year, officials and state media reported.  The terminal near the city of El-Arish in the northern
Sinai peninsula was in flames after the pre-dawn blast, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported today, citing
witnesses. An official at East Mediterranean Gas Co., the
pipeline’s operator, said gas supply to Israel was halted at
around 2 a.m. local time. He declined to be identified due to
company policy. Israel Electric Corp. confirmed the stoppage in
a statement to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  “The most important economic aspect of the peace treaty
between Israel and  Egypt  is slowly collapsing,” Israeli
Minister of National Infrastructures Uzi Landau said of repeated
attacks on the pipeline, in an interview on  Army Radio .  Israel receives about 40 percent of its gas from Egypt, and
the latest bombing may further strain relations between the
countries, said Moustafa El-Husseini, an independent Egyptian
analyst and author of “Egypt on the Brink of the Unknown.”
Shareholders of East Mediterranean Gas plan to take legal action
against Egypt, seeking more than $8 billion in damages for the
interruptions, Nimrod Novik, an EMG board member, said
yesterday.  Shares Drop  Shares in  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL)  Corp., which owns a 12.5
percent stake in the export pipeline, fell as much as 6.7
percent to 2.90 shekels today in Tel Aviv. The share price was
2.96 at 3:15 p.m. local time. Ampal-American Israel’s stock has
dropped 65 percent this year.  The price of electricity in Israel could rise by 20 percent
as the country shifts to diesel and other more expensive fuels
because of the supply outage, Landau said. Israel Electric said
it is prepared to use alternative fuels to replace Egyptian gas,
in the statement to the stock exchange.  “After four explosions this year, the decision-makers in
Israel don’t have any choice,” said Guil Bashan, an energy
analyst at IBI-Israel Brokerage and Investments Ltd. in  Tel
Aviv . “As long as there is no regime in Egypt strong enough to
stop the sabotage, Israel has to rely on its traditional fuels
like coal, heavy oil and diesel.”  Gas from Israel’s Tamar field in the  Mediterranean Sea 
won’t be available until 2013. “They might be able to speed it
up by a month or two but not by much more than that,” he said.  Assessing Damage  The latest blast struck a valve chamber along the export
network, and Egyptian Natural Gas Co., the state-run operator of
the national grid, was assessing the damage, the country’s Oil
Ministry said by e-mail. It gave no further details.  The militants escorted a security guard, Mohamed Oudah, and
his family away from the pipeline terminal at gunpoint before
placing explosives at the site, according to the MENA report.
Firefighters brought the blaze under control, state-run
television reported.  The latest attack underscores the tension between Egyptian
authorities and Sinai’s Bedouin population, which has complained
of economic marginalization and police brutality since Egypt
regained control of the region from Israel in 1982, said El-
Husseini, the analyst and author.  Spiting the Government  “The attackers probably did it to spite the government,”
he said in a telephone interview today from Cairo. “Egyptian
governments have been dealing with Sinai Bedouin as spies to
Israel, not as citizens.”  Egypt, the first Arab country to sign a peace treaty with
Israel in 1979, holds  Africa ’s third-largest gas reserves, with
78 trillion cubic feet (2.19 trillion cubic meters), according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It exported 650 billion cubic
feet of gas in 2009, of which 30 percent went through the
pipeline to Israel or via a separate link to Jordan, Syria and
Lebanon, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The first explosion to damage the network occurred on Feb.
5, during the uprising against former President  Hosni Mubarak ,
who resigned later that month. Attackers struck again on April
27 and once more on July 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net 
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  