-- 
India’s $3 Billion Wind Market to Slump as Tax Break May End

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T15:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/india-s-3-billion-wind-market-to-slump-as-tax-break-nears-end.html
Ending a federal tax break for wind
farms in India, the largest market for turbines after China and
the U.S., would cause a $540 million drop in demand just as
suppliers including  General Electric Co. (GE)  expand local capacity.  Wind park installations may fall 15 percent in the
financial year starting April 2012 from the 2,600 megawatts
projected for this year should the benefit be discontinued, said
Ashish Sethia, lead analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 New Delhi .  The government wants to axe an accounting rule next year
that encouraged companies to erect most of India’s 14,157
megawatts in wind projects as a way of cutting taxes rather than
generating power. It favors a less-generous subsidy that
companies have been slow to adopt.  “We could see some disturbance in demand and some
filtering out of smaller players,” said Mahesh Makhija,
director of renewables at the local unit of  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,
 Hong Kong ’s biggest power supplier and India’s largest developer
of wind farms. A 400-megawatt slump in demand could cut
investment by 24 billion rupees ($540 million) based on current
construction costs.  India’s biggest property developer  DLF Ltd. (DLFU)  and  Hindustan
Zinc Ltd. (HZ) , a mining unit of billionaire Anil Agarwal’s  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) , used the tax benefit called accelerated
depreciation to build some of India’s largest wind farms,
project design documents show. The accelerated depreciation
accounting method allows companies to write off investments at a
faster rate than normal, which reduces tax liabilities.  A ‘Financial Instrument’  “The wind farm was really more of a financial instrument
than a power plant,” said Arvind Prasad, managing director of
the power unit of  Ushdev International Ltd. (UTF) , India’s third-
largest non-state metal trader, which also develops wind parks.  “It’s not the best way to address the country’s power
issues,” said Prasad, who heads the Indian Wind Power
Association’s chapter in the state of Maharashtra.  The government says an alternative subsidy will do more to
address a power deficit that tops  39 percent  in some areas,
hampering the second-fastest growing major economy after China.
The Generation-Based Incentive rewards projects on how much
clean energy they produce instead of the size of installations.  “Wind projects need to increase generation, not be put up
just for tax benefits,” Renewable Energy Minister Farooq Abdullah said in February. The finance and renewable energy
ministries plan to discontinue the benefit next April, when
 India  is expected to introduce a new  tax code , he said.  Lack of Clarity  The upcoming Direct Tax Code doesn’t explicitly propose to
change current income tax laws that permit accelerated
depreciation, the  Finance Ministry ’s Central Board of Direct
Taxes said in response to questions. The government is still
discussing the matter, Dilip Nigam, the renewable energy
ministry’s head of wind power policy, said by telephone.  The lack of clarity is likely to prompt a temporary jump in
demand amid a rush to build projects in the current financial
year, said Sethia of New Energy Finance, a London-based
researcher. Even if the government decides to continue the tax
break, wind projects may drop by 250 megawatts next year, he
said.  A shakeout may intensify turbine suppliers’ push for new
business as wind installations peak in developed markets in the
U.S. and  Europe . Turbine suppliers in India jumped by a third to
20 last year as the country installed about $3 billion of wind
capacity, the most after  China  and the U.S.  Surpassed Wind Targets  While global wind farm installations declined for the first
time in almost two decades in 2010, India overshot the
government’s target by 18 percent.  Anticipating that trend to continue,  Siemens AG (SIE)  plans its
first 500-megawatt wind turbine plant in India by 2013, Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA aims to complete three facilities by
2012 and GE opened a turbine assembly plant in India this year.  The alternative subsidy favored by the government “will
shift the market focus from investment incentives to production
incentive, which is very relevant in the backdrop of energy
shortfalls in the country today,” GE said.  “This will attract new developers” that will focus on
making power more available more efficiently, it said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s dominant supplier, said in an
e-mail that it welcomed “this shift across investor groups” who
are now looking with a long-term view that would mean larger-
sized projects, lower transaction costs and more
evenly distributed demand throughout the year for the industry.  Enercon India Ltd. , India’s second-biggest turbine
supplier, declined to comment on whether the end of the tax
break could impact demand. Suzlon shares fell as much as 4.4
percent, the most in three weeks, and closed down 2.7 percent in
Mumbai trading. Suzlon’s stock has dropped 10 percent this year.  Suzlon, Gamesa Competition  Suzlon faces increasing competition from new entrants. Its
share of new wind installations in India dropped below 50
percent for the first time last year while  Spain ’s Gamesa topped
Vestas Wind Systems A/S to emerge as the nation’s third-biggest
wind supplier after just 18 months in the market.  The Generation-Based Incentive pays wind farms 500 rupees
for every megawatt-hour fed to the grid.  Wind developers are pressing to double that to 1,000 rupees
and remove an overall cap of 6.2 million rupees per megawatt to
make the subsidy as lucrative as accelerated depreciation, said
K. Kasthoorirangian, chairman of the Indian Wind Power
Association.  Only 543 megawatts of wind projects have signed up for the
Generation-Based Incentive since its introduction in December
2009, which is available for as much as 4,000 megawatts of
projects, according to ministry  data .  State electricity regulators are also gradually raising the
tariffs they pay for wind-powered electricity while tradable
renewable-energy certificates issued to clean-power utilities
could make projects more profitable.  Helpful as an early catalyst, the tax break is now
distorting the sector, CLP’s Makhija said. “It’s high time that
it goes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  