-- 
India Won’t Exceed Borrowing Estimate This Year, Mukherjee Says

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-07-12T13:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/india-won-t-exceed-borrowing-estimate-this-year-mukherjee-says.html
India doesn’t plan to exceed its its
borrowing target in the year ending March 31 even as its subsidy
bill may increase due to rising oil prices, Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee said today.  “I am not expanding my borrowing,”Mukherjee told
reporters at a news conference in  New Delhi  today. “We will
have to keep in mind the volatility in international commodity
prices, especially oil. Perhaps subsidies may have to be
increased.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government on June 24
allowed state-run refiners including Indian Oil Corp. to
increase diesel, kerosene and cooking gas prices to curb
subsidies and limit losses at companies selling fuels below
cost. The move is also aimed at cutting the fiscal deficit to
4.6 percent of gross domestic product in this financial year.  “It is unlikely that the government will be able to meet
its deficit target with growth slowing,” Jay Shankar, chief
economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai, said in a
phone interview. “Expenditure on subsidies is set to
increase.”  The $1.4 trillion economy expanded 7.8 percent in the
quarter ended March 31, the slowest pace since 2009 after the
central bank raised  interest rates  to curb inflation. Shankar
expects the deficit to widen to 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product in the year to March 2012.  The government plans to borrow 4.17 trillion rupees in the
12 months to March, according to the central bank. It plans to
borrow 60 percent of the amount, or 2.5 trillion rupees, in the
first six months ending September.  -- With assistance from Kartik Goyal in New Delhi. Editors:
Abhay Singh, Arijit Ghosh  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  