-- 
Sensex Index Drops to Three-Week Low on Factory Output, Infosys Forecast

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-07-12T11:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/india-s-nifty-futures-decline-as-europe-debt-crisis-fans-earnings-concerns.html
India’s benchmark stock index fell
to a three-week low after the factory-production growth slowed
and as Infosys Ltd.’s sales forecast missed analysts estimates.  Infosys, the nation’s second-largest software maker, sank
the most in three months. Sales in the year to March 31 will
range from $7.1 billion to $7.3 billion. That trailed the $7.5
billion average of 56 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the biggest truckmaker, plunged the most in
three weeks. Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 5.6
percent in May from a year ago following a revised 5.8 percent
gain in April. The median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an 8.5 percent jump.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
309.77, or 1.7 percent, to 18,411.62 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, the lowest level since June 24. The S&P CNX Nifty Index
dropped 1.6 percent to 5,526.15 and its July futures settled at
5,526. The BSE 200 Index slid 1.4 percent to 2,281.14.  The factory output “numbers show that Indian companies are
shying away from making investments and are shifting their
investments overseas,” said R.K. Gupta, managing director of
Taurus Asset Management Ltd., which has $1.1 billion in assets.  Infosys, which gets about 22 percent of its sales from
 Europe , plunged 4.4 percent to 2,791.55 rupees, its lowest close
since June 23. Net income increased 16 percent to 17.2 billion
rupees in the quarter ended June from 14.9 billion rupees a year
earlier. That was in line with the median analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest software
maker, lost 1 percent to 1,145.35 rupees and its July futures
settled at 1,148.50 rupees.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the third-biggest, shed
1.5 percent to 414.6 rupees.  ‘Safe Haven’  “Infosys has been disappointing for the past three to four
quarters,” said Shishir Bajpai, vice president at IIFL Wealth
Management Ltd., which has $1.8 billion in assets under
management and advisory. “Some investors may be moving out of
Infosys to other information technology stocks as safe haven.”  A weak global market also contributed to the bearish
sentiments. Asian and European stocks tumbled amid growing
concern Europe’s debt crisis is spreading.  Europe’s finance ministers are struggling to contain the
region’s debt crisis, declining to rule out a temporary default
in  Greece  and reviving the prospect of bond buybacks as
investors pounded  Italy . The crisis may jeopardize earnings for
Indian companies already confronted with rising borrowing costs
and signs the global economic recovery is slowing.  Some 33 percent of the companies in the Sensex reported
profits that missed analysts’ estimates in the March quarter,
compared with less than a quarter that did so last year.  ‘Poor Results’  Nomura Holdings Inc. said 100 of the 114 companies under
its coverage may post an average 4 percent gain in profit for
the June quarter. Sales would increase 21.7 percent from a year
ago, the brokerage said in a July 8 report.  “By and large, this will be a quarter of poor results,”
said Kislay Kanth, head of research at Mape Securities Pvt. in
Mumbai. “The impact of Europe’s crisis and the global slowdown
is being seen.”  Tata Motors, the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, retreated 2.7
percent to 1,024.9 rupees.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the largest
maker of sport-utility vehicles and tractors, decreased 3.2
percent to 703.35 rupees.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the largest
engineering company, plunged 2.9 percent to 1,779.15 rupees.  The Sensex has fallen 10 percent this year, the worst
performer among  Asia ’s 14 largest markets, as India’s central
bank raised rates eight times in the past year to cool prices.
Sensex companies are valued at 15 times estimated earnings,
compared with 10.8 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  ‘Margin Contraction’  HSBC Holdings Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG predict the
central bank may extend its longest stretch of rate increases in
a decade as the government’s move to raise diesel prices last
month boosts the rise in living costs to near 10 percent. The
next policy announcement is on July 26.  “The margin-contraction story continues and we expect the
contraction to bottom out over the next quarter or so,” Pralay Das and Mona Khetan, analysts at Elara Securities wrote in a
note dated July 8.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  reshuffled his Cabinet for
the second time in six months in a bid to bolster a government
weakened by corruption allegations, high inflation and slowing
growth. Singh dropped seven ministers and moved several others.  ‘Cosmetic Changes’  The changes are “cosmetic,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who
manages about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth Management
Services Ltd. in  New Delhi . “Though there is an attempt to
improve the image of the government by dropping some people, it
won’t help in any way to take the reform process forward.”  Singh, who Congress party secured its biggest election
victory in two decades in May 2009, has had to curtail decision
making after a minister, bureaucrats and company officials were
jailed over corruption charges. The number of policy approvals
by cabinet dropped 39 percent to 33 in the first six months of
the year from a year earlier, government data show.  “Growth is slowing and this trend is unlikely to reverse
given the geopolitical scenario in the country,” Taurus’ Gupta
said. “We haven’t seen enough in terms of decision-making from
the government.”  Overseas funds purchased a net 4.74 billion rupees ($107
million) of Indian stocks on July 11, raising total investment
in equities this year to 95.7 billion rupees, according to data
on the  website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  