-- 
India’s Karnataka State Seeks 350 Megawatts of Solar Capacity

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T14:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/india-s-karnataka-state-seeks-350-megawatts-of-solar-capacity.html
India ’s Karnataka state announced
its solar power policy outlining terms for 350 megawatts of
capacity that it’s targeting to build by 2016.  Under the program, Karnataka on India’s southwest coast
plans to award permits to companies to build 200 megawatts of
projects through bidding and the remaining 150 megawatts by
application, according to a copy of the  policy  posted on the
Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Ltd. website.  Solar photovoltaic projects, which use panels to convert
sunlight directly into electricity, must be 3 megawatts to 10
megawatts in size, it said. Solar thermal plants that use the
sun to heat liquids to produce steam for generators must be at
least 5 megawatts.  India aims to boost development of alternative energy as
waning growth in conventional power output threatens to deepen a
slowdown in  Asia ’s third-largest economy. State-run programs
have been among the most ambitious, such as western Gujarat
state, which has awarded 959 megawatts of solar projects, almost
the capacity of one nuclear power plant.  Karnataka will use a bidding process that will award
capacity to those developers who offer to sell their solar power
at the steepest discount to the state tariff, the policy said.  The current tariff for solar power plants set by the state
electricity regulator is 14.50 rupees ($0.32) per kilowatt-hour
for photovoltaic plants and 11.35 rupees per kilowatt-hour for
solar thermal plants, according to a  tariff order  on the website
of the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission.  Karnataka requires power distribution companies to procure
0.25 percent of their electricity from solar resources, which
will create demand for sun-powered electricity, according to the
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 