-- 
Indonesia Holds Interest Rate Unchanged for Fifth Month as Inflation Eases

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-07-12T11:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/indonesia-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-6-75-a-fifth-month-as-inflation-eases.html
Indonesia ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fifth consecutive month
as easing inflation gives policy makers room to assess the risk
of a slowdown in global growth.  Bank Indonesia  maintained its  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, it said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by
all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Policy makers
increased the key rate in February, the only move this year.  Inflation in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy eased to a
12-month low in June as a 4.8 percent gain in the rupiah this
year helped cap import costs. That has allowed central bank
Governor Darmin Nasution to extend Indonesia’s pause in monetary
tightening as  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth
threaten Asia’s exports, even as neighbors from  Thailand  to
India and  China  kept raising rates.  “Inflation is retreating, while growth remains strong
despite the global soft patch and disruptions from  Japan ’s
earthquake,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based regional
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Bank Indonesia
will likely have the flexibility to stay on pause at the next
policy meeting.”  Indonesia’s benchmark stock index has surged more than 30
percent in the past year on optimism the central bank’s
restraint in raising rates will help support growth and bolster
earnings at companies including PT Bank Mandiri, the nation’s
biggest lender by assets.  Stocks Climb  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  rose above 4,000 for the first
time on July 8. Bank Mandiri shares advanced to a record and PT
Astra International, the largest automotive retailer, climbed 3
percent, leading gains among banks and consumer stocks.  “Lower interest rates, easing inflation and the strength of
the rupiah are supporting the automotive industry,” Johnny Darmawan, President Director at PT Toyota-Astra Motor, told
Bloomberg News in Jakarta on July 8.  Bank Indonesia said in a statement today it will continue
“to implement the policy mix of monetary and macroprudential
measures, with focus on managing domestic liquidity, capital
inflows, and exchange rate appreciation that is in line with the
trend of exchange rate appreciation in the Asian region.”  The country’s consumer prices rose 5.54 percent in June
from a year earlier. Inflation will likely slow given last
year’s “high-base” level, Nasution said this month.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s government has raised
its forecast for the economy’s expansion next year to as much as
7 percent on rising exports and investments, Melchias Mekeng,
head of the parliament’s budget committee, said July 5. That
compares with a projection of as much as 6.9 percent in May.  Economic Corridors  Yudhoyono, who plans to double spending on roads, ports and
airports to $140 billion by the end of his term in 2014,
unveiled plans last month to develop six economic “corridors”
under an initiative to accelerate growth and cut poverty in the
period to 2025. The regions will focus on industries including
foodstuffs, energy, plantations, fishery and mining.  Indonesia’s currency has climbed the second-most in  Asia 
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 10
regional currencies. The rupiah may strengthen further in the
second half of this year, even as the gains may ease, Nasution
said July 1.  “Even if borrowing costs stay at the current level, we
believe there will be flows and foreign direct investment
interest in Indonesia,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, which estimates the
rupiah may appreciate to about 8,300 per dollar by year-end.  Growth in Indonesia’s $540 billion economy slowed in the
first quarter to 6.5 percent. “We’ll give priority on
domestic” issues while considering global conditions, Nasution
said in Jakarta on July 6.  Liquidity Watch  Malaysia’s central bank unexpectedly refrained from raising
rates last week, choosing instead to order lenders to set aside
more cash as it pledged to consider further policy moves after
assessing economic conditions.  Sri Lanka  left borrowing costs
unchanged for a sixth straight month, taking advantage of
slowing inflation to support economic expansion.  In contrast,  India ’s central bank may continue to increase
interest rates until inflation is “under control,” K.C. Chakrabarty, a deputy governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India,
said July 8. China raised benchmark rates for the third time in
2011 last week.  The central bank should watch out for excess funds in the
economy, said Helmi Arman, a Jakarta-based economist at
Citigroup Inc.  “As inflation eases, the main concern of the central bank
isn’t interest rates right now; they are more focused on the
liquidity policy,” Arman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  