-- 
Infosys Earnings Forecast Misses Analyst Estimates, Sending Shares Lower

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-07-12T12:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/infosys-profit-rises-16-on-customer-spending.html
Infosys Ltd. forecast sales that
missed analysts’ estimates, pulling shares of rival Indian
software exporters lower amid concerns customers are holding off
on new contracts because of uncertainties in the global economy.  India’s second-largest code writer projected sales in the
year to March to range from $7.1 billion to $7.3 billion,
Bangalore-based Infosys said today, missing the $7.5 billion
average of 56 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
company raised its earnings per American depositary receipt.  Infosys fell the most in almost three months in Mumbai,
leading declines in Tata Consultancy Ltd. and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  as the
forecast contrasts with the raised projections at larger rival
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  last month. The European debt crisis may put
pressure on the profits of banks and financial services
companies and that’s an “overhang” for the Indian  software
industry , said an analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.  “We are structurally negative on the sector and believe
that earnings expectations have to be lowered,” said Centrum’s
Girish Pai. “The downgrade cycle for Infosys and the sector as
a whole would continue in the current fiscal year and we may see
larger cuts in the year starting April.”  Infosys slumped 4.4 percent, the most since April 15, to
2,791.55 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The stock was
the worst performer on the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark
Sensitive Index, which declined 1.7 percent. Larger rival Tata
Consultancy fell 1 percent while Wipro,  India ’s third-biggest
software exporter, dropped 1.5 percent. Both companies are
scheduled to report earnings later this month.  Net Income  Infosys forecast sales for the year to range from 317.8
billion rupees ($7.1 billion) to 323.1 billion rupees. The
company increased its earnings per ADR estimate to $2.88 to
$2.92 from $2.83 to $2.88, according to the statement.  The software exporter also today reported net income
increased 16 percent to 17.2 billion rupees in the three months
ended in June from 14.9 billion rupees a year earlier. That was
in line with the median analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys, which builds software programs and provides back-
office support to clients including BT Group Plc and Citigroup
Inc., was founded by billionaire N.R. Narayana Murthy and six
colleagues in 1981 with $250 they borrowed from their wives. In
1999, Infosys became the first Indian company to sell American
Depositary receipts.  The company in April forecast higher wages will erode
profitability as the software exporter grappled with its highest
annual rate of employee turnover in at least 13 years.  ‘Volatile Environment’  Operating profit margin in the first quarter was 26.1
percent, Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said at a
briefing in Mysore, India. Wage increases crimped margins by 300
basis points, he said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The economic environment is still volatile,”
Balakrishnan said. “All the markets have the same problems --
high unemployment, low growth, high inflation, huge fiscal
deficit. The sovereign risk in  Europe  is becoming bigger and
bigger. Clients are still cautious.”  Chief Executive Officer S. Gopalakrishnan will step down
Aug. 21, Infosys said in April. He will be succeeded by S.D. Shibulal, currently chief operating officer. Chairman Murthy
will retire the same day and be replaced by Gopalakrishnan and
former ICICI Bank Ltd. head K.V. Kamath, who will be co-
chairmen.  Shibulal worked with Sun Microsystems between 1991 and
1996, during a five-year sabbatical, before returning to Infosys
and  establishing  its Internet consulting practice. He later went
on to head worldwide sales at the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net  