-- 
Insider Trading, News Corp., Dodd-Frank: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-07-12T11:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/insider-trading-news-corp-fcc-fsa-dodd-frank-stress-test-compliance.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, can proceed with a suit claiming the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission violated his rights when
it filed an administrative action accusing him of passing
illegal stock tips.  The SEC initiated the administrative proceeding in
Washington on March 1, claiming Gupta passed information to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also on the board.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled yesterday that Gupta,
who hasn’t been charged criminally, may argue that the agency
intentionally singled him out for unfair treatment in
retaliation for claiming his innocence. Rakoff said that all of
the other suits filed in the Galleon case, against 21 people and
seven companies, are in federal court.  “We have the unusual case where there is already a well-
developed public record of Gupta being treated substantially
disparately from 28 essentially identical defendants, with not
even a hint from the SEC, even in their instant papers, as to
why this should be so,” Rakoff wrote in yesterday’s opinion.  SEC spokesman John Nestor said the agency may appeal the
ruling.  In the administrative proceeding the SEC claimed Gupta gave
Rajaratnam information about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $5
billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about quarterly earnings of Goldman Sachs
and Procter & Gamble. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.
Rajaratnam was found guilty of 14 criminal counts of conspiracy
and securities fraud on May 11. He is awaiting sentencing.  In his suit against the SEC, Gupta claims the agency is
unfairly trying to gain an advantage by denying him legal
protections he would have had if the suit had been filed in
federal court.  In his ruling, Rakoff narrowed Gupta’s case to include only
his claim that the SEC is trying to deny his constitutional
right to equal protection of the laws. Rakoff said he intends to
hold an evidentiary hearing in the case within four months.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-CV-1900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  Compliance Action  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Bid for BSkyB Referred to U.K. Competition Body  News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4 billion) bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  faces a review by the top
U.K. competition authority that will take at least six months as
a probe into phone hacking widens.  The  Competition Commission , now overseeing the regulatory
process for Murdoch’s 700 pence a share bid, will report in six
months, followed by “intensive discussions,” Culture Secretary
 Jeremy Hunt  told lawmakers in  London  yesterday. Hunt sent the
bid to the antitrust body after News Corp. withdrew earlier
pledges aimed at avoiding a lengthy review, including the
spinoff of BSkyB’s Sky News channel.  The U.K. government is seeking to avoid ruling on the deal
in the wake of the public outcry after the escalating phone-
hacking allegations involving members of the public, celebrities
and sports figures.  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  asked Murdoch to
“reconsider” his bid following allegations that Murdoch’s News
of the World tabloid hacked into voicemails of terror and murder
victims such as murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler and paid police
for stories. News Corp. published the last issue of the 168-
year-old newspaper yesterday.  In a statement, News Corp. said it “continues to believe
that, taking into account the only relevant legal test, its
proposed acquisition will not lead to there being insufficient
plurality in news provision in the U.K.”  News Corp., which also publishes the Sun, the Times and the
Sunday Times, also said yesterday that it will investigate
whether its journalists broke the law to obtain the bank,
medical and legal records of former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown .  The Guardian reported that both the Sunday Times and the
Sun obtained files using techniques known as “blagging,” where
people impersonate someone over the phone in order to access
private information. The Sun obtained details of the private
medical files of Brown’s son Fraser, while someone working for
the Sunday Times acquired Brown’s legal records and tried to
gain access to bank statements, the Guardian said.  “We note the allegations made today concerning the
reporting of matters relating to Gordon Brown,” News Corp.’s
News International unit said in an e-mailed statement. “So that
we can investigate these matters further, we ask that all
information concerning these allegations is provided to us.”  Separately, Amalgamated Bank of New York said in an amended
lawsuit filed in  Delaware  that allegations of phone hacking at
News of the World show a “culture run amuck” and indicate the
board “provides no effective review or oversight.”
Amalgamated, as a trustee for funds through which it holds
almost 1 million News Corp. shares, sued the directors on behalf
of the company in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington in
March. The bank accused Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch 
of nepotism in the purchase of Shine Group Ltd., his daughter’s
U.K.-based television production company.  “These revelations should not have taken years to uncover
and stop,” according to an amended complaint filed July 8 and
made public yesterday.  Teri Everett, a News Corp. spokeswoman in New York, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  The case is Amalgamated Bank v. Murdoch, CA6285, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  AT&T, Sprint Face 9 State Subpoenas in Reviews of T-Mobile Bid  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA
Inc. prompted subpoenas of AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  by nine
states in connection with antitrust reviews.  Sprint’s subpoenas came from  Arizona ,  Florida ,  Hawaii ,
 Illinois ,  Minnesota , New York,  Pennsylvania ,  Texas  and
Washington, and the U.S.  Justice Department , the company said in
a June 28 letter posted on the Federal Communications
Commission’s website. AT&T got requests for data from the same
states, Michael Balmoris, a company spokesman, said.  “Pennsylvania and a number of states are looking at the
transaction,” James Donahue, Pennsylvania’s chief deputy
attorney general, said in an interview. “We’re taking in all
the information and have reached no conclusion.”  The disclosure of the states’ subpoenas reveals a growing
scrutiny of AT&T’s bid to combine the second- and fourth-largest
wireless carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of No. 1
 Verizon Wireless . The states are seeking data for customer
habits, including when consumers switch carriers, which would
help their regulators evaluate the level of competition in their
respective markets.  AT&T disclosed on June 21 the Justice Department had
broadened its demands for information on the proposed deal.  “Not unexpectedly, some state attorneys general offices
have sought information about our merger, and we have responded
in an appropriate and timely manner,” Balmoris said in an e-
mail.  David Kerwin, a  Washington  state assistant attorney
general, said in an interview that the acquisition is “a large
matter that potentially affects a number of people.”  Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson “is concerned
about the merger,” said Ben Wogsland, a spokesman for her
office. “It’s hard to see how four companies going down to
three, basically less competition, would benefit consumers,” he
said.  Florida issued a civil investigation demand to Sprint, said
Jennifer Davis, a spokeswoman for the state’s attorney general.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, said “the investigation is ongoing.”  Janney Montgomery to Pay $850,000 to Settle SEC Claims  Janney Montgomery Scott LLC settled claims by the
Securities and Exchange Commission over the failure to enforce
procedures related to its Equity Capital Markets unit, creating
the risk of  insider trading , the agency said.  Janney Montgomery agreed to pay a penalty of $850,000 as
part of the settlement, and didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s
findings, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  FCC Says Comcast Violated Rules to Detriment of Tennis Channel  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  violated Federal Communications Commission
rules by limiting distribution of the Tennis Channel on its
cable systems, the agency’s enforcement bureau said in a court
filing.  Comcast should be required to include Tennis Channel on a
broadly distributed tier within 30 days on terms similar to its
own Golf Channel and Versus sports networks, the FCC Enforcement
Bureau said in a recommendation to Chief Administrative Law
Judge Richard L. Sippel in Washington.  The recommendation was reported earlier by Multichannel
News.  Compliance Policy  Obama Urges Independent Agencies to Shed Burdensome Rules  President  Barack Obama  urged independent agencies to
consider proposals that would cut paperwork and eliminate
outdated rules, broadening his effort to remove or overhaul
unnecessary regulations.  Obama’s order is aimed at bodies such as the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the  National Labor Relations Board ,
excluded from the effort among federal departments he started in
January to drop rules that stifle economic expansion without
helping consumers.  “I hope you see this as an opportunity to something big
and lasting -- to change the ways of Washington,” Obama said
yesterday in a statement to the agencies. “We are taking
immediate steps to eliminate millions of hours in annual
paperwork burdens for large and small businesses and save more
than $1 billion in annual regulatory costs.”  The Obama administration said in May that more than 30
agencies are seeking to repeal or modify regulations to reduce
reporting requirements and trim compliance costs. The effort
eliminated rules for vapor-recovery systems at gas stations and
changed labeling requirements for hazardous materials.
Yesterday’s order applies to agencies where he has limited power
to dismiss the body’s chief.  The White House effort to eliminate unnecessary regulations
has so far failed to slow the process, Republicans such as
Representative Cliff Stearns of Florida, chairman of the
subcommittee, have said.  “New regulations affecting many sectors of industry and
aspects of American life are being promulgated under the same
flawed system that produced the regulations identified” by the
White House, Stearns said June 3 at a hearing of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee panel on oversight and
investigations.  FSA Looks Into Risk-Management Governance at Clearinghouses  Clearinghouses are likely to see greater scrutiny of their
risk-management governance and organizational structure as the
U.K. financial regulator seeks to cut the risks they pose to the
financial system.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority is looking into the
model central counterparties use to calculate the funds traders
must give them as a buffer, the regulator  said  yesterday on its
website.  The FSA, which previously said it will adopt “a more
intrusive approach” is reviewing credit risk management
practices at central counterparties as their use grows. Scrutiny
of clearinghouses has mounted even as European and U.S.
regulators promote greater transparency in the over-the-counter
 derivatives market .  “The clearing market is undergoing a period of substantial
change,” the FSA wrote in its guidance paper. “Both market
participants and regulators have indicated a desire to increase
the scale and scope of financial instruments cleared through
central counterparties. Further, increased industry competition
and consolidation continues to play a fundamental role in
defining the shape of the clearing industry.”  By acting as the central counterparty to every buy and sell
order they process, a clearinghouse reduces the risk that could
result if a trading firm defaults on its obligation in a
transaction. Clearinghouses are funded by their members, who
must meet  capital requirements  and pass operational and
technology tests.  Stress Tests May Worsen Debt Crisis, German Banking Groups Say  European stress tests risk worsening the sovereign-debt
crisis and making lenders the target of speculators because the
level of detail being published is too high, according to
 Germany ’s banking associations.  “Given the tense situation which already exists in money
and capital markets, we believe publishing the results with the
present level of detail would exacerbate the sovereign-debt
crisis,” the ZKA Central Credit Committee said in a letter
obtained by Bloomberg News. “To avoid further capital market
turmoil, which would fly totally in the face of what the  stress
test  was actually intended to achieve, we believe the level of
detail needs to be significantly reduced.”  European regulators are seeking to assuage investor concern
that banks in the region are inadequately capitalized with a
second round of stress tests to be published on July 15. The
London-based European Banking Authority toughened this year’s
review by tightening its definition of bank capital and forcing
firms to disclose more about their holdings of  government bonds 
after criticism last year by analysts that the tests were too
lenient.  The 91 banks being tested will be expected to maintain a
core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial strength,
of at least 5 percent in the tests’ baseline and adverse
scenarios, the EBA has said. All 13 German lenders being
assessed expect to pass, based on the data they submitted,
people with knowledge of the process who declined to be
identified said last week.  The German banking groups said they are concerned about
elements including the detailed breakdown of sovereign-debt
holdings by country and maturity, which they say will reveal
company business and trading strategy. They’re also worried
about giving out specifics on portfolio and hedge structures,
which may “open the door to arbitrage,” as well as a breakdown
of banks’ loan books.  “The possibility cannot be excluded that publication of
the stress test results in their present form will spark not
only market volatility, but also targeted speculation against
individual banks,” the letter said. The banking associations
proposed a simplified version of publication excluding some of
the details.  The criticism echoes that made on June 6 by Jochen Sanio,
the head of Germany’s top financial regulator, where he lashed
out at the European Union’s stress tests, saying the standards
adopted by the agency carrying them out lack “legitimacy.”  Courts  SIPC Opposes Attempt by Mets Owners to Dismiss Madoff Suit  The Securities Investor Protection Corp. opposed a request
by the owners of the New York Mets baseball team to dismiss a $1
billion suit by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , is suing  Fred Wilpon  and Saul
Katz and their firm, Sterling Equities, seeking the return of
$700 million in principal and $300 million in profit from
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Picard claims the team’s owners had a
duty to investigate “red flags” warning of possible fraud.  SIPC yesterday asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan to let the suit go forward, arguing that Picard has
the legal authority to pursue the claim.  Rakoff agreed this month to review the case, which Picard
filed last year in  bankruptcy court . He said judges have
struggled with the duty of inquiry into fraud for more than half
a century and the duty may not have applied to the Mets owners.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deutsche Bank, MortgageIT Ask Court to Throw Out U.S. Suit
      Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, and its
MortgageIT unit asked a U.S. judge to dismiss a $1 billion
federal government lawsuit claiming they lied to qualify
thousands of risky mortgages for a government insurance program.  The U.S. claims Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT falsely
certified that they properly assessed the default risk of
borrowers, qualifying loans for insurance by the Housing and
Urban Development Department’s  Federal Housing Administration ,
according to a complaint filed May 3 in Manhattan federal court.  “The complaint is long on unsupported and conclusory
rhetoric but short on facts and legal underpinnings,” Deutsche
Bank argued in a court filing yesterday.  The U.S. sued under the  False Claims Act , which permits it
to seek triple damages and penalties of more than $1 billion.  The government claims Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT masked
problem loans through “egregious” violations of HUD rules for
analyzing the income and creditworthiness of borrowers.
MortgageIT endorsed more than 39,000 loans for FHA insurance
after 1999, making them “highly marketable for resale,” the
U.S. claimed. Of those, 12,500 defaulted.  The case is U.S. v. Deutsche Bank AG, 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Speeches  Dodd-Frank Act Standing Up After First Year, Rep. Frank Says  The U.S. law reshaping the financial system has stood up
well to the challenges and criticisms it’s faced in its first
year of existence, Representative Barney Frank said.  “I believe that the year’s study, examination, criticism,
advocacy, et cetera, leaves this legislation holding up very
well,” Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and co-author of the
financial overhaul law, said yesterday in remarks at the
 National Press Club  in Washington. “There have been very few
calls for any substantial amendment on the part of the financial
services community.”  With the Dodd-Frank Act nearing its one-year anniversary,
debate continues inside federal agencies and on  Capitol Hill 
over its final shape. The law, which was enacted on July 21,
2010, requires regulators to craft and implement hundreds of new
rules that will govern much of the U.S. financial system,
including the derivatives market and consumer finance.  Frank, the senior Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, said the law provides regulators a set of principles
while giving them the flexibility they need to write the rules.  House Republicans , who took power in the House after the
November elections, have pushed multiple bills to reshape or
repeal provisions in the law. Financial Services Committee
Chairman  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, is leading
Republicans who almost unanimously opposed the law last year.  The lawmakers have introduced a slate of bills to change or
repeal provisions in the law -- including restricting the powers
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau -- that Republicans
say extend regulation too far.  Frank said Republicans were “bluffing” in their efforts
to reshape or repeal parts of the law.  “My Republican colleagues, unlike  climate change  and
health care, don’t want to take this one head-on because it is
still too popular,” Frank said. “Coming to the defense of
unrestricted derivative trading is not a popular cause.”  Frank defended a provision in the law requiring mortgage
risk retention, which would force lenders to keep a 5 percent
stake in loans they bundle for investors. Regulators have
proposed that the only loans exempt from the requirement would
be those for which borrowers made downpayments of 20 percent.  More than 40 groups, including the  American Bankers
Association  and the  Consumer Federation of America , have joined
with Republican and Democratic lawmakers to urge regulators to
loosen the rule.  “I am troubled because there is an assault now on risk
retention,” said Frank, adding that even though he believes the
20 percent requirement is “too high” the overall provision is
one of the most important in Dodd-Frank.  Frank said that in the wake of the subprime mortgage
crisis, new rules that make changes to the current market are
necessary.  “It’s disruptive because we had to disrupt a rotten
system,” Frank said. “We had to disrupt a system that
collapsed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 