-- 
Inter’s Sneijder Poised to Join United for $55 Million: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-12T10:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/inter-s-sneijder-poised-to-join-united-for-55-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Sneijder for Old Trafford  Wesley Sneijder  is set to join Manchester United this week
in a 35 million-pound ($55 million) transfer,  the Sun  reported.  The Inter Milan midfielder is likely to earn more than even
Wayne Rooney’s 220,000 pounds a week, the newspaper added.  Nasri Not for United  United manager  Alex Ferguson  said  Samir Nasri  has agreed to
leave Arsenal, but he doesn’t expect to sign the midfielder,  the
Guardian  reported.  “I don’t think he is coming to United,” Ferguson was
cited as saying. “That is all I can tell you. I think that he
has agreed to go somewhere else.”  Modric Offer  Chelsea has made a 27 million-pound offer for Tottenham
midfielder Luka Modric, up from a previous 22 million pounds,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  Tottenham still says it has no intention of selling the
Croat, the Mail added.  West Ham’s  Scott Parker  may return to Chelsea, which needs
a midfielder after  Michael Essien  was injured, the  Daily Mirror 
said.  Defoe Targeted  Blackburn wants to take Tottenham striker Jermain Defoe
after he fell out of favor at White Hart Lane,  the Mirror 
reported.  Rovers manager Steve Kean may offer defender Chris Samba as
part of a swap deal, the newspaper said.  Liverpool Spending  Aston Villa’s England winger Stewart Downing is nearing a
deal to join Liverpool in a deal worth up to 20 million pounds,
the  Daily Express  reported.  The transfer would take Reds owner John W. Henry’s transfer
spending to more than 100 million pounds since he bought the
team last year, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 