-- 
Investure, BlackRock Say Clients Piling Cash for Market Crash Protection

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-13T16:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/investure-blackrock-say-clients-piling-cash-for-protection-1-.html
Alice Handy, founder of endowment
manager Investure LLC, and Sonia Gardner, co-founder of
distressed-debt firm Avenue Capital Group, are stockpiling cash.  The two are among asset managers at a  U.S. Treasury
Department  symposium on Women in Finance who said yesterday that
they or their clients are setting cash aside rather than being
fully invested. Susan Wagner, a co-founder of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
and Catherine Keating, the head of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s U.S.
institutional asset-management business, said their customers
are allocating a larger portion of their assets to more liquid
securities.  “We want to have dry powder,” Gardner said during the
event at Treasury headquarters in Washington, adding that her
firm expects more mid-size companies in the U.S. and  Europe  to
fall behind on their debt. “This is the most opportunity we
have seen in a while in Europe.”  Stashing assets in money-market funds,  government bonds  or
bank accounts can be a drag on returns, with two-year Treasuries
yielding about 0.38 percent. Top money managers and their
institutional clients are increasingly accepting this short-term
cost because it ultimately can increase their gains, serving as
a buffer against losses when markets crash and as a source of
capital when assets are cheap.  Focus on Risk  Handy, whose Charlottesville, Virginia, firm manages about
$8.5 billion, primarily for colleges and universities
outsourcing endowments in search of better returns, said
Investure recently completed a study that shows holding cash for
several years doesn’t necessarily penalize performance.  Smith
College , Handy’s first client and a proxy for 10 others, earned
16 percent on its $1.2 billion in the year ended June 30, 2010,
out-pacing both Harvard and Yale universities.  Wagner, vice chairman of New York-based BlackRock, the
world’s largest money manager, said the focus on risk among the
firm’s institutional clients is “dramatically higher” since
the 2008 market decline, when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 38 percent. She added that it is “extremely expensive to
derisk” at present.  “We see a higher allocation to liquidity,” Wagner said,
adding that BlackRock is helping some institutions develop
strategies that provide both broad, diversified market exposure
and the ability to raise cash when necessary.  U.S. large-cap growth stocks represent an “enormous
value,” Wagner said at the symposium. JPMorgan’s Keating
expressed a similar view, calling such stocks “compelling.”  Searching for Value  At JPMorgan, wealthy individuals are keeping twice as much
money in liquid assets as they did before the 2008 crash, said
Keating, chief executive officer of the New York-based bank’s
U.S. Institutional Asset Management. At the same time, these
clients are being “more opportunistic,” investing in areas
such as private equity and emerging markets when the potential
for profit increases, she said.  Handy said her firm looks for investments that offer the
best value rather than focusing on  asset allocation . That
approach led her to buy put options in early 2007 on the  S&P 500
Index (SPX) , a bet that would pay off should the U.S. equity benchmark
fall. When the market collapsed the following year, Handy was
able to cash in the puts at a profit and buy other assets that
investors were dumping at fire-sale prices.  Puts give buyers the right to sell an underlying security
at a set price and date.  Camouflaging Weakness  Avenue Capital’s Gardner said the low default rate among
“middle market” companies reflects the willingness of banks to
amend and extend loan terms, thereby camouflaging weakness in
that part of the credit markets.  Many of the companies will default when the banks can no
longer continue providing extensions, and New York-based Avenue
wants to have cash on hand to buy their loans at distressed
prices, she said.  “There are opportunities in managing the pipeline,”
Gardner said. “We look at good companies with bad balance
sheets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in  Washington  at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  