-- 
Investing 101 Means Looking Out the Windows More: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-07-12T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/investing-101-means-looking-out-the-windows-more-william-pesek.html
Arab Spring, meet Malaysia’s summer
of discontent.  That thought is surely on Prime Minister Najib Razak’s mind
as the dust settles from Saturday’s botched demonstrations in
 Kuala Lumpur . By “botched” I mean the way Najib mishandled
what should have been a ho-hum political-reform rally of little
note by the international news media.  Public-relations experts would have told Najib to let the
 Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections  have their day in the
capital. Let them wave signs and wear their yellow shirts.
Instead, he tried to stop the rally, increasing its size. Then,
he cracked down. Police fired tear gas and detained 1,697
people, turning the event into a top cable TV news story.  The over-the-top response did something worse: It enraged
 Malaysians  who weren’t all that interested in rallying before
Saturday. It also underlined the rise in political risk sweeping
 Asia , something that investors would be wise to track.  No serious observer expects an exact Asian rerun of the
Arab Spring movement that saw uprisings topple leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia  and threaten regimes in Syria, Libya and Yemen. But
then neither do serious people argue that Asia has done enough
to enhance its democratic credentials during the past 10 years.  Political Change  Malaysia’s protest was the biggest since 2007 -- roughly
20,000 people. It came amid rising calls for political change
from  Thailand  to  China . What these nations have in common is
that the overhaul in domestic political systems lags behind
economic and financial reforms.  Take Thailand, where voters this month ejected the
incumbent  Democratic Party , which had used soldiers to disperse
opposition protests in 2010, leading to more than 90 deaths. The
party had promised to attack the corruption and undemocratic
ways of the government run by  Thaksin Shinawatra  that soldiers
ousted in 2006. Last week, fed up voters went full circle,
making Thaksin’s sister premier.  Officials in China are pulling out all the stops to clamp
down on political activists amid the so-called Jasmine
Revolution. Nothing unnerves the Communist Party in Beijing more
than the specter of social discontent. The winds of change are
even sweeping  Singapore ; its ruling party in May won its
narrowest election victory since independence in 1963.  Common Threads  Although the causes of such tension differ from country to
country, there are a few common threads. One is the frustration
of the have-nots as they watch the haves get richer. Another is
rising global commodity prices, which make it harder for many to
make ends meet. Finally, political modernization has been slower
than critics hoped.  Malaysia ’s case is especially complicated thanks to the
inescapable issue of race. The conventional wisdom is that
Saturday’s protests will delay Najib’s pledge to dismantle a 40-
year preferential program that favors the Malay majority. The
policy makes it harder for Chinese and Indian Malaysians to find
good jobs, and its quotas scare away foreign investors. It holds
Malaysia back in an increasingly competitive world.  To me, Najib wasn’t moving fast enough before Saturday.
Foreign executives considering whether to build a factory in
Malaysia want a clear schedule: By Jan. 1, 2012, we will do
this, and by Jan. 1, 2013, we will do that. Instead, Najib
offered vague intentions without meaningful or specific goals.  Misplaced Priorities  It’s no mystery why. All that matters to the United Malays
National Political Organisation is clinging to its five-decade
hold on power. Such misplaced priorities explain why Malaysia
has been slow to streamline the economy and encourage the kind
of entrepreneurialism that creates well-paid jobs. It’s also why
leaders are timid about scrapping productivity-killing policies
that only benefit portions of the population.  The question now is which way Najib turns. At this point,
he may avoid calling an early election this year -- there’s just
too much risk for him. Which direction he takes in changing
policy is an even bigger unknown. On July 10, the  Guardian
newspaper  carried  comments  by Najib in which he cautioned
protesters not to test his party’s will. “We can conquer Kuala
Lumpur,” he said.  What can we make of a leader who promised reform and
moderation and now sounds like a Roman emperor? Can a nation
that arrests almost 1,700 people, some just for wearing yellow
shirts, still be called a democracy? Najib’s response even had
Malaysians feeling sorry for opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim ,
who was injured by flying tear gas canisters.  Events in Kuala Lumpur remind us that geopolitical risks
are on the rise in Asia. Yes, growth rates are healthy even as
the U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe  limp along. The establishment of
democratic institutions has been far less robust, though, and
entrenched leaders may pay a considerable price. Maybe not in
the Hosni Mubarak-sense, but the potential for upheaval
shouldn’t be underestimated. There really is a  bull market  in
the desire for political change.  Investors looking for places to put their money tend to
lock themselves in offices combing through statistics, bond
spreads, stock valuations and central-bank policies. In Asia’s
case, more success might be had by looking out the window at the
street demonstrations below.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 