-- 
Ireland Cut to Junk by Moody’s as EU Seeks to Contain Crisis

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-07-13T08:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ireland-is-third-euro-area-country-cut-to-junk-joining-greece-portugal.html
Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece 
as the third euro-area nation to have its  credit rating  reduced
to below investment grade as European Union finance ministers
struggle to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3,
citing the probability that the country, which received a
bailout last year, will need additional official financing and
for investors to share in losses before it can return to the
private market to borrow. The outlook remains “negative,”
Moody’s said in a statement late yesterday.  Irish bonds dropped for a sixth day today after the
downgrade, which came after European finance ministers failed to
present a solution to the contagion that’s threatening to spread
to  Italy  from the so-called peripheral euro-area states.
Ireland’s debt agency said the downgrade will make it “more
difficult” for Ireland to return to the market next year.  While Ireland “has shown a strong commitment to fiscal
consolidation and has, to date, delivered on” the terms of its
bailout, “implementation risks remain significant,” Moody’s
said in the statement.  Irish 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield on the debt up
31 basis points to 13.65 percent. The premium over German bunds
widened 32 basis points to almost 11 percent. Italian yields
were at 5.47 percent after surging above 6 percent earlier this
week. The euro, which dropped to a four-month low against the
dollar yesterday, rose 0.5 percent to $1.4049 as of 9:06 a.m. in
 London .  Debt Markets  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  had said he hoped to
be able to sell debt again next year. That may now be less
likely, according to the country’s debt agency.  “The action by Moody’s will make it more difficult for
Ireland to access the market next year, that is certainly the
case,”  Oliver Whelan , head of funding at the National Treasury
Management Agency in Dublin, said on RTE radio today. “Ireland
does deserve a higher than junk status from the agencies.”  Ireland, which had a top Aaa rating just over two years
ago, has suffered after a real-estate boom collapsed, fueling
bank bailouts and a surge in the country’s debt.  As he tries to regain the confidence of investors, Noonan
said this month that he may seek a bigger budget correction than
the 3.6 billion euros ($5.1 billion) planned for 2012 to ensure
deficit targets are met. In  Spain , Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday the nation might need to endure even
deeper spending cuts next year than currently planned.  ‘Evolving Approach’  The NTMA said in a statement that “the situation in the
euro area is evolving rapidly” and noted that Moody’s cited the
decision was “primarily driven by their concern about the
prospect of private investor participation in future financial
support programs in the euro area.”  European finance ministers have discussed a plan to roll
over Greek debt with the participation of private bondholders.
Ratings companies had said that could be a “selective
default,” something that the  European Central Bank  opposes.  “In the end, these kind of discussions and the evolving
approach just reflect uncertainties that weigh on the
creditworthiness of countries that are dependent currently on
support,”  Dietmar Hornung , a senior credit officer with Moody’s
in  Frankfurt , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We also
decided to keep the negative outlook just to reflect the
implementation risk, but also to reflect the shifting tone among
EU governments toward the conditions under which support to a
distressed euro-area sovereign will be made.”  Irish Bailout  Ireland was forced to seek an 85 billion-euro rescue from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in
November as a banking crisis overwhelmed the government.  The European Commission in Brussels said the downgrade
“contrasts very much” with recent economic data and the
“determined implementation of the program by the Irish
government.” The Irish program is “fully on track,” it said.  Moody’s rationale for cutting Ireland echoed its review of
 Portugal , which was lowered to junk on July 5. European leaders
may hold an extraordinary summit in two days in another attempt
to stem the debt crisis, Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said separately
yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Ireland’s rating one level to BBB+
with a “stable” outlook on April 1.  Fitch Ratings  affirmed
Ireland’s BBB+ rating on April 14 and removed it from “rating
watch negative.” It said the outlook is negative. Both firms’
ratings are three levels above junk.  Ireland’s debt will rise to 118 percent of GDP in 2012 from
25 percent at the end of 2007, the European Commission has
forecast. Taxpayers have pledged as much as 70 billion euros to
shore up the country’s debt-laden financial system.  “Things need to get worse before they get better,” said
Steven Lear, deputy chief investment officer at J.P. Morgan
Asset Management’s Global Fixed Income Group in  New York , who
helps oversee $130 billion in assets. “There has to be a lot of
pain before the alternative of pain seems palatable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  