-- 
IRS Says 100,000 Tax Preparers Skirted Registration Rule

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-12T19:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/irs-says-100-000-tax-preparers-didn-t-follow-identification-rule.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  said it
is contacting about 100,000 tax preparers who worked on returns
this year and didn’t comply with new identification
requirements.  The agency said  today  it is sending letters to preparers
who handled tax returns in 2011 and didn’t attach a valid
“preparer tax identification number.” The letters will tell
preparers what steps they should take to obtain the proper
identification numbers.  The requirement is part of an effort by the IRS to heighten
oversight of the tax preparation industry, which includes  H&R
Block Inc. (HRB)  and Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. Since the IRS
began issuing the identification numbers last fall, about
712,000 preparers have registered with the government.  “The vast majority of federal tax return preparers
complied with the rules,” IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said in
a press release. “We owe it to the compliant tax preparers to
make sure that everyone is on a level playing field.”  Beyond identification, the rules require preparers to pass
a competency exam and take continuing education courses every
year, except for those in professions such as law and accounting
that have their own professional standards.  Kate O’Neill Rauber, a spokeswoman for Kansas City-based
H&R Block, the largest U.S. tax preparer, said the company has
met the IRS registration standards.  “We invested significant resources to ensure all H&R Block
tax professionals met the registration requirement,” she said
in an e-mailed statement today. “Registration ensures the IRS
can provide appropriate oversight of tax preparers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  