-- 
Israel Companies Vie for Olympic Gold Ahead of Brazil Games

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-12T13:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/israel-companies-vie-for-olympic-gold-ahead-of-brazil-games.html
Israel  is pushing to increase trade
with Brazil as the South American nation prepares to boost
spending in advance of hosting the 2014  World Cup  and the 2016
 Summer Olympics .  Israel is concentrating on three areas in the run-up to the
games: homeland security, telecommunications and water
technologies, Roy Nir, Israel’s consul for economic affairs in
 Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview.  “Israel, as a small country, has to focus on specific
niches in which we think we have more chances to win,” Nir
said.  Israel is looking to increase sales to fast-growing
economies such as Brazil, India and  China  as growth in the U.S.
and the European Union, which buy 60 percent of its exports,
remains relatively slow.  Brazil ’s economy is expected to expand
4.1 percent this year, compared with 2.5 percent for the U.S.
and 2 percent in the Euro area, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Israeli exports in June were almost unchanged at $3.73
billion, the Central Bureau of Statistics said on its website
yesterday. Brazil is ranked fourteenth in Israel’s export
destinations.  Brazil expects to invest 23 billion reais ($14.5 billion)
in airports, stadiums, ports and transportation before hosting
the World Cup and  Olympic Games , Sports Minister Orlando Silva
said June 15.  Israeli Exports  Israeli exports to Brazil, led by pesticides, fertilizers,
machinery, electronics, and optics, increased an annual 30
percent last year to $935 million, according to Israel’s Central
Bureau of Statistics. Imports from Brazil, including meat,
sugar, coffee, wood products, chemicals, plastics and grain,
rose 25 percent to $259 million.  Industry, Trade and Labor Minister Shalom Simhon in May led
a delegation to Brazil that included representatives from the
telecommunications industry. Executives from Israeli homeland
security companies visited earlier this year and officials from
water technology companies are expected to travel to Brazil in
the coming months, Nir said.  Brazil will need to increase security in cities, sports
facilities, mass transit systems, airports and at borders in
advance of the games, said Yochai Rozenblat, president of  Nice
Systems Ltd. (NICE) ’s Americas unit.  Benchmark Index  Nice rose 24 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a
12.6 percent increase in the benchmark TA-25 stock exchange. The
shares trade at a premium to its peers, at 18 times estimated
2011 earnings, compared with 14 times the average.  Technology from Nice, which was founded by Israeli
intelligence officers, was used to provide security at the
Beijing Olympics and the company is focusing a “lot of
attention” on Brazil, Rozenblat said.  “The games are creating a whole kind of momentum in Brazil
that also goes to areas not related to the games directly,” he
said.  Brazil also will need to boost the capacity of its
telecommunications system to provide for a surge in internet and
mobile phone users, Nir said. Israel “excels” at
telecommunications and companies in this field are already
working in Brazil, he said.  One such company is  Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. (GILT)  which
provides satellite communications to thousands of remote schools
and communities in Brazil.  Gilat fell 22 percent in the past year and trades at 30
times estimated 2011 earnings, compared with the 19 times
average of its Bloomberg industry peers.  “In  South Africa , the satellite market was really impacted
by the games,” said Doron Elinav, Gilat’s vice president of
marketing and business development. “We think it will be even
more so in Brazil. If there is big project there, it could have
a huge impact on the market in general, and we would hope to
take a part of that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 