-- 
Italy Sells 6.75 Billion Euros of Treasury Bills as Borrowing Costs Climb

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-12T10:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/italy-s-borrowing-costs-soar-at-6-75-billion-euro-bill-sale-on-contagion.html
Italy  sold 6.75 billion euros ($9.4
billion) of treasury bills in its first auction since borrowing
costs began soaring amid contagion from the Greek debt crisis.  The Treasury in Rome said it sold the one-year bills,
meeting its target, at an average yield of 3.67 percent. That
compares with a yield of 2.147 percent when similar securities
were last sold on June 10. Demand for the debt was 1.55 times
the amount sold, compared with 1.71 times at the June auction.  Italy sold the bills as European policy makers meeting in
Brussels today struggled to fix Greece’s finances and stop
contagion from the debt crisis. The yield investors demand to
hold Italian 10-year bonds instead of German bunds fell 17 basis
points after the sale to 312 basis points. The yield on the 10-
bond briefly topped 6 percent, the first time since 1997, before
receding to 5.759 percent at 11:49 a.m. in Rome.  “Considering the tense market environment, the auction
result is good and shows that the recent tensions have not
weighed on negatively on demand for Italian paper,” said  Luca Cazzulani , deputy head of fixed-income strategy at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
in Milan, in a note to investors. “As usual, this comes at the
price of higher auction yields.”  Stocks Rebound  Italian stocks pared earlier losses after the auction. The
benchmark FTSE MIB Index dropped 0.2 percent at 11:34 a.m. in
Milan, after earlier falling as much as 4.8 percent. UniCredit
SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, was halted after sliding as much as
7.1 percent. UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s second-
biggest lender, remain relatively unattractive due to sovereign
concerns, Morgan Stanley said in a note to investors today.  Confidence in Italy’s ability to lower its debt burden
faltered after both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  said they were reviewing their ratings. The country’s
sluggish growth will make it difficult to tame its debt pile
even if the government meets its goal of balancing the budget in
2014, they said. Moody’s last cut Italy’s rating in 1993. S&P,
which rates Italy A+, last downgraded in 2006.  “The combination of a high public debt ratio and a low
trend growth rate means Italy’s economy is especially vulnerable
to shocks to its growth rate and  interest rates ,” Vladimir Pillonca, economist at Societe Generale SA in London, said in a
note today. “The risk is that we are fast approaching the point
where neither Italy nor  Spain  will be able to sustainably
finance themselves.”  Italy’s economy expanded an average 0.2 percent annually
from 2001 to 2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area.
Growth was 0.1 percent in the first quarter, lagging behind the
euro region’s 0.8 percent expansion in that period.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said today he was leaving
the meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels early to return
to Italy to work on passing his 40 billion-euro budget-cutting
plan, which aims to eliminate the deficit in 2014. Labor
Minister  Maurizio Sacconi  said yesterday the measure could be
approved by parliament within “a few days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 