-- 
Italy Stocks Rebound From Two-Year Low as Government Sells Treasury Bills

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-12T12:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/italian-benchmark-stocks-extend-selloff-as-eu-leaders-meet-to-stem-crisis.html
Italian stocks rose, rebounding from
a two-year low, as the government completed an auction of
treasury bills and Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he’s
determined to tackle the financial crisis.  The  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  advanced 1 percent to 18,479.41 at 2:52
p.m. in Milan, after earlier plunging 4.8 percent. The gauge has
still retreated 9.9 percent since July 1.  Italian stocks entered a bear market yesterday, defined as
losses of more than 20 percent from a previous high, as the
nation’s bond yields reached the highest in 10 years. Italy is
the third-most indebted nation in the world and home to three of
Europe’s seven most-traded equities. Greece, Ireland and
Portugal have already received European Union-led bailouts.  EU finance ministers meeting in Brussels last night failed
to agree on how to share with creditors the cost of a second
bailout for Greece. The meeting didn’t discuss  Italy , though the
ministers are aware the country is now the “focus” of
financial markets, Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said at a
press conference late yesterday.  Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said he was
leaving the meeting early to return to Italy to work on passing
his budget-cut plan in parliament. Berlusconi said today that
his government and the opposition will work to defend the
nation.  Bill Sale  The FTSE MIB erased losses after Italy completed an auction
of treasury bills. The government sold 6.75 billion euros ($9.4
billion) of bills in its first auction since borrowing costs
began soaring amid contagion from the Greek debt crisis. Demand
for the debt was 1.55 times the amount sold, compared with 1.71
times at a June auction.  Italy has more than 1.6 trillion euros of bonds
outstanding, the biggest obligation after the U.S. and Japan.
Lawmakers plan to balance the budget by 2014 and intend to push
40 billion euros of deficit-cutting measures though parliament.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, rose 3.5
percent to 1.58 euros after earlier slumping as much as 7.3
percent.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the country’s largest lender, climbed
5.1 percent to 1.21 euros, rebounding from an 8 percent decline.  Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA) , an insurer based in Turin, dropped 2.6
percent to 2.05 euros today, while  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , a toll
operator, lost 2.6 percent to 12.55 euros.
      STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest chipmaker, dropped
2.7 percent to 6.70 euros. Novellus Systems Inc., a maker of
machinery used in semiconductor production, forecast third-
quarter sales and profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  