-- 
Italy’s Etruria, Santander Pull Asset-Backed Bonds Amid Crisis

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-07-12T15:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/italy-s-etruria-santander-pull-asset-backed-bonds-as-greek-crisis-spreads.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s German
consumer-finance unit and Italy’s  Banca Popolare dell’Etruria e
del Lazio (PEL)  pulled asset-backed bond sales as the euro-region
crisis roiled markets.  Santander Consumer Bank AG delayed an issue of 573 million
euros ($802 million) of top-rated bonds backed by German  car
loans  because of volatile markets, according to a banker
involved in the deal. Arrezo, Italy-based Banca Etruria said it
pulled a sale of bonds backed by 466 million euros of
residential mortgages and that it’s keeping the notes itself.  A Madrid-based spokeswoman at Santander, who declined to be
identified citing bank policy, wouldn’t comment.  Santander and Banca Etruria halted the deals as the
sovereign debt crisis spread beyond  Greece  to infect Italy and
 Spain , sending yields on the nations’ 10-year bonds to euro-era
highs earlier today. European Union finance ministers resumed
meetings in an attempt to concoct a response to the bank stress
tests due to be published later this week.  Santander was offering the notes, to be issued through SC
Germany Auto 2011-1, at a yield of about 85 basis points more
than the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, two people
with knowledge of the deal said yesterday. Banca Etruria had
been planning to meet investors this week for its Mecenate Srl
issue, before deciding to pull the transaction in the hope of
selling the notes on in the future.  Santander’s issue was being managed by the subsidiary’s
investment banking arm together with Natixis and WestLB AG,
while Etruria’s deal was led by Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS
AG.  Italian 10-year bond yields rose above 6 percent for the
first time since 1997 today, before the notes rallied, while
Spanish yields surged to a record 6.31 percent and then fell
back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  