-- 
Italy Stocks Rebound From Two-Year Low as Government Sells Treasury Bills

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-12T16:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/italy-stocks-rebound-from-two-year-low-as-government-sells-treasury-bills.html
Italian stocks snapped six days of
losses, rebounding from a two-year low, as the government
completed an auction of treasury bills and Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he’s determined to tackle the financial crisis.  The  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  advanced 1.2 percent to 18,510.53 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Milan, after earlier plunging 4.8 percent.
The gauge has still retreated 9.8 percent since July 1. A
measure of financial stocks in the country snapped back from a
6.2 percent loss earlier today to finish 3.5 percent higher, led
by  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  Italian bonds rose on
speculation either the  European Central Bank  or an Asian central
bank bought the debt.  “Any sign that the selloff may have been unwarranted will
trigger this kind of rebound,” said Luis Benguerel, trader at
Intebrokers Espanola in Barcelona. “All eyes are still on Italy
so undoubtedly it will stay a volatile market.”  Italian stocks entered a  bear market  yesterday, defined as
losses of more than 20 percent from a previous high, as the
nation’s bond yields reached the highest in 10 years. Italy is
the third-most indebted nation in the world and home to three of
Europe’s seven most-traded equities. Greece, Ireland and
Portugal have already received European Union-led bailouts.  Berlusconi said today that his government and the
opposition will work to defend the nation. Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  left a meeting of European Union
finance ministers in Brussels early to return home to work on
passing his budget-cut plan in parliament.  EU Meeting  The ministers last night failed to agree on how to share
with creditors the cost of a second bailout for Greece. The
meeting didn’t discuss  Italy , though the ministers are aware the
country is now the “focus” of financial markets, Luxembourg’s
Jean-Claude Juncker said at a press conference late yesterday.  “We believe that Italy is being used as a liquid proxy on
a euro breakup view,” a team of strategists at Credit Suisse
Group AG led by  Andrew Garthwaite  in  London  wrote in a report
today. Italy has “big advantages” over other southern European
nations as it has low foreign debt, a primary budget surplus,
long debt maturity and lack of a housing-market “bubble.”  The government sold 6.75 billion euros ($9.4 billion) of
bills today in its first auction since borrowing costs began
soaring amid contagion from the Greek debt crisis. Demand for
the debt was 1.55 times the amount sold, compared with 1.71
times at a June auction.  Outstanding Debt  Italy has more than 1.6 trillion euros of bonds
outstanding, the biggest obligation after the U.S. and  Japan .
Lawmakers plan to balance the budget by 2014 and intend to push
40 billion euros of deficit-cutting measures though parliament.  Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy’s second-biggest bank, rose 3.3
percent to 1.58 euros after earlier slumping as much as 7.3
percent. UniCredit, the country’s largest lender, climbed 5.9
percent to 1.22 euros, rebounding from an 8 percent decline.
Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl jumped 7.3 percent to 1.54 euros.  Italian bonds rose, with yields on 10-year notes falling
below 6 percent after breaching that level for the first time
since 1997. Analysts and traders including John Davies, a fixed-
income strategist at WestLB AG in London, cited market rumors
that the ECB or Asian central banks were buyers of bonds today.  An ECB press officer declined to comment on whether it
bought bonds today.  The MSCI Italy Financials Index rose 3.5 percent to 32.13
today. The gauge plunged 18 percent in the previous six sessions
amid concern Italy is being dragged into Europe’s debt crisis.  Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA) , an insurer based in Turin, dropped 3
percent to 2.04 euros today, while  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , a toll
operator, lost 2.7 percent to 12.54 euros.
       STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s largest chipmaker, dropped
3.9 percent to 6.62 euros. Novellus Systems Inc., a maker of
machinery used in semiconductor production, forecast third-
quarter sales and profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  