-- 
Ivory Coast Says It’s Unable to Make Payments on External Debts This Year

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-12T16:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ivory-coast-says-its-unable-to-make-payments-on-external-debt-in-2011.html
Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest
cocoa producer, said it’s seeking “a complete reassessment” of
$2.3 billion of Eurobonds after ruling out payments this year
because of damage to the economy from post-election fighting.  Civil war broke out after November elections when former
President  Laurent Gbagbo  refused to cede power to the
internationally recognized winner,  Alassane Ouattara . The
impasse ended in April with Gbagbo’s capture. The government
owes holders of its Eurobonds interest payments totaling $58
million, after not paying coupons due in January and June.  “The severity of the shock to the economy in 2011 requires
a complete reassessment of Cote d’Ivoire’s payment capacity,”
Finance Minister Charles Koffi Diby said in a statement e-mailed
today by Lazard & Co., which is advising the West African
nation. The government “undertakes to resume contractual
payments to its bondholders beginning in 2012,” he said. Diby
declined to comment further when contacted by phone today.  The dollar-denominated notes due 2032 fell to their lowest
since April 4, the week before Gbagbo was captured by the
Ivorian Republican Forces militia in Abidjan, the commercial
capital. The bonds dropped 2.8 percent to 50.167 cents on the
dollar as of 5:02 p.m. in  London , according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg, extending declines from this year’s peak on May 11
to 15 percent.  ‘Significant Risk’  The government is taking “a significant risk of being cut
off from international capital markets or forced to borrow at
non-competitive rates,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-market
strategist at Standard Bank Plc in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note today. “It takes years to rebuild market confidence
following a default.”  The government expects the economy to contract 6.3 percent
this year after the political crisis disrupted business
activity, it said in a letter published on the International
Monetary Fund’s website yesterday.  The  Finance Ministry ’s statement “justifies their
position, but the fact is that every communique is along the
same lines, ‘We look to honor our obligations,’ but it keeps
getting further delayed,” James Croft, the head of emerging-
market fixed income at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities in London, said
by phone today. “Economically I think they can pay, but they
seem to be getting away with not paying.”  Ivory Coast will be advised by Lazard and Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP on the preparation of a detailed proposal
to its bondholders by the end of this year, Diby said. The
country plans to resume payments in the first half of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 