-- 
JPMorgan Leads in Chemical M&A as 2011 to Challenge Record

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-07-12T07:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/jpmorgan-leads-in-chemical-m-a-as-2011-may-be-record-correct-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  took the lead
in advising on chemical mergers and acquisitions in the first
half as 2011 shapes up to be a potential record beater for deals
in the $2.5 trillion industry.  The U.S. bank, which replaced last year’s winner  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , advised on five transactions valued at a combined
$19.14 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, based
on announced takeovers. Credit Suisse Group and  UBS AG (UBSN)  took the
No. 2 and No. 3 slots respectively, followed by Morgan Stanley.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $9.22 billion-acquisition of
lubricants maker Lubrizol is this year’s biggest deal in an
industry that’s drawing interest from buyout firms with renewed
access to credit as well as rivals. Cash holdings for the 167
companies in the Bloomberg World Chemicals Index swelled to
about $116 billion last year, an increase of 18 percent, as cost
cuts coincided with a global recovery.  “Momentum in the deal cycle is upwards,” said Bernd
Schneider, a consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Frankfurt,
who advises on chemical deals. “2011 will definitely be a great
year. It may even become a record year for M&A in chemicals.”  The pace will need to accelerate in the second half to beat
the existing $183 billion high of 2007, Bloomberg data shows. In
the latest deal to be announced, Lonza Group AG yesterday agreed
to buy Arch Chemicals Inc. for $1.2 billion.  JPMorgan’s tally includes working with  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  when
investor Cargill Inc. sold shares in the potash maker and
advising DuPont Co. on its takeover of food-additives company
Danisco. Among the highest fees published this year is the $26
million paid by Lubrizol to Citigroup Inc. and Evercore Partners
Inc. amid the approach by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway.  Strategics Lead  The first half saw $60.26 billion in announced deals, an
increase of 41 percent. The average transaction size rose
similarly, to $271.5 million.  The industry remains largely fragmented industry, Schneider
said. The Bloomberg World Chemicals Index has returned 47
percent in a year, double the return of the broader Bloomberg
World Index.  “Strategic buyers are taking the lead rather than
financial sponsors, reflective of a high level of CEO confidence
and the full recovery we have seen in share prices,” said  Peter Hall , a partner at chemical adviser Valence Group, which has six
deals under its belt in the first six months of 2011. “Based on
our pipeline, M&A activity in the sector is set to continue at a
high level for the coming months.”  Valence’s transactions include advising Bridgepoint Private
Equity Ltd.’s CABB on the purchase of KemFine from 3i Group Plc.
Other deals have involved  Tessenderlo Chemie NV (TESS) ’s disposal of
PVC plastic operations to Ineos.  Deal Diversity  “The diversity of these deals and the sectors in which
they are involved demonstrate that in the current environment,
even relatively ‘difficult’ businesses can be divested such is
the appetite amongst buyers,” Hall said. “We’ve managed to
deliver one of the first moves in many years in the much-talked-
about consolidation of the European PVC sector.”  Disposals have attracted interest from buyers around the
world, including China, and targets will get more expensive,
said Hall. Higher prices aren’t necessarily a deal breaker as
CEOs are increasingly considering the long-term strategic
benefit of buying an asset, with less weighting placed on the
short-term savings from integrating acquired assets, he said.  During the next 12 months, Hall said he expects to see an
increasing number of the emerging-market players, especially in
 China , gain the confidence to “pull the trigger” on
acquisitions, particularly where the target has world-leading
technology that can be applied in the domestic Chinese market.  Multiples  “The multiples they have in some instances paid must be
evaluated against a backdrop of there being no immediate synergy
- so they have demonstrated their willingness to pay a market
entry multiple,” Hall said.  Demand is coinciding with an expected increase in the
number of assets that are poised to be sold by private equity
firms, said Schneider.  “There are a lot of assets around held by private equity
for five years or more, some of them are overdue for an exit,”
consultant Schneider said. “Private equity investors need to
act now, and many assets are being prepared for a sale. Some
private equity investors seem to be under pressure to invest.
They are hungry for assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 