-- 
Kan Demands Cut in Nuclear Power, Debate on Who Runs Japan’s Atomic Plants

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-07-13T12:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/kan-says-japan-to-announce-overview-of-energy-plan-shortly.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  pledged to
reduce  Japan ’s reliance on nuclear power and called for debate
on whether private companies should be allowed to run atomic
plants in light of the Fukushima disaster.  “We should reduce nuclear dependency in a planned, step-
by-step manner,” Kan told reporters today in Tokyo. “We should
eventually create a society where we can do without atomic
energy.”  Opposition to nuclear power is rising in Japan four months
after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami crippled  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, sparking the
worst atomic accident in 25 years. The Asahi newspaper said
yesterday that 77 percent of respondents to a phone poll favor
phasing out nuclear energy, up from 74 percent last month.  “Most Japanese people support the idea of departing from
nuclear energy,” said Kazutaka Kirishima, an economics
professor at Josai University near  Tokyo . “If atomic power ends
in a couple of decades, nationalizing nuclear power operations
will become just a temporary, insignificant agenda item.”  Kan told lawmakers yesterday Japan should scrap its plan to
increase dependency on nuclear energy to 53 percent by 2030. The
government will draw up a blueprint for Japan’s future energy
policy “in the not too distant future” that will take into
consideration the time it will take to increase use of renewable
energy, he said.  Timetable ‘Premature’  Kan declined to comment on a timetable toward a nuclear-
free society, saying it’s premature.  “We need a lot of debates on this energy policy shift,”
he said. “I’ve outlined my basic stance on nuclear  power plants 
and nuclear energy. I want to more aggressively promote
renewable energy and energy savings.”  The catastrophe at the plant north of Tokyo displaced about
50,000 households after radiation leaked into the air, soil and
sea. Radiation emissions from the accident may exceed Chernobyl
in 1986, according to Tokyo Electric, which hasn’t released a
full account of the amount released.  The Fukushima disaster raises the question as to whether
nuclear power generation should remain in the hands of non-state
companies, Kan said in parliament.  State-controlled Electricite de  France  SA operates all of
France’s 58 nuclear reactors, which generate about 75 percent of
the nation’s power. All atomic power in  China  and  India  is
produced by government-owned companies.  Nationalizing Operations  Yoshito Sengoku, Japan’s deputy chief cabinet secretary,
may propose the government split up Tokyo Electric and
nationalize the company’s nuclear power operations, the Mainichi
newspaper reported July 3, citing an internal document drafted
by the official. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said the
next day he didn’t know anything about such a proposal.  The country’s 54 reactors, most of them owned by regional
utilities, accounted for about 28 percent of Japan’s electricity
output in the year ended March 2010, according to data on the
website of the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan.  About two-thirds of these reactors have been shut either by
the March 11 disaster or for maintenance, and the government
said this week the units must undergo stress tests before they
can be allowed to resume operations.  Kan yesterday described the proposed stress tests as an
“important step forward,” and said the final decision to start
reactors after the measures are completed will be taken by him
and the trade minister, chief cabinet secretary and minister for
nuclear  crisis management .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  