-- 
Kimberly-Clark Loses Appeal in Sterilization Patent Dispute With Multigate

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-07-12T00:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/kimberly-clark-loses-appeal-in-sterilization-patent-dispute-with-multigate.html
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of
Huggies diapers and Kleenex tissues, lost an Australian appeal
in a patent dispute over wraps used to sterilize instruments,
usually for surgery.  Kimberly-Clark sued closely held Multigate Medical Products
Ltd. in 2009, accusing the Yennora, Australia-based medical-
instruments maker of infringing on a patent on a system that
allows the double wrapping of instruments in a single step.
Multigate countersued, challenging the validity of Dallas-based
Kimberly-Clark’s patents.  A three-judge panel of the Federal Court of Australia in
Sydney upheld today a lower court judge’s decision that said
Kimberly-Clark had a valid patent and Multigate didn’t violate
it with its double-wrapping method. The reasons for the decision
weren’t immediately available from the court.  The wrap systems are used to sterilize instruments,
generally before surgery. Double-wrapping is recommended to
reduce tears and wetness that may compromise sterility. The
patented technique reduced the time it took to double-wrap
instruments by using inner and outer wrapping sheets that were
joined to complete the process in one step.  Australia  Federal Court Judge Margaret Stone  dismissed  the
lawsuits of both companies on Nov. 30, upholding the validity of
Kimberly-Clark’s patent and ruling Multigate’s use of a single
sheet, folded over to form two layers, was a different procedure
from the patent that was limited to two previously unconnected
sheets.  The case is Kimberly-Clark Australia Ltd. v Multigate
Medical Products Ltd. NSD1789/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  