-- 
Kobo to Introduce E-Books in Germany to Compete With Amazon’s Kindle

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-07-12T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/kobo-to-introduce-e-books-in-germany-to-compete-with-amazon.html
Kobo Inc., the digital book seller
owned by  Indigo Books & Music Inc. (IDG)  and  Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , will
begin offering e-books in Germany today as part of a push into
 Europe .  The online e-book store will offer 80,000 titles in German
and the Kobo e-reader will be sold in a major consumer
electronics retailer in the country by August, Chief Executive
Officer Michael Serbinis said yesterday in an interview. Online
stores offering e-books in local languages will follow in
France, Spain, the Netherlands and Italy this year, he said.  Kobo, based in Toronto, was created with international
expansion in mind and Europe is appealing because the adoption
rate of digital books is two years behind the U.S., Serbinis
said.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which released its Kindle e-reader in
2007, doesn’t have a dominant position in  Germany  like it does
in the U.S., he said. Amazon, which sells the most e-books in
the U.S., opened a German digital bookstore in April.  “We’re not coming in when someone has been in the market
for three years,” Serbinis said. “It’s a far greater
opportunity for us.”  Indigo, the Toronto-based bookstore chain, founded Kobo in
December 2009 when it spun off its e-book unit with investments
from entities including Borders, the second-largest U.S.
bookstore retailer, to take advantage of the growing digital
book market. Indigo owned 58 percent of Kobo as of April 2,
according to its annual report.  Kobo, which has 4.2 million users, also has an
international reading application that can be used in six
languages and downloads to devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and
iPhone. The company currently sells its e-reader at retailers in
the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  