-- 
Won Leads Drop in Asian Currencies on Euro Debt Contagion Woes

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-12T09:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/korean-won-leads-declines-in-asian-currencies-on-euro-debt-contagion-woes.html
South Korea ’s won and Malaysia’s
ringgit led a decline in Asian currencies as Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis engulfed Italy, the region’s biggest borrower,
sapping demand for emerging-market assets.  The won fell by the most in seven weeks and the ringgit
retreated to its lowest level in almost two weeks after warnings
by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  over Italy’s
ability to finance its debt. Overseas investors cut their
holdings of Korean stocks for the first time this month.  “It’s a wholesale flight to safety now,” said  Tim Condon ,
Singapore-based head of research for Asia at ING Groep NV.
“Risk assets are going to be sold off today. It’s going to be a
bad day for Asian equities, unless something changes. It’s going
to be a bad day for Asian currencies as well.”  The won depreciated 0.8 percent to 1,066.43 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit weakened 0.7 percent to 3.0328 and
 China ’s yuan declined 0.08 percent to 6.4722.  Euro-area countries may have to double their bailout fund
to 1.5 trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to provide support for
Italy, the  European Central Bank  said, according to German
newspaper Die Welt. The Financial Times cited unnamed senior
officials as saying that European leaders are prepared to accept
that Greece should default on some of its bonds.  Factory Slowdown  “It looks like the European debt crisis will spread more,
on top of the Greece crisis, which hasn’t been resolved yet,”
said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in
Seoul. “Concern about the Europe debt crisis is making
investors flee emerging markets to seek safer assets.”  The ringgit declined for a second day after a government
report yesterday showed industrial output in  Malaysia  slid 5.1
percent from a year earlier in May following a 2.2 percent drop
the previous month. That was steeper than the median estimate
for 2.7 percent in a Bloomberg poll of 15 economists.  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate
weaker for a second day, fixing it at 6.4748 per dollar. China’s
State Council may discuss the nation’s economic development
direction for the second half during a regular meeting tomorrow,
the National Business Daily reported today, without saying where
it got the information.  China’s economy  probably grew the least in almost two years
last quarter. The government is forecast to report tomorrow that
gross domestic product rose 9.3 percent from a year before,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, down
from 9.7 percent the previous quarter.  China Slowdown  Thailand’s baht fell 0.3 percent to 30.39 against the
dollar, declining for a second day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Sentiment for the emerging-market markets is weak due to
growing concerns over  Europe ’s debt problems,” said  Hideki
Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“China’s slowdown will add to weight on the regional
currencies. The baht is influenced mostly by external factors.”  The Indian rupee weakened 0.5 percent to 44.70 per dollar
after data showed today that India’s industrial production
growth unexpectedly slowed in May. Output at factories,
utilities and mines rose 5.6 percent from a year earlier
following a revised 5.8 percent gain in the previous month, the
 Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in New Delhi
today. The median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an 8.5 percent jump.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah decreased 0.4 percent to
8,570 against the greenback.  Singapore ’s dollar fell 0.5 percent
to S$1.2291, Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.5 percent to NT$28.998 and
the Philippine peso dropped 0.8 percent to 43.24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Chienmi Wong in Singapore at 
 2658cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  