-- 
N.J. Senate Democrats Fail to Reverse Christie Budget Vetoes

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-07-12T18:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/n-j-senate-democrats-fail-to-reverse-christie-budget-vetoes.html
New Jersey  Senate Democrats couldn’t
muster enough votes to reverse Governor  Chris Christie ’s $139
million cut in aid to cash-strapped cities.  Democrats who control both houses of the Legislature also
failed to overturn Christie’s cuts to funding for schools,
police and college-tuition assistance. Democrats had sought to
override 39 items cut by Christie, a first-term Republican,
before he signed a $29.7 billion budget for the fiscal year that
began July 1.  The cut to New Jersey’s so-called transitional-aid program
is a “credit negative” for distressed cities such as Camden
and  Newark  that have relied on state funding to balance their
budgets, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report yesterday.
Christie reduced funding to $10 million from $149 million.  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from West
Deptford, called the vote on 13 reductions after his party
failed to overturn 15 cuts yesterday. The party controls the
Senate 24-16, short of the two-thirds required to override a
veto. Republicans rejected the overrides.  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-Ridge who chairs
the Budget Committee, said Christie’s budget contains a $640
million rainy-day fund that should be tapped to cover some of
the restorations. Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said the
surplus was $365 million and draining it would put the state at
risk.  Christie, 48, used line-item vetoes to cut almost $1
billion from the $30.6 billion spending plan that passed the
Legislature along party lines. He also vetoed a separate bill
that would have raised income taxes on residents earning more
than $1 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  