-- 
HLN’s Casey Anthony Coverage Draws Most Viewers in 29 Years

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-12T20:58:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/hln-s-coverage-of-casey-anthony-trail-attracts-most-viewers-in-29-years.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HLN 24-hour news
channel drew its biggest audience since the network was founded
in 1982 with coverage of the Casey Anthony trial.  “June was the highest, most watched month in the history
of the network,” Scot Safon, HLN’s executive vice president and
general manager, said in an interview. “It’s really all due to
coverage of the trial of Casey Anthony. Not just court trial
coverage but also all the analysis.”  HLN had the most-watched program on  cable television  during
the week ended July 10, according to data provided by Nielsen
Co. Nine of the top 40 shows on cable last week aired on HLN,
Nielsen said.  Nancy Grace, an HLN host, first began covering the story in
June 2008 after Anthony reported her 2-year-old daughter Caylee
was missing. Police found the child’s body six months later. On
July 5, a Florida jury acquitted Anthony, 25, of murder and
convicted her of lying to investigators looking into the child’s
disappearance.  During build-up to the trial, other HLN hosts began talking
with legal commentators, psychologists and other experts about
different angles of the story, Safon said.  “The case was complicated and had a lot of angles around
it,” he said. “It was a significant mystery that turned into a
fairly important criminal case.”  ‘Major Initiative’  Special episodes of CBS’s “48 Hours Mystery” and ABC’s
“Primetime Nightline” on the Anthony case ranked among the 25
most-watched shows on the broadcast television during the same
week, according to Nielsen.  HLN plans to use the same strategy on the Anthony case for
covering the trial of Dr. Conrad Murray, Safon said. Murray, who
is accused of manslaughter in connection with the death of
 Michael Jackson , has pleaded not guilty. A trial is scheduled to
be held in  Los Angeles  in September.  “That will be a major initiative,” Safon said. “It’s not
just a trial story. We don’t approach it like that. We approach
it as a broader, deeper story.”  Time Warner, the New York-based media company that also
owns  CNN , fell 53 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $35.40 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  