-- 
NAB Tops Loan Arranger Ranks for First Time Since 2001: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-13T06:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/nab-tops-loan-arranger-ranks-for-first-time-since-2001-australia-credit.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  is
sitting at the top of the Australian loan arranger rankings for
the first time since 2001, with the market poised to expand as
companies refinance debt and borrow to fund expansion.  National Australia held an 18.6 percent share in the first
half as it helped arrange loans for  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,  Lend
Lease Group (LLC)  and  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the first time the Melbourne-based
bank has been No. 1 in any half-year period since 2001. It
displaced  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   Loans have exceeded non-financial corporate bond sales by
10 to one this year, even as  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd. were able to issue notes at lower rates
than the nation’s banks, Bloomberg data show. Australian
companies, which have as much as A$80 billion ($85 billion) of
debt to refinance in 2011, are planning A$139.5 billion of new
investment in the year ending June 2012 as a mining boom drives
the value of planned resources projects to a record.  “National  Australia  has been gaining market share across
multiple business lines,” said James Ellis, a Sydney-based bank
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It wants its return on
equity to improve and syndicated loan arranging is one way in
which wholesale and business banking can contribute.”  Return on Equity  Australian companies borrowed $23.7 billion in loans last
quarter, up 51 percent from $15.7 billion in the prior three-
month period, Bloomberg data show. The biggest loan was A$2.5
billion of seven-year project finance debt provided by 15 banks
to fund the construction of a hospital in  Adelaide .  National Australia, the smallest of the four major lenders
by market value, is the biggest lender to businesses, according
to data from the banking  regulator .  Its return on common equity was 12.2 percent in the half-
year to March 31, compared with  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s 19.4
percent and ANZ Bank’s 15.9 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ’s ROE was 17.1 percent in
the six months to Dec. 31, the data show.  National Australia’s lending to non-financial companies
reached A$100 billion in May, more than Westpac’s A$64.9
billion, Australian Prudential Regulation Authority figures
show. The bank joins 51 other lenders that have helped arrange
financing in the nation this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Business Investment  “There is no doubt the market remains competitive,”
Christine Yates, Sydney-based head of Australian debt markets
origination at National Australia, said. “We are seeing
established banks, both Australian and foreign, seeking to build
their balance sheet by offering large loan commitments to
Australian borrowers.”  Yates attributed National Australia’s climb in the loan
rankings to its “strong” relationships with customers, and
said the bank expects to see more companies seeking loans to
refinance debt after reporting financial results in August and
September.  Australian business investment rose in the three months
through March more than economists forecast, the third straight
quarterly increase, as growth of mining projects accelerated,
government data show. The value of minerals and energy projects
under development in the nation was A$173.5 billion as of April
30, up 31 percent from A$132.9 billion on Oct. 31, according to
the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and
Sciences.  Australian Dollar  The resources boom has pushed the Australian dollar, the
world’s fifth-most traded currency, up 20 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months.  The so-called Aussie traded at $1.0644 as of 4 p.m. in
Sydney and will buy $1.04 at the end of 2011, according to the
median forecast of 37 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. It
reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest level since exchange-rate
controls were scrapped in 1983.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has kept borrowing costs
unchanged at 4.75 percent for the past seven meetings as the
rising currency helps limit gains in inflation.  Australian government bond and inflation-indexed note
yields show investors expect consumer prices will rise an annual
2.82 percent for the next 10 years.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield rose 2 basis
points to 4.96 percent today, or 206 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries.  Facebook, Twitter  Australian home-loan approvals rose for a second straight
month in May as construction of new dwellings and demand from
investors increased, according to statistics bureau data
released July 11. The total value of loans increased 2.9 percent
to A$20.5 billion, the report showed.  National Australia Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne
increased mortgage lending by 15.8 percent in May from a year
earlier, more than double the overall 7.2 percent rate,
according to a Credit Suisse analysis of data released on June
30 by Australia’s bank regulator.  The lender started a national advertising campaign on Feb.
14 -- Valentine’s Day -- depicting the bank ending its
relationship with rivals and offering Commonwealth Bank and
Westpac clients A$700 to switch banks.  The campaign uses social media including Facebook and
Twitter, print advertisements and so-called ambush marketing,
such as tying to a street lamp an actor dressed as a banker
pleading with morning commuters to help him down after being
“ambushed” and hogtied by rival bankers furious at National
Australia for turning its back on the “club.”  “We picked a fight, we hoped other people would turn up,
and they did,” Clyne told investors in May. “We will continue
to punch.”  Clyne is winning business from rivals in “a lot of
areas,” said Credit Suisse’s Ellis. “A good performance in
syndicated loan arranging is consistent with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 