-- 
Netflix Boosts DVD-Streaming Prices by 60%

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-12T20:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/netflix-increases-prices-for-dvd-streaming-plans-by-60-.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and mail-
order movie rental company, raised prices by 60 percent for U.S.
subscribers who want both services, citing the costs to acquire
and deliver films and TV shows.  Netflix will no longer offer a $9.99 package of DVD-by-mail
and unlimited streaming, the company said in a statement today.
Instead, more than 23 million subscribers will pay $15.98
monthly beginning Sept. 1 if they choose both options, or $7.99
for just one.  The company introduced a DVD-only plan for $7.99 on July 8
for new subscribers and extended that to current customers to
reflect the costs of acquiring and delivering content digitally
and by mail,  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, said in an
interview. Many customers want the option of streaming-only or
DVD-only packages, he said.  “We wouldn’t have charged this when the streaming catalog
was still lean,” Swasey said. “The streaming catalog is robust
to the point where a lot of people won’t want DVDs anymore.”  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , needs to boost
revenue to raise funds for expansion and the acquisition of new
content,  Tony Wible , an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, said recently in an interview. He has a “sell” rating on
the shares.  Since 2007, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings has
increasingly focused on delivering movies and television shows
via the Web to televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices.  The company, after instituting a November price hike,
discovered subscribers still want DVDs by mail, according to a
 blog  posting. It is creating a separate unit, run by Andy Rendich, chief service and operating officer, to handle the
mail-order side of the business.  DVD Customers  “Given the long life we think DVDs by mail will have,
treating DVDs as a $2 add-on to our unlimited streaming plan
neither makes great financial sense nor satisfies people who
just want DVDs,” Netflix said in the posting.  The company plans to expand its streaming-only service to
all 43 countries and territories in  Latin America  and the
Caribbean later this year. As of March 31, 97 percent of its
customers were located in the U.S., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Netflix rose 53 cents to $291.27 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 66 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  