-- 
New York Investigating BofA’s $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Securitization Accord

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-13T14:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/new-york-attorney-general-seeks-data-on-bank-of-america-s-mortgage-accord.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion settlement over mortgage-securitization trusts is
being probed by New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who
is seeking client information from more than 20 companies.  Schneiderman’s office sent letters dated July 7 to the
companies, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and TCW Group Inc., regarding their participation in Bank of
America’s proposed deal. He is asking for the information by
tomorrow.  The information was requested in connection with an
investigation by the office “into certain matters related to
securitization of residential mortgages,” according to the
letters.  Investment managers were asked to identify clients
affiliated with New York state government entities and public
authorities, as well as nonprofit or charitable corporations
that invested in the 530 residential mortgage-securitization
trusts established from 2004 to 2008, according to copies of the
letters obtained by Bloomberg News.  The letters also request the total par amount and current
market value of all securities issued by the trusts covered in
the settlement agreement for each client that meets the
criteria.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , as trustee of the 530
trusts, filed a petition June 29 in state court in  Manhattan 
seeking approval of the settlement.  Investor Claims  Investors claimed that units of Countrywide Financial Corp.
failed to honor contracts, saying they needed to repurchase
loans that never matched their promised quality.  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired Countrywide in
2008.  The settlement was supported by a group of 22 bondholders,
including Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, both based in New York,
and Societe Generale SA’s TCW.  State Supreme Court Justice Barbara R. Kapnick set a
hearing on the settlement for Nov. 17.  Bank of New York Mellon is required to give notice of the
proposed deal to investors, mortgage companies, ratings
companies, bond insurers and underwriters.  Walnut Place LLC and a group of public pension funds have
sought to intervene in the deal. The public funds that asked to
intervene in the case include the Policemen’s Annuity & Benefit
Fund of  Chicago , the Westmoreland County Employee Retirement
System, City of Grand Rapids General Retirement System and City
of Grand Rapids Police and Fire Retirement System.  ‘Serious Doubts’  Walnut Place is suing Bank of America in a separate case,
seeking to force it to buy back loans.  Bank of New York Mellon, as a trustee and a party to the
deal, has conflicts of interest “that raise serious doubts
about its motives in negotiating the settlement,” Walnut Place
said in a court filing. Bank of New York Mellon negotiated an
indemnity from Bank of America that protects the trustee from
potential liabilities in excess of earlier agreements, Walnut
Place said.  Bank of  New York  Mellon filed a response July 11, taking no
position with respect to Walnut Place’s request to intervene
while saying that the court shouldn’t permit the investors to
make requests for discovery until hearing objections from other
parties. The trustee also asked that no other parties be allowed
to intervene in the case for now.  As for its alleged conflicts of interest, Bank of New York
Mellon said the governing agreements provided that the trustee
be indemnified.  ‘Nothing Improper’  “There is nothing improper about a trustee seeking
indemnification under these circumstances,” according to the
Bank of New York Mellon filing.  The institutional investors also responded July 11 to
Walnut Place’s motion to intervene, neither opposing nor
consenting to it. At the same time, the investors said Walnut
Place’s arguments are “flawed and false.”  “It defies all reason and common sense to suggest that 22
separate institutions -- each of which independently evaluated
and chose to support the settlement -- would set aside their own
financial interests to benefit Bank of America,” the investors
said in their filing.  “Equally implausible is the suggestion that the
institutional investors who act as fiduciary investment advisers
would abandon the interests of their pension fund, mutual fund
and individual investor clients in favor of Bank of America’s,”
the investors said.  Filing Today  In a court filing today, Walnut Place said many investors
have “serious concerns” that the 22 institutional investors
will not adequately protect smaller investors that were not at
the negotiating table.  “Indeed, the New York attorney general recently sent
letters to most of the 22 self-appointed investors expressing
similar concerns,” Walnut Place’s court papers said.  Walnut Place argued against a proposed order from the Bank
of New York Mellon to permit investors to intervene as
petitioners but not as respondents.  “It would be fundamentally unfair,” the court papers say,
“to permit those that agree with the proposed settlement to
have full rights as parties but to relegate those that disagree
with it to the second-class status of ‘objectors.”  On alleged conflicts of interest by the 22 institutional
investors, Walnut Place said that many have “deeply entrenched
relationships with Bank of America,” that the bank distributes
“hundreds of billions of dollars of new securities each year”
and that many of the 22 investors depend on preferential
treatment from Bank of America for access to the offerings.  Policemen’s Annuity  In a filing yesterday, the investors opposed the request by
the Policemen’s Annuity to intervene in the case, saying its
intervention would serve no purpose and wouldn’t be possible
under a court-ordered schedule.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, and
Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon, declined
to comment.  Lauren Passalacqua , a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined to comment yesterday. A BlackRock spokeswoman, Bobbie Collins, and  Ed Canaday , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment immediately. Peter Viles, a spokesman for TCW Group,
declined to comment.  Representatives of other companies that received letters
who declined to comment included Mary Athridge of Legg Mason
Inc., the parent of Western Asset Management Co.;  Eric Hardgrove 
of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.; Randall Whitestone of
Neuberger Berman Group LLC, the parent of Neuberger Berman
Europe Ltd.; John McCool of Teachers Insurance and Annuity
Association of America;  Bob DeFillippo  of Prudential Financial
Inc., the parent of Prudential Investment Management Inc.; and
Brett Weinberg of Thrivent Financial for Lutherans.  Tennyson Oyler of Pacific Investment Management Co. didn’t
return a call seeking comment yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York State  Supreme Court 
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  