-- 
New Jersey Defense Contractor Pleads Guilty to Violating Arms Export Act

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-07-12T21:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/new-jersey-defense-contractor-pleads-guilty-to-violating-arms-export-act.html
A  New Jersey  defense contractor
pleaded guilty to conspiring to violate the Arms Export Control
Act by sending drawings, specifications and sample gun parts to
a Chinese company without obtaining a U.S. license.  Swiss Technology Inc., a maker of parts and other
equipment, admitted today in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, that from 2004 until 2009 it contracted with the Defense
Department to manufacture parts of M4 and M16 rifles and M249
machine guns.  Swiss Tech admitted that it contracted with the Chinese
company to make the parts more cheaply than it would cost to
make them in the U.S.  The company, based in Clifton, New Jersey, failed to get
the required export license and told the Defense Department that
it had made the parts, the government said. Swiss Tech agreed to
pay $1.1 million in restitution for the Defense Department’s
losses through the fraudulent contracts.  “We simply can’t risk that companies trying to manufacture
military equipment on the cheap will expose our troops to more
danger than they already face,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said
in a statement.  The company was debarred from government contracts by the
Defense Department during the criminal investigation, said Swiss
Tech attorney  Michael S. Weinstein  of Cole, Schotz, Meisel,
Forman & Leonard in Hackensack, New Jersey.  Those Involved ‘Departed’  “The contracts were from many years ago during a time when
the company was quite financially challenged,” Weinstein said
in an interview. “The people involved have long since departed
the company.”  Swiss Tech, which once had 45 employees, now has fewer than
10 and “there’s a real question as to whether the company will
continue as a viable concern,” he said. “It’s likely that it
will not.”  While the case was investigated by the Defense Department
and the counterespionage section of the  Justice Department ’s
National Security Division, it did not result in an espionage or
national security charge.  The case is U.S. v. Swiss Technology Inc., 2:11-cr-00473,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  Editors:  Charles Carter ,Fred Strasser  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 