-- 
News Corp.’s Lost $7 Billion Shows Investor Concern Over Hacking Fallout

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-12T21:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/news-corp-s-lost-7-billion-shows-investor-concern-over-hacking-fallout.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s loss of $7 billion in
market value over four trading days shows investor concerns that
a probe into alleged phone hacking by journalists at one London
newspaper could have a broader impact on the company.  Rupert Murdoch’s New York-based media company fell 7.6
percent in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday, the biggest
drop since April 2009. It was the fourth straight decline in the
company’s closing price, cutting its market value by 15 percent.
The stock declined another 13 cents to $15.35 today, giving the
company a market capitalization of about $41 billion.  The slide is far out of proportion with the lost profits
from closing the News of the World tabloid or from delaying the
acquisition of the satellite-TV provider  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , said  David Bank , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York. Investors are concerned about the
scandal’s effect on other News Corp. holdings, which include the
Fox TV networks and film studios, the Wall Street Journal and
three other newspapers in the U.K.  “There’s a lot of noise out there,” said Bank, who rates
the stock “outperform” and doesn’t own any. “These headlines
cause massive swings in sentiment and stock price, leaving a
cloud of uncertainty about how deep the allegations go.”  Following the slump in its stock price, News Corp. today
almost tripled its share-repurchase program to $5 billion.  Lawmaker Hearing  (For a related story on Murdoch’s political influence,
click here. To read a story on the BSkyB review, click here.)  Murdoch and his son James, as well as News International
Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks were summoned today to
appear before U.K. lawmakers to answer questions about the
company paying police for stories.  The executives will be asked to attend the Culture, Media
and Sport Committee next week to speak about prior evidence
given to the committee, where executives had said News Corp.’s
U.K. newspaper unit News International had paid police. The
committee expects a response by July 14, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. Attendance is optional, though News Corp said
in a separate statement it will cooperate with the request.  ‘Reconsider’ Bid?  Yesterday, U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said he will
refer News Corp.’s proposed $12.4 billion BSkyB deal to the
country’s Competition Commission, which will spend at least six
months on a review. That will be followed by “intensive
discussions,” Hunt told lawmakers in London.  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg yesterday asked
Murdoch to “reconsider” the BSkyB offer following allegations
that News of the World tabloid hacked into voice mails of terror
and murder victims and paid police for stories. U.K.  Labour
Party  leader  Ed Miliband  told  BBC Television  the day before
Murdoch should drop his buyout bid.  “It will be hard for the government to approve the bid,
either now or at some point in the future,” said Ian Whittaker,
a London-based analyst at  Liberum Capital .  News Corp., which already owns 39 percent of BSkyB, wants
full control to gain access to the broadcaster’s increasing cash
flow. BSkyB may also help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspapers
more profitable by allowing him to bundle print and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over media platforms.  Plurality Test  BSkyB dropped 24 pence, or 3.3 percent, to 692 pence in
 London  today, valuing the broadcaster at 12.1 billion pounds
($19.3 billion).  In a statement yesterday, News Corp. said it still
anticipates it can win regulatory approval.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. may also face questions over other U.K.
businesses, said  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co. in
 Los Angeles . The company, which also publishes the Sun, the
Times and the Sunday Times, said yesterday it will investigate
whether its journalists broke the law to obtain the bank,
medical and legal records of former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown .  The Guardian reported that both the Sunday Times and the
Sun obtained files using techniques known as “blagging,” where
people impersonate someone over the phone in order to access
private information. The Sun obtained details of the private
medical files of Brown’s son Fraser, while someone working for
the Sunday Times acquired Brown’s legal records and tried to
gain access to bank statements, the Guardian said.  ‘Known Criminals’  “We note the allegations made today concerning the
reporting of matters relating to Gordon Brown,” News Corp.’s
News International unit said in an e-mailed statement. “So that
we can investigate these matters further, we ask that all
information concerning these allegations is provided to us.”  Brown said News Corp. used “known criminals” to access
personal information when his Labour Party was in power, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported today, citing an interview
with him. Brown urged the setting up of an inquiry which would
examine what he called abuses of power by Murdoch’s media
organization, the  BBC  said.  If the scandal spills over to other News Corp. newspapers,
the company may decide to sell the business, said Martin.  “The stock price is implying that News Corp. is going to
have to get out of the U.K.,” she said in an interview.  U.S. Complaint  In  Australia , where Murdoch began building his media empire
in the 1950s, Greens party leader  Bob Brown  called for an
inquiry into media intrusion and said a public watchdog should
be established following the closure of the News of the World.  News Corp. may also face legal expenses related to the
phone-hacking charges. Amalgamated Bank of  New York  filed an
amended complaint against the company that was made public
yesterday.  “These revelations should not have taken years to uncover
and stop,” the bank said in the amended lawsuit filed July 8.
“These revelations show a culture run amok within News Corp.
and a board that provides no effective review or oversight.”  Amalgamated, as a trustee for funds through which it holds
almost 1 million News Corp. shares, sued the directors on behalf
of the company in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington in
March. The bank accused Murdoch of nepotism in the purchase of
Shine Group Ltd., his daughter’s U.K.-based television
production company.  Question of James  Investors may also be concerned the hacking probe could
impede the ascension of Murdoch’s son, James, who has been
expected to eventually replace his 80-year-old father as chief
executive officer, according to Needham’s Martin.  “What the market is saying is that the succession of
Rupert by James is being brought into question,” said Martin,
who rates the stock “buy” and doesn’t own it.  James, 38, is deputy chief operating officer of News Corp.
and since 2007 has overseen News International, the unit of the
company that operates the U.K. newspapers.  In a note to employees to announce the closure of the News
of the World, the younger Murdoch said the company had misled
the British Parliament. During hearings in 2007 and 2009,
executives including Les Hinton, former News International
chairman, and Colin Myler, News of the World editor, said that
there was no evidence that more than one reporter had been
involved in phone hacking.  Money or Power?  “I now know that I did not have a complete picture when I
did so,” Murdoch said, referring to his approval of out-of-
court settlements to hacking victims, made in return for non-
disclosure agreements. “That was wrong and is a matter of
serious regret.”  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment.  Rupert Murdoch  may ultimately have to decide whether his
priority is political influence or financial gain, said Jeff Jarvis, director of the Tow-Knight Center for Entrepreneurial
Journalism at the  City University of New York Graduate School of
Journalism . While being in the news business garners power and
influence, shareholders don’t want it to hurt the more
profitable areas of the company, he said.  “I think it may be necessary for them to get out of the
news business to protect the rest of the company,” Jarvis said
in an interview. “Does money trump power? I think it does.
Right now, this news business is causing problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 