-- 
News Corp. Boosts Stock Buyback to $5 Billion Amid Probe

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-12T20:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/news-corp-plans-to-buy-back-5-billion-of-its-shares-over-next-12-months.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , whose stock has dropped
for four days amid a probe into alleged phone hacking by the
company’s U.K. journalists, almost tripled its stock-buyback
program to $5 billion.  The company plans to repurchase Class A and Class B shares
from time to time over the next 12 months, according to an e-
mailed statement today. News Corp. had $1.8 billion remaining
under a previous buyback program.  “This is a pretty big, pleasant surprise,”  David Bank , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television. “This is a very, very positive sign.”  News Corp. has lost $7 billion in market value over four
days amid investor concern that the probe into the alleged phone
hacking by journalists at the London-based News of the World
tabloid newspaper could have a broader impact on the company.  The allegations have prompted U.K. politicians from all
parties to call for New York-based News Corp. to scrap its
planned $12.4 billion purchase of the  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  shares it doesn’t already own.  Bank said he didn’t believe the repurchase plan would be
used in lieu of the BSkyB acquisition, and that it was instead a
way to utilize cash while the company waits several months for
U.K. regulators to rule on BSkyB.  “They’re going to generate a couple billion more of cash
while they’re waiting for BSkyB,” said Bank, who rates the
stock “outperform” and doesn’t own any.  Jack Horner , a News Corp. spokesman, declined to comment.  The company, controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , fell 13 cents to
$15.35 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after yesterday
recording its biggest drop since April 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  