-- 
Nigerian Stocks Head for Nine-Month Low as Europe Concern Curbs Demand

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-07-12T14:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/nigerian-stocks-head-for-nine-month-low-as-europe-concern-curbs-demand.html
Nigerian stocks headed for a nine-
month low as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread curbed
demand for frontier-market assets and on speculation the
country’s banks won’t meet a recapitalization deadline.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index 0.8 percent to
23,981.84 by 2:29 p.m. in Lagos. A close at this level would be
the weakest since Oct. 8. Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, the third-
biggest lender, dropped 5 percent to 14.2 naira, the lowest
since Dec. 24.  Nine hours of talks yesterday by European finance chiefs
resulted in a six-paragraph statement in which the 17 euro
governments pledged to flesh out a new master plan “shortly”
to end the 21-month-old crisis, without setting a timeline. The
meetings resumed today with all 27 European Union finance
ministers planning a response to the release of bank stress
tests later this week.  “Confidence in the equity market is still low, not just in
 Nigeria  but globally,” Esili Eigbe, a Lagos-based analyst with
Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, said by phone today. “Investors want to
see improvements in the global economy before they can invest.”  The Central Bank of Nigeria has given the eight banks it
bailed out in 2009 until Sept. 30 to recapitalize or risk being
liquidated or nationalized. Nigeria’s central bank fired eight
of the country’s 24 chief executives after a debt crisis
threatened the industry with a collapse, and bailed out the
lenders with 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion).  “People are still skeptical over Nigeria’s banking
reforms, including the deadlines for the rescued banks,” he
said.  The lenders bailed out by the central bank are  Oceanic Bank
International Plc (OCEANIC) , Union Bank of Nigeria Plc,  Intercontinental
Bank Plc (INTERCON) , and  Bank PHB Plc. (PLATINUM)  Others are Afribank Plc,  Finbank
Plc (FIRSTINL) , Equitorial Trust Bank Ltd. and  Spring Bank Plc. (SPRINGBK)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 