-- 
No ‘Immaculate Solution’ to European Sovereign-Debt Crisis, El-Erian Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-12T16:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/no-immaculate-solution-for-europe-debt-crisis-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
European policy makers need to
quickly address the worsening sovereign-debt crisis in  Greece ,
Italy and Spain before it becomes a greater threat to the euro-
zone’s integrity, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  “They’re looking for an immaculate solution,” El-Erian,
chief executive and co-chief investment officer at the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“There are no immaculate solutions. You have to work hard at
getting this right, and you have to address two very distinct
issues: very high debt stocks and an inability to grow.”  Italian and Spanish sovereign bonds are trading like junk-
rated debt amid faltering efforts by European Union finance
ministers to contain the debt crisis to the three already-bailed
out nations.  Italy ’s 10-year borrowing costs surged to 6.02
percent today, the highest since the introduction of the euro,
while Spanish notes exceeded 6 percent for a second day since
they last breached that level in November 1997. Both reversed
losses on speculation the  European Central Bank  bought the debt
to stem the decline.  The slowness of the response to the Greek debt crisis, and
the inability to resolve the problem since the initial attempt
by policy makers with a almost $1 trillion program of bond
purchases in May 2010, has allowed problems to fester and expand
in a region where economies are tightly linked, El-Erian said.  Contagion Risk  The big danger is that “a deterioration in Italy gets
translated into contagion to  Spain  and suddenly a peripheral
debt crisis is much, much bigger and threatens the integrity of
the eurozone,” El-Erian said. “That’s why it’s so critical for
the Italians and the Europeans to move quickly.”  The 27 EU finance ministers continued meetings today after
euro-region officials said late yesterday that they may revive
bond buybacks to ease Greece’s debt woes. An ECB press officer
declined to comment on whether it bought so-called peripheral
euro-region bonds today.  The global economy needs policy makers in two of three
major economies, the U.S., Europe and  China , to produce “grand
bargains” to spur growth and generate a sustainable period of
expansion, El-Erian said.  The U.S. must realize that not addressing its structural
problems is impeding growth,  Europe  needs to improve the
effectiveness of its policies and China needs to “unleash the
consumer,” El-Erian said.  Lacking Leadership  “So far we are not seeing the sort of leadership that’s
required to deliver these bargains,” El-Erian said. “As long
as that’s lacking, the global economy’s going to hobble along
and we’re going to have these isolated crises.”  The status of the U.S. as the center of the global
financial system is also being threatened as President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress struggle to reach an agreement
to increase the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by the Aug. 2
deadline when the U.S. runs out of the ability to borrow, El-
Erian said.  “The U.S. is at the core of the global system,” El-Erian
said. “We have to maintain a triple-A standing to stay at the
core of the system. When other countries start seeing these
debates on the debt issue, start seeing growth stagnate, start
seeing unemployment remain stubbornly high, they get concerned
because they have outsourced to us the reserve currency status
and they have outsourced financial intermediation.”  Recent data has suggested the pace of growth is slower than
policy makers and most economists have forecast, El-Erian said.
With the trade deficit in the U.S. unexpectedly widening in May
to $50.2 billion, the highest level in almost three years,
“you’re going to have people scrambling to revise downward
second quarter” growth forecasts, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  