-- 
Nortel, Gilead, Gateway Gaming, Drug Patent: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-12T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/nortel-gilead-gateway-gaming-drug-patent-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
their partners won court permission to buy the patent portfolio
of Nortel Networks Corp. for $4.5 billion. The group outbid
Google Inc. in the biggest patent auction in history, covering
more than 6,000 patents and applications related to wireless and
Internet technology.  In a joint hearing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in
Wilmington, Delaware, and Ontario Superior Court Judge Geoffrey
Morawetz in Toronto approved the sale after the last minor
objection to the sale was resolved.  “This truly is a ‘wow’ transaction,” said David H.
Botter, an attorney for the main committee of Nortel’s unsecured
U.S. creditors.  After Nortel filed for bankruptcy in 2009, it began selling
its businesses, raising about $3 billion before the June patent
auction. The patent portfolio was the last major asset Nortel
had to sell and will boost creditor recoveries.  The winning group includes competitors-turned-partners of
Apple, such as Microsoft,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., Nortel said in a statement. Those
companies bid under the name Rockstar Bidco LP.  The auction, held June 27 to June 30, involved 19 rounds of
bidding and began with an opening bid from  Intel Corp. (INTC) , company
attorney Lisa Schweitzer said in court. Before the auction,
Google signed a contract to be the so-called stalking-horse
bidder with a guaranteed offer of $900 million.  That offer, which entitles the Internet search company to a
breakup fee of $25 million plus expenses, was exceeded by Intel
when the auction started and then followed by more offers, some
in writing, some made orally, Schweitzer said.  Three companies and two groups competed in the first round
of bidding: Apple, Google, Intel, the initial Rockstar group
that didn’t include Apple, and Norpax LLC, a group led by
patent-buying company RPX Corp., according to court records
filed in Toronto.  The minimum increase in the bids rose from $5 million to
$100 million after the second round of bids. After five rounds
of bidding, Apple joined Microsoft as part of the Rockstar bid
and Intel dropped out, according to Canadian court records.  Google and Intel joined forces after eight rounds of
bidding and together stayed in the auction until the 19th round,
which was won by the Rockstar group.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  India, China Able to Win Drug Patent Flexibility, Minister Says  Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa acting as a
group are better able to obtain flexibility in patent
enforcement so that poorer countries have more access to
treatments for AIDS, malaria and other diseases, said India’s
health minister.  “There are countries that would like patents to stay for
decades and decades, meaning the poor will have no access to
these medicines,” India’s Minister of Health and Family Welfare
Ghulam Nabi Azad said in an interview in Beijing yesterday.
“But there are some flexibilities when there is an acute public
health requirement. We want those flexibilities to be there in
case of new drug innovations.”  Azad was in the Chinese capital for a meeting of health
ministers from the so-called BRICS grouping of nations, which
today issued a statement supporting “innovative mechanisms”
for transferring intellectual property rights so that cheaper
drugs can be supplied to low and middle income countries.
Yesterday’s gathering was the first by the five health
ministers, who said they may meet again in September.  China said last month it may seek compulsory licensing for
an AIDS drug made by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  Compulsory licensing
is when a government allows someone else to produce a patented
product without the consent of the patent owner, according to
the World Trade Organization. It is one of the flexibilities
allowed under WTO rules that took effect in 1995.  Under compulsory licensing, the generic copy of a drug is
mainly produced for the domestic market and not for export,
according to the WTO.  “We should be able to have a more flexible method, so hi-
tech developments in more developed countries can be made
available to lower income countries,” Tatyana Golikova,
Russia’s health and social development minister, said at a
briefing held after the meeting.  The ministers, in their joint statement, said they had
agreed to establish a working group to discuss specific
proposals for a possible patent transfer mechanism.  In addition to India’s Azad and Russia’s Golikova, the
meeting was also attended by China’s Chen Zhu, Brazil’s
Alexandre Padilha and South Africa’s Aaron Motsoaledi. World
Health Organization Director General Margaret Chan and Michel
Sidibé, executive director of the United Nations’ UNAIDS
program, also attended.  Apple Files Second Trade Complaint Against HTC Over Devices  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a second patent-infringement complaint
against  HTC Corp. (2498)  at the U.S. International Trade Commission,
seeking to block imports of “personal electronic devices” by
the Taiwanese phonemaker.  The complaint, which wasn’t immediately available for
viewing, was filed July 8, according to a  notice  posted
yesterday on the ITC’s website. The notice didn’t elaborate on
the nature of the complaint.  Apple has been using the trade commission, which completes
investigations in 15 to 18 months and has the power to keep
products out of the U.S. market, to pursue makers of mobile
devices that run Google Inc.’s Android operating system. The
complaint is the second lodged by Apple against HTC in the past
16 months and comes a week after the filing of a patent case
against Samsung Electronics Co.  “HTC is dismayed that Apple has resorted to competition in
the courts rather than the marketplace,” said Grace Lei, HTC’s
general counsel. “HTC continues to vehemently deny all of
Apple’s past and present claims against it and will continue to
protect and defend its own intellectual property as it has
already done this year.”  Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC agreed last week to buy S3
Graphics Co. for $300 million after the maker of video-game
graphics chips won an infringement ruling at the trade agency
against Cupertino, California-based Apple. HTC also has its own
patent complaint against Apple at the commission, with findings
scheduled to be released Sept. 16.  A trade commission judge is scheduled to issue a decision
in Apple’s first case against HTC on Aug. 5. Those findings are
subject to review by the full commission.  Apple, which has accused competitors of “widespread
imitation,” also has patent battles at the trade agency with
Samsung Electronics and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., both
makers of Android-based phones. The Samsung complaint targets
both the Galaxy phone and Galaxy tablet computer.  In March, HTC released its first tablet device in the U.S.
to rival Apple’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab. The device,
called Flyer, has a 7-inch screen and uses Android, while its
second tablet, called EVO View 4G, offers faster connections
over  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s fourth-generation network.  Android is the most popular mobile-device operating system
in the U.S., accounting for 38 percent of the market in the
three months ended in May, according to Reston, Virginia-based
researcher ComScore Inc. Apple’s iOS, used in the iPad and
iPhone, made up 27 percent of the market.  HTC on July 6 reported sales and net income that surpassed
analyst expectations for the second-quarter, ending June 30,
after it released models with faster download speeds and better
displays. Both HTC and Apple more than doubled revenue from
mobile phones in the March quarter from a year earlier as they
race to offer their products in more markets globally.  Seeking to expand its patent portfolio, HTC said in April
it paid $75 million for wireless communications patents from ADC
Telecommunications Inc. According to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s database, 171 patents have been assigned to
HTC.  Apple, once best known for its Mac computers, now relies on
its iPhone for about 50 percent of sales and the iPad tablet for
12 percent, according to first-quarter figures compiled by
Bloomberg.  The commission issued a notice yesterday seeking
information on any public issues raised by the complaint. Such
requests have become standard, to allow the agency to determine
if an exclusion order should be granted, should Apple win the
case.  The new complaint  is In the Matter of Portable Electronic
Devices and Related Software, Complaint No. 2828, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). Apple’s earlier
case against HTC is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, and the HTC
case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable Electronic
Devices, 337-721, both ITC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Celgene Sued by Research Chemical Maker Over Trademark Claims  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , a maker of anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory
drugs, was sued by a Massachusetts company that provides
chemicals to researchers.  According to the complaint filed July 8 in federal court in
Boston, PKC Pharmaceuticals Inc. is seeking a court declaration
that it doesn’t infringe Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene’s
Revlimid trademarks.  PKC, based in Woburn, Massachusetts, makes and sells
chemical compounds for use in non-human and preclinical
pharmaceutical research. The company said in its court papers it
doesn’t sell drug products or drug substances, and that the
chemical compounds it produces aren’t intended for human
consumption.  Under the guidelines of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, companies such as PKC don’t have to manufacture
compounds to the same stringent standards required of those who
make drugs for human consumption, according to court papers.  PKC says it strictly controls sales of its compounds to
ensure they are used only for research and not for human
subjects. The company’s catalog contains a broad range of
information about the compounds, including which drug products
contain the substance with the same chemical structure as the
research compounds it sells.  One of the compounds LC sells is lenalidomide powder. In
its catalog, PKC lists the names of the FDA-approved drug
products that contain lenalidomide as an active ingredient, the
company said in court papers.  On March 28 Celgene sued LC in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, alleging the chemical company was infringing its
trademark.  In that complaint, Celgene warned that the company’s
sale of lenalidomide powder was unauthorized, infringed the
Revlimid trademarks and that its sale of the product “could
result in serious health consequences for consumers and could
have catastrophic effects.”  That case is Celgene Corp. v. PKC Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
2:11-cv-01697-WJM-MF, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  PKC said its listing the Revlimid name in the catalog is
“in keeping with its practices for the other research compounds
it sells,” and is “a common industry practice.”  It asked the court to declare it’s not infringing the
Revlimid marks, and to order Celgene to quit asserting that PKC
does infringe. It also seeks an award of attorney fees.  The company is represented by  Ieuan G. Mahoney ,  Elizabeth
R. Burkhard  and  Rory Foster  of New York’s Holland & Knight LLP.  The case is PKC Pharmaceuticals Inc., v. Celgene Corp.,
1:11-cv-11211-WGY, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts.  Casey Anthony’s Parents’ Lawyers Seeks ‘Caylee Anthony’ Mark  Mark R. Lippman , the lawyer who represented the parents of
Casey Anthony, has filed an application with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to register the name of Anthony’s murdered
daughter as a trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Lippman’s application to register “Caylee Anthony” as
a trademark was filed May 11. He said in his filing that he
wants to use the mark on T-shirts.  Casey Anthony was acquitted July 5 of murdering her
daughter. Lippman, of the  Lippman Law Offices PA  of Orlando,
Florida, said Anthony has refused all contact with her parents
following the verdict, the International Business Times
 reported .  Russian Newspaper Distributors Turn Back Trademark Challenge  The Los Angeles-based publishers of a Russian-language
newspaper has defeated a trademark-infringement case brought by
the publisher of a similarly named newspaper in New York.  Oleg Pogrebnoy sued the Russian Newspaper Distributors
Inc., in federal court in Los Angeles in November 2010, claiming
he was the rightful owner of the name of the newspaper. The
name, written in the Cyrillic alphabet, is translated as
“Kurier” in English. He also sought cancellation of the
publishers’ Cyrillic-alphabet “Kurier” trademark.  U.S. District Judge Percy Anderson, in a June 28 order,
said Pogrebnoy failed to prove he’d ever owned the Kurier name.  Pogrebnoy hadn’t provided an explanation for the absence of
the written agreement “or any facts concerning his efforts to
locate a copy of the agreement, which he claimed in his
deposition was at his parents’ house” in the Ukraine, Judge
Anderson said in his order dismissing the case on a motion from
Russian Newspaper Distributors  The judge ordered that Pogrebnoy pay Russian Newspaper
Distributors’ attorney fees.  The case is Oleb Pogrebnoy v. Russian Newspaper
Distribution, 2:10-cv-08532-PA, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Gateway Gaming Claims Slot-Machine Game Copyrights Infringed  Gateway Gaming LLC  of Piedmont, South Carolina, a creator
of games for casino slot machines, sued a Texas-based competitor
for copyright infringement.  Game Systems Inc. , of Sansom Park, Texas, is accused of
marketing and selling games that infringe Gateway’s copyrights
on its “Lucky Duck,” “Mother-in-Law,” “Stars and Stripes,”
“Mayan Lost City,” “Texas Gold” and “Cool 7’s” games.  Gateway said it began employing its games in 2007, and that
Game Systems is marketing and selling infringing games “Bucks
Ducks,” “Jennie in the Bottle,” “All America,” “Mayan
Gold,” “Wild Cat Gold” and “Arctic 7’s.”  The allegedly infringing games contain copies of the icons,
graphics, images and screens covered by Gateway’s copyrights,
the company said in its pleadings. These have been deliberately
copied without permission, the company said.  Gateway asked the court for both temporary and permanent
orders barring the sale and distribution of the infringing
products. Additionally, it seeks money damages, and extra
damages to punish Game Systems for its actions.  The company also asked for an order for destruction of all
infringing products and for awards of profits derived from the
alleged infringement, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Game Systems didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Gateway is represented by  Neil C. Jones  and  Nichole
Andrighetti  of  Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP  of
Columbia, South Carolina, and  Wesley Hill  of the  Ward & Smith
Law Firm  of Longview, Texas.  The case is Gateway Gaming LLC v. Game Systems Inc., 4:11-
cv-00432-RAS-DDB, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Sherman).  Infringement Claims Providing Rioters’ Identification to Police  Making copyright-infringement claims against those who
posted videos of the riots in Vancouver following the Vancouver
Canucks loss of the final game in the Stanley Cup playoffs has
backfired against the claimants, the CKNW radio station  said on
its website .  Dave Texeira who uploaded a video of a man being hit in the
crotch by a police stun gun grenade said the man in the video
claimed copyright infringement and demanded that  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube video-sharing site remove it, according to CKNW.  He told CKNW that the copyright complaint contains
identifying information about the man in the video, and that he
plans to turn it over to the police.  Texeira created a website to help identify the rioters, and
said that YouTube had been taking down some of his videos of the
riots following infringement claims by people who appeared in
them, CKNW reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 