-- 
Northrop Claim to Save $600 Million in Shipyard Sale Is Questioned by U.S.

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-07-12T18:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/northrop-claim-to-save-600-million-in-shipyard-sale-is-questioned-by-u-s-.html
The Pentagon’s audit agency has
concluded it can’t verify  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s assertion
that divesting its shipbuilding business and shutting one of its
three yards will save the U.S. as much as $600 million.  The Defense Contract Audit Agency in a Feb. 1 audit also
concluded that Northrop’s claim for $310 million in federal
reimbursement to close the Avondale,  Louisiana  shipyard is
“unsupported,” according to a summary.  The Navy has not previously disclosed the audit. Its
summary is referenced in an appendix of the Pentagon Inspector
General’s new semi-annual report.  “Ninety-two percent of the claimed shutdown costs were
unsupported because the contractor could not provide sufficient
evidence of its underlying assumptions,” said Navy Commander
Kathleen Kesler, an agency spokeswoman, in an e-mail. “Because
these assumptions are integral to the savings computations, the
resulting savings calculation could not be adequately
evaluated.”  About $23 million of the $310 million is related to
proposed labor, severance pay, incentive bonuses and relocation
expenses, the audit said. The remainder of the proposed
reimbursement was not identified in the audit summary.  The Navy and the Northrop spinoff company that inherited
the claim, Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. of  Newport News ,
 Virginia , are negotiating the savings and reimbursable costs
from the planned Avondale closure, according to the company and
the Navy.  Huntington and the Navy have not reached agreement on the
“allowability of proposed restructure costs,” Navy spokeswoman
Captain Catherine Mueller said in an e-mail.  Negotiation Process  “We are working with the Navy and DCAA on the specifics of
the restructuring proposal,” William Glenn, a spokesman for
Huntington, said in an e-mail. “The cost estimates submitted as
well as the savings projections will be further supported
through the negotiation process.”  The Navy’s Mueller and Huntington’s Glenn said the company
is following Pentagon’s acquisition rules in applying for
reimbursement of the shutdown costs.  Huntington, which had 2010 sales of $6.7 billion, became a
separate company in March when Northrop Grumman spun off its
shipbuilding unit.  Former parent company Northrop and Huntington, the sole
builder of U.S. nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, have said the
Avondale yard would be shut when work on two Navy amphibious
ships is completed there in 2013.  Huntington operates two other yards. One is in its home
city and the other at Pascagoula,  Mississippi .  Keeping Avondale  In a recent interview Michael Petters, Huntington’s chief
executive officer, said the company was seeking alternatives to
closing Avondale.  While the “plan is to finish work and close the facility”
at Avondale, “I’m open to alternatives to that,” Petters said
in an interview at his  Washington  office. Petters said he was
“working very hard” to find partners and closing the plant is
“the least desired outcome.”  Avondale, with 4,800 workers, is the largest private
employer in Louisiana, according to Huntington.  In July 2010, when Huntington’s former parent company
Northrop announced its shutdown plan, Republican governor Bobby Jindal said he would work to find alternative uses for the site.  The 268-acre Avondale site, about 10 miles upriver from  New
Orleans , would be suitable for “heavy manufacturing, whether in
energy or in marine” applications, Petters said.  The Louisiana Economic Development office has hired
Chicago-based consulting firm A.T. Kearney Inc. to study
Avondale’s capabilities and identify possible uses including
other shipbuilding work and manufacturing industries that may
use the yard, agency secretary Stephen Moret said in an e-mail.  Huntington fell 36 cents or 1 percent, to $34.48 at 1:23
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today
the shares have declined 16 percent since the spinoff on March
31.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net 
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  