-- 
North Sea Forties Crude Oil Cargo Deferred to August From July

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-07-12T11:23:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/north-sea-forties-crude-oil-cargo-deferred-to-august-from-july.html
One cargo of North Sea Forties crude
was deferred to August from July, raising shipments for next
month to 17 lots, according to a revised loading schedule
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The deferred consignment, the first for this month, is for
parcel number F0714 and will now load on Aug. 4 to Aug. 6, the
plan showed.  The revised July program comprises of 22 cargoes of 600,000
barrels, compared with the original plan of 18. In the past
month, four shipments were deferred to this month from June, two
cargoes were added and one lot was dropped.  Output from the 200,000-barrel-a-day Buzzard platforms, the
biggest stream in the Forties blend, has been less than normal
in the past two months because of maintenance and technical
issues, according to  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , operator of the field.  “Buzzard has been operating at reduced and variable rates
as we undergo maintenance work on the cooling system, commission
the fourth platform and manage production due to maintenance on
related third-party facilities,” Pierre Alvarez, a Calgary-
based spokesman for Nexen, said in an e-mail July 4.  The additional cargo will boost Forties shipments in August
to 329,032 barrels a day, making it a two-year low rather than
the least in four years earlier, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on loading programs.  Forties is one of four North Sea crude grades used to price
Dated Brent, the benchmark for more than half of global oil. The
other blends are Brent, Ekofisk and Oseberg.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  