-- 
NYSE Euronext Stock-Index Fault Gives Exchange Fourth Breakdown in a Month

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-07-12T12:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/nyse-euronext-stock-index-fault-gives-exchange-fourth-breakdown-in-a-month.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  suffered its fourth
technical malfunction in less than a month as the prices of its
benchmark equity indexes in  France ,  Belgium ,  Portugal  and the
Netherlands were disrupted for 3 1/2 hours.  The AEX Index in Amsterdam, France’s CAC 40, Belgium’s BEL
20 and Portugal’s PSI-20 stopped updating at 9:56 a.m. Paris
time and resumed at 1:35 p.m., the exchange said on its website
today. Trading in individual stocks was unaffected, Caroline Tourrier, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext in Paris, said. She
blamed the hiatus on an unspecified “technical incident.”  Trading in CAC 40 stocks was halted for more than 45
minutes by a systems malfunction on June 27. The previous week,
two separate incidents delayed the start of trading by an hour
in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Luxembourg and Lisbon and halted
transactions in the largest Dutch and Belgian stocks.  “People only notice when you are unreliable,” said Steve
Grob, London-based director of group strategy at Fidessa Group
Plc, a developer of financial software. “They need to watch
out. People are now comfortable trading on alternative venues.
If you drove up to your supermarket four times a month and found
it shut you would go to another. To be fair, Euronext do operate
multiple venues with a lot of trading and they are reliable in
generable.”  Deutsche Boerse  Merger  The glitch comes as NYSE Euronext seeks to combine with
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  to form the world’s largest exchange
operator. NYSE Euronext has cited improving computer systems as
a goal of its acquisition by Deutsche Boerse, which it announced
in February.  The exchanges are merging as competing venues including
Bats Global Markets Inc. and Chi-X Europe Ltd. have entered the
region and wrested market share from traditional exchanges.  Last month Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext said their
cost savings will come from technology, clearing and combining
corporate functions and market operations. The combined exchange
should save more than 51 million euros ($71 million) by having
common trading and clearing infrastructure, combining networks
and “eliminating overlapping IT functions,” they said in a
presentation to shareholders.  The two companies said they plan a “further refinement of
corporate functions,” and a “central European market
operations hub for cash, derivatives and clearing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  