-- 
Obama’s Smorgasbord Is Missing a Few Main Courses: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-07-12T23:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/obama-s-smorgasbord-is-missing-a-few-main-courses-caroline-baum.html
Want to keep abreast of the status
of debt-limit talks between President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders from both parties? These three quotes tell
you all you need to know:  “We’re not for increasing revenue.” -- House Majority
Leader Eric Cantor, July 6  “No benefit cuts in Medicare and Social Security.” -- House
Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , July 8  “Everything is on the table.” -- President Obama, July 7  There you have it. Everything is on the table -- except
revenue raisers, which is not synonymous with tax increases, and
changes in entitlement benefits, the source of the U.S.’s long-
term deficit problem. No wonder the talks are meandering toward
the Aug. 2 drop-dead date for raising the debt limit.  While Cantor and Pelosi are substituting politics for
policy, their short-sightedness should be obvious to open-minded
folks of all political persuasions.  Why wouldn’t everyone want increased revenue, especially if
it’s the result of stronger economic growth? The U.S. suffers
from a  tax revenue , not  tax rate , problem.  It would be one thing if Cantor were protesting an increase
in revenue as a share of gross domestic product, which has
averaged 18 percent over the past 60 years. It seems to matter
very little whether the top marginal  tax rate  in the U.S. is 91
percent (1950s), 70 percent (1970s) or 39.6 percent (1990s).
Uncle Sam’s share stays pretty much the same. Which makes you
wonder why the federal government can’t grasp the concept and
give up trying to confiscate additional revenue by fiddling with
marginal rates.  Bigger Slice  The 2007-2009 recession and its aftermath were particularly
punishing to government coffers. In fiscal years 2009 and 2010,
revenue as a share of GDP plummeted to a 60-year low of 14.9
percent.  Cantor isn’t talking about revenue as a share of GDP. He
wants any trade-off -- the elimination of behavior-distorting
tax preferences in exchange for lower rates across the board --
to be revenue, or dollar, neutral.  The last I heard, the party of Reagan was still interested
in increasing the size of the pie so that the government’s
relatively static share of GDP produced more dollars. That
should be the goal of tax reform or any  deficit-reduction 
initiative.  Tweak and Save  Loopholes and preferences distort incentives. Big
corporations have huge tax-accounting departments working to
minimize their tax liability. Imagine if these bright folks were
freed of the daily drudgery of devising ways to shift income and
avoid taxes and encouraged instead to find ways to innovate and
produce. Higher unemployment for lawyers and accountants in the
short run is a small price to pay for long-term economic
efficiency.  As far as Pelosi is concerned, there can be no change to
Social Security or Medicare benefits. That rules out any tweak
to the calculation of those benefits, which Obama has added to
his smorgasbord of options.  Many federal benefits are adjusted annually for cost-of-
living increases. If inflation is rising at 3 percent, retirees
are insulated from higher prices by bigger benefits.  Currently the  consumer price index  is the standard measure
for calculating Social Security and veterans’ benefits as well
as for indexing parts of the  tax code . Statisticians claim that
the CPI overstates inflation because it uses a fixed basket of
goods and services that doesn’t allow for substitution bias: the
tendency of consumers to buy oranges, for example, when the
price of apples goes up. An index known as the chained CPI
better captures this change between categories.  Chained Solution  In the past decade, the  chained CPI  has increased 0.3
percent per year less on average than the CPI. That doesn’t
amount to much in the short run. Over a 75-year horizon with
millions of  baby boomers  retiring, it amounts to a big saving.  A shift to the chained CPI for Social Security cost-of-
living adjustments would reduce outlays, increase revenue and
 lower budget deficits  by an estimated $90 billion over 10 years,
according to calculations by Congress’ Joint Committee on
Taxation.  If seniors are being overcompensated for inflation, then it
makes sense to adopt a truer cost-of-living index, which would
require a statutory change.  Familiar Refrain  Obama has said he’s willing to take heat from his party for
entertaining changes to entitlement programs, be it through
COLAs, eligibility age or means testing. Why he had this
epiphany in July when his Commission on Fiscal Responsibility
and Reform proposed many of these changes in its  “Moment of
Truth” report  in December is unclear.  In addition to a variety of proposed fixes for Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security, the Simpson-Bowles Commission, so-
named for co-chairmen  Alan Simpson , a Republican, and Erskine Bowles, a Democrat, advocated using the chained CPI to calculate
COLAs for Social Security recipients. (See Recommendation 5.7.)  The commission offered a comprehensive plan for putting the
U.S. on sound fiscal footing. The recommendations, including
discretionary spending cuts,  tax reform  and simplification, and
the elimination of tax breaks and loopholes, would achieve $4
trillion in deficit reduction and ensure the solvency of Social
Security.  A big deal? If this sounds hopelessly familiar, it is.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 