-- 
Obama Sets Up Group to Coordinate Alaska Oil Exploration

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-07-12T17:39:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/obama-sets-up-group-to-coordinate-alaska-oil-exploration-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  created an
interagency working group led by the Interior Department to
oversee oil and natural gas exploration in Alaska.  The group will coordinate permit decisions and
environmental reviews for onshore and offshore projects,
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s plan to drill in the Chukchi
and Beaufort seas,  David Hayes , deputy Interior secretary and
the working-group leader, told reporters today in Washington.  “We’re not looking to this group to be a super-permitting
agency, to be a one-stop shop,” Hayes said. “The primary
purpose of this is to ensure coordination and broad sharing of
information.”  Shell is waiting for U.S. approval to begin exploring on
leases The Hague-based company purchased in the  Beaufort Sea  in
2005 and in the Chukchi Sea in 2008. Shell needs permits from
agencies including the Environmental Protection Agency and  the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement .  The working group was established today in an executive
 order  issued by the White House.  Shell has said it plans to drill as many as two wells a
year in the Beaufort Sea, and as many as three a year in the
Chukchi Sea from 2012 through 2013 after investing $3.5 billion
on Alaska drilling efforts.  Obama in his weekly radio and Internet address on May 14
said the administration will encourage domestic production with
annual lease sales in Alaska, creating a “new team” to
coordinate Alaska drilling, faster evaluations of oil and gas
resources in the Atlantic Ocean and incentives to develop unused
leases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  