-- 
Obama’s Economic Policies Suffer Without Moral Guide: Ron Klain

-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/obama-s-economic-policies-suffer-without-moral-guide-ron-klain.html
The science of economics rests on
the idea that we are rational actors seeking to maximize our
wealth. Economic policy making, similarly, seeks to maximize the
financial well-being of the people affected by the policy,
subject to distributional concerns. Policy makers presume that
their constituents, collectively, prefer economic measures that,
collectively, enrich them.  These assumptions, however, overlook the importance that
people place on noneconomic values and morality in assessing
policies. That blind spot has been the cause of one of the
primary disconnects between policy makers and the American
public over the past two years.  Take, for example, policies related to home-foreclosure
prevention. Assume that on a block of 10 houses, two are about
to be foreclosed; assume that for the eight remaining
homeowners, the value of their homes will fall $50,000 each
because of their proximity of the foreclosed homes. If $40,000
of mortgage relief to each of the two delinquents would prevent
the foreclosures, then each of the eight others on the block, at
a cost of $10,000 per solvent homeowner, could subsidize such
aid, and in doing so, retain $50,000 in equity in their homes.  Economically, the plan is a winner. Everyone comes out
ahead: The families facing foreclosure get to keep their homes,
and their solvent neighbors see the value of their houses
preserved at a small cost.  Who could be against such a plan?  Almost everyone, it would seem. From the start of the Great
Recession, various government policies to provide debt relief to
homeowners facing foreclosure have been hugely unpopular with
voters. With some exceptions, Americans see underwater
homeowners as people who lived beyond their means, irresponsibly
indulged themselves and deserve to bear the consequences.  Although we now associate the Tea Party with a general
opposition to  government spending , it was mortgage-relief
policies that were the target of the seminal rant by the CNBC
commentator Rick Santelli in February 2009 that is credited with
getting that movement off the ground: “How many of you people
want to pay for your neighbor’s mortgage that has an extra
bathroom and can’t pay their bills?”  A striking aspect of the conservative backlash against the
administration’s mainstream economic policies -- from using
federal money to keep teachers on the job, to saving the
domestic auto industry, to investing in job-creating public
works projects -- is how much the opposition’s arguments have
been based on morality and values, not economic considerations.
Sure, critics offer facts and figures to challenge these
policies, but the most potent weapons have been values-laden
attacks about borrowing from the future, being irresponsible
about spending, and failing to hold the profligate responsible
for the consequences of their ways. Even direct beneficiaries of
the president’s policies have pressed these moral critiques.  Criticism From Left  Conservatives aren’t the only ones who have leveled
morality-based attacks against the administration’s economic
policies. When, after the 2010 midterm elections, President
 Barack Obama  (emulating  Franklin Roosevelt  after the 1938
contests), pivoted to more pro-business economic policies, the
objections on the left were largely cast in moral terms.  That is, the attack against the new administration approach
isn’t really about whether a more pro-business stance will help
create jobs, or expand the economy -- rather, it reflects the
moral outrage of progressives over the administration’s refusal
to punish key figures or institutions for their role in causing
the 2008 financial collapse. This sentiment was recently
expressed by Frank Rich in New York magazine, where he  argued 
that “what haunts the Obama administration is what still haunts
the country: the stunning lack of accountability for the greed
and misdeeds that brought America to its gravest financial
crisis since the Great Depression.”  ‘Original Sin’  Thus, while some progressives directly question the
economics behind the administration’s view that more pro-
financial sector policies will boost confidence and help spur
growth, Rich’s essay is tellingly headlined “Obama’s Original
Sin,” clearly a moral critique and not an economic one.  Caught between the moralists on the right and those on the
left (who are oddly united in their criticism of the bank rescue
under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, for example) is a set
of Obama economic policies that have helped our country try to
overcome some very difficult challenges, even if they by no
means finished the job. Although the administration needs to do
more, as I have argued previously, any objective analysis would
concede that it arrested a precipitous slide from recession to
depression, avoided potentially catastrophic collapses of many
state and local governments in 2009, saved the financial
industry from calamity, turned around the  auto industry , and
provided a vital kick-start to nascent industries that will be
creating jobs in the next decade.  So why aren’t these policies more popular?  One reason is that the country remains mired in very tough
times -- as last week’s jobs report illustrated -- and economic
policies aren’t going to gain much acclaim when the news remains
grim.  But that alone doesn’t explain the lack of support. After
all, the  unemployment rate  at  this same point  in the  Reagan
administration  was significantly higher than the most recent
number under Obama (10.1 percent compared with 9.2 percent), yet
Reagan’s economic policies were more popular than Obama’s.  Part of the explanation is that the president and his
economic team eschew moral rhetoric when addressing economic
policies -- and reject that sort of thinking when formulating
them. Yes, economic policy making should mostly be about
maximizing growth and improving well-being for as many people as
possible. But moral notions of accountability, fairness,
consequences and responsibility do need to be part of the mix,
in formulating and articulating policy.  Judgment of Voters  It isn’t surprising that an administration that states its
policies solely in economic terms will be judged by the economic
results. A president who also takes account of moral and value
considerations is less vulnerable to the vicissitudes of
statistics in building and maintaining support for his policies.  President  Bill Clinton  offers a precedent. He paired
rational economic policies with a moral guide star: a focus on
help for people who “worked hard and played by the rules.” For
example, Clinton’s policies were less generous to welfare
recipients, but they included a major boost for the working
poor, via an unprecedented increase in the Earned Income Tax
Credit.  He expanded college access, but as an earned opportunity --
with help for those who committed to national service, or who
met academic standards under the HOPE scholarship -- as opposed
to an entitlement.  In good economic times and bad (and there were some bad
times under Clinton, too), this emphasis on values helped rally
support for his economic policies.  Obama would be well served by adding more of this moral
element to his economic policy making and rhetoric as he enters
the last stretch of the debt-ceiling fight and pivots to the 16
months before Election Day 2012.  He cannot guarantee (or even rely on) better economic times
between now and then. But he can give us all a crisp sense of
whom he is fighting for and the values that guide his policies,
and he can insist that moral standards of conduct need to be
enforced even if they don’t meet immediate economic ends.  ( Ron Klain  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 