-- 
Tom Watson Is Concerned for Tiger Woods’s Future After Knee Injuries

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-12T13:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/tom-watson-expresses-concern-for-tiger-woods-s-future-after-knee-injuries.html
Eight-time major champion  Tom Watson 
said he’s concerned about  Tiger Woods ’s playing future because
of the former top-ranked golfer’s long-running knee problems.  Woods, 35, hasn’t played since withdrawing from May’s
Players Championship as he recovers from knee and ankle
injuries. He is missing his second consecutive major tournament
at this week’s British Open and has said he won’t return until
he’s 100 percent.  Watson, 61, came back from hip-replacement surgery to
finish second at the 2009 British Open at Turnberry in  Scotland ,
missing a putt that would have won a record-tying sixth title
before losing to Stewart Cink in a playoff. Knee-replacement
surgery for Woods, if he ever needs it, would be tougher to get
over, he said.  “With a hip, you put a new one in and here we go,” Watson
told reporters at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,  England , where
golf’s oldest major begins in two days. “The knee takes a lot
more stress. It’s out there on its lonesome and rotates.  “Whether he is going to have a total knee replacement, who
knows, but that may be a more difficult thing to come back from
if he does.”  Woods has had four operations on his left knee, most
notably in 2008, when he underwent reconstruction of the
anterior cruciate ligament after winning the most recent of his
14 major titles at the  U.S. Open .  “The most important thing is for him to get well so he can
put the force on it that he has to for his swing,” said Watson,
speaking to reporters in his role as an ambassador for
MasterCard Inc. “Can it be put back in shape is the question,
that’s the concern. Whether it’s going to prevent him from
dominating the game again, who knows?”  ‘Great Players’  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009, two
weeks before he was involved in a one-car crash outside his
Florida home that led to revelations of his marital infidelity
and eventual divorce. He’s fallen to No. 19 in the  Official
World Golf Ranking  after holding the top spot for a record 281
weeks.  No player from the U.S. has won a major since  Phil Mickelson  captured the 2010  Masters Tournament , but Watson said
American golf isn’t in crisis.  “America has great players,” Watson said. “A vacuum has
been left by Woods getting hurt and having personal problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in Sandwich, England, through the London sports desk
at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 