-- 
Thomas Cook Plunges as Tour Operator Cuts Profit Forecast on Africa Unrest

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-07-12T10:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/thomas-cook-plunges-as-tour-operator-cuts-profit-forecast-on-africa-unrest.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s
second-largest tour operator, plunged in  London  trading after
cutting its full-year profit forecast because of unrest in North
Africa and a squeeze on  consumer spending  in the U.K.  The shares fell as much as 36.7 pence, or 30 percent, to 86
pence, reducing the company’s market value by about 321 million
pounds ($507 million) to 752 million pounds. The drop was the
steepest since the company was formed by a merger of  Thomas Cook 
AG and MyTravel Group Plc in June 2007.  The London-based tour operator said its underlying
operating profit for the year ending in September may fall to
320 million pounds from 362 million pounds in 2010. That’s below
forecasts given in May and less than the 382 million-pound
average estimate of nine analysts compiled by the company.  “It’s not the downgrade, but the scale of the miss that is
the surprise,”  Nick Batram , an analyst at Peel Hunt in London,
said in an e-mailed research note. “This raises questions about
just how flexible the business model is, or whether management
just called it badly wrong.”  The impact on business of unrest in the Middle East and
North Africa region will be “substantially” higher than
previously estimated, Thomas Cook said. The tour operator said
its French business is suffering from reduced demand during its
peak season to destinations in Egypt, Tunisia and  Morocco .  U.K. Business Review  British bookings have been hurt by “the continued squeeze
on U.K. consumers’ disposable income,” the company also said.
The difficult conditions are affecting profitability as the
company holds down prices in an effort to boost business. The
U.K. accounted for about a third of Thomas Cook sales last year.  “With little sign of  Middle East  and North Africa
improving, the ongoing weak consumer, and higher  oil prices ,
there may be little reason to assume a pick-up in 2012,” UBS AG
analysts including Simon Whittington said in a note today. “On
that basis, cuts to 2012 could be worse.”  Thomas Cook said it plans to “revisit the effectiveness of
our U.K. business model,” without being more specific. The
company’s U.K. management has started “a fundamental strategic
and operational review of the business,” it said.  “We expect this to involve a review of how they use
aircraft and will likely seek to reduce the risk profile of the
U.K. business,” said Citigroup Inc. analysts including James Ainley. Thomas Cook is likely to cut its dividend, they said.  The shares were down 33.9 pence, or 28 percent, at 88.8
pence as of 11:42 a.m. local time. Shares of larger rival  Tui
Travel Plc (TT/)  also fell, dropping as much as 23 pence, or 10
percent, to 198.2 pence. Thomas Cook has fallen 53 percent this
year, while Tui Travel is down 16 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  