-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fall on Europe Debt Concern, Moody’s Report

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-07-12T04:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/hong-kong-stocks-fall-on-europe-debt-concern-moody-s-report.html
Hong Kong stocks fell, sending the
Hang Seng Index to its biggest two-day drop in 18 months, as
 Europe ’s widening debt crisis threatens exporters’ earnings and
after Moody’s Investors Service said some Chinese companies are
engaging in potentially risky business practices.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , which gets most of its revenue from
Europe, sank 4.7 percent. West  China  Cement Ltd. tumbled by a
record 8.1 percent after Moody’s said the producer of the
building product posed the biggest governance and accounting
risks of 61 Chinese companies it analyzed.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. (688) , controlled by the nation’s construction
ministry, declined 4.8 percent on concern the Chinese government
is intensifying property curbs.  “Renewed worry about the Euro-area debt crisis is putting
a negative impact on fund flows to the equity market, making
investors risk-averse,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer
at KGI  Asia  Ltd. “There is lack of positive news that can drive
up the market.”  The Hang Seng Index fell 2 percent to 21,903.18 at the
midday-trading break, the biggest drop since May 23 and the
biggest two-day fall since Feb. 8, 2010. All but three stocks
declined on the 46-member gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies’ H shares sank 2.3 percent to
12,212.01.  Esprit dropped 4.7 percent to HK$23.10, while  Cosco Pacific
Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus
port, sank 4.4 percent to HK$13.34. HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s
second-largest bank by total assets, dropped 1.9 percent to
HK$75.60.  The  European Central Bank  may have to double its bailout
fund to 1.5 trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a crisis in
Italy, German newspaper Die Welt reported, citing unidentified
“high-ranking” people at central banks.  ‘No Discussions’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said “there’s
no discussion whatsoever” of doubling the European Union’s
rescue facility after the Die Welt report. The Financial Times
cited unidentified senior officials as saying European leaders
are prepared to accept that Greece should default on some bonds.  The spreads investors demand to hold Italian, Portuguese
and Spanish debt over German bunds widened to euro-era records.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has fallen 3 percent this year through
yesterday on concern Greece’s debt and China’s monetary-policy
tightening will slow global economic growth. Shares in the gauge
traded at 12.1 times forecast earnings on average at the
previous close, compared with about 14.4 times at the end of
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  West China Cement tumbled 8.1 percent to HK$2.60, the
biggest drop on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Moody’s said the company was among Chinese companies triggering
“red flags” for potentially risky business practices.  Governance Risks  Moody’s looked at criteria that “highlight issues meriting
scrutiny to identify possible governance or accounting risks for
non-financial corporate issuers in emerging markets,” analysts
led by Elizabeth Allen in  Hong Kong  wrote in a report dated
yesterday.  Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd., which operates in
Mongolia and transports coal to China, sank 7.5 percent to
HK$2.98, and China Lumena New Materials Corp., a manufacturer of
natural thenardite products, fell 7.6 percent to HK$2.81.  Hidili
Industry International Development Ltd. (1393) , a coal miner, retreated
5.4 percent to HK$6.15. The companies raised at least nine red
flags of 20 criteria examined, according to the Moody’s report.  “Recently, investors have already been nervous about this
kind of news, and it’s making them lose confidence in some
private Chinese companies,” said KGI Asia’s Kwong. “In the
short term, investors will be more prudent in investing in
them.”  Shanghai  Property Curbs  A measure of property developers had the biggest decline
among the Hang Seng Index’s four industry groups. China Overseas
Land fell 4.8 percent to HK$16.54.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a
state-controlled developer, slid 4.4 percent to HK$14.68.  Shanghai will start a trial to cap prices of some of the
newly built low-income housing in planned urban areas in Pudong
New District during the second half of this year, the Xinhua
News Agency reported, citing the city’s mayor Han Zheng.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 2.1 percent to 21,896.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong Kong
stock options, surged 16 percent to 19.87, indicating options
traders expect a swing of 5.7 percent in the Hang Seng Index in
the next 30 days.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 