-- 
Runaway Nose, Natalie Dessay, Gay Emperor Meet Up at Aix: Jorg von Uthmann

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-07-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/hooker-in-love-runaway-nose-gay-emperor-meet-up-at-aix-jorg-von-uthmann.html
This year, New Yorkers don’t need to
travel to the  Festival d’Aix-en-Provence , the annual French
musical jamboree: The one outstanding production comes from the
 Metropolitan Opera .  “The Nose,” Shostakovich’s 1930 opera, is hard to stage,
not least because of its enormous cast: Some 30 soloists sing
more than 70 roles.  The Soviet authorities loathed the dissonant score, which
was obviously inspired by Berg’s “Wozzeck,” and suppressed the
work after a few performances. It wasn’t revived in  Russia  until
1974. Yet “The Nose” is probably the wittiest opera of the
20th century.  All kinds of interpretations have been let loose on Nikolai Gogol’s grotesque 1835 novella on which the opera is based. Some
read the story of poor Kovalyov, who discovers one morning that
his nose is missing, as a satire on the obsession with status
symbols.  For Freudians, the nose is a metaphor for another part of
the body, and the novella is about impotence.  Whatever interpretation you prefer, you need an inspired
director to pull off this work. The South African artist William Kentridge, who was wildly feted on opening night here, fits the
bill.  He not only directed the huge cast, he also designed --
with Sabine Theunissen -- the exhilarating sets and created the
videos that animate the action. The result is a visually
stunning show of rare wit and originality.  The cast is only partially identical to the one in  New
York . Vladimir Samsonov is brilliant as the hapless Kovalyov.
Andrey Popov is a wonderfully squeaky Police Inspector, Vladimir
Ognovenko a sonorous barber -- to name just two of the
supporting singers.  Kazushi Ono, conducting the Orchestre de  l’Opera de Lyon ,
brings out every detail of the spiky score.  Rating: ****.  ‘La Traviata’  The most eagerly awaited production, on the other hand, is
a disappointment.  Natalie Dessay , probably  France ’s leading soprano, lacks
the wherewithal for “La Traviata”: She masters the coloratura
with ease, yet doesn’t have the necessary power for the
emotional outbursts of the woman in love. She is such a fine
actress, though, that you almost forget her shortcomings.  The last staging in Aix of Verdi’s opera about a posh
Parisian call girl, in 2004, treated the audience to wet asphalt,
a dark tunnel and an oversized windshield wiper.  Director Jean-Francois Sivadier stays closer to the
composer’s intentions. The minimalist set (Alexandre de Dardel)
may be short on poetry yet it doesn’t distract from the story.
The crowd scenes are obviously modeled on Pina Bausch’s
 Tanztheater Wuppertal .  Charles Castronovo is a decent, if not particularly
exciting Alfredo. The healthiest singing comes from Ludovic
Tezier’s sturdy, none-too-subtle Germont father.  The London Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Louis Langree,
sounds too Protestant for Verdi’s Catholic music.  Rating: **.  Mozart’s Emperor  The orchestra is more at ease in “La Clemenza di Tito.”
In 1976, Colin Davis made a celebrated recording of Mozart’s
last-but-one opera, and for his debut in Aix the conductor has
chosen the same work, which is evidently close to his heart.  The 83-year-old Davis has lost nothing of his feel for the
score. The woodwinds accompanying the two highlights of the
opera -- Sesto’s “Parto, parto” and Vitellia’s rondo “Non piu
di fiori” -- sound gorgeous.  The vocal side is less beguiling. Gregory Kunde is
overtaxed by the devilish demands of the title role. Carmen
Giannattasio handles Vitellia’s coloratura well though her voice
lacks warmth.  Sarah Connolly as Sesto is better, yet her lower register
is weak. It’s the small roles -- Anna Stephany’s Annio and Amel
Brahim-Djelloul’s Servilia -- that make the strongest
impression.  David McVicar, the director and set designer, has updated
the action to Mozart’s times, presenting  Rome  as a mix of
classical and baroque architecture.  He has turned the march of Titus’s entourage into a ballet
of good-looking hunks in black, suggesting that the erotic
preferences of the emperor, who forgoes marriage to no less than
three women in the course of one day, lie elsewhere.  Rating: **.  The Aix-en-Provence festival, which is supported by  Vivendi
SA (VIV) , runs through July 25. Information:
 http://www.festival-aix.com  or +33-4-3408-0217.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 