-- 
Options Trading Heads for Record Volume as U.S. Institutions Increase Use

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-07-12T13:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/options-trading-heads-for-record-volume-as-u-s-institutions-increase-use.html
Increasing use of options by asset
managers may help boost U.S. equity derivatives volume about 8
percent to 4.2 billion contracts this year for a ninth straight
annual record, according to research firm Tabb Group LLC.  Fund managers learning to trade options are the “engine of
growth” as they use more contracts to guard against stock
fluctuations, speculate on share moves or bet on higher or lower
volatility, according to the report from  Andy Nybo , head of
derivatives at New York-based Tabb. The report is based on
interviews with 51 options traders at U.S. hedge funds, asset
managers and proprietary trading firms handling about 700,000
contracts a day and managing $2.7 trillion in assets.  “Demand for U.S. options continues to increase, with
greater adoption across nearly all investor segments driving the
industry’s steady growth,” Nybo wrote. “Buy-side traders are
expanding activities, using more complex strategies and
exploring the opportunities available through trading
volatility, short-term options and other new products being
introduced by options exchanges that are fiercely battling for
order flow.”  Fund managers such as hedge funds will account for 42
percent of this year’s trades, up from 41 percent in 2010 and 25
percent in 2006, Nybo said. Individual investors will make up 12
percent, down from 14 percent last year and 30 percent in 2006,
he said. Market makers account for the rest.  U.S. volume for contracts on stocks, indexes and exchange-
traded funds rose 8 percent last year to 3.9 billion contracts,
according to Chicago-based OCC, which clears and settles all
equity options trades on the nation’s nine derivatives markets.  Japan ’s Earthquake  Volume jumped 25 percent to 3.28 billion in 2008 as
investors sought protection as the financial crisis drove the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index to a record
high. The VIX, as the gauge is known, measures the cost of
options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. It has decreased to
18.39, down 37 percent from this year’s peak following Japan’s
record earthquake in March.  “Volumes are continuing to see a slow and steady grind
upward, and volatility is muted despite Japanese earthquakes and
the collapse of economies throughout  Europe ,” Nybo said. “The
U.S. options market has absorbed these market dislocations, with
just a few spikes in volatility to remind investors that an
untoward event has happened.”  More Tiered  Options-market activity has become concentrated in a smaller
number of companies. The top 100 issues comprised 69 percent of
volume last year, up from 63 percent in 2007 when many options
began to be quoted in one-cent increments, the report found.
This ensures there’s more liquidity, or ease of trading, in more
active options contracts and less liquidity in other issues.  Asset managers will trade 89 percent of their options volume
this year by calling brokers, down from 91 percent in 2009,
while  hedge funds  are likely to do the same for 32 percent,
compared with 54 percent two years ago, Tabb said. The main
reason asset managers cited for calling their brokers instead of
handling the orders themselves is convenience. Hedge funds say
capital is the key reason they’d call their brokers, Tabb said.  Hedge funds are increasing their use of algorithms, or
trading strategies that break up larger orders into smaller
pieces, to 30 percent this year from 9 percent in 2009, the
study reported. The funds tend to use algorithms for short-term
strategies in options that are more liquid, Tabb Group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  