-- 
Los Angeles Credit Rating Downgraded by Moody’s on Rising Employee Costs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   S t e v e n   F r o m m
-- 
2011-07-12T20:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/los-angeles-credit-rating-downgraded-by-moody-s-on-rising-employee-costs.html
Los Angeles  had its bond rating
lowered one level by Moody’s Investors Service on concern rising
labor costs and retirement benefits “will continue to put
pressure” on the city’s budget.  The downgrade to Aa3, the fourth-highest level, affects
$3.3 billion of debt, including $378 million scheduled to be
sold July 19. Moody’s raised the outlook on Los Angeles’s long-
term ratings to stable from negative on expectations the city
will “capably manage” the fiscal pressures, Eric Hoffmann and
Dari Barzel, analysts for the firm, said in a release today.  Los Angeles closed half its $336 million budget gap for the
current fiscal year through furloughs, cost deferrals and one-
time revenue transfers, the report said. The city faces an
almost $200 million deficit for the 2013 fiscal year and
projected pension and salary increases for workers totaling $479
million through 2015.  The Moody’s action “is a reminder that we still have work
to do,” City Administrative Officer Miguel Santana said in a
telephone interview. “We’re at the halfway point of where we
should be.”  The downgrade reflects the city’s limited financial
flexibility and continued cost pressure, the analysts said.  Years of operating deficits “have significantly reduced
the city’s general fund balances, and the currently very slow
economic recovery suggests that Los Angeles’s revenue growth
will continue to materially lag its likely expenditure growth,”
Moody’s said.  Limited Flexibility  The nation’s second-largest city by population has a high
overall debt burden on residents and, like all cities in
 California , limited revenue-raising flexibility because it must
seek voter approval before increasing taxes, Moody’s said.  Its unrestricted general fund cash and investments have
fallen by about half, to $561 million, according to the firm.  The city was able to raise $1.2 billion in short-term
borrowing at 0.26 percent, its lowest rate in history, Santana
said last week.  The Moody’s downgrade puts the city’s rating on par with
other ratings firms, he said.  Los Angeles has cut its structural deficit in half in the
past three years, in part through negotiations with employee
unions that brought contributions to health-care and pension
costs to 11 percent of salary from 6 percent on July 1.  Reductions in staffing have brought the overall level of
city employees to that seen in the 1990s, Santana said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles k at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Fromm in New York at 
 sfromm@bloomberg.net  