-- 
Osborne Urges Euro Area Action, Says U.K., World ‘Not Immune’ to Turmoil

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/osborne-urges-euro-area-action-says-u-k-not-immune-to-crisis.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  called on European finance chiefs to come up with
concrete plans to solve the crisis in the euro area, saying the
U.K. and world economies aren’t immune to recent market turmoil.  Osborne broke his silence on the crisis engulfing Greece
and other euro countries in a statement released last night by
the Treasury in which he demanded “detail” on plans to end the
problems. He met European Union counterparts in Brussels earlier
yesterday.  “The time has come for decisive action to address the
crisis in the eurozone and prevent market uncertainty doing real
damage to the world economy,” Osborne said. “We are not immune
to the instability on our doorstep.”  While Britain’s bonds have retained the confidence of
investors, in part due to Osborne’s plan to eliminate the
deficit within five years, the economy has struggled to grow in
recent quarters. Britons are seeing their spending power erased
at the fastest pace since the 1970s as wage growth fails to keep
up with prices.  Yesterday, European finance ministers looked for ways to
cut  Greece ’s debt burden as a surge in bond yields in Italy and
 Spain  brought the crisis closer to the heart of the euro area.
The euro fell to a four-month low. Milan’s stock index dropped
to its lowest in two years.  Following nine hours of talks on July 11, the 17 euro
governments pledged to flesh out a new plan “shortly” to end
the 21-month-old crisis, without setting a timeline.  Osborne chastised his peers and called for plans “in
detail” and for them to spell out which “financial tools”
they will use to stem the rot.  He called for “credible stress tests backed up with
recapitalization for the most vulnerable banks,” the
involvement of the private sector to make Greece’s debt burden
“more sustainable,” and for the euro area to “earn fiscal
credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling
at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  