-- 
Lou Reed, Leather Clad, Revives Velvet Underground’s S&M Tales

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-07-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/lou-reed-in-leather-revives-velvet-underground-growls-s-m-stories-review.html
Lou Reed  is getting back to the
1960s on his latest tour. He is revisiting songs by his former
band the Velvet Underground, snarling out cautionary tales of
drug-taking and sadomasochism.  Light entertainment it is not.  The songs of an enfant terrible are now performed by a 69-
year-old elder statesman of rock, still dressed in jeans, a
leather jacket and a white t-shirt. His voice is as rich and as
laced with bitter life as ever.  The show, being wheeled out across  Europe , is heavy with
growling repetition and sordid grandeur.  The U.K. shows are typical: At the  HMV Apollo Hammersmith ,
Reed’s current seven-piece group sets up metronomic, mid-tempo
grooves, building up the intensity.  Reed, who has just announced that he will be working with
hard rockers Metallica, is in an uncompromising mood.  Crowd pleasing has never been his natural forte. His first
band, mentored by  Andy Warhol , was influential with its raw
songs about prostitution and deviancy. The Velvet Underground
didn’t sell many records at first, and Reed sweetened the music
for the 1972 solo album “Transformer.”  He studiously avoids that record’s two signature hits “A
Walk on the Wild Side” and “Perfect Day” -- a track which has
entered the strange saccharine netherworld of the cliched cover,
a staple of under-inspired musicians everywhere. Neither does he
play anything of “ Metal Machine Music ”, a perversely genius 1975
album, recently remastered, featuring one hour of howling
electronic feedback.  Sax Squawks  Reed isn’t a musician to use three chords when two will do
(a concession: minimalist composer  La Monte Young , a big
influence on the Velvets, thought nothing of composing with
barely two notes). The influence of the more contemporary New
York composer  John Zorn , with whom Reed has recently worked, can
be heard in the frantic sax squawks and the dark Latin rhythm of
“Smalltown.”  Over all this, Reed spins sharp tales of the gutter.
“Ecstasy” rides waves of noise. A cover of  John Lennon ’s
“Mother” is a howl of hurt and confusion.  The Velvet Underground songs steal the show. The whips and
boots of “Venus in Furs” are matched by a feral electric
violin drone that slices through the ear. It’s followed by a
battered, acoustic, never more beautiful “Sunday Morning”.  Evidence, if it were needed, that Reed has lost none of his
perverse musical power.  Rating: **½.  Lou Reed’s tour plays dates in Italy and  France  though July
26. Information:  http://www.loureed.com/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 