-- 
House Oversight Panel May Subpoena NLRB for Boeing Documents

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-07-12T20:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/house-oversight-panel-may-subpoena-nlrb-for-boeing-documents.html
A U.S. House committee said it may
subpoena the  National Labor Relations Board  for documents
related to a complaint filed against  Boeing Co. (BA)  for building a
non-union aircraft factory in  South Carolina .  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, led by
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, set July
26 for the board to deliver information requested on May 12, or
face a possible subpoena, according to a letter obtained today.
The board provided some documents and classified some
memorandums as confidential, according to the letter.  “Your responses are incomplete,” Issa said in the letter
to Lafe Solomon, the acting general counsel at the NLRB.  Republican lawmakers are challenging the agency on the
Boeing case, which was filed on April 20 in response to a
complaint from the International Association of Machinists.
Solomon said Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company,
opened the plant for the 787 Dreamliner in retaliation for
strikes in Washington state that interrupted production. It’s
against the law for employers to punish workers for joining
unions or striking.  Issa’s committee asked Solomon in May to provide documents
related to his Boeing investigation, including e-mails and call
logs between his office, the board and the Machinists union.  Solomon responded to the committee in a May 27 letter that
said the requested materials are “privileged,” a claim that
Issa in the letter said wasn’t substantiated. Issa said legal
arguments Solomon made for withholding the documents didn’t
apply to requests from a House committee.  Nancy Cleeland, a spokeswoman for the board, declined to
comment.  The NLRB, which investigates unfair labor practices, said
Boeing should be required to open an additional assembly line
for the Dreamliners in the Seattle area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  