-- 
Hysterics, Ovary Gizmo Were Big Hits at Paris Hospital: Books

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-07-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ovary-gizmo-hysterics-drew-crowds-to-paris-hospital-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
The strangest book I have read in
some time tells the story of three forgotten medical celebrities
of late-19th-century Paris: Blanche, Augustine and Genevieve.  Every week, crowds streamed into the Salpetriere Hospital
to watch them convulse, sleep, blabber, scream and lurch around
the lecture halls.  All three young women were rescued from desperate lives in
the darkest gutters by a charismatic neurologist, Jean-Martin
Charcot (1825-93), who treated their symptoms with dedication
and imagination. The young Freud studied happily at Salpetriere
until he returned to Vienna and focused on his penis.  “ Medical Muses: Hysteria in Nineteenth-Century Paris ,” a
mesmerizing history by  Asti Hustvedt , opens the ornate portals
of the hospital, which in Charcot’s time had about 100
structures and 5,000 patients.  The complex first harbored female outcasts in the 17th
century. Eventually, Louis XIV added a prison for prostitutes
and female convicts headed for the gallows or the colonies. What
opera nut has not wept as Puccini’s Manon Lescaut expires
slowly, slowly on a parched plain near  New Orleans !  Hustvedt describes a city within a city, with churches,
workshops, laboratories, kitchens, several wards, a library, and
lecture halls that served as theaters.  Ovary Gizmo  A special treat for visitors, and sometimes for the
patient, was the application of the “ovary compressor.”  I’ll have Hustvedt describe it: “This bizarre apparatus
was attached to the patient’s abdomen and worked like a vise
grip with a descending knob that applied pressure to the ovary.
In spite of its resemblance to something that might have been
used in medieval torture, it was not unusual for hysterics to
request it.”  What on earth did the thing accomplish? It seems to have
stopped any mood swings a patient felt welling up in her like an
angry wave. Patient Blanche was willing to wear the ovary
compressor for days.  Another more whimsical device was the “sphygmograph” -- a
kind of wired hat with long plumes whose tremblings would reveal
the defects of the nervous system -- and perhaps a hurt heart.  I am looking for a sphygmograph on Craigslist.  The pioneering Charcot insisted his patients were sick, not
mad, lazy and/or concupiscent. Hustvedt’s accounts don’t include
hysterical males, but that is because the deep-seated traumas
that beset Charcot’s hysterics were mostly inflicted by men.  Insanity, Death  We learn a lot about poor women as they struggled far away
from Baron Haussmann’s spacious new boulevards and the breezy
scenes of the Impressionists.  Patient Genevieve, a foundling, slipped into religious
mania, eventually cutting off her left nipple. Augustine,
similarly from a large and constantly undernourished family, was
dispatched to live with a predator who raped her at age 13.  By the time 18-year-old Blanche entered Salpetriere never
to leave, her father had gone insane, her mother had died along
with five siblings, she had been raped by her boss and scrubbed
her fingers raw.  Understandably, there were many who thought the doctor was
directing a circus of crazies who performed to please him and
feel special.  And perhaps to an extent they did. A hysteric with a
neurological disorder was treated very differently at
Salpetriere than those who were considered to be mentally ill.
Poor Blanche ended up in the mad ward after chewing up the
scenery too intensely and spent seven months in a bare cell.
Hysterics, writes Hustvedt, usually strolled about unattended
and might get day passes.  Insightful Records  Charcot searched unsuccessfully for some physical reason
for their attacks, a lesion perhaps on the spinal cords or
brains of deceased patients. A remarkable observer, though, of
human suffering, he did leave insightful records and photographs
of a variety of disorders including anorexia nervosa, bulimia,
multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s.  Hustvedt brings the story into the present with an epilogue
touching on modern-day attitudes to hysteria and syndromes such
as chronic fatigue. Must there always be an organic reason for
extreme emotional states and disorders?  As for Salpetriere, though much reformed and rebuilt, it
still exists. On Aug. 31, 1997, an ambulance bearing  Princess Diana , no stranger to hysterics and mass hysteria, rushed
through its gates.  “Medical Muses” is published by Norton in the U.S. and
Bloomsbury in the U.K. (372 pages, $26.95, 16.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 