-- 
Toyota Wins Dismissal of 26 of 33 Claims in Investor Acceleration Lawsuit

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-07-12T16:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/toyota-wins-dismissal-of-some-claims-in-shareholder-recall-suit.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  won dismissal of
26 of 33 claims in a stockholder lawsuit over alleged sudden
unintended-acceleration problems leading to a 20 percent drop in
the carmaker’s shares in January and February of last year.  The suit raised claims under Japanese  securities law , over
which the U.S. court didn’t have original jurisdiction, U.S.
District Judge Dale Fischer in  Los Angeles  ruled in an 11-page
memorandum dated July 7. Those claims involve investors who
purchased their stock on foreign exchanges, Fischer said.  Respect for foreign law “would be completely subverted if
foreign claims were allowed to be piggybacked into virtually
every American securities fraud case,” the judge wrote.  The investors, led by the Maryland State Retirement and
Pension System, said in their complaint that internal documents
show the Toyota City, Japan-based company,  Asia ’s largest
carmaker, deliberately hid the acceleration problems and knew
about defects as early as 2000.  “We are pleased that the court has granted Toyota’s motion
to dismiss most of the claims in the federal securities case,”
 Celeste Migliore , a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
company believes it’s important that the judge rejected the
shareholders “attempted end-run around” a Supreme Court
decision to pursue claims under Japanese law, she said.  The judge allowed the case to proceed on seven of the 33
misrepresentations Toyota is alleged to have made to investors
about the sudden-acceleration problems.  “We respect the judge’s decision, but we plan to move
forward and collect significant damages,” David Paulson, a
spokesman for Maryland Attorney General Douglas F. Gansler, who
represents the retirement system, said in a telephone interview.  The case is In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Securities Litigation,
10-00922, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 