-- 
Palmisano of IBM, UPS’s Davis at Obama Executive Lunch on Jobs

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-07-12T14:37:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/palmisano-of-ibm-ups-s-davis-at-obama-executive-lunch-on-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  is having
lunch at the White House today with four chief executives
representing the food, computer, shipping and railroad
industries to discuss the economy and job creation.  The guests include Scott Davis, chairman and chief
executive officer of  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ;  Sam Palmisano ,
chairman and CEO of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ;  Matt Rose , chairman and CEO of BNSF Railway Co., and Clarence Otis
Jr., chairman and CEO of  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , according to a
White House e-mail.  The agenda includes Obama’s efforts in recent weeks to link
job-training efforts to positions in the marketplace, urge
companies to work with community colleges and encourage schools
to offer courses and training to equip graduates with skills
that will land them a job.  The president on June 24 said he’s designating more than
$500 million for an effort with companies and universities to
speed technology development that will reinvigorate U.S.
manufacturing to meet global competition and create jobs.  U.S. unemployment in June unexpectedly rose to 9.2 percent,
the highest this year, the Labor Department reported on July 8.
Employers added 18,000 jobs, the weakest growth since September
2010. Payroll growth for May also was revised down, to 25,000.  Business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
today released a letter from 470 CEOs urging Obama and Congress
to reach an agreement raising the government’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling.  The letter also said the U.S. needs a “long-term,
predictable and binding” plan to reduce deficits.  Business Confidence  “As businesses make plans to invest and hire, we need
confidence that, in the absence of a crisis, our government will
not reverse course and return to large deficit spending,” the
letter said. “Now is the time for our political leaders to put
aside partisan differences and act in the nation’s best
interests.”  Obama has frequently hosted lunches, dinners or meeting
with executives at the White House or elsewhere to solicit views
on the economy and jobs, such as a June 13 meeting of his Jobs
and Competitiveness Council in Durham,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloombberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  