-- 
Casino Says Pao de Acucar-Carrefour Merger Would Destroy Shareholder Value

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-07-12T15:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/pao-de-acucar-s-diniz-to-discuss-retail-merger-with-casino-s-board-today.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the
owner of a 43.1 percent stake in Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar, formally rejected a plan to merge the
Brazilian retailer with  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s business in the country.  The proposal, made by Banco BTG Pactual SA’s investment
fund Gama, is flawed and contrary to the interests of Pao de
Acucar and shareholders, according to Casino, which has an
agreement allowing it to become Pao de Acucar’s sole controlling
shareholder in 2012.  The proposed merger “grossly” overestimates potential
cost savings, has high execution risks and would reduce Pao de
Acucar’s earnings per share, Saint Etienne, France-based Casino
said in a statement released after a board meeting today.  Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz and Casino are battling
over the Brazilian retailer, which they jointly control through
Wilkes, a joint venture. Casino, which has filed two requests
for arbitration at the  International Chamber of Commerce , said
today that Chairman Jean-Charles Naouri will defend the French
company’s position “by all appropriate measures.”  Casino shares rose 9 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 63.49 euros
as of the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris, while Carrefour
fell 61 cents, or 2.7 percent, to 21.99 euros. Pao de Acucar
dropped 1.3 percent to 65.43 reais.  Casino said the proposed deal would transform Pao de Acucar
into a “financial holding company of minority investments which
is likely to trade at a significant discount.” The Brazilian
company would take a stake in Carrefour under the plan.  Merger Savings  Diniz, who attended Casino’s board meeting, reaffirmed his
support for the transaction and elected not to participate in a
vote, according to the statement. Casino said it remains
committed to  Brazil  and Sao Paulo-based Pao de Acucar.  Carrefour’s board last week approved the proposal to create
a jointly owned company which the French retailer says could
achieve annual savings of 600 million euros ($830 million) to
800 million euros. Casino, which has said the plan needs
unanimous support from the board of Wilkes, repeated today that
it considers the proposal “unsolicited, hostile and illegal.”  Wilkes’s board is scheduled to meet on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 