-- 
Philip Morris Wins Wrongful Dismissal Lawsuit in Singapore

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-07-12T13:59:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/philip-morris-wins-wrongful-dismissal-lawsuit-in-singapore-court.html
Philip Morris  International Ltd. won
a lawsuit in Singapore against a former employee who claimed she
was wrongly fired after raising questions about alleged unlawful
marketing activities.  Chan Miu Yin sued the Singapore unit of the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, accusing Philip Morris of
trying to “silence her as she had highlighted several unlawful
activities” the firm was allegedly involved in, according to a
 Singapore High Court ruling  made publicly available today.  “I found the claim to be inescapably and fundamentally
flawed,” assistant registrar Shaun Leong said in his decision,
calling Chan’s claims “frivolous, vexatious and an abuse of
proceedings.”  Allowing Chan’s lawsuit to continue would have advanced her
interests in getting the maker of Marlboro and Peter Jackson
cigarettes to pay her more than what she was contractually
entitled to, according to the ruling.  Singapore’s Health Sciences Authority last June filed two
charges against New York-based Philip Morris, claiming it had
“published advertisements that contained express inducements to
buy a tobacco product,” according to the ruling. Chan had
claimed she had information that may be damaging to the company
in its case with the health regulator.  “We are satisfied with the ruling of the High Court, which
concluded that there was no wrongdoing by Philip Morris
Singapore Pte. Ltd.," Anne Edwards, a company spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Australia  Suit  The cigarette maker sued the Australian government last
month over its plans to mandate plain packaging of cigarettes,
saying the proposals violate terms of the country’s treaty with
 Hong Kong . Australia, which has banned the public display of
tobacco in retail outlets, plans to outlaw logos on cigarette
packs and carry health warnings.  Chan, who was hired as a manager of  information systems  and
worked for 13 years at Philip Morris, was given the lowest
appraisal rating for three straight years from 2008 to 2010,
according to Leong’s ruling. She rejected Philip Morris’s
payment of S$75,000 ($61,000) which had been raised from
S$40,000 when she was fired in January.  The case is Chan Miu Yin v Philip Morris Singapore Pte
S152/2011 in the Singapore  High Court .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  