-- 
Philippine Peso Falls Most in Eight Months as Exports Falter

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-12T09:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/philippine-peso-falls-most-in-seven-weeks-as-exports-disappoint.html
The Philippine peso dropped the most
in eight months after a government report showed exports fell
unexpectedly in May.  Overseas sales declined 3.2 percent in May from a year
earlier following a 19.1 percent jump in April, the  National
Statistics Office  reported today. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 4.3 percent gain.
Government bonds declined as  Europe ’s debt crisis bolstered
demand for dollars and deterred investment in riskier assets,
making it harder for emerging markets to draw funds.  “Exports were very disappointing,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The initial drop in
the peso was because of contagion worries in the  euro zone .”  The peso weakened 0.7 percent to 43.235 per dollar as of
the 4 p.m. close in  Manila , following a 0.4 percent decline
yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. That was the biggest
one-day loss since Nov. 11.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six trading partners,
rose 0.7 percent to its highest level in almost four months.  Soaring yields on Italian  government bonds  spurred concern
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which has already seen Greece,
Ireland and Portugal seek bailouts, is spreading to one of the
region’s major economies.  Philippine sovereign bonds fell for a second day. The yield
on the 7 percent securities due January 2016 rose eight basis
points to 4.80 percent, the highest level in more than a week,
according to Tradition Financial Services. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The central bank next reviews borrowing costs on July 28.
Policy makers are prepared to use monetary tools to contain
inflation, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an interview
yesterday in Manila.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 