-- 
Pickens Losing to Koch in Natural-Gas Feud

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-07-12T22:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/pickens-losing-to-koch-in-billionaires-fight-over-natural-gas-subsidies.html
T. Boone Pickens , who’s been saying
for more than a year that Congress was poised to pass his plan
to subsidize natural-gas vehicles, may not have been expecting
opposition led by fellow billionaire Charles Koch.  Pickens, 83, the chairman and chief executive officer of BP
Capital LLC., a Dallas-based energy investment fund, has spent
$82 million since July 2008 promoting the use of domestically
produced natural gas to power cars and trucks, according to Jay
Rosser, his spokesman.  Koch Industries Inc.,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and the  American
Conservative Union  all have weighed in since May against a
Pickens-backed bill that would provide tax breaks to purchase
natural-gas fueled trucks. The critics say it would provide
unwarranted subsidies to companies such as  Clean Energy Fuels
Corp. (CLNE) , a Seal Beach,  California , maker of natural-gas fueling
stations in which Pickens is the biggest shareholder.  “We do not believe government should be picking ‘winners
and losers’ in the marketplace,” Phillip Ellender, president
and chief operating officer for government and public affairs at
Koch Companies Public Sector LLC, a subsidiary of Koch
Industries, wrote in a June 23 letter to Congress.  Charles Koch, 75, is chairman and chief executive officer
of Wichita, Kansas-based Koch Industries, which calls itself one
of the world’s largest closely held companies. He is also a co-
founder of Americans for Prosperity, a group that says it
advocates limited government and opposes the natural-gas
legislation.  ‘Working for America’  “So here you are: Charles Koch working for Koch,  Boone
Pickens  is working for America,” Pickens said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret
Brennan.”  Koch’s company imports crude oil, gains from ethanol
subsidies and is in the fertilizer business, which benefits when
natural gas is inexpensive, Pickens said.  “We oppose all government mandates and subsidies because
they artificially skew economic signals about price and demand,
thereby creating inefficiencies that divert resources from
productive activities to politically favored ones,” Ellender
said in an e-mailed response to Pickens. “To add a new subsidy
in these times of increasing unemployment and economic hardship
for so many Americans is irresponsible and bad public policy.”  $64,000 Credit  The Pickens bill, dubbed the Nat Gas Act, would provide tax
credits of as much as $64,000 for the purchase of natural gas
long-haul trucks, and lesser amounts for lighter vehicles.  On Nov. 17, Pickens told Bloomberg News the bill had “more
than a 50-50 chance” of passing in the lame-duck session of
Congress after that month’s midterm elections. In April, he told
CNBC the bill had overwhelming support on  Capitol Hill .  “Boone has an uncanny ability to predict the energy
markets,” spokesman Rosser said. “Clearly, predicting what
Washington will and won’t do is another matter. Boone is an
eternal optimist and remains convinced that Washington will act
soon and deliver the solution to four decades of failed promises
to address the OPEC oil crisis.”  Since the lobbying campaign against Pickens began, 14  House
Republicans  have withdrawn support for the legislation.
Representative Todd Akin, a Missouri Republican, grew
“increasingly uncomfortable with the level in which the U.S.
government would be dictating winners and losers in energy
development,” spokesman Steve Taylor said in an interview.  Bipartisan Support  The measure is still backed by 108 Democrats and 75
Republicans. That’s more bipartisan support than for a proposal
to expand offshore drilling that passed the House and failed in
the Senate.  “I’m actually beating him,” Pickens said of Koch today in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “Koch
knocked out 14, and we recovered about that.”  The fight over the Pickens plan underscores the obstacles
energy measures involving subsidies or tax breaks face as
 Washington ’s political debate centers on how to reduce the
federal deficit.  Companies Split  It also shows a split among companies over what to do with
the increasing U.S. natural-gas supply. Natural gas has sold at
an average of $4.288 per million British thermal units this
year, down from a high of $13.577 in 2008.  The U.S. has 2,543 trillion cubic feet of recoverable
natural-gas resources, according to the 2011 energy outlook by
the U.S. Energy Information Administration. That’s about 1,000
trillion cubic feet more than its estimate in 2000. Most of the
increase comes from projected supplies in shale formations,
where the industry is injecting water, chemicals and sand under
high pressure to release the gas from the rock.  AGL Resources Inc. (AGL)  of Atlanta and San Diego-based  Sempra
Energy (SRE) , which distribute natural gas, support the Pickens bill,
which would give them new customers.  Dow of Midland,  Michigan ;  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  of
Kingsport,  Tennessee ; and the American Forest and Paper
Association, a trade group in Washington, were among 61 chemical
and agricultural companies and trade groups signing a May letter
that said “the speed of our increasing dependency upon natural
gas” may raise costs and force “good U.S. manufacturing jobs
to overseas competitors.”  Representative John Sullivan, an Oklahoma Republican and a
sponsor of the Pickens measure, said subsidies are justified
given concern over oil imports and the 500,000 jobs the bill may
create.  “I’m not a tax-and-spend liberal,” Sullivan said in an
interview. “This is something we must do.”  $195,000 Truck  A long-haul truck that runs on natural gas can cost
$195,000 to buy, about $100,000 more than the same vehicle
powered by  diesel fuel , according to Vaughn Jennings, a
spokesman for Sullivan. The 8 million heavy-duty trucks in the
U.S. consume about 2 million barrels of oil a day, about 10
percent of the nation’s daily appetite for oil, he said.  About 112,000 natural-gas vehicles are on the road in the
U.S., according to Natural Gas Vehicles for America. The bill
will “jump-start the market,” Richard Kolodziej, president of
the Washington-based group, said in an interview.  ‘Billionaire Boondoggle’  The U.S. can’t afford breaks for particular energy
industries during a “debt crisis of massive proportions,” said
Kristy Campbell, a spokeswoman for the  American Conservative
Union , which advocates lower  government spending , in an e-mail.  The Alexandria, Virginia-based organization called the bill
a “T. Boone Pickens billionaire boondoggle” in a statement
last month, and said any Republican senators who support the
legislation risk getting a lower score on the group’s ratings of
conservatives.  Sullivan, who got a 100 percent rating from the group last
year, said the conservative group backed a broader energy bill
Republicans released in 2009 that included tax breaks for
natural-gas vehicles, in addition to expanding oil production in
places such as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.       The legislation is “the only energy bill out there” that
can pass Congress, Sullivan said in an interview.  As evidence of its broad appeal, backers point to support
from both President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Ron Paul , a
Texas Republican and Tea Party favorite.  “These credits reduce taxes for the production or purchase
of vehicles that run on American-made natural gas,” Paul said
in a statement released June 27. “These credits are not
subsidies.”  Obama called similar legislation to provide incentives for
the purchase of natural gas vehicles “a big deal” in a March
30 speech at  Georgetown University .  “Congress cannot manage but one bill at a time,” Pickens
said on Bloomberg TV, predicting anew that the Nat Gas Act will
pass this year. “So you’re either hung up on health care or
you’re hung up on the debt or you’re hung up on the budget.”  The bill is H.R. 1380.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  