-- 
Pimco Hires John Devir After He Changes Mind on Managing Harvard Endowment

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-12T19:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/pimco-hires-devir-for-credit-analysis-team-after-he-accepted-harvard-post.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, hired John Devir
for its credit-analyst team, after he accepted a position as a
managing director at  Harvard University ’s endowment.  Devir has joined Pimco as an executive vice president,  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for the  Newport Beach , California, fund
company, confirmed yesterday in an e-mail. Devir was set to
begin this month at Harvard Management Co., where he would have
been in charge of developed-market stocks at the world’s richest
school, the Cambridge, Massachusetts, university said in May.  Pimco Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian, who led the
Harvard endowment from February 2006 to December 2007, is adding
executives as he expands the firm’s lineup of funds. Jane Mendillo, El-Erian’s successor at Harvard, took over the
endowment in July 2008, two months before the  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy roiled equity markets, causing the
school’s investments to plunge a record 27 percent.  Devir didn’t return a call yesterday seeking comment. John Longbrake, a spokesman for Harvard, said the endowment was told
Devir “would no longer be joining the investment team.”  At Harvard, Devir would have reported to Stephen Blyth,
head of internal management, who, along with Mendillo, has
overseen an expansion of in-house managers at the $27.6 billion
endowment.  Devir, a graduate of Siena College in Loudonville,  New
York , was managing director and head of equity strategies at
Barclays Capital Inc., and previously, he spent three years in a
similar role at Lehman Brothers. Before that, he was director of
U.S. and European equity proprietary trading at  Credit Suisse
First Boston , according to Harvard’s May  statement .  Taborsky, Seidner  Since El-Erian joined Pimco for the second time in January
2008, the company hired Mark Taborsky, who previously oversaw
the endowment’s external managers, that year and Marc Seidner,
formerly the school’s head of U.S. fixed-income investing, in
2009. El-Erian is also Pimco’s co-investment chief.  The $243 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  is the world’s
largest mutual fund.  Pimco, synonymous with bond investing since it was co-
founded by  Bill Gross  four decades ago, said in 2009 it would
push into equities, and hired  Neel Kashkari , a former U.S.
Treasury official, to direct the effort. Since then, the firm
has hired portfolio managers from Franklin Resources Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and others to start stock mutual funds.  Harvard appointed Rene Canezin, also from Barclays, in
January as managing director of its portfolio-management team to
lead investments in debt, and in April it named Satu Parikh of
RBS Sempra Commodities LLP to head commodities investments.  Harvard’s fund climbed 11 percent in the year ended June
30, 2010, beating its own benchmark while trailing the median 13
percent gain of institutional funds, including public and
corporate pensions, endowments and foundations, tracked by
Wilshire Associates, a consulting firm in Santa Monica,
 California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  