-- 
Polish Inflation Probably Slowed to 4.8% in June, Easing Pressure on Rates

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-07-13T07:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/polish-inflation-probably-slowed-to-4-8-in-june-easing-pressure-on-rates.html
Polish inflation probably slowed in
June from the highest in almost a decade, easing pressure on the
central bank to raise  interest rates  for a fifth time this year.  Consumer prices rose 4.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 5 percent in May, according to the median estimate
of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Prices probably
advanced 0.1 percent on the month. The  Central Statistical
Office  will release the data at 2 p.m. today in Warsaw.  The figures support the central bank’s forecast that four
interest rate increases earlier this year will be enough to slow
consumer-price growth to the 2.5 percent target. Policy makers
left the benchmark at 4.5 percent last week, saying they may
raise rates again if prospects for meeting the goal worsen.  Inflation may have slowed because of “a deep decline in
fuel prices as well as summer sales of clothes,” said  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at Bank Pekao SA. The central bank may
boost rates in September because “prices may rise again in
coming months,” he said.  The central bank-led Monetary Policy Council holds its next
rate meeting Sept. 6-7.  Crude  oil prices  fell 7.2 percent in June, paring their 12-
month gain to 26 percent. Energy costs may drop further after
the German newspaper Die Welt said this week that the European
Central Bank wants to expand assistance to  Italy , heightening
speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will curb economic
growth and demand for commodities.  “Further decline in external demand and commodities prices
may prevent policy makers from raising interest rates for
another month,” Mrowiec said.  East  Europe  Peers  Hungary ’s central bank has kept its main rain at 6 percent
since increases in November, December and January. Czech policy
makers have kept their benchmark at 0.75 percent since May 2010.  Investors on the  derivatives market  expect another half
percentage-point of rate increases this year. Six-month forward-
rate agreements are trading 48 basis points above the three-
month Warsaw interbank offered rate, down from 64 before the
June rate increase, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The zloty weakened to 4.0326 per euro at 8:50 a.m. in
Warsaw from 4.0296 late yesterday, falling for the sixth day in
seven. The yield on two-year bonds rose to 4.87 percent in
Warsaw, near a one-month high, from 4.84 percent yesterday.  Price growth probably peaked in May, when it reached the
highest since August 2001, according to the  Finance Ministry  and
central bank. Inflation will stay at “an elevated level” in
the coming months, slowing to 4 percent at the end of the year,
according to a central bank report published July 11.  Inflation Slows  The inflation rate fell for the first time in seven months
in June. It will drop to 2.7 percent next year and 2.4 percent
in 2013 as economic growth lags behind earlier predictions, the
central bank said. Gross domestic product will expand 2.9
percent in 2013, down from a March projection of 3.1 percent,
according to the report.  The bank’s forecast for a 4 percent inflation rate by Dec.
31 “supports a scenario of no rate increases through year-end,
providing interest rates in the European Union are unchanged,”
said Lukasz Tarnawa, chief economist at PKO Bank Polski SA.
Price growth above 4 percent would trigger a quarter percentage-
point increase, most likely in November, he said.  The  European Central Bank  raised its benchmark to 1.5
percent this week in its second quarter percentage-point
increase since April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  