-- 
Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Little Changed in May From Four-Month Low

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-little-changed-from-four-month-low.html
The trade deficit probably held
near a four-month low in May, helping to prop up the U.S.
recovery, economists said before a report today.  The gap was little changed at $44.1 billion compared with
the $43.7 billion shortfall in April, according to the median of
73 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  A weaker dollar and growing economies overseas may keep
bolstering demand for American-made goods, benefiting companies
like  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  At the same time, falling oil costs
and a slowdown in  consumer spending  may curb imports.  “Trade has been a good supporter of growth,” said  Lindsey Piegza , an economist at FTN Financial in  New York . “It’s
certainly not what’s going to drive the recovery -- we need to
see the consumer sector comeback -- but it certainly has
contributed to sustaining the recovery.”  The Commerce Department’s trade figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from gaps of $40 billion to $48 billion.  Also today, the  Federal Reserve  at 2 p.m. will release
minutes from the June 21-22 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee . In a statement following the gathering last month,
the policy makers noted “that the economic recovery is
continuing at a moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than
the Committee had expected.”  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.9 percent
annual pace from January through March after growing at a 3.1
percent rate in the final three months of 2010, according to
figures from the Commerce Department.  Boost to Growth  Trade helped damp that slowdown, contributing 0.14
percentage point to gross domestic product. Economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York are among those projecting
that trade will add to growth this quarter as well.  The dollar dropped 9.5 percent over the 12 months ended
July 1 against a weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners. That will probably keep
propelling sales to buyers in growing countries like China and
 Brazil .  “We’re in an environment of cheap U.S. dollars and with a
balance between supply and demand, both domestically and around
the world,” said C. Larry Pope, chief executive officer of
Smithfield Foods, owner of the world’s biggest hog
slaughterhouse.  “The industry has been reporting quarter after quarter
improved export volumes,” largely tied to Asian markets, Pope
said during a June 16 call with analysts.  On the import side, goods shipped into the U.S. may receive
a temporary boost in coming months as Japanese suppliers recover
from disruptions caused by the natural disaster in March.
Purchases of goods from  Japan  dropped by a record $3 billion in
April, according to Commerce Department data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  