-- 
Trade Deficit of U.S. Unexpectedly Surges on Increase in Crude-Oil Imports

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-12T20:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/trade-deficit-of-u-s-unexpectedly-surges-on-increase-in-crude-oil-imports.html
The trade deficit in the U.S. widened
in May to the highest level in almost three years, reflecting a
surge in the cost of imported  crude oil .  The gap grew 15 percent to $50.2 billion, exceeding all
forecasts of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the
biggest since October 2008, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . Exports held near April’s record.  A weaker U.S. dollar and growing economies overseas may
keep bolstering demand for American-made products, benefiting
companies like  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  The deficit may narrow as
the recent drop in oil costs and a slowdown in consumer spending
curb imports, indicating trade will help prop up the world’s
largest economy.  “Oil has obviously come off, so you’re going to have a
significant drop back there,” said  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S.
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. “This quarter,
trade will certainly make a strong positive contribution to GDP
growth. We’ve had rapid growth in  developing countries .”  Federal Reserve policy makers were divided on whether the
economy needed additional stimulus, minutes of the central
bank’s June 21-22 meeting showed today. Some members said a
further slowdown in growth would signal a need for additional
support, while others said the growing risk of inflation would
require withdrawing stimulus sooner than currently anticipated.  Stocks fell after a cut in Ireland’s debt rating snuffed
out a late-day rally propelled by the Fed minutes as officials
didn’t rule out taking additional steps to spur the recovery.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent to 1,313.64
at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Exceeds Forecasts  The  trade gap  was projected to widen from an initially
reported $43.7 billion in April, according to the median
forecast of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Estimates
ranged from deficits of $40 billion to $48 billion. The Commerce
Department revised the April shortfall to $43.6 billion.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit rose to $47.8 billion from $43.9 billion. The second-
quarter average so far remains lower than $50.4 billion average
in the first three months of the year, indicating trade will
probably contribute to growth for the April through June period.  Trade helped damp the first quarter’s economic slowdown,
contributing 0.14 percentage point to gross domestic product.
Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York  are among
those projecting that trade will add to growth this quarter.  Near-Record Imports  Imports rose 2.6 percent to $225.1 billion, second only to
the record $231.6 billion reached in July 2008. Purchases of
food and capital goods produced overseas reached records in May,
the report showed. The latter is a sign business investment in
the U.S. continues to advance.  A barrel of crude oil cost an average $108.70 in May, the
Commerce Department said, the most since August 2008. The
petroleum gap for the month was the biggest since October 2008.  Excluding petroleum, the trade gap rose to $19.8 billion
from $17.5 billion in April.  Exports decreased 0.5 percent to $174.9 billion, also the
second-highest on record and depressed by a drop in foreign
demand for industrial supplies like fuel oil and cotton.
Purchases of American-made capital equipment were the strongest
ever.  “The big picture is exports will continue to rise as
imports rise more slowly because we’re getting some relief on
our imported oil bill,”  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, said before the
report.  Lower Dollar  A 9.5 percent drop in the dollar over the 12-months ended
July 1 against a weighted basket of currencies from the
country’s biggest trading partners will probably keep propelling
sales to buyers in growing countries like China and  Brazil .  “We’re in an environment of cheap U.S. dollars and with a
balance between supply and demand, both domestically and around
the world,” said C. Larry Pope, chief executive officer of
Smithfield Foods Inc., owner of the world’s biggest hog
slaughterhouse.  “The industry has been reporting quarter after quarter
improved export volumes,” largely tied to Asian markets, Pope
said during a June 16 call with analysts.  Goods shipped into the U.S. may receive a temporary boost
in coming months as Japanese suppliers recover from disruptions
caused by the natural disaster in March. Imports from  Japan 
dropped by $500 million to $8.3, narrowing the U.S. trade gap
with the Asian nation to $2.6 billion from $3.6 billion.  The trade gap with  China , on the other hand, climbed to $25
billion from $21.6 billion in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  