-- 
Ralph’s, Albertson’s Profit Sharing Amid Strike Needs Scrutiny, Court Says

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-12T23:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ralph-s-albertson-s-profit-sharing-amid-strike-needs-scrutiny-court-says.html
Safeway Inc. (SWY) ,  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s
Albertson’s and  Kroger Co. (KR) ’s Ralph’s supermarket chains may have
violated antitrust law with their 2003 accord to share profits
during a strike, a federal appeals court ruled.  Today, an eleven-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals
in San Francisco said the agreement “is not exempt” from
antitrust scrutiny. A three-judge panel last year overturned a
lower-court ruling that the agreement, reached during a conflict
with the companies’ unions, didn’t violate antitrust law.  “More than a ‘quick look’ is required to ascertain its
impact on competition,” according to today’s ruling.  The supermarket companies had argued that the agreement,
which called for sharing profits if any of the three were
singled out for a strike, wasn’t anticompetitive because it
lowered prices for consumers by reducing labor costs.  California  sued the three grocers in 2004, saying the so-
called mutual strike assistance agreement violated federal
antitrust laws and led to higher prices. A 141-day strike and
lockout at the companies’ Southern California stores was the
longest in the industry’s history and was mainly over proposals
requiring workers to share health-care costs and establish a
two-tier pay system.  Luke Friedrich, a spokesman for Eden Prairie, Minnesota-
based Supervalu, and Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Cincinnati-
based Kroger, said their respective companies are evaluating
today’s ruling.  Teena Massingill, a spokeswoman for Pleasanton, California-
based Safeway, owner of the Vons brand, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The case is State of California v. Safeway, 08-55671, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  