-- 
Rand Posts Biggest Three-Day Decline Since March on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-12T15:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/rand-has-biggest-three-day-decline-since-march-on-european-debt-crisis.html
The rand fell to its lowest level in
six weeks versus the dollar and bond yields rose as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen sapped appetite for higher-
yielding, emerging market assets.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest economy depreciated as
much as 1.7 percent to 6.9505 per dollar, the weakest level
since May 27. It traded 0.8 percent down at 6.8860 as of 4:30
p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decrease since July 7 to 3.2
percent, the largest three-day retreat on a closing basis since
May 13.  Emerging-market stocks tumbled the most in seven weeks, and
commodity prices slumped for a third day amid growing concern
the region’s debt crisis was spreading. The rand pared losses,
tracking the euro, after Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden
said selective default on Greek debt isn’t an option envisaged
by policy makers.  “It would be surprising if, against this backdrop, the
broader market did not retain a risk-off approach,” Tradition
Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in an e-mailed note. “One would be hard
pressed not to argue for a long-dollar position.”  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, the currency
for 45 percent of  South Africa ’s exports, with a statistical
correlation of 0.823 this quarter. A value of 1 would mean they
moved in lock step.  The three-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
dollar climbed 78 basis points, or 0.78 percentage point, to
14.89 today, the biggest jump since Nov. 23, indicating options
traders see more price swings in coming weeks. The premium of
three-month options contracts granting the right to sell the
rand versus the dollar over those for buying rand rose to 3.5
percentage points, the strongest on a closing basis since
January, from 3.16 yesterday, as traders raised bets the rand
will drop.  South African oil and metal industry workers entered a
second day of strikes for higher wages, adding to negative
investor sentiment weighing on the rand, Standard Bank Group
Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan said in a
research note.  Bonds Decline  “We expect global themes to dominate the rand,” the
Standard Bank analysts said. “Nonetheless, intensifying local
industrial action could also fuel extended rand weakness
today.”  Bonds declined for a second day. The 6.75 percent
securities due 2021 dropped 44 cents to 88.80 rand, boosting the
yield seven basis points to 8.46 percent, the highest on a
closing basis since May 18. The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 slid
22 cents to 120.91 rand, driving the yield up five basis points
to 7.54 percent.  “ Risk aversion  is expected to remain the name of the game
today, which is likely to keep bond yields moving higher,”
according to Tradition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  