-- 
U.S. 3-Year Note Yields Rise as Europe Concern Eases, U.S. Auctions Debt

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-12T18:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/treasuries-stay-lower-after-3-year-note-sale.html
     July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Treasury three-year note yields rose
from the lowest level since November as concern eased that
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is worsening and the U.S. sold
$32 billion of the debt in the first of three sales this week.  The auction, the first since the  Federal Reserve  completed
its $600 billion of bond purchases in June, drew the highest
demand from direct bidders, or non-primary dealer investors,
since December. Ten-year notes were little changed as minutes of
the Fed’s last meeting showed policy makers disagreed on whether
further stimulus will be needed if the economy remains weak.  “There was strong demand across the board, given what’s
going on around the world and the concession we had in the  bond
market ,” said James Combias, New York-based head of Treasury
trading at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “It makes for people to feel
fairly comfortable buying these notes. The auctions tomorrow and
Thursday are longer duration instruments, and we may see much
more volatility.”  The yield on the current three-year note rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.63 percent at 2:31 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell
six basis points earlier to 0.55 percent, the lowest since Nov.
9. The 0.75 percent security due in June 2015 fell 2/32, or 63
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 11/32. Ten-year yields were
little changed at 2.92 percent.  Today’s sale drew a yield of 0.670 percent, compared with
forecast of 0.680 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 10
primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.22, versus an average of 3.14 for the past 10 sales.  First Since QE2  “The auction was especially good considering it was the
first auction since the end of QE2,” said Thomas Simons, a
government debt economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
referring to the Fed’s Treasury purchases under the second round
of quantitative easing, The firm is obliged as a primary dealer
to bid in U.S. debt auctions.
     Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 34.5 percent of the notes sold today,
compared with an average of 34.7 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 16.5 percent,
compared with an average of 12.8 percent for the past 10
auctions.  The June offering of the debt drew a yield of 0.765
percent. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $21 billion in 10-
year debt tomorrow and $13 billion of 30 year bonds on July 14.  FOMC Minutes  Minutes released today of the central bank’s  Federal Open
Market Committee  meeting June 21-22 showed some officials said
the Fed “might have to consider providing additional monetary
stimulus, especially if economic growth remained too slow to
meaningfully reduce the  unemployment rate  in the medium run.”
Others thought the next focus might be “steps to begin removing
policy accommodation” as conditions improve, the minutes showed.  Today’s auction came three weeks before the Aug. 2 debt-
ceiling deadline as Republican and Democratic congressional
leaders try to agree on cutting deficits and raising the
government’s $14.3 trillion limit on borrowing.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday at a White House
press conference he’ll continue to press congressional leaders
for “the largest possible deal” on a package of deficit cuts
in the negotiations.  Obama said he won’t sign a short-term extension of the debt
limit and plans to continue meeting with members of Congress
every day until an acceptable agreement is reached.  Sovereign-Debt Crisis  Treasuries climbed earlier as investors sought safety after
a meeting of euro-area finance ministers yesterday failed to
quell the region’s escalating sovereign-debt crisis, which began
in Greece.  Riskier assets cut losses as former  Bank of England  policy
maker  Willem Buiter  said the  European Central Bank  will revive
its bond-buying program to safeguard this week’s auction of
Italian bonds.  “The ECB will intervene on whatever scale is necessary to
allow  Italy  to conduct its auction on Thursday,” Buiter, now
chief economist at Citigroup Inc., told reporters in  London .
“If the ECB doesn’t come in, the Italian bond auction is likely
to fail.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent after
falling earlier as much as 0.3 percent. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
stocks was little changed after earlier tumbling 1.3 percent.  Spanish and Italian government 10-year bond yields reached
13-year highs before erasing today’s increases and falling as
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said a consensus had been reached on private investors’
role in solving  Greece ’s debt crisis.  The U.S. yield curve, the difference between two- and 10-
year Treasury note yields, flattened for a sixth straight day
before the sale, the longest since May. It decreased to 2.54
percentage points, down from a high this year of 2.93 percentage
points on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  