-- 
U.S. Three-Year Notes Drop First Time in Three Days Before Treasury Sale

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-12T15:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/treasuries-rise-a-third-day-as-asian-shares-extend-stock-losses-worldwide.html
Treasury three-year notes fell for
the first time in three days, pushing yields up from the lowest
since November, before the U.S. sells $32 billion of the debt in
the first of three note and bond auctions this week.  Benchmark 10-year notes were little changed after surging
earlier as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread stoked demand
for U.S. government debt’s safety even as U.S. lawmakers failed
to agree on a deficit plan three weeks before the government
exhausts its borrowing authority. Stocks pared earlier losses
and Spanish and Italian bonds erased declines.  “The market is spinning its wheels, waiting for news on
Europe, and meanwhile we still have to deal with the looming
supply,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader at Societe
Generale SA in New York, one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The market is not going to be
very excited buying auctions near these levels, but the European
situation isn’t going away, so we should stay near these levels
until there is news.”  Yields on the three-year note rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.63 percent at 11:30 a.m. in  New
York , Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. They fell earlier six
basis points to 0.55 percent, the lowest since Nov. 9. The price
of the 0.75 percent security due in June 2014 decreased 2/32, or
63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 11/32.  The 10-year note yield fell as much as 11 basis points to
2.81 percent, the lowest since Dec. 1, before trading little
changed at 2.91 percent. One-month bill rates were little
changed at 0.01 percent.  Three-Year Sale  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.672
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.765 percent at
the previous sale of the securities on June 7.  Investors bid last month for 3.28 times the amount of
three-year debt offered. The average ratio for the past 10
auctions is 3.14. Indirect bidders, which include foreign
central banks, bought 35.6 percent of the notes sold in June,
versus an average of 34.7 percent at the past 10 auctions.  Three-year notes have returned 2.2 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 3.5 percent for Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday at a White House
press conference he’ll continue to press congressional leaders
for “the largest possible deal” on a package of deficit cuts
as he seeks to raise the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling
before the U.S. exhausts its borrowing authority on Aug. 2.  Obama said he won’t sign a short-term extension of the debt
limit and plans to continue meeting with members of Congress
every day until an acceptable agreement is reached.  Likely ‘Soft’  “This week’s auctions are likely to prove soft given the
drop in yield over the last two sessions, which have created a
negative concession,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“With the debt ceiling looming, that will restrain some of the
buyers out there.”  The U.S. plans to auction $21 billion of 10-year debt
tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on July 14. The sizes
are unchanged from the last time the U.S. offered the maturities
in June.  The  U.S. trade deficit  widened in May to the highest level
in almost three years, Commerce Department data showed today in
 Washington , reflecting a surge in crude oil imports. The gap
grew 15 percent to $50.2 billion, exceeding the forecasts of all
73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the biggest since
October 2008. Exports held near April’s record.  The Fed will release minutes of its June meeting at 2 p.m.  ‘ECB Will Intervene’  Riskier assets cut losses today as former  Bank of England 
policy maker  Willem Buiter  said the  European Central Bank  will
revive its bond-buying program to safeguard this week’s auction
of Italian bonds.  “The ECB will intervene on whatever scale is necessary to
allow  Italy  to conduct its auction on Thursday,” Buiter, now
chief economist at Citigroup Inc., told reporters in  London 
today. “If the ECB doesn’t come in, the Italian bond auction is
likely to fail.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks was down 0.2 percent after
earlier tumbling 1.3 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 0.2 percent after falling as much as 0.3 percent.  The yield curve, the difference between two- and 10-year
Treasury note yields, flattened for a sixth straight day, the
longest since May. It decreased to 2.53 percentage points, down
from a high this year of 2.93 percentage points on Feb. 7.  Inflation Expectations  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was little changed at 2.30 percentage points.
It reached a high this year of 2.67 percentage points in April.
The 10-year average is 2.1 percentage points.  Spanish and Italian government 10-year bond yields reached
13-year highs before erasing today’s increases and falling as
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said a consensus had been reached on private investors’
role in solving  Greece ’s debt crisis.  “The economic backdrop is still weak, but the primary
force driving the markets is the European spread widening and
tightening,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government bond
trading at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in
New York. The firm is obligated as a primary dealer to
participate in U.S. debt auctions. “These types of environments
are not too good for auctions; unless we build in a significant
discount, the auction may be tenuous today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  