-- 
Three-Leg Caesar Finds Home, 20,000 Racing Greyhounds Looking

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/three-leg-caesar-finds-home-20-000-racing-greyhounds-looking-commentary.html
Three sleek greyhounds greet me at
the train station in suburban  Port Washington ,  New York .
Attached to them is Peter Romeo, who is mostly undeterred by the
tangle of leashes at his legs.  “Contrary to what everyone thinks, they are really not
very hyper,” says Romeo, 54, who, with his wife Holly Klokis,
55, has turned their Long Island house into a modest shelter for
greyhounds. “For the most part, they are extremely mellow and
quiet.”  It’s true. The dogs show polite restraint, even in the
excitement of a walk with a stranger. The even-tempered nature
is a big plus since thousands of greyhounds are, like these
three, racetrack retirees in need of a refuge.  The  Humane Society of the U.S.  says the racing industry is
responsible for overbreeding, which leads to too many unwanted
dogs. Many of these natural runners suffer from confined living
conditions. Others are cruelly destroyed.  According to the  National Greyhound Association , about
20,000 find homes every year, most of them through the 300 or so
adopting organizations across  North America . These are usually
retired racers or dogs bred for the track that never made the
cut.  About 10 percent can’t find new owners, however, and many
are euthanized every year. This is one reason why people like
Romeo have opened their homes to the noble creature. That, and
the greyhound’s congenial disposition.  “As soon as they are born they are handled, so they are
very used to humans,” says Romeo. “They are extremely
affectionate.”  Foster Dogs  When we arrive at the house, a fourth dog, Caesar, snoozes
peacefully on the living-room floor. Caesar, who lost a leg to
osteosarcoma, was Romeo’s first rescued greyhound 10 years ago.
Adopters are often so smitten they come back for a second dog;
some, like Romeo, don’t stop there. Now with four dogs (and four
cats), the household has reached capacity.  Besides a permanent home for their own dogs, Romeo and
Klokis also provide a temporary stopover for new retirees
awaiting adoption. In the past three years they have shepherded
17 foster dogs to loving homes, networking with local groups
 Long Island GreyHound Transfer  and  Grateful Greyhounds , two
nonprofits that help place retirees.  Potential adopters are screened to make sure they are
serious about their commitment, and that their dogs will have
plenty of room to exercise but not too much.  “That’s one thing about greyhounds,” says Romeo. “You
can’t let them run free because they run so far and so fast that
they get lost.”  Said to be the oldest pure breed in existence, the
greyhound was originally raised for hunting in the  Middle East 
at least 4,000 years ago.  Living in Crates  For large dogs, they are said to make excellent pets for
city dwellers. They don’t bark much, and they are so used to
living in crates from their days at the track, even a small
studio will seem expansive to them.  There are no clear numbers on how many need new homes, but
one thing is certain: Greyhound racing is disappearing in the
U.S. With a stagnant economy and the popularity of racing
waning, track owners are shutting their gates. The latest
casualty is  VictoryLand  of Shorter,  Alabama , which stopped live
racing in May, citing lost revenue.  “They want to save dollars, and we want to save dogs,”
says Christine Dorchak, president and general counsel for  Grey2k
USA , a nonprofit group that advocates ending the racing industry
altogether.  Racetracks Vanish  Since she co-founded the organization in 2001, the number
of states that allow racing has dropped to 7 from 15. Today
there are only 25 tracks in country, more than half of them in
 Florida .  “We’re really happy seeing greyhounds becoming dogs
again,” says Dorchak. “No one is interested in watching dogs
run around in circles anymore.”  Even Florida came very close to shutting its tracks in May,
with legislation introduced that would have relieved casino
operators of the requirement to hold live races. The bill didn’t
pass. Racetracks generated $5.2 million in  tax revenue  in fiscal
2010, down from more than $40 million in 2000, according to
 Florida’s Department of Business and Professional Regulation .  It was in the best interest of the dogs that the
legislation didn’t pass. If it had, about 8,000 dogs would have
needed homes immediately, overwhelming the loose-knit network of
adoption facilities.  It’s better to let the racing industry vanish by degrees,
as it seems to be doing on its own, and gradually ease these
noble creatures into caring homes, where they belong.  (Mike  Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 