-- 
Republicans Try for Upset Win in Southern California U.S. House Election

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/republicans-try-for-upset-win-in-california-u-s-house-election.html
A Republican businessman is vying
for an upset in a U.S. House special election in  Southern
California  today, running a largely self-financed race in a bid
for victory in a traditionally Democratic district.  The campaign to replace U.S. Representative Jane Harman, a
Democrat, pits Republican Craig Huey, making his first bid for
public office, against Democrat Janice Hahn, a Los Angeles City
Council member and scion of a prominent local political family.  Harman gave up her seat early this year to become president
and director of the Washington-based  Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars . She won re-election in 2010
by about 25 percentage points, and in the 2008 presidential vote
 Barack Obama  carried the House district by 30 percentage points
-- evidence of its Democratic tilt.  Yet with unemployment at 11.7 percent in  California  as of
May, the U.S. and the state struggling with their budgets and
turnout low in special elections, Republicans see an opportunity
for an upset victory.  “On a traditional political landscape, Craig Huey
shouldn’t have any chance of winning at all,” said  Dan Schnur ,
head of the  Jesse Unruh Institute of Politics  at the  University
of Southern California  in Los Angeles. Huey could win, though,
because “angry voters do unusual things,” Schnur said.  South Bay   The district encompasses much of Los Angeles County’s South
Bay area, including several beach communities. Long a center for
the defense and aerospace industries, the district’s major
employers include Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)   “We’re fighting hard in that race,” House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat whose district is based in
 San Francisco , told the Washington Post on June 22. “It’s not
as easy a race, as overwhelming a race and Democratic seat, as
people like to think it is.”  Huey, 61, has mobilized the district’s fiscally
conservative Tea Party activists in his campaign, voters who
helped him finish second to Hahn among 15 candidates in a May 17
primary in which the two top finishers -- regardless of party --
would face off in the special election. California Secretary of
State Debra Bowen, a Democrat who some state political analysts
had predicted would emerge as Hahn’s opponent, trailed Huey by
less than 1,000 votes.  Self-Financing  Huey, owner of a  marketing company , has poured more than
$880,000 of his own money into his campaign, accounting for the
bulk of the almost $1.1 million he has collected, according to
 MAPLight.org , a nonpartisan research organization based in
Berkeley, California.  He has criticized Hahn as a “career politician” who
supports the type of policies responsible for federal and state
fiscal woes. He pledged to work to cut  government spending  and
taxes if sent to Washington.  Hahn, 59, is the daughter of a longtime  Los Angeles  county
commissioner, the late Kenneth Hahn, and the sister of former
Los Angeles Mayor James Hahn. Janice Hahn first won her city
council seat in 2001, and in her current campaign is backed by
women’s organizations, labor unions and environmental groups.
She has raised about $1.3 million, most of it coming from
individual contributions, according to the MAPLight group.  Palin Link  In ads, Hahn has linked Huey to former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, and
accused him of pushing an “extremist right-wing agenda” that
would benefit big business.  Taking a cue from Democrat Kathy Hochul, who in May won a
House special election in a traditionally Republican district in
 New York  by focusing her fire on a Republican proposal to
privatize Medicare, Hahn has sought to link Huey to the plan.  A controversial YouTube  ad  by a filmmaker unaffiliated with
Huey’s campaign that targeted Hahn also has figured prominently
in the race. The ad superimposes Hahn’s face on a stripper’s
body and links her to gang members. Huey distanced himself from
the ad, denouncing it as sexist and racist.  Organizing for America, the grassroots network from Obama’s
2008 campaign, asked supporters to make thousands of phone calls
for Hahn last week. The  California Republican Assembly , which
bills itself as the state’s oldest and largest Republican
volunteer group, has mobilized to get out the vote for Huey.  Harman, 66, had first been elected to Congress in 1992. She
served three terms before unsuccessfully seeking the Democratic
gubernatorial nomination in California in 1998. She reclaimed
her House seat in the in 2000 elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 