-- 
Rice May Extend Gains as Supplies Tighten on Thailand Traders’ Hoarding

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-07-12T10:59:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/rice-may-extend-gains-as-supplies-tighten-on-thailand-traders-hoarding.html
Rice prices in  Thailand , the world’s
biggest exporter, may extend gains as supplies tighten at the
end of the harvest season and millers hoard the grain on
expectations of an increase in government’s purchase price.  Export prices of rice may climb 49 percent to $800 per
metric ton in the fourth quarter as the newly elected government
led by Pheu Thai Party implements a pledge to buy the grain from
farmers above market rates, according to a survey of four
exporters, millers and traders.  Rising prices in Thailand may support a 60 percent jump in
rice futures in Chicago and increase global food costs tracked
by the  United Nations  that advanced in June for the 10th time in
the past 12 months. Rice rose globally in June, “reflecting
strong import demand and uncertainty over export prices in
Thailand,” the  Food and Agriculture Organization  said last week.  “Costlier rice from Thailand, which accounts for about 30
percent of worldwide shipments, will drive prices higher around
the globe,” said Sumeth Laomoraphorn, chief executive officer
of C.P. Trading Co., Thailand’s fourth-largest exporter.  Shipments surged 58 percent from the beginning of the year
to July 4 to 6.44 million tons, according to the Thai Rice
Exporters Association. The country may ship more than 10 million
tons this year, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said June 20.  “With higher prices, importers will search elsewhere for
more competitive supplies or opt for alternative food types,”
Bernard Fig, Cape Town-based trader at Rice-Tic ( South Africa )
Ltd., who has been trading rice for 40 years, said in an e-mail.  Asia’s Benchmark  Rice for September delivery advanced as much as 1 percent
to $15.79 per 100 pounds on the  Chicago  Board of Trade before
trading at $15.645 at 6:18 p.m. Singapore time. Futures climbed
to $16.265 on July 8, the highest level since Feb. 9.  Thai export prices are a benchmark for the industry. The
price of the 100 percent grade-B variety, which is set weekly,
advanced 3.5 percent to $537 a ton after Pheu Thai Party won a
majority vote in the national election on July 3. Incoming Thai
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra won the election on pledges
to raise the minimum wage and guaranteed rice prices for farmers.  Pheu Thai is a successor to parties loyal to ex-premier
 Thaksin Shinawatra . Yingluck, Thaksin’s sister, plans to buy
unmilled rice from farmers for a guaranteed price of 15,000 baht
($493) per ton, 50 percent higher than the current level.  The new government plans to start buying rice from farmers
around November to coincide with the main harvest, Yinglucktold
reporters in Bangkok today. Thailand will not cut prices to
compete with neighboring countries as the country’s rice is
known for its quality, she said.  Unmilled rice in Thailand has advanced almost 10 percent to
10,000 baht a ton on July 11, compared with 9,100 baht on July 1,
according to Thai Rice Mills Association.  ‘Snap Up Supplies’  Millers are holding back supplies as they expect the new
government to implement the campaign pledge, Chanchai
Rakthananon, president of  Thai Rice Mills Association , said by
phone from Bangkok.  “Millers snapped up limited supplies, offering above
market prices, and slowed rice selling on optimism the prices
will increase further when the government implements rice buying
scheme,” he said. “Supplies have decreased as it is the end of
the harvest of minor crop and overseas demand remains strong.”  Minor crop in Thailand accounts for about 28 percent of the
nation’s total production of about 33 million tons. It’s
harvested from March to May and from August to September.  Overseas demand of around one million tons each a month has
also reduced supplies, driving prices higher, Sumeth of C.P.
Trading said by phone from Bangkok. Higher prices will
eventually reduce Thai shipments, he added.  ‘Cheap Rice Era’  “It is indeed a bit more difficult to buy rice from
Thailand as millers are not willing to sell,” Jac Luyendijk,
chief executive officer of Swiss Agri Trading SA, which trades
about $300 million tons a year with Thailand and  Vietnam . “At
the same time it is very difficult to sell rice to West Africa
at today’s prices because it becomes too expensive.”  African countries account for about half of Thailand’s
exports, while the remainder is shipped to Asia,  Middle East ,
Europe and the U.S.  “An era of cheap rice has come to an end,” Chanchai of
Thai mills association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  