-- 
RIM Has Six Months to ‘Prove’ Co-CEOs Need Chairman Title

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-13T20:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/rim-s-grumpy-investors-seek-new-chairman-for-more-active-board.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  has six
months to “prove” that its co-chief executive officers need to
retain their co-chairmen titles for business reasons or face the
reintroduction of a proposal to split the roles, said the
investor that originally called for the change.  Northwest & Ethical Investments LP last month made a
proposal to split the roles of chairman and CEO to increase
board oversight, and investors were originally slated to vote on
the issue at the company’s annual meeting yesterday in Waterloo,
Ontario. The shareholder withdrew the proposal after RIM tried
to make the case the chairman title helps co-CEOs  Jim Balsillie 
and  Mike Lazaridis  generate business, particularly overseas. The
company also agreed to form a committee to study its leadership
and examine the importance of the chairman post.  “We wanted to give them a chance to prove that there is an
actual business necessity,” Jennifer Coulson, manager of
corporate engagement at Northwest & Ethical, said in an
interview at the shareholder meeting.  RIM has come under pressure from investors to shake up its
management after losing market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
handsets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. RIM’s share of
U.S. smartphone subscribers dropped 4.2 percentage points to
24.7 percent for the three months ending in May as Apple and
Android gained, according to ComScore Inc.  Packed Meeting Hall  Inside the former whiskey warehouse where the meeting was
held, a meeting hall was packed as over 100 people stood crowded
around about 250 seated shareholders. After waiters served hors
d’oeuvres and drinks, the two CEOs faced shareholder questions
about how the company would compete more effectively.  “We will get better,” Lazaridis told investors. A new
touchscreen BlackBerry Bold will be one of seven new phones to
come out this year, and RIM will also introduce a faster, 4G
version of the PlayBook tablet in September, he said.  RIM’s stock tumbled 49 percent last quarter in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, the worst three-month performance since 2002.
The shares dropped 33 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $28.15 at 4 p.m.
and have dropped 52 percent this year.  The share decline has triggered speculation about a
possible takeover, and the co-CEOs were asked by a shareholder
whether the company was prepared if it became the target of a
hostile bid. Balsillie said the company has a plan in place and
outside advisers ready in case of such an offer.  Seeking More Time  Northwest & Ethical will help draft the new committee’s
mandate and insisted that the panel reach a conclusion by Jan.
31 so that the proposal could be reintroduced in time for the
2012 annual meeting if necessary, Coulson said. Originally, RIM
had wanted longer to study the issue, she said.  “We wanted to secure the potential for filing again next
year,” Coulson said. “So if we’re not satisfied, we have that
opportunity.”  The firm’s original proposal won support from Glass Lewis &
Co. and Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., proxy firms
that advise shareholders how to vote on such issues.  RIM has said the board’s independent lead director,  John Richardson , already fulfills the typical role of a chairman at
other companies and ensures the directors’ independent
oversight. RIM’s shareholders yesterday re-elected Richardson,
Balsillie and Lazaridis as directors, along with the company’s
five other board members, with more than 90 percent support for
each director. Claudia Kotchka, a former  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
executive, was elected as a new director.  RIM said the leadership committee will study the merits of
a lead director versus a chairman and the “business necessity”
for the company’s co-CEOs to hold “significant” board-level
titles. That hasn’t been enough to placate some shareholders who
want a move toward an independent chairman sooner.  ‘Worst Solution’  “The co-CEO, co-chairman structure is probably the worst
solution of all,” said Philip Larrieu, investment officer at
the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, which manages
$156 billion, including 450,000 shares of RIM.  About 40 percent of S&P 500 companies have already made the
change to an independent chairman, up from 23 percent in 2000,
and the split roles will become the standard, he said.  “If they come back with a structure that’s similar to what
they have now, even if NEI doesn’t come back and ask for a vote,
someone else will,” said Larrieu.  “This is just delaying the
inevitable.”  Steve Grzenda Jr., a 49-year-old accountant and shareholder
who attended the RIM meeting with his father, said it may be
time for change at the top of the company.  “There comes a point where there has to be change,” said
Grzenda, leaning against the meeting hall’s back wall. “Someone
has to be accountable.”  As the meeting ended, the warehouse’s sound system blared
Bob Seger’s “Against the Wind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  