-- 
Roger Clemens Jury Chosen to Hear Trial for Perjury in Steroid Use Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-07-13T11:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/roger-clemens-jury-chosen-to-hear-trial-for-perjury-in-steroid-use-case.html
A jury of 10 women and two men will
decide whether ex-New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens  lied to
Congress when he said he never used performance-enhancing drugs.  The panel was selected from an original pool of 60 jurors
over almost four days of questioning. Two men and two women will
serve as alternate jurors. Opening statements will begin today.  The 12 jurors include a lawyer-turned-yoga instructor, a
retired  District of Columbia  public-schools counselor and a
human-resource specialist for the U.S. Marines who described
herself as an avid Washington Redskins football fan. Another
panelist is a management analyst who said she likes Philadelphia
Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick  and “thought he was done
wrong.” Vick was suspended from the  National Football League 
and served 21 months in prison after pleading guilty for being
involved in a dog-fighting ring.  Clemens, 48, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury in connection with a congressional probe of the use of
performance-enhancing drugs by ballplayers.  Media Coverage  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  ordered jurors to stay
away from media coverage about the case, telling them that
“pre-screened” newspapers would be available for them to read
in the courthouse. He said U.S. marshals would arrange with them
a time and place to meet every morning to be driven to the
courthouse together.  Walton said he found it “very troubling” to read a
newspaper report about Clemens’s family members writing about
the case via their Twitter accounts to “disparage people who
are supposed to testify in the case.” The report Walton
referred to was an article in the New York Daily News.  “There was a shot taken at Mr. Pettitte’s father and I
found that most disturbing,” Walton said, referring to Tom
Pettitte, the father of former New York Yankees pitcher  Andy Pettitte .  Andy Pettitte will testify that Clemens told him about
using HGH, prosecutors said. Pettitte’s father may be called by
the government, too, prosecutors said.  Gag Order  In August, Walton issued a gag order covering Clemens,
attorneys for both sides and potential witnesses, warning them
not to make prejudicial comments about the case in public. He
said yesterday that he wasn’t sure whether his order would cover
the family members.  “I hope nobody associated with this case has anything to
do with this information being put out into the public,” Walton
said.  Clemens’s lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , said he hadn’t seen the
report and would look into it.  Clemens has denied drug use since former Senator  George
Mitchell  released a report on steroids in  Major League Baseball 
on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the report.  The charges stem from statements made to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008 in
a private interview with committee staff and later in a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  Former Trainer  During the public hearing on Feb. 13, Clemens testified
while standing just a few feet away from his former trainer,
 Brian McNamee , who said he injected Clemens with both drugs
while Clemens was pitching for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the  New
York Yankees .  McNamee is a chief witness for the government.  If convicted on all charges, Clemens faces as long as 30
years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Lawyers for Clemens told Walton that they plan to argue
that the House hearing wasn’t a legitimate legislative activity,
so Clemens can’t be found guilty of trying to obstruct it.  “The committee’s not authorized to bring up somebody to
clear his name,” said Clemens’s lawyer Michael Attanasio during
a hearing, unless doing so relates to its legislative function.  He said the whole purpose of the hearing was to give
Clemens a chance to clear his name after the Mitchell report and
to test the credibility of McNamee, not to consider changes in
the law.  Attanasio said the law regarding obstruction says it can
occur only during the “due and proper exercise of the power of
inquiry” of Congress, which is spelled out in the U.S.
Constitution.  Oversight Powers  The defense expects to bring this out during cross
examination of the government’s first two witnesses, including
the former House Parliamentarian, Attanasio said.  The prosecution countered that legislation prompted by the
hearing was “a possibility,” as Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel
Butler put it. The panel, he added, has broad oversight powers,
not simply aimed at writing or amending laws.  Walton, who said he expects to give a jury instruction on
the issue, said yesterday that he believes the government’s
investigation doesn’t need to result in legislation.  Jury candidates were asked whether they knew some of
baseball’s biggest names, including former St. Louis Cardinals
first baseman  Mark McGwire , former San Francisco Giants
outfielder  Barry Bonds  and current Yankees designated hitter
 Jorge Posada . The government named more than 80 individuals that
it said may be mentioned or called as witnesses.  Biggest Names  Hardin added more than 30, including former Yankees pitcher
David Cone; Hall of Famer Wade Boggs; and Phil Garner, a former
Major League Baseball player and manager.  Clemens, a right-hander known as “the Rocket,” pitched
for the Yankees,  Boston Red Sox , Astros and Toronto Blue Jays.
During his 24-year major league career, he won 354 games, ninth
in major league history, and had 4,672 strikeouts, ranking third
all-time. His earned run average was 3.12.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at 
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awooolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  