-- 
Romney, Bachmann Targeted by Challengers in Republican Race for President

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-13T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/romney-bachmann-targeted-by-republicans.html
Republicans trying to gain ground in
the party’s 2012 presidential race are turning on the field’s
leading candidates, following months in which the contenders
mostly exchanged pleasantries and limited their attacks to
President  Barack Obama .  Jon Huntsman Jr., a former  Utah  governor and U.S.
ambassador to  China , was the latest Republican to take a more
aggressive stance as his campaign issued statements yesterday
critical of the economic record of former  Massachusetts  Governor
Mitt Romney, the Republican front-runner in national polls.  Former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  started the campaign’s new
phase over the weekend when he questioned the qualifications of
U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann . The two Minnesotans have a
similar strategy keyed to doing well in the leadoff caucus state
of Iowa, and so far polls show Bachmann well ahead of Pawlenty.  The attacks signal the end of the “group picture” stage
of the campaign, said Frank Donatelli, chairman of the national
Republican advocacy group GOPAC and a top adviser to Senator
 John McCain ’s 2008 presidential bid. “The only way you win
primaries is by being the first choice of voters, so that means
intensity and trying to draw differences with your opponent,”
he said.  Huntsman’s targeting of Romney echoed criticisms Obama’s
campaign already has raised about employment growth in
Massachusetts during Romney’s 2003-2007 tenure as its chief
executive.  Track Record  “You know your  job creation  record is bad when you brag
about going from last to 47th” among the 50 states, Huntsman
spokesman Tim Miller said in the statement. “In order to turn
the economy around the GOP needs a candidate with a track record
of job creation, not one with a failed record similar to
President Obama’s.”  Another  statement  posted on Huntsman’s website said that,
while Massachusetts was ranked nearly last in job creation
during Romney’s term, Utah ranked first in the nation during
Huntsman’s 2005-2009 stint in office.  “It’s safe to assume  Mitt Romney  will continue to run away
from his record,” the website said.  Massachusetts’s 1.3 percent job-growth rate ranked it ahead
of only Michigan, Louisiana and  Ohio  during Romney’s term,
according to data from the Labor Department’s monthly payroll
survey. During Huntsman’s time as Utah’s governor, employment in
the state grew 5.9 percent.  Jobless Rates  Utah’s unemployment rate, though, also grew during
Huntsman’s term to 7.4 percent from 4.5 percent. The  rate  in
Massachusetts fell to 4.7 percent from 5.6 percent during
Romney’s time in office.  Huntsman was just beginning a second term in 2009 when he
stepped down to become Obama’s ambassador to China, a post he
quit earlier this year to run against the president.  Huntsman’s campaign strategy hinges on a strong showing in
 New Hampshire , which follows  Iowa  in the nomination contest with
the nation’s first primary. He received just 2 percent in the
latest  Granite State Poll  of Republican-leaning voters in New
Hampshire; Romney led the survey with 35 percent.  The poll, conducted by the University of New Hampshire
Survey Center, was taken from June 21 through July 1 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 5.2 percentage points.  Straw Poll  Pawlenty is training his fire on Bachmann as the Aug. 13
Iowa Straw Poll approaches. While Romney and Huntsman aren’t
making efforts to compete in the straw poll, which doubles as a
fundraising event for the state  Republican Party , the Pawlenty
and Bachmann campaigns are treating it as an early test of their
strength in Iowa.  Pawlenty, who received 6 percent support in an  Iowa Poll 
sponsored by the  Des Moines Register  last month of likely
Republican caucus participants, needs a strong showing in the
straw poll to keep his candidacy viable, leading Iowa
Republicans have said. At 22 percent, Bachmann was in a
statistical tie in the poll with Romney.  During a July 10 appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program, Pawlenty criticized Bachmann by saying she hasn’t
accomplished anything as a House member since first being
elected in 2006.  “Her record of accomplishment in Congress is non-
existent,” he said.  “We’re not looking for folks who just have speech
capabilities,” said Pawlenty, who was  Minnesota ’s governor from
2003 to early this year. “We’re looking for people who can lead
a large enterprise in a public setting and drive it to
conclusion. I’ve done that; she hasn’t.”  Bachmann, in an e-mailed statement, responded, “I am proud
of my record of fighting with resolve, and without apology, for
our free markets, for sane fiscal policies and in opposition to
the advancement of the big-government left.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  