-- 
Ruble Slides to Two-Week Low Against Dollar on European Risk

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-07-12T15:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/ruble-slides-to-two-week-low-against-dollar-on-european-risk.html
The ruble slid to the weakest
closing level against the dollar in more than two weeks as
concern over  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis curbed demand for
riskier emerging-market assets.  Russia’s currency was 0.2 percent weaker at 28.32 per
dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, the lowest since June 27.
It pared losses after earlier depreciating as much as 0.7
percent against the greenback. The ruble was little changed at
39.555 per euro, leaving it steady at 33.3758 against the
central bank’s target dollar-euro basket.  The 27 European Union finance ministers continued meetings
today after euro-region officials said late yesterday they may
revive bond buybacks to ease  Greece ’s debt woes. An ECB press
officer declined to comment on whether it bought so-called
peripheral euro-region bonds today.  “Investors are looking at the current developments in the
Eurozone with a great deal of concern,” Johannesburg, South
Africa-based Tradition Analytics wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients this morning. “It is hard to make an argument to be
long the ruble under present market conditions where the risk-
off trade is materializing.”  Oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner, traded up 0.6 percent at
$95.74 a barrel after earlier dropping as much as $1.60 a
barrel.  Tax Bills  The ruble also pared losses against the dollar as companies
used the Russian currency’s weakness to accumulate funds for
their tax bills, according to Alexey Borichev, head of fixed-
income and rates trading at ING Groep NV in Moscow.  “Exporters consider the current dollar-ruble rate as a
very good level to sell their export proceeds, in advance of tax
payment,” Borichev said in response to e-mailed questions. The
ruble may gain against the dollar later this week “if the
situation in Europe doesn’t escalate,” he said.  Russian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the
ruble Eurobond due in 2018 up five basis points to 6.943
percent. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and allow companies to hedge
against them, show the ruble at 28.585 per dollar in three
months, compared with 28.624 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  