-- 
Rupert Murdoch, Son James, Rebekah Brooks Summoned Before U.K. Lawmakers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T18:06:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/rupert-murdoch-son-james-brooks-summoned-before-u-k-lawmakers.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Rupert Murdoch and his
son James as well as News International Chief Executive Officer
Rebekah Brooks were summoned to appear before U.K. lawmakers to
answer questions about the company paying police for stories.  The executives will be asked to attend the Culture, Media
and Sport Committee next week to speak about prior evidence
given to the committee, where executives had said News Corp.’s
U.K. newspaper unit News International had paid police. The
committee expects a response by July 14, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. Attendance is optional, though News Corp said
in a separate statement it will cooperate with the request.  “Serious questions have arisen about the evidence given to
the committee by a number of witnesses in its previous inquiry
into press standards, libel and privacy,” committee chairman
John Whittingdale said. “In particular  James Murdoch  has said
that Parliament was misled. That is a very serious matter that
we will not allow to go unquestioned.”  The summons follows accusations that News Corp. staff
hacked into the phones of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler and
terror victims and paid police for stories. That prompted
Murdoch to close the 168-year-old News of the World tabloid on
which his U.K. media empire was founded. Politicians from all
parties have called for his planned purchase of pay-TV
broadcaster  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  to be scrapped.  BSkyB shares declined 3.3 percent to 692 pence in London
trading today, less than the 700 pence a share offered by News
Corp. for the 61 percent it doesn’t already own.  Misleading Parliament  In a note to employees to announce the closure of the News
of the World, James Murdoch said the company had misled the
British Parliament. During hearings in 2007 and 2009, executives
including Les Hinton, former News International chairman, and
Colin Myler, News of the World editor, said that there was no
evidence that more than one reporter had been involved in phone
hacking.  James, 38, is deputy chief operating officer of News Corp.
and since 2007 has overseen News International, the unit of the
company that operates the U.K. newspapers.  The committee, whose hearings are televised, has no power
to subpoena evidence or compel witnesses, who are not under
oath. Previous requests for Brooks to appear have been refused.
Its only power is to hold hearings and publish reports.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman Steve Field said
it was a matter for the Murdochs and Brooks whether they chose
to attend. “Committees call witnesses, and witnesses go in
front of committees,” he told reporters. “It’s part of our
democracy.”  Paying the Police  The inquiry will focus on previous evidence given to the
committee, lawmaker and committee member Louise Mensch said in a
post on her Twitter Inc. account  today . At a previous hearing
Brooks said London-based News International had paid police for
stories.  “We have been made aware of the request from the CMS
Committee to interview senior executives and will cooperate,”
News International said in an e-mailed statement. “We await the
formal invitation.” The committee said it expects a response by
July 14.  News International blocked a police inquiry into phone-
hacking by reporters at the News of the World, the police
officer in charge of the investigation said today as he defended
his force’s decision to limit the probe.  ‘Lack of Co-Operation’  Peter Clarke , former Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the
Metropolitan Police, said the “complete lack of co-operation of
News International,” meant the only way to build a case would
have involved a trawl through evidence that could not be
afforded during a time of terrorist threat. He accused the
company of telling “lies.”  Clarke was one of five current and former senior officers
questioned and at times mocked by the committee as they tried to
explain why police between 2006 and 2010 refused to extend their
investigation into illegal activities by journalists. In
January, the Metropolitan Police did reopen the case, and has so
far identified 4,000 potential victims.  News of the World reporter  Clive Goodman  was jailed along
with private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  in 2007 for
intercepting phone messages left for members of Prince Charles’
staff.  Cameron’s spokesman said the coalition government will
support an opposition  Labour Party  motion calling for News Corp.
to withdraw its bid for BSkyB.  Political Pressure  The Labour motion, to be debated in Parliament tomorrow,
reads, “This House believes it is in the public interest for
 Rupert Murdoch  and News Corp. to withdraw their bid for BSkyB.”
The debate will finish with a non-binding vote, with the
Conservatives, their Liberal Democrats partners and Labour, who
between them have 618 seats in the 650-member House of Commons,
voting in favor.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband , who will meet with Cameron and
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  this evening to discuss a
planned public inquiry into phone hacking, said today there is
still a risk the bid is decided on before police finish their
investigation into phone hacking. He urged parties to “send a
clear signal to Rupert Murdoch about what needs to happen.”  Former prime minister  Gordon Brown  earlier today accused
Murdoch’s newspapers of using criminals to get stories about him
while he was in office.  Tears  Brown said that he was reduced to tears when the Sun
tabloid phoned him to say its reporters had obtained his son
Fraser’s medical records showing that he had been diagnosed with
cystic fibrosis.  “The level of criminality involved, which is going to be
exposed, meant that there were links between that newspaper, and
that group of newspapers, and well-known criminals in this
country,” Brown said in an interview with BBC television
broadcast today. “This is an issue and will become an issue
about the abuse of political power as well as the abuse of civil
liberties.”  News Corp. said today it didn’t access the medical records
of Brown’s son nor did it commission anyone to do so.
The story about Brown’s son came from a member of the public
whose family has also experienced cystic fibrosis, the company
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The company’s  Sunday Times  newspaper also said a story
about Brown’s purchase of an apartment was ‘pursued in the
public interest,” and “no law was broken in the process of
this investigation” and “no criminal was used.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  