-- 
Rupiah, Won Will Lead Asian Currency Gains This Half, Top Forecaster Says

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-12T06:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/rupiah-won-will-lead-asian-currency-gains-this-half-top-forecaster-says.html
Indonesia’s rupiah and South Korea’s
won will lead Asian currency gains for the rest of 2011 as
central banks use appreciation to counter inflation, says  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the region’s most-accurate forecaster.  The rupiah will climb 4.5 percent and the won 4 percent in
the six months through Dec. 31, after the two currencies were
also the best performers in the first half, according to Credit
Suisse, which Bloomberg data show had the best projections for
the six quarters through June 2011. The Thai baht will climb 4
percent following a peaceful election on July 3, the bank
predicted.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which ranked second, expects the Taiwan
dollar to perform best with a 4.7 percent advance.  Asian currencies strengthened in each of the last four
quarters as the world’s fastest economic growth and rising
 interest rates  attracted funds. Demand is also being supported
by expectations that the  Federal Reserve  will keep its benchmark
rate near zero and Japanese factory output will recover from the
March 11 earthquake, said Goh Puay Yeong, a foreign-exchange
strategist in  Singapore  at Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-
largest bank.  “The upturn in global growth and the U.S. remaining on
hold on interest rates should encourage inflows,” said Goh.
“ Indonesia  to a certain extent, and South Korea are looking at
currency appreciation as part of their policy mix to curb
inflation.”  The won strengthened 5.5 percent and the rupiah 4.7 percent
in the first half, while the baht declined 2.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They’ve since advanced
0.1 percent to 1,067, 0.3 percent to 8,550 and 1.1 percent to
30.42, as of 1:21 p.m. in Singapore.  Indonesia’s Tolerance  The rupiah reached 8,499 per dollar on June 8, its
strongest level since March 2004. Global funds pumped $2.5
billion into Indonesian shares and boosted their holdings of the
nation’s bonds by  $5.1 billion  this year. Southeast  Asia ’s
largest economy expanded 6.5 percent from a year earlier in the
first quarter, outpacing U.S. growth of 2.3 percent.  The central bank lifted its benchmark rate in February to
6.75 percent after inflation reached a two-year high of 7.02
percent in January. Consumer-prices gains have since moderated,
with June data showing a 5.5 percent rate.  Bank Indonesia said last month the “continuing trend of
rupiah appreciation is in line” with efforts to stem living
costs, including that of imported goods.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which had the most accurate rupiah
projections in the last six quarters, predicts the currency will
appreciate 3.3 percent to 8,300 in the second half of 2011.  Investment Grade  Credit Suisse expects Indonesia to win an investment grade
rating, luring more foreign capital into its bonds, Goh said.
 Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service
all rank Indonesia one level below investment grade, a threshold
that some funds must stay above in selecting assets.  Endre Pedersen, who helps oversee $28 billion of Asian
bonds as the managing director of fixed income at Manulife Asset
Management in  Hong Kong , says the rupiah is his top pick among
regional currencies.  “Asian currencies will continue to perform well relative
to the G3,” he said, referring to the dollar, euro and yen.
Pedersen manages the Manulife Global Fund-Asian Total Return
Fund, which returned 4.2 percent this year, beating 86 percent
of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mainland Travelers  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , which was the third most-accurate
forecaster of Asian currency moves, said there’s limited room
for appreciation against the dollar with the ending of the so-
called quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve. The bank’s
best pick is  India ’s rupee, which will be supported as
relatively high yields and economic growth draw funds from
abroad, according to  Huw McKay , a senior economist at the bank.
It may advance 1.6 percent to 44 by year-end, he said.  Developing economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent in
2011, outpacing growth of 2.5 percent in the U.S. and 2.0
percent in countries using the euro, according to  International
Monetary Fund  estimates released in June. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded
currencies excluding the yen, hit a 14-year high this month.  Thailand’s baht weakened 2.5 percent in the January-June
period, its worst performance since 2008, as overseas investors
cut holdings of the nation’s equities on concern a July 3
election would spark political instability. The currency
advanced 1.2 percent since the election, in which the Pheu Thai
party, headed by Yingluck Shinawatra, won a majority without
triggering violence.  Thai Election  “While political uncertainty cannot be ruled out, the
strong mandate that the Pheu Thai party got at the polls should
see a stable government for the next six months,” Goh said,
predicting the baht will reach 29.56 by year-end. “Foreign
direct investment flows should improve.”  Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened 12 percent in the past year
and Barclays predicts improving ties with  China  will fuel
further gains. An agreement was reached last month allowing
individuals from the mainland to visit the island.  “The liberalization of tourism controls, allowing
mainlanders to come in independently, is going to be a big
structural boost,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional
economist at Barclays in Singapore. “It will bring in
substantial amounts of foreign exchange.”  The Taiwan dollar will reach NT$27.50 versus the greenback
in the next six months, the strongest level since 1997, Barclays
predicts. The currency has advanced 0.3 percent to NT$28.919
since June 28, when visitors from the mainland were first
allowed to come without being part of group tours.  Malaysian Oils  The ringgit may climb 4.1 percent after increasing 1.5
percent in the first six months as Malaysia divests of state
assets to revamp its finances and lure investments, Barclays
said. The currency reached a 13-year high of 2.9598 per dollar
on May 2.  Kokusai Asset Management Co. said it favors the ringgit on
gains in prices for palm and crude oils. Kokusai’s Asia Pacific
Sovereign Open fund returned 5.4 percent this year, beating the
average return of 2.3 percent for its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Palm oil climbed 25 percent in the past
year and crude advanced 26 percent.  “The ringgit will see support from rising export revenue
as Malaysia exports commodities such as palm oil and crude, and
commodities prices will likely remain firm,” said Tatsuya Higuchi, senior portfolio manager of the fixed-income fund
management department at Kokusai, which has about $57 billion of
assets. The currency “may see relative outperformance,” he
said.  ‘Pretty Positive’  The baht and the Hong Kong dollar, which is pegged, are the
only Asian currencies to have lost ground to the greenback so
far this year, while in 2010 the Hong Kong dollar was the sole
loser. Stock markets in India,  South Korea  and Taiwan have alone
attracted some $4 billion from abroad this year, exchange data
show.  “We are pretty positive on the whole basket of Asian
currencies relative to the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Hayden Briscoe, a Melbourne-based director of Asia Pacific fixed income
for AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees $216 billion of fixed
income assets worldwide as of the end of May. “You’ve got an
ongoing story of growth. We see continued appreciation likely.”  Forecasters were ranked according to estimates for the six
quarters beginning with the first three months of 2010. Long-
term accuracy was judged by a forecast for the 12 months to end-
June 2011.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least six out of 10 currency pairs were included in the ranking
of best overall predictors. In all, 31 firms submitted enough
forecasts to be ranked in at least one currency.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lilian Karunungan in
Singapore at   lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ; Yumi
Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  