-- 
Russia Seeks to Loosen Hold of U.S. Debt-Rating Companies

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-07-13T08:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/russia-seeks-to-loosen-dominance-of-u-s-debt-rating-companies.html
Russia and members of the  Eurasian
Economic Community , a grouping of former Soviet republics, are
seeking to loosen the dominance of U.S. credit-rating companies
and may set up an independent rival next year.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has said he’s an “ardent
supporter” of the plan because Russia’s debt grade is an
“outrage” that lifts corporate borrowing costs and increases
risks. The nation’s sovereign credit rating was last raised by
New York-based Moody’s Investors Service in 2008 to Baa1, the
third-lowest investment grade, one step above Brazil and four
below  China .  “It’s madness to trust American rating agencies,” Sergei Glazyev, the group’s deputy general secretary, said in an
interview in Moscow yesterday. “The market is objectively
interested in new reference points.”  Russia  is championing a new ratings company after Poland
said last week it may use its six-month term holding the rotating
presidency of the European Union to campaign for an independent
European credit evaluator. Dagong Global Credit Rating Co., the
first domestic rating company set up in China, began issuing
sovereign ratings a year ago.  Russia is rated A by Dagong, one level below the U.S.
Moody’s ranks Russia seven steps lower and Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings eight levels below the United States’ AAA grade,
their highest.  Europe , BRICS  A Russian-backed agency will seek to work with Europe and
all BRICS countries, Glazyev said, referring to Brazil, Russia,
India, China and  South Africa .  Russian economists may develop a methodology for the agency
within a month, Glazyev said. The creation of a credit-rating
company must first gain approval from Russia’s central bank and
the Finance Ministry as well as from other member states such as
Kazakhstan, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, he said.  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said Russia doesn’t “face
an injustice” and its credit isn’t underrated.  “Rating agencies tend to be private and achieve
credibility by working professionally,” Kudrin told reporters
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 