-- 
Sanrio to Cut Reliance on Hello Kitty by Buying Character

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 
2011-07-13T07:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/sanrio-to-cut-reliance-on-hello-kitty-by-buying-new-character.html
Sanrio Co., the Japanese Hello Kitty
brand licenser, aims to spend as much as 30 billion yen ($377
million) to buy rights to a character for the first time to cut
its reliance on the white cat with a red bow and no mouth.  “We want to diversify our character portfolio instead of
spending time to boost recognition of our existing characters in
overseas markets,” Managing Director Susumu Emori, 62, said in
an interview. He declined to say whether the company is in talks
with any candidates.  Sanrio, which ended a decade-long sales slump in 2010,
relies on Hello Kitty goods for 80 percent of overseas licensing
revenue. Character-goods deals with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
Inditex SA’s Zara brand and Austrian luxury crystal maker
Swarovski helped Sanrio more than double operating profit since
2009 and amass 21.1 billion yen in cash, the most in a decade.  “Sanrio depends on Hello Kitty too much, so it’d be good
to add a major character,” said Takashi Oka, a Tokyo-based
analyst at TIW Inc., who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.
The company needs the rights to a character that’s already well
established as a brand, he said.  Tomy Co., the Japanese maker of Transformer and Pokemon
toys, bought RC2 Corp., the maker of Thomas the Tank Engine
products, in April for $640 million.  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON) ,
which owns the Candie’s and London Fog fashion brands, and the
family of cartoonist Charles Schulz paid $175 million last year
for the rights to Peanuts comic-strip characters including
 Charlie Brown  and Snoopy.  Kitty-Compatible  Sanrio, whose market value has quadrupled since the start
of 2010, is prepared to spend 10 billion yen in cash and 20
billion yen borrowed from banks to finance the character
purchase, Emori said July 11. The ideal candidate won’t clash
with the company’s mainstay cartoon kitten.  “We want to buy a character that won’t harm Hello Kitty’s
image,” Emori said. “Our overseas sales team is looking for
deals.”  Sanrio’s search for an already established character
compatible with Hello Kitty may take some time, Oka of TIW said.  “It may be faster for Sanrio to market its own characters,
because it’s rare for characters to be on the market,” he said.  Sanrio, which owns rights to about 200 characters including
Little Twin Stars and My Melody, fell 2.3 percent to 2,995 yen
at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has
surged 57 percent this year, compared with a 4.3 percent drop in
the Topix index.  Dividend Increase  The company may also raise dividends, Emori said.  “We shouldn’t limit our target of dividend payout ratio at
30 percent and would consider boosting dividends to reward
shareholders, as cash increases,” he said.  Sanrio, founded by 83-year-old President Shintaro Tsuji in
1960, has yet to use a character that wasn’t developed inside
the company, spokesman Hideo Yamaguchi said.  The company has focused on Hello Kitty and other characters
it developed to win deals to use the images for 50,000 items,
including Zara Hello Kitty t-shirts, sold in more than 70
countries.  U.S. pop singer Lady Gaga  posted  a photo of herself with a
Hello Kitty stuffed animal to her Twitter Inc. account on June
28.  Swarovski  plans to sell jewelry including earrings
featuring Hello Kitty worldwide following their debut in  Japan 
last month. The companies also unveiled a 20 centimeter (7.9
inch) Hello Kitty figure decorated with crystals last month.  Wal-Mart Deal  Sanrio’s operating margin may rise to 27 percent in four
years from 20 percent last year, driven by expansion of the
licensing business in  North America  and  Asia , Emori said. By
comparison,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s margin, or operating profit
divided by sales, in its consumer products division was 25
percent last fiscal year.  Profit is rising as Sanrio added Wal-Mart, the world’s
largest retailer, as one of its licensees in the U.S. this year,
Emori said.  Wal-Mart stores  that sell clothes, stationery and
other products featuring Hello Kitty may reach about 3,000 of
the 4,427 total in the U.S. by the Christmas season in December,
he said. Sanrio also has a licensing agreement with  Target
Corp. (TGT) , Wal-Mart’s closest rival.  Operating profit will probably rise to at least 21 billion
yen in the year ending March 2015 from 15 billion yen last
fiscal year, the company said in May.  “Our goals are very conservative,” as the company formed
the plan in March after the magnitude-9 earthquake struck Japan,
Emori said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  