-- 
Scene Last Night: Fred Iseman, White Nights Toast Anna Karenina

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-12T16:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/scene-last-night-iseman-aronofsky-zuckerman-toast-dancing-anna-karenina.html
After Anna Karenina committed
suicide by train at the  Metropolitan Opera , Frederick Iseman
took to a smaller stage at  New York ’s Mandarin Oriental.  The Mariinsky Ballet, back in town after a strange hiatus
of 11 years, drew a sold-out house with lots of sad-eyed folks
standing outside looking for a ticket to Alexei Ratmansky’s
production of “Anna Karenina.”  Afterwards, special (and remarkably heat-resistant) patrons
revived themselves with chilled pea soup at the Mandarin a few
blocks away.  Iseman, the chairman and CEO of CI Capital Partners LLC,
hosted the dinner, which benefited the  White Nights Foundation ,
the U.S. fund-raising arm of St. Petersburg’s Mariinsky Theatre.  A dance and opera buff (he paid for “The Nose” last
season at the Met), Iseman was the foundation’s 2011 gala
chairman.  “One of the most interesting things is to go backstage
during a performance, and also to watch rehearsals,” Iseman
said. “You feel like nothing after you’ve seen that.”  The Kirov  Later, the guests heard from Valery Gergiev, the
Mariinsky’s globetrotting insomniac and leader, who conducted
the score by Rodion Shchedrin, a popular composer of  Russia ’s
darker days, when the ballet was still named after the mass-
murdering Kirov.  Everyone seemed to adore the fancy settings by Mikael
Melbye, which included a rail car on a turntable stage and an
enthusiastic fog machine.  Diana Vishneva danced Anna Karenina with an unexpected
stage lover: Yuri Smekalov replaced Konstantin Zverev as
Vronsky.  For the party, Vishneva exchanged her death-scene blue
frock for a long white cotton dress with gray ribbons and
painted flowers.  Selwa “Lucky” Roosevelt, a former U.S. chief of protocol
and an early supporter of Gergiev, called the performance
“mesmerizing.” The director of “ Black Swan ,”  Darren Aronofsky , said the dancing was “bold.”  Other guests included Mortimer Zuckerman, chairman and
chief executive officer of  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , and Lally
Weymouth, senior associate editor at the Washington Post.  The White Nights Foundation raises $1 million to $2 million
annually to support the Mariinsky Theatre and Gergiev’s tours of
the U.S., said Peter Anthony Lusk, a retired investment banker
and treasurer of the foundation. Last night’s dinner raised
$450,000.  The Mariinsky Ballet will give seven more performances this
week at the Metropolitan Opera House as part of the Lincoln
Center Festival  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 