-- 
Seattle Genetics Lymphoma Drug Faces FDA Concern on Data to Weigh Benefits

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-07-12T20:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/seattle-genetics-lymphoma-drug-faces-fda-concern-on-data-to-weigh-benefits.html
Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN)  and Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.’s drug brentuximab for Hodgkin’s lymphoma and
a less common type of the disease may require more data on
benefits compared with treatments already on the market, U.S.
regulators said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is trying to determine
whether the experimental treatment given the trade name Adcetris
should receive accelerated approval in an agency staff report
released today. An FDA panel of outside advisers on July 14 will
weigh applications for the medicine to treat anaplastic large
cell lymphoma and Hodgkin’s lymphoma.  The agency is seeking more patient data to be able to weigh
more clearly the drug’s benefits. The FDA may decide whether to
approve by Aug. 30. The experimental treatment could generate
peak sales of $850 million in 2020, according to a note last
month from Rachel McMinn, a research analyst with Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “Small size limits the benefit-risk analysis,” the FDA
said in questions to outside advisers released with its report.
“For this application, consideration for accelerated approval
would be consistent with regulatory actions taken in the past
decade for similar hematology applications based on single arm
clinical trials.”  Seattle Genetics, based in Bothell,  Washington , fell 74
cents, or 3.6 percent, to $19.80 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading.  No trial is under way to confirm the benefit of brentuximab
in patients with anaplastic large cell lymphoma, according to
the report.  Evaluating Survival  The company began enrolling patients at high-risk of
residual Hodgkin lymphoma in a phase 3 trial in April 2010 that
will evaluate progression-free survival and overall survival.
Seattle Genetics would like the FDA to accept the study as a
confirmatory analysis, Chief Operating Officer Eric Dobmeier
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The FDA’s  Richard Pazdur  said in February randomized trials
that confirm benefit by comparing treatments should be under way
when accelerated approval is granted. Accelerated approval
allows companies to get needed drugs to patients faster based on
a lower standard of evidence proving benefit as long as benefit
is proven later.  The product, which would be Seattle Genetics first
commercialized drug if approved, combines a cancer-targeting
antibody with the cell-killing effects of chemotherapy. The
company developed “antibody-drug conjugate” technology to
allow monoclonal antibodies to target tumor cells by attaching
them to cell-killing agents.  “We’re optimistic that we have a robust data package,”
Dobmeier said.  Trial Preference  The company reached an agreement with the FDA on a trial
involving one patient group for the Hodgkin lymphoma submission
in which all members received brentuximab. The agency tends to
prefer randomized trials with at least two groups, Dobmeier
said, though makes exceptions for rare diseases.  The company and agency didn’t make an agreement for the
anaplastic large cell lymphoma though the company modeled its
single-arm trial for the indication after the Hodgkin trial, he
said.  Anaplastic large cell lymphoma is a rare type of T-cell
lymphoma; T-cells are a type of white blood cell. Lymphoma is
the most common blood cancer, according to the  Lymphoma Research
Foundation . Patients typically receive standard chemotherapy and
often relapse.  FDA hasn’t approved a new drug for Hodgkin lymphoma since
1977, Dobmeier said. The companies haven’t made a pricing
decision yet. Seattle Genetics has exclusive North American
marketing rights to brentuximab. Takeda can sell the drug
elsewhere. They share development costs, except in  Japan  where
Takeda has full responsibility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 