-- 
Self-Awareness Absent From Coverage of News Corp. Misdeeds: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-12T17:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/self-reflection-is-absent-from-coverage-of-news-corp-misadventures-view.html
The pileup of negative adjectives
describing the misbehavior at  News of the World , until recently
one of News Corp.’s leading tabloids in the U.K., could stretch
toward infinity: horrible, lamentable, unforgivable, execrable.  The  Milly Dowler  debacle, the Gordon Brown privacy
invasions, the bribes and threats and dirty tricks and, of
course, the garden-variety eavesdropping. An  accounting  of the
misdeeds can be found at news media outlets throughout the
English-speaking world. The most charitable soul would be hard-
pressed to condone an ounce of it. Indicting the tabloid and its
owner,  Rupert Murdoch , and his company isn’t particularly hard,
nor is it enlightening. What happened was wrong, inexcusable and
possibly criminal.  So where does that leave us?  Murdoch and his news organs dished it out; it’s their turn
now. But there’s an element to the news coverage that’s gone
missing: self-reflection. There is a belief that these sins
belonged to Murdoch tabloids alone -- and that’s a blind spot,
for ethical violations are far easier to perpetrate and tolerate
than one might think.  The News’s sins were epic, but hiding in their giant shadow
are other, less-remarked upon transgressions. Journalists at
some of the “better” newspapers and magazines have been known,
for instance, to take an off-the-record comment and put it on
the record. They have trespassed on private property, resisted
correcting mistakes, made stuff up. Quotes have been trimmed to
seem just a bit more delicious, or inflammatory. Statistics that
fail to support a case have been conveniently left off the page.  This goes beyond the timeless  Janet Malcolm  formulation --
the journalist as enemy/outsider who betrays his or her subject.
This is clear rule-breaking, vastly less serious than the
systematic News of the World breaches, but in the same family of
deceit.  It’s also worth noting that the tabloid behavior has been
evident for some time. Somehow, though, British politicians
managed to look the other way when it seemed to serve their
purposes. And readers -- those of us who bought the newspapers
and consumed the news -- managed to do the same when only
starlets and royals were hacked, though it seems reasonable to
believe that they’re entitled to the same right to privacy as
the rest of us.  The punishment of  News Corp. (NWSA)  is unfolding. News of the
World has been shuttered; the corporation has been forced to
 delay  its proposed takeover of British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc, the satellite broadcast giant; investigations are ongoing
and could spread to all of British tabloid-dom, including
newspapers that are not owned by Murdoch. The story is important
and deserves scrutiny, including by News Corp., whose coverage
to this point can best be described as wan. But it wouldn’t hurt
if that scrutiny were tinged with a small dose of self-
reflection.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 