-- 
Sex Parasite Is Most Common in Women Older Than 40, Study Finds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-12T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/sex-parasite-is-most-common-in-women-older-than-40-study-finds.html
A sex disease that’s more prevalent
than gonorrhea and chlamydia, and less well-known, is suffered
by 13 percent of women aged 50 and older, a study found.  The sexually transmitted parasite  Trichomonas vaginalis 
causes urogenital infection, and can raise susceptibility to HIV.
A study, reported at the  International Society for STD Research 
in  Quebec City , found the infection is twice as prevalent in
those over 40 than in younger women because it isn’t adequately
screened for. Women in their 40s had an 11 percent infection
rate, according to the data.  Most STDs are more common in young people, said the study’s
senior author,  Charlotte Gaydos , a professor at  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine . Instances of syphilis, gonorrhea
and chlamydia must be  reported  by doctors to state and federal
health officials. There’s no mandate to do that for Trichomonas
even though an estimated 7.4 million new cases occur every year.  “It’s not a reportable disease, although it’s more
prevalent than chlamydia and gonorrhea combined,” Gaydos said
in a telephone interview. “Maybe we should make this reportable
and get good data.”  The study, of 7,593 U.S. women aged 18 to 89 in 28 states,
showed an 8.3 percent overall infection rate among women.
 Testing  is needed because most infected people show no symptoms,
according to the study.  In men, the parasite is usually asymptomatic, according the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. In
women, infection can also cause pelvic inflammatory disease,
vaginal discharge and low birth weight babies.  Single-Cell Protozoan  For a long time it was difficult  to test  for Trichomonas,
because doctors had to grow the parasite in culture or see it in
a sample. The organism, a single-cell protozoan, doesn’t survive
well outside the body, so those tests were inaccurate about half
the time, Gaydos said.  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO)  of  San Diego  manufactures a test for the
disease now, she said. She was involved in the clinical trials
for the test’s regulatory approval. The test was approved April
20 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Gen-Probe provided tests but did not fund the study, Gaydos
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 