-- 
Shekel Has Biggest Two-Day Drop in a Month on Europe Debt Woes

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-12T16:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/shekel-has-biggest-two-day-drop-in-a-month-on-europe-debt-woes.html
The shekel posted the biggest two-
day decline in almost a month as investors sought the relative
safety of the dollar after contagion from  Greece ’s debt crisis
threatened to spread to  Italy .  The shekel weakened 0.8 percent to 3.4617 at 4:42 p.m. in
Tel Aviv, taking the two-day drop to 1.8 percent, the biggest
since June 16. The shekel retreated 0.4 percent against the
euro, the first drop in six days.  The dollar climbed against 13 of its 16 major peers while
Italian 10-year yields and equivalent-maturity Spanish and Irish
bond yields rose to euro-era record levels after European
finance ministers said late yesterday they were considering
using bond buybacks to ease Greece’s plight.  “There’s tension in the market amid concern the debt
crisis has arrived to Italy and may spread to larger economies
than Greece,” Adiv Kabiri, senior currency dealer at Gift Asset
Management Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by telephone. “Investors are
turning to the  U.S. dollar  as there is uncertainty about the
recovery of the European economy.”  Israel ’s credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt against default for five years, climbed two
basis points today to 148, the highest level since April 1,
according to London prices from CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if
the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  ‘Solid Economy’  Confidence in Italy’s ability to lower its debt burden
faltered after both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  said they were reviewing their ratings. The country’s
sluggish growth will make it difficult to tame its debt pile
even if the government meets its goal of balancing the budget in
2014, they said. Moody’s last cut Italy’s rating in 1993. S&P
last cut in 2006.  The yield on the 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2020 rose for the first time in three days, increasing three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point to 5.08 percent at the
4:30 p.m. close. The yield has dropped eight basis points this
month.  “Israel has a solid economy, but it is not considered a
safe haven and therefore the contagion of the debt crisis in
 Europe  is also having an impact on the perception of credit risk
for Israeli assets,” Ehud Itzhakov, a bond trader at Bank
Hapoalim Ltd., said by telephone. “Investors are selling long-
term debt to reduce risk exposure and are buying short-term
debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  