-- 
Singapore Economic Growth Probably Stalled in Sign Asian Recovery Slowing

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-07-13T03:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/singapore-growth-probably-stalled-in-sign-asian-recovery-slowing.html
Singapore ’s expansion probably
stalled last quarter as manufacturing declined, presaging easing
growth across Asia as rising U.S. joblessness and a widening
European debt crisis undermine the global recovery.  Gross domestic product was unchanged in the second quarter
from the previous three months, when it climbed an annualized
22.5 percent, according to the median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The trade ministry will release its
advanced estimates for growth at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  Asia’s rebound from the 2009 global recession also faces
threats from within the region, with a report today showing
China’s growth slowed in the second quarter after higher
 interest rates  curbed consumption. The risks have prompted
 Malaysia  and the  Philippines  to refrain from raising interest
rates in recent weeks, and may put pressure on Singapore to hold
off on allowing faster currency gains at its next policy review.  “Risks to economic growth have risen while inflation has
passed its peak,” said  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “The chance of further tightening
of the exchange-rate policy has reduced significantly.”  The  Singapore dollar , the best performing Asian currency
after the Korean won in the past year, pared its gain to 0.4
percent this month, trading at S$1.2237 against its U.S.
counterpart at 11:41 a.m. today. It has reached records since
the central bank, which uses the  exchange rate  to manage
inflation, said in April it would allow further appreciation to
tame price gains.  Busiest Port  The city state, home to the world’s second-busiest
container port, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas demand for manufactured goods even after the government
boosted financial services and tourism. The island located at
the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer) Malacca Strait
is among the first countries in the region to report second-
quarter data.  Singapore’s consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in May, easing
from 5.5 percent in January. The central bank, which tightened
monetary policy for the third time in a year in April, guides
the Singapore dollar against a basket of currencies within an
undisclosed band.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  will update its stance
in October under its schedule of semiannual statements. The
central bank has said that its exchange-rate based policy
framework gives it the flexibility to cope with changes in
circumstances without having to increase the frequency of the
announcements.  China ’s economy, Singapore’s biggest single export market
in the first five months of this year, expanded 9.5 percent from
a year earlier last quarter after a 9.7 percent gain the
previous three months, a report showed today.  Global Risks  Economic growth in the U.S. slowed to a 1.9 percent annual
pace in the first quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three
months and the  unemployment rate  has climbed back above 9
percent. Ireland joined Portugal and  Greece  as the third euro-
area nation to have its  credit rating  reduced to below
investment grade as Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating to
Ba1 this week, while European Union finance ministers struggle
to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  New Zealand , due to release GDP figures tomorrow, may
report its economy expanded 0.3 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from the prior quarter, when it grew 0.2 percent,
according to the median estimate of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Singapore’s economy probably grew 1 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The government forecasts an
expansion of 5 percent to 7 percent this year after a record
14.5 percent pace in 2010.  Services Boost  Growth in the services industry may offset the decline in
manufacturing, as companies from Singapore Airlines Ltd. to
hotel operator Shangri-La  Asia  Ltd. benefit from gains in
tourism. Tourists are arriving in Singapore in record numbers,
lured by the city’s two casinos run by Genting Singapore Plc and
Las Vegas Sands Corp.  “Some of the boost from services is seen originating from
the continued strong performance of the two integrated resorts,
which not only led to increased job offerings, but also helped
draw in more tourists and stoked higher retail sales,” said
Chester Liaw, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.  Singapore’s industrial production fell in April and May,
posting the first back-to-back decline since 2009. Exports by
companies such as electronics manufacturing services provider
Venture Corp. are predicted by the government to grow in 2011 at
less than half of last year’s pace, when overseas shipments
jumped the most since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  