-- 
Sino-Forest Must Better Explain Itself, Hong Kong Finance Chief Tsang Says

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-12T20:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/sino-forest-must-better-explain-itself-hong-kong-secretary-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong  Financial Secretary John Tsang said authorities should investigate allegations of
wrongdoing at  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , and the company should try to
set the record straight.  Short-seller Muddy Waters LLC said last month that Sino-
Forest had overstated its timber holdings. The report caused the
China-based tree plantation owner’s shares to drop 82 percent in
Toronto this year.  “The authorities need to look into whether there are some
things more hidden in the analysis of this particular company,
or the timing, which is sort of peculiar,” Tsang told reporters
in Toronto. “For the company itself, they need to come out and
explain themselves to their investors to make them feel
comfortable they are investing in a proper business.”  Tsang, speaking after a luncheon address to the Economic
Club of  Canada  today, said he hadn’t been asked to participate
in probes by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the
Ontario Securities Commission.  Earlier, Tsang told the editorial board of the Globe and
Mail newspaper that the city’s stock-listing standards are
“stringent,” downplaying a report from Moody’s Investors
Service that raised “red flags” about corporate governance at
61 Chinese companies, including some traded in Hong Kong.  “Many of these companies who got into trouble would not
have been able to list in Hong Kong,” Tsang told the Toronto-
based newspaper today. The companies mentioned by Moody’s
included Sino-Forest and West  China  Cement Ltd.  Shares Decline  Sino Forest dropped 3 cents, or 0.7 percent, to C$4.28 at 4
p.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Tsang told the luncheon the  Hong Kong dollar  will likely
remain pegged to the  U.S. dollar , not China’s yuan. Per-capita
gross domestic product is less than $5,000 in China and is
$32,000 in Hong Kong, and the city’s economic cycle is more akin
to U.S.’s than China’s, Tsang said.  “There’s been talk of linking to a basket of currencies,
but at this time there are really not a whole lot of
alternatives,” Tsang said. “There has been a lot of worry that
the Hong Kong dollar could be replaced, or marginalized by the
renminbi, but I don’t think that will happen.”  The increase in yuan deposits in Hong Kong banks over the
last few years is because more trade settlement is being being
done in the city, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  