-- 
Solvency II Rules May Force Insurers to Shun Stocks, BIS Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-12T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/solvency-ii-rules-may-force-insurers-to-shun-stocks-bis-says.html
European regulation will push
insurers into buying safer assets, diminishing their role as
holders of equities and corporate bonds over the long term,
according to a report by the  Bank of International Settlements .  Solvency II will force insurers to hold more  government
bonds  at the expense of stocks, long-term bonds and low-rated
corporate debt, said the report, prepared by a working group
headed by Peter Praet, a member of the  European Central Bank ’s
executive board.  “This could alter the traditional role of life insurance
companies and pension funds as global providers of long-term
risk capital,” the report said. “A partial retreat of
institutional investors from the long-term and/or illiquid
segment of the credit market could reduce the private and social
benefits the sector generates through long-term investing.”  Solvency II, which is due to be implemented in 2013, is a
pan-European set of rules designed to strengthen insurers’
reserves to protect policyholders against a decline in
investment markets. The rules, coupled with an aversion to risky
assets following the financial crisis, may make it more
difficult for firms, especially banks, to raise capital from
insurers and pension funds, the report said.  “The proposed changes tend to make it more expensive to
hold equity-like instruments, structured products and long-term
or low-rated corporate bonds,” the BIS, based in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , said. “Government bonds and covered bonds will
receive relatively favorable capital treatment.”  Insurers such as Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV)  and London-based
 Aviva Plc (AV/)  have said Solvency II makes it unattractive to hold
long-term debt and the rules need to be reviewed. Insurers
typically buy long-term corporate bonds to back annuity payments
to retirees. Firms selling such debt may suffer, the BIS said.  “There is concern about the prospect for corporates and
bank funding in particular over the medium term,” the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 