-- 
South Sudan Plans ‘Managed Float’ of New Currency, Bank President Says

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-07-12T09:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/south-sudan-plans-managed-float-of-new-currency-correct-.html
South  Sudan ’s central bank plans to
operate “a managed float” of the country’s currency, setting
its exchange rate depending on the price of oil and the value of
regional currencies, the bank’s president Elijah Malok said.  Initially, the South Sudan pound will be equal in value to
the Sudanese pound, Malok told reporters today in Juba, the
capital. The Sudanese pound currently trades at about 2.67 to
the dollar, according to the  Central Bank of Sudan , while on the
parallel market it sells at about 3.3 to the dollar.  The value of the currency will be decided by a committee
that includes officials from the central bank, the Ministry of
Energy and Mining and the Ministry of Finance, he said. The
South Sudan pound, printed by  De La Rue Plc (DLAR) , the world’s biggest
printer of banknotes, will arrive tomorrow, Finance Minister
David Deng Athorbei said yesterday.  The currency should start to be distributed on July 18 or
July 19, Malok said.  South Sudan became independent on July 9, six years after
the end of a two-decade civil war with the north that killed as
many as 2 million people. The country of 8 million people now
controls about 75 percent of Sudan’s daily production of 490,000
barrels of oil, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,
 Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil & Natural Gas
Corp.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir told parliament today
that his country will replace its currency in the coming days as
South Sudan issues its own notes.  The South Sudanese authorities are negotiating with the
Sudanese government about the  exchange rate  the south will
receive when it sends the oil Sudanese pound notes back to the
capital, Khartoum, Malok said.  “The north is going to take the old pound,” he said. “The
price is not worked out yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Juba at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net . 