-- 
YPF Falls Most in Two Months After Repsol Sells Off More Shares in Company

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T20:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/spain-s-repsol-to-offer-0-4-of-ypf-shares-in-argentina-company-says.html
YPF SA (YPF) , the largest Argentine-based
company, fell in Buenos Aires by the most in two months after
controller Repsol  YPF SA (YPFD)  continued to reduce its stake.  YPF dropped 4.7 percent to 183 pesos at 4 p.m.  New York 
time, the steepest fall since May 3. The Merval benchmark index
retreated 1.4 percent. The company’s American depositary
receipts slid 4.7 percent to $42.98 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Repsol YPF,  Spain ’s largest energy company, sold 1.98
million shares, or 0.5 percent of YPF’s capital, for 177 pesos
apiece, YPF said today in an Argentine  regulatory filing . BBVA
Banco Frances SA and Raymond James Financial Inc. participated
in the placement, which pared Repsol’s interest in the unit to
57.73 percent, according to a separate filing.  “Repsol has been reducing its stake at different prices,
sometimes in the open market and sometimes in private
transactions, and that adds uncertainty among investors,”
Christian Reos, head of research at Buenos Aires-based brokerage
Allaria Ledesma & Cia. Soc. de Bolsa, said in a phone interview
today.  YPF announced the sale of 0.43 percent before the market
opened in  Buenos Aires . The sale remained open for 30 minutes,
during which offers for an additional 0.07 percent were
received, taking the total divestiture by Repsol to 0.5 percent,
according to the second filing.  Repsol has cut its stake in YPF by about 26 percent since
November through share sales in New York and private placements,
which included the sale of about 10 percent to  Argentina ’s
billionaire Eskenazi family in May for $1.3 billion. YPF is the
largest Argentine-based company by market value and the
country’s biggest oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  