-- 
Spain May Need to Deepen Spending-Cut Plan for 2012, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-07-13T09:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/spain-may-need-deeper-spending-cuts-salgado.html
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the nation might need to endure even deeper
spending cuts next year than those approved by Parliament
yesterday as it battles to stave off  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Lawmakers backed a limit on spending, the first stage of
drafting next year’s budget, after Salgado said the 3.8 percent
spending reduction laid out in the plan may have to be expanded
by September when the government sends the budget bill to
Parliament for approval.  “We don’t rule out that in September, when the budget
project for 2012 is brought to Parliament, the spending limit
may be lower than the one presented today,” Salgado told a
session of lawmakers in  Madrid . “It is more necessary than ever
to show our firm commitment towards austerity.”  Spanish bond yields soared to a euro-era record yesterday
and Ireland’s credit rating was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service after European finance ministers failed to reach a
decision on how to stem the Greek crisis. Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, a Socialist who is implementing
the deepest spending cuts in three decades, called on the euro
region’s “most powerful” nations to assume their
“responsibility” to stem contagion across the region.  The spending limit of 117.4 billion euros ($165 billion),
passed at a Cabinet meeting on June 24, was backed by 170
lawmaker votes, with 145 against and 18 abstentions, Parliament
Speaker Jose Bono said. The Socialists have 169 seats in the
350-seat chamber.  Bond Yields  Spanish 10-year bond yields fell to 5.75 percent today,
from 5.85 percent yesterday, narrowing the spread over
equivalent German securities to 306 basis points.  Spain  aims to rein in the euro region’s third-largest
deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year from
9.2 percent in 2010, and 4.4 percent next year. Zapatero has
slashed public wages, frozen pensions and axed benefits in his
fight to tame the shortfall.  Spain’s economy probably grew in the second quarter and the
expansion will accelerate in the second half of the year,
Zapatero told Parliament today in a weekly debate. The economy
expanded 0.3 percent in the first three months of the year, even
as the  unemployment rate  remained above 21 percent.  Zapatero’s Challenges  Zapatero faces the twin challenges of convincing investors
he can rein in the deficit and staying in power until his term
ends in March 2012. His winning approval for the spending limit
yesterday could increase his minority government’s chances of
getting the budget through Parliament by the end of the year.
Failure to pass the budget would strengthen opposition calls for
early elections.  Measures to stem the increase in debt, such as raising the
 retirement age , have prompted protests throughout Spain. A poll
published by El Pais on July 3 showed 50 percent of Spaniards
want early elections. The opposition  People’s Party , which
handed the Socialists their worst local-election defeat in three
decades in May, would win 45.9 percent in an election now,
compared with 32.1 percent for the Socialists, a poll by El
Mundo newspaper showed on June 5.  Zapatero declined to comment on the timing of the elections
this week, saying that the country currently needs stability
more than anything else.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  