-- 
Sri Lanka Seeking to Catch Singapore With China: Freight Markets

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 
2011-07-12T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/sri-lanka-seeking-to-catch-singapore-with-china-freight-markets.html
Sri Lanka  aims to create an Asian
shipping hub capable of competing against Singapore and Dubai by
pouring $3.4 billion into expanding ports with Chinese help,
after the island’s container volumes surged to a record.  President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s goal of capitalizing on the
end of a 26-year civil war to build a trade gateway to emerging
markets makes shares in  John Keells Holdings Plc (JKH)  and Aitken
Spence & Co. Plc a buy, says NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd.
Port revenue may almost triple to 72 billion rupees ($658
million) in 2015 from 2010, Standard Chartered Plc estimates.  “Sri Lanka can transform its economy by boosting its ports
infrastructure,” said Samantha Amerasinghe, a Colombo-based
economist at Standard Chartered. “Peace provides an opportunity
to take advantage of a historic shift that will put the island
at the center of the biggest trade routes of the future.”  The government forecasts rising cargo levels will enable
transportation, including ports, to make up 40 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020, a fourfold gain from last year.
Economic growth reached a 32-year high of 8 percent in 2010 amid
Chinese investment in roads and harbors. The  Colombo  All-Share
Index is up 175 percent in the past three years, the world’s
biggest gain.  Rajapaksa, whose armed forces defeated separatist rebels in
May 2009, is seeking to take advantage of Sri Lanka’s position
31 kilometers (19 miles) off India’s southern coast. There lie
the main shipping lanes linking the  Far East , West Asia,  Africa 
and  Europe .  Port Strategy  Deeper berths, new terminals and increased efficiency in
the capital, Colombo, and in southern Hambantota city will allow
bigger, super-post-panamax ships to dock and transfer cargo more
quickly to and from smaller vessels that carry goods for India
and other emerging markets.  The government is seeking to close the gap with  Singapore ,
the top container port in 2009, and Dubai, which ranked seventh,
according to data from London-based  Cargo Systems , a unit of
Informa Plc. Container volumes in the city-state were more than
seven times higher than in Colombo, which ranked 32nd.  John Keells stands to gain from managing a terminal at
Colombo port and a 30 percent stake in Maersk Lanka Pvt. Ltd., a
joint venture that includes Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, said Bimanee Meepagala, who helps manage the equivalent of
about $250 million at NDB Aviva Wealth Management, in a phone
interview on July 7.  Shares in John Keells, Sri Lanka’s biggest company by
market capitalization, have climbed more than 32 percent in the
past year. Aitken Spence, the island’s biggest resort operator,
which also has a ports unit, has risen 35 percent.  ‘Postwar Recovery’  Hayleys Plc (HAYL) , which has a transportation and logistics arm,
and logistics and travel business Expolanka Holdings Ltd. are
also worth buying, said Meepagala. All the recommended companies
and NDB Aviva Wealth Management are based in Colombo.  “As good proxies to the country’s postwar recovery with
solid balance sheets and experienced management teams, we are
confident that both John Keells’ and Aitken Spence’s port
business will continue to be the key beneficiaries in the long
run,” said Louis Lu, an analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management
Asia Ltd. in Singapore.  China  has tightened its embrace of Sri Lanka by committing
at least $3.7 billion since 2005 for projects from ports to a
power plant. The  island  has attracted rising powers since the
16th century for its access to pivotal maritime links, leading
to colonization by the Portuguese, Dutch and British until
independence in 1948.  Initial Phase  China pledged $306.7 million in 2007 to the initial phase
of the tax-free port in Hambantota, the highest among donors
that also included the  Asian Development Bank , Japan and
 Denmark , figures from Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Finance & Planning
show.  The island expects an $808 million loan from  Export-Import
Bank of China  to help pay for the next leg, Sri Lanka Ports
Authority engineer Agil Hewageegana said yesterday.  Container volume in Sri Lanka  surged  22 percent in 2010 to
4.16 million 20-foot equivalent units, according to the
ministry. Last year’s level was a record,  Sri Lanka Ports
Authority  Chairman Priyath Wickrama said in a June interview. It
is expected to rise 10 percent in 2011 and as much as 20 percent
next year, with target capacity for the capital and Hambantota
combined set at 12.8 million units by 2015, he said.  “Hambantota is the most suitable location to feed the
 Indian subcontinent ,” Wickrama said. “A combination of Colombo
and Hambantota will compete with Dubai, Salalah and Singapore.”
Salalah is the port of  Oman .  Three Terminals  Colombo’s three existing terminals currently account for
the island’s entire cargo volume. Hambantota is still under
development, according to the ports authority. The goal is for
five Colombo terminals by 2015 with a total capacity of 10.8
million 20-foot equivalent units, it said.  China’s investment has led to concern in  India , Sri Lanka’s
biggest transshipment market, that the possibility of closer
naval ties between China and the island may erode India’s
regional power.  Bahukutumbi Raman, a security analyst and retired counter-
terrorism chief of India’s main intelligence agency, described
China’s interest in Hambantota as “more strategic than purely
commercial” in a 2009  paper  for New Delhi-based  South Asia 
Analysis Group.  At the same time, India’s drive to pour $1 trillion into
upgrading power and transport networks also offers shipping
lines increased opportunity to dock there directly.  Indian Trade  Sri Lanka’s 18 percent share of Indian transshipments may
fall as Indian ports improve and its government tries to match
the lower prices offered by the island’s terminals,  Standard
Chartered  said.  Still, the relationship between China and Sri Lanka will
remain an economic one for the foreseeable future, said Rohan Gunaratna, head of the Singapore-based International Center for
Political Violence and Terrorism Research.  “Both China and India are competing and investing in
building an Indian Ocean maritime presence,” Gunaratna said.
“The world should not misperceive China’s investment in Sri
Lanka as political and a military partnership. Sri Lankan
leaders are sensitive to India’s geostrategic and geopolitical
concerns.”  An expected surge in Indian trade levels is also likely to
outweigh any decline in transshipment market share, and Sri
Lanka’s giant neighbor continues to face a capacity crunch, said
Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. Chairman Parakrama Dissanayake.  New Silk Road  “India provides the bread and butter for the development
of the container port sector in Sri Lanka,” he said. “India is
not a threat. India will be handling more container volume,
which will help countries like Sri Lanka capture part of it.”  A doubling in exports of items ranging from raw materials
to pharmaceuticals is part of an  Indian government strategy  for
boosting trade to $1.1 trillion by 2014, taking freight volumes
to at least 1.3 billion metric tons from 574 million last year.  Rajapaksa’s ports plan aims to tap that prospective gain as
well as to deepen trade ties between emerging markets. Such
links help form what HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc call the “new Silk Road.” They support
global growth even as the U.S. struggles to cut an unemployment
rate of 9.2 percent and Europe battles a debt crisis.  So-called South-South commerce along the new Silk Road
could account for 40 percent of world trade by 2030 from 18
percent currently, according to Standard Chartered. The trend
offers Sri Lanka “immense” potential, economist Amerasinghe
said.  The nation’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for
a sixth straight month in July, taking advantage of slowing
inflation to support growth in the $42 billion economy. The
tropical island received a record $236 million of foreign
investment in the first quarter, led by the  tourism industry ,
the Board of Investment said June 7.  Ports projects will spur more foreign investment and create
about 55,000 jobs in Colombo and Hambantota, Wickrama said.  “We want Sri Lanka to be a mega port to feed this
region,” he said. “We have a huge market here in South Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  