-- 
Starwood May Consider Shanghai Listing After China Expansion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-12T04:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/starwood-hotels-may-consider-share-listing-in-china-ceo-says.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , which opened  China ’s first international-branded hotel 26
years ago, is prepared to consider a listing in the country,
where its top executives have been based for the past month.  “If tomorrow, listing here is an easy thing to do, would
we consider it? Yes,” President and Chief Executive Officer
Frits van Paasschen said in an interview in Shanghai yesterday.
“I wouldn’t rule it out.”  Van Paasschen, 50, and his top executives moved the
company’s headquarters to Shanghai from  White Plains ,  New York 
between June 8 and July 11 to “better understand” its second-
largest market. China may eventually pass the U.S. as a hotel 
market, he said, where 90 hotels, or 30 percent of Starwood’s 
pipeline of 300 properties, are under construction in cities 
including Nanhai and Foshan.  Global companies ranging from Coca-Cola Co. to  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5)  have said they’re interested in listing in China’s
stock market, the world’s third-biggest by market value. China
is “coming closer” to starting a board for the listing of
overseas companies in Shanghai,  Shang Fulin , chairman of the
China Securities Regulatory Commission, said on May 20.  “If the likes of Starwood is listed in China, local
investors will like the shares,” said Larry Wan, Beijing-based
head of investment at Union Life, which manages the equivalent
of $2.2 billion. “Looking at domestically listed companies, we
don’t have any big-name company related to consumer brands.”  First International Hotel  The company now has more than 70 hotels in China carrying
eight of its nine brands that also include Le Meridien and
Sheraton. It opened the  Great Wall Sheraton Hotel  in Beijing in
1985 as the first global operator to enter the market, it said.
The new hotels will include all of its nine brands, the first
country after the U.S. to offer its full line-up of properties.  Starwood is also entering China’s less affluent or so-
called second- and third-tier cities, which van Paasschen said
offer growth potential. These include the southern Nanhai and
Foshan cities and the eastern coastal city of Qingdao.  “In 10 years or 15 years, if GDP is approaching that of
the U.S., the hotel market should be as large,” said van
Paasschen, adding that his one-month stay made him “no less
confident about the growth in China than before.”  Van Paasschen said he isn’t too concerned about potential
asset bubbles in the world’s second-biggest economy because
there is less leverage in China than in other countries and
primary demand for real estate remains strong.  India  Opportunities  Starwood shares have declined 6.9 percent this year in New
York trading, compared with a 4.9 percent gain for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. The Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 0.2
percent.  In  Asia , Starwood has a “strong presence” in  Thailand  and
has plans for smaller markets including Vietnam and Bangladesh,
van Paasschen said. India may also become another key market in
Asia in the future, he said.  “Without a doubt China today is the biggest and most
rapidly developing market,” he said. “That said, India is
seven or eight years behind and admittedly on a different
trajectory, but there will be a time when India will be of the
same magnitude. I am quite confident of that.”  --Allen Wan. With assistance from Bonnie Cao and Zhang Shidong.
Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  