-- 
Stress-Test Data May Spur Instability, EU Document Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-12T11:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/stress-test-data-may-cause-market-instability-eu-document-says.html
The risks to financial stability
from analysts using  European Union  stress-test data to conduct
their own exams on banks “should not be underestimated,”
according to a confidential document prepared by EU officials.  There is an expectation the  European Banking Authority 
stress-test results will be “challenged by market tests”
aiming to address “the perceived weaknesses in the design,”
according to the draft document obtained by Bloomberg News. That
may result in nations with lower-rated sovereign debt struggling
to borrow money to fund their banks, according to the document.  “The conditions in EU financial markets and the economy
have deteriorated since the stress scenarios were envisaged,”
Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy group Re-Define Europe,
said in a telephone interview today. “While the tests are still
robust under current conditions, the safety buffer for further
deterioration has shrunk.”  This year’s exams, which will be published on July 15, will
include a review of how lenders would handle a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011, a 15 percent drop
in European equity markets as well as possible trading losses on
sovereign debt. The banks will be expected to maintain a Core
Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA has said.  Some countries have “no dedicated and committed resolution
fund” to recapitalize banks that fail the test, according to
the document. It may prove “increasingly difficult for lower-
rated countries under market expectations of sovereign default”
to borrow money to fund their banks.  Contagion Risks  The document also warns that banks, national regulators and
finance ministries will have to address “contagion effects”,
which could include liquidity risks, a lack of credibility
surrounding recapitalization plans, access to capital market
funding and problems with information sharing between
supervisors.  Some of the risks highlighted in the document will be
discussed at an EU press conference today, according to a person
familiar with the situation. A spokeswoman for the EBA, which is
conducting the tests, declined to comment.  Finance ministers meeting in Brussels today discussed the
possibility compiling a list of banks that almost failed the
stress tests as part of the publication of results, three people
familiar with the discussions said.  The ministers didn’t reach a decision on the proposals, the
people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the
talks were private, said.  German Warning  Stress tests risk worsening the sovereign-debt crisis and
making lenders the target of speculators because the level of
detail being published is too high, according to  Germany ’s
banking associations.  “Given the tense situation which already exists in money
and capital markets, we believe publishing the results with the
present level of detail would exacerbate the sovereign-debt
crisis,” the ZKA Central Credit Committee said in a letter
obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday.  “To avoid further capital market turmoil, which would fly
totally in the face of what the stress test was actually
intended to achieve, we believe the level of detail needs to be
significantly reduced,” the committee said.  European regulators are seeking to assuage investor concern
that banks in the region aren’t adequately capitalized with the
second round of stress tests using tighter definitions of bank
capital and forcing firms to disclose more about government
bonds holdings. The prior tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  