-- 
Sudan’s Al-Bashir Says Will Introduce New Currency in Days

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-12T12:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/sudan-s-al-bashir-says-will-introduce-new-currency-in-days-1-.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
said his country will replace its currency in the coming days
and will impose new austerity measures, as oil-rich and newly
independent South  Sudan  prepares to issue its own currency.  Public spending will be decreased in the three-year
“rescue program,” which follows an austerity package in
January, and it won’t include additional fees or tax increases,
al-Bashir said in a speech broadcast by state television today.
He didn’t give further details about the new currency.  “We will undertake the appropriate economic and fiscal
policies to compensate the loss of oil revenue,” al-Bashir
said. An amended budget will be presented to parliament, he
said.  Sudan produces about 115,000 barrels a day of oil, compared
with land-locked South Sudan, which gained control of about
375,000 barrels a day of production at independence on July 9.
The south agreed in principle to pay Sudan fees for the use of
its infrastructure to export its oil. The two sides have been
splitting proceeds of oil pumped in the south on a 50:50 basis
since they signed a peace deal in 2005, which ended a two-decade
civil war.  Two Currencies  South Sudan’s central bank plans to start distributing its
new currency, the South Sudan Pound, on July 18 or July 19, the
bank’s president, Elijah Malok, said today in the capital, Juba.
The bank will operate the currency under a “managed float,”
setting its  exchange rate  according to the price of oil and the
value of regional currencies. Initially it will be equal in
value to the Sudanese pound, he said.  The Sudanese pound currently trades at about 2.67 to the
dollar, according to the Central Bank of Sudan, while on the
parallel market it sells at about 3.3 per dollar.  The South Sudan pound, printed by De La Rue Plc, the
world’s biggest printer of banknotes, will arrive tomorrow,
Finance Minister David Deng Athorbei said yesterday.  Sudan will start setting up a committee in a few days to
draft a permanent constitution, which will be presented to
parliament and to the public for a national referendum, al-
Bashir said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 