-- 
Syria Boosts Security at U.S. Embassy as Obama Criticizes President Assad

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-13T11:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/syria-boosts-embassy-security-obama-toughens.html
Syria  bolstered security around the
U.S. Embassy in Damascus after a mob attack on the compound by
backers of Bashar al-Assad drew worldwide criticism and prompted
a rebuke from President  Barack Obama .  The embassy’s American flag, which had been stolen during
the assault and replaced with a Syrian one, was returned by the
Foreign Ministry, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
said in Washington. Police also arrested six protesters who took
part in throwing rocks and spray-painting the walls, she said.
The French Embassy in the capital was also targeted by pro-Assad
demonstrators.  While the danger to the embassies has subsided since the
violence two days ago, diplomatic exchanges between the U.S. and
Syria have become more strident. Tensions between Syria and the
U.S., as well as  France , have escalated since the countries’
ambassadors made trips to the city of Hama, a hotspot for anti-
regime sentiment, to meet residents who have been targeted in a
crackdown on dissent.  “Increasingly you’re seeing President Assad lose
legitimacy in the eyes of his people,” Obama said in an
interview on the “CBS Evening News with  Scott Pelley ”
yesterday. “We will take whatever actions necessary in order to
protect our embassy.”  Assad “has missed opportunity after opportunity to present
a genuine reform agenda,” and “that’s why we’ve been working
at an international level to make sure that we keep the pressure
up, to see if we can bring some real change in Syria,” the U.S.
president said.  ‘Not Indispensable”  Obama’s phrasing on Assad’s legitimacy was less definitive
than the remarks a day earlier by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . She said Assad “has lost legitimacy” and was “not
indispensable.”  Clinton signaled that the administration is “increasingly
complacent” about the possibility the Assad dynasty will fall
from power, according to Juan Cole, a  University of Michigan 
professor and author of “Engaging the Muslim World.”  Clinton’s rejection of Assad’s legitimacy, an assessment
the Obama administration had previously been reluctant to make,
was a shift from March, when she said some U.S. lawmakers saw
Assad as a reformer.  “Clinton seemed to be warning Assad not to rely too much
on U.S. fear of the Muslim Brotherhood,” the region’s largest
 Sunni Muslim  organization, which has sided with the opposition,
Cole wrote on his blog.  Hama’s 1982 Massacre  The Syrian government, controlled by the Alawite minority,
a Shiite Muslim offshoot, has ruled over the Sunni majority
since Assad’s father and predecessor took power in 1970.
President Hafez al-Assad used the army in 1982 to crush a
rebellion in Hama, blamed on the Muslim Brotherhood, with a
massacre that  Human Rights Watch  said killed about 10,000
people.  “Assad is betting that the U.S. fears the alternative more
than the status quo,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center, a Qatar branch of the Washington research
institution, said in a telephone interview. “But this is not
1982 where you can kill 30,000 and think people won’t know. What
is happening right now is happening in real time. The more you
kill, the more people will flood the streets.”  At least 100 people have been detained across the country
this week,  Ammar Qurabi , head of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria, and Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said today. The arrests took
place in Damascus, its suburbs and flashpoint cities such as
Hama and Homs and the southern province of Daraa, where protests
against Assad’s rule began in March. Those held include
students, and a doctor taken from a clinic, Qurabi said.  United Nations   The improved protection around the embassies did little to
boost Syria’s image in the international community.  The United Nations Security Council yesterday condemned the
attacks.  Germany , which holds the rotating presidency of the
panel, said it will press for action to censure Syria. A U.S.
and European effort to condemn the repression of anti-government
protesters in a draft resolution has been blocked since late May
by opposition led by  China  and  Russia .  “We must convince China and Russia that blocking it is
indecent,” French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said on La
Chaine Info television today. “It is indecent because Al-Assad
has mobilized enormous resources to neutralize his opposition,
and countries that are moving forward like Russia or like China,
which claim to belong to the community of nations, must accept
common rules: A government does not respond to the opposition
using cannon fire.”  Ambassadors’ Visits  Tensions between Syria and the U.S. escalated last week
with the visit to Hama of  Robert Ford , the first U.S. ambassador
to Syria in six years. Syrian authorities said the visit was
proof the U.S. was seeking to “incite” rebellion. France’s
ambassador, Eric Chevalier, also visited wounded people and
their families at a Hama hospital.  Since Ford’s July 7 trip, pro-Assad demonstrators went from
throwing eggs and tomatoes at the U.S. and French embassies to
climbing over compound walls in the July 11 assault and injuring
three French guards.  Syria’s government responded by calling Clinton’s remarks
“provocative” and “further evidence of blatant U.S.
intervention in the internal affairs of Syria,” according to a
statement carried by the official  Syrian Arab News Agency .  Ford’s Impressions  While Republicans in  Washington  clamor for the recall of
Ford in protest, the Obama administration has indicated it wants
him to stay and keep reaching out to Syrian citizens and relay
his firsthand impressions.  Anti-regime protests that began in March have posed the
biggest challenge to Assad’s rule since he inherited power from
his father 11 years ago. They have been part of a wave of unrest
across the  Middle East  and North Africa this year that has
unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .  A committee of Syrian intellectuals and academics, convened
by Assad to hold a “national dialogue” to bridge the country’s
divides, called yesterday for a full review of the constitution,
the creation of a human rights council and the release of all
political prisoners. Some leading members of the opposition
boycotted the meeting.  Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while saying that the demands of demonstrators “have merit”
and that changes are needed. The crackdown in Syria has left
more than 1,700 dead, according to rights groups. At least
20,000 people have been arrested since the demonstrations began,
with half still in detention, Qurabi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 