-- 
U.K. Inflation Slows in June on Spending

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T09:04:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-k-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-in-june-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
U.K. inflation unexpectedly slowed
in June for the first time in three months as  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  repeated his view that price growth will
ease to the bank’s target in two years.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. That
compares with 4.5 percent in May, which was also the median
forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. On the
month, prices fell 0.1 percent, the first decline between May
and June since 2003. Core inflation also eased.  Slower inflation may ease pressure on the Bank of  England ,
which is tolerating price growth above its 2 percent target to
aid the economic recovery. Britons are seeing their spending
power erased at the fastest pace since the 1970s as wage growth
fails to keep up with prices and the government implements the
biggest budget cuts since World War II.  “We are still going to see inflation rise later this year,
but it may now not be as sharp as we thought,” said  George Buckley , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “It has
reduced the pressure on the bank of England, but inflation is
still substantially above their target and will rise further.”  The pound fell as much as 0.4 percent against the dollar
after the data were published. It traded at $1.5807 as of 9:42
a.m. in London, down 0.6 percent since yesterday.  Consumer Confidence   The easing of inflation on the year was led by lower costs
for recreational goods such televisions, DVDs, digital cameras
and toys. U.K. consumer sentiment fell more than economists
forecast last month, a report by GfK NOP Ltd. on June 30 showed.  The monthly decline in prices was led by clothes and
recreational and culture items such as toys and computer games,
the statistics office said.  So-called  core inflation , which excludes costs of energy,
alcohol, food and tobacco, slowed to 2.8 percent in June, the
weakest since November, from 3.3 percent in May.  Retail-price inflation, a measure of the cost of living
used in wage negotiations, eased to 5 percent in June, the
lowest level this year, from 5.2 percent. That compares with the
median forecast of 5.2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 20
economists. Excluding mortgage costs, RPI eased to 5 percent
from 5.3 percent.  King’s Defense  King has in recent weeks defended policy makers’ decision
to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent, saying temporary factors are behind the surge in
inflation. Consumer-price growth accelerated to the highest
since 2008 in May.  While a weaker pound, rising commodity prices and a sales-
tax increase pushed up inflation, “the most likely outcome is
that these factors will not continue to push up the price level
in the future,” King wrote in a foreword to the central bank’s
annual report released in  London  yesterday. “So inflation
should fall back towards the target during the next two years.”  The British economy probably grew just 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the National
Institute for Economic and Social Research said last week. The
economy stagnated over the fourth and first quarters.  In a separate report today, the statistics office said the
U.K. trade deficit on goods widened to 8.48 billion pounds
($13.4 billion) in May from 7.64 billion pounds in April. The
median forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
a shortfall of 7.3 billion pounds. While exports rose 4.2
percent on the month, they were outpaced by imports, which
jumped 5.8 percent.  The total  trade gap  widened to 4.06 billion pounds from
3.14 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  