-- 
U.K.’s Bank Commission May Publish Lenders’ Submissions in Weeks

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-12T12:30:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-k-s-bank-commission-may-publish-lenders-submissions-in-weeks.html
Britain’s  Independent Commission on
Banking  is preparing to publish representations made by lenders
this week as it prepares its final report on overhauling the
country’s banks, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The government-appointed commission plans to publish the
evidence submitted by banks as soon as possible this week,
although not all hurdles have been cleared and the information
could still be held back by as much as few weeks, according to
one of the people. The commission will publish its final
conclusions in a report in September.  Banks have been divided in their response to the
commission’s plan to make banks erect fire breaks around their
retail operations to protect consumer deposits against bets made
in financial markets.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the
biggest government-controlled bank, said in April the proposals
won’t make banks safer, while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman Douglas Flint said last month he understood why fire breaks were
required in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last month
backed the commission’s proposals. He asked former Bank of
England Chief Economist  John Vickers  last year to set up the
committee and recommend ways to boost stability and competition
in the British banking industry. The Treasury spent 65.8 billion
pounds ($105 billion) rescuing RBS and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   The Confederation of British Industry published its
evidence to the enquiry this month, in which it said the
proposed ring-fencing of consumer-banking units may hurt banks.  The CBI, Britain’s biggest business lobby group, said the
rules must take into account each bank’s funding models and that
a “one-size-fits-all solution” would force banks to follow the
same business model, stifling innovation, reducing competition
and boosting costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  