-- 
U.K. Parties to Oppose BSkyB Takeover Bid

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T16:39:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-k-parties-to-oppose-bskyb-takeover-bid.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition government will support an opposition Labour Party
motion calling for News Corp. to withdraw its bid to take full
control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “We support it,” Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in  London  today. “It’s essentially what the prime
minister was saying yesterday. The prime minister will support
it, the government will support it.”  The Labour motion, to be debated in Parliament tomorrow,
reads, “This House believes it is in the public interest for
Rupert Murdoch and News Corp. to withdraw their bid for BSkyB.”
The debate will finish with a non-binding vote, with the
Conservatives, their Liberal Democrats partners and Labour, who
between them have 618 seats in the 650-member House of Commons,
voting in favor.  News Corp. (NWSA)  bought itself time to weather the furor over
phone hacking at its now-defunct News of the World newspaper by
yesterday pushing Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  to refer the bid
for BSkyB to regulators, which will take at least six months to
reach its conclusions.  “They will still be extremely reluctant to write it off,”
said Sam Hart, an analyst at Charles Stanley & Co. in London.
“In the near and medium term it will be difficult for them to
continue to apply pressure if the whole political establishment
is against them.”  Labour leader Ed Miliband, who will meet with Cameron and
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  this evening to discuss a
planned public inquiry into phone hacking, said today there is
still a risk the bid is decided on before police finish their
investigation into phone hacking. He urged parties to “send a
clear signal to  Rupert Murdoch  about what needs to happen.”  BSkyB shares fell 3.3 percent to 692 pence in London today,
below the 700 pence a share News Corp. offered in June last year
to take full ownership of the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV broadcaster.
It was the sixth consecutive day of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  