-- 
U.K. Public-Sector Pension Liabilities Reach $1.75 Trillion

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-k-public-sector-pension-liabilities-reach-1-75-trillion.html
Britain’s public-sector pension
liabilities reached 1.1 trillion pounds ($1.75 trillion) last
year, according to government accounts to be published today, a
Treasury official said.  The estimates, which aim to replicate accounting standards
used by large publicly traded companies, will show that pension
liabilities of the public workforce reached about 80 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year that ended in March
2010, said the official, who declined to be identified because
the data haven’t been released.  Existing accounting methods put that liability at 770
billion pounds in the 2008 fiscal year. The new accounts will
also show that Britain has liabilities of 40 billion pounds from
private finance initiative projects. Previous accounts showed
that liability was 5 billion pounds, the official said.  The estimates don’t impact on Britain’s borrowing
requirements, its net debt position or international
comparisons, the official said. Also today the Treasury will
publish public spending statistical analysis and expenditure
outturns, while the  Office for Budget Responsibility  will
release forecasts on the long-term sustainability of U.K.
finances.  The government is looking at ways of reducing pension
liabilities and is considering basing pensions on career average
earnings rather than final salary. Four unions with 750,000
members staged a one-day strike last month to fight proposals
for government employees to retire later and contribute more to
their pensions.  The government is also trying to shift responsibility for
the revenue costs of local government PFI projects to central
government to dissuade departments from using the financing
mechanism in future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  