-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop as Ireland Credit Rating Cut Smothers Rally

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-12T21:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-stock-index-futures-slump-on-italy-debt-crisis-concern-alcoa-plunges.html
A late rally in U.S. stocks faded,
dragging the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a third straight
loss, after Ireland’s downgrade to junk added to concern Europe
is losing control of the credit crisis and overshadowed evidence
the  Federal Reserve  hasn’t ruled out more stimulus.  Semiconductor-related shares slumped, with Intel Corp.
falling 1.8 percent after  Novellus Systems Inc. (NVLS)  forecast lower-
than-estimated third-quarter earnings.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  slipped 1.3
percent after second-quarter profit missed analyst estimates.
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  jumped 1.1 percent after two people familiar
with the matter said it would announce job cuts.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.4 percent to 1,313.64 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , after the index fluctuated between gains and losses
throughout the day. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 58.88
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,446.88.  “There’s not a whole lot of conviction in the market,”
said Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees about $80
billion in assets. “Most investors are following Europe, and
they are waiting to see if the earnings season will be good
enough for them to get excited about equity prices. If that
doesn’t happen, then you can add corporate performance to the
ugly mix.”  The benchmark index for U.S. equities gave up 2.5 percent
during the previous two sessions, the most for the  S&P 500  since
March, as concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis will spread and
American lawmakers failed to agree on cutting the deficit. The
gauge had climbed 5.9 percent over the previous two weeks, its
biggest gain since October 2009. The rebound in July came after
the S&P 500 tumbled 3.2 percent in May and June amid
disappointing economic data.  Fed Minutes  The S&P 500 rallied as much as 0.6 percent today following
the 2 p.m. release of minutes from the Federal Open Market
Committee’s June meeting. The Fed report said policymakers
continued to debate whether additional stimulus will be needed
if the outlook for economic growth remains weak. Some members
noted that the committee might need to consider further
stimulus, while others voiced concern about an increased
inflation risk that might warrant tighter monetary policy.  “The market rallied on the news that the Fed is certainly
not ruling out further stimulus to further inflate the
economy,” said Burt White, who helps oversee $330 billion as
chief investment officer at LPL Financial Corp. in  Boston . “We
think it’s probably more hope than reality,” he said. “The
backdrop is still difficult with the mess in  Europe  and a bumpy
start to the earnings season with Alcoa.”  Rally Fizzles  The rally fizzled late in the day as Ireland’s credit
rating was cut to non-investment grade by Moody’s, joining
Portugal and  Greece  to become the third euro-area country to be
lowered to junk.  Equities had recovered from losses of as much as 1.8
percent before the market opened on signs of progress in Europe.
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said selective default
on Greek debt is not an option envisioned by euro-region finance
ministers, while European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said officials reached agreement that
investors should play a role in a second bailout of Greece. EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said he didn’t rule out calling an
emergency summit on Greece, although no decision has been taken.  “We’re in a very volatile period for markets and investors
are almost paralyzed because they don’t know where the safe
haven is,” said George Feiger, chief executive offer of
Contango Capital Advisors Inc., a San Francisco-based wealth
management firm with about $3.5 billion in assets. “It’s caused
by a conjunction of factors, including the risk that Europe and
the U.S. can’t deal with their debt issues effectively.”  Moving Average  The S&P 500 is trading near the level of 1,316 that
represents the convergence of the index’s mean price over the
last 50 and 100 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moving
averages are cited by analysts who use price charts as points
where buying may pick up or selling snowball as investors
reconsider past decisions. The gauge’s 200-day level is 1,274,
based on intraday swings.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, swung between
gains and losses after second-quarter profit excluding certain
items of 32 cents a share missed the 33-cent average estimate of
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock lost 1.3 percent to
$15.71 after rising as much as 1.2 percent.  Earnings Season  Alcoa unofficially started the earnings season in the U.S.
after exchanges closed yesterday. Others reporting this week
include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Google Inc. S&P
500 profits are forecast to have grown 13 percent in the
quarter, the smallest increase in two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Utility companies and health-care stocks gained the most
among 10 S&P 500 groups today, climbing 0.5 percent and 0.1
percent, respectively, while industrials performed the worst,
dropping 1 percent.                       Novellus tumbled 11 percent to $31.75. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Rick Hill said yesterday that profit before
certain costs in the current period will be 60 cents to 75 cents
a share for the maker of machinery used in semiconductor
production. That compares with the average analyst estimate of
84 cents, based on a Bloomberg survey. Sales will be $300
million to $340 million, Hill said on a conference call, while
analysts had predicted $360.7 million.  Chipmakers are showing a more cautious tone in orders from
San Jose, California-based Novellus, and may hold off purchases
until 2012, Hill said.  Intel, Microchip Technology  Semiconductor companies fell the most among 24 groups in
the S&P 500, losing 2.8 percent. Intel, the world’s largest
chipmaker, decreased 1.8 percent to $22.45.  Microchip Technology
Inc. (MCHP)  tumbled 12 percent to $32.93 for the biggest retreat in the
S&P 500. The maker of analog chips said sales and earnings for
the quarter ended in June missed its forecasts.  Cisco, the largest networking-equipment company, rallied
1.1 percent to $15.60 for the biggest gain in the Dow. The
company may cut as many as 10,000 jobs, or about 14 percent of
its workforce, to revive profit growth, according to two people
familiar with the plans.  Motorola Solutions Inc. dropped 1.5 percent to $43.50.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  cut the maker of bar-code scanners, walkie-
talkies and other emergency-communication equipment to
“equalweight” from “overweight.”  Radiant Systems Inc. (RADS)  surged 30 percent to $27.99. The maker
of software for retailers was acquired by  NCR Corp. (NCR)  for $28 a
share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  