-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau Outlines Bank Exams Starting July 21

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-12T17:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-consumer-bureau-outlines-bank-exams-starting-july-21-1-.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau will begin supervision of the 111 largest U.S. banks for
consumer protection problems on July 21, according to a
statement issued by the Treasury Department.  “Starting on July 21, we will be a cop on the beat --
examining banks and protecting consumers,”  Elizabeth Warren ,
the Obama administration adviser who is setting up the new
agency, said in the statement today.  Under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul,
supervision of banks on consumer issues transfers from other
federal regulators to the bureau on July 21, a date set by
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  The consumer bureau’s supervisory process will work to
detect and remedy practices that violate federal law and could
harm consumers, Treasury said.  “Examiners will look at the products and services the
institution offers, with a focus on risk to consumers,”
Treasury said. “The institution’s compliance with requirements
during the entire life cycle of the product or service will be
reviewed, including how a product is developed, marketed, sold
and managed.”  The banking supervision program at the consumer bureau is
headed by Steven Antonakes, a former commissioner of banking in
 Massachusetts . It will cover institutions that together hold
more than 80 percent of the nation’s banking assets, Treasury
said in the statement.  $10 Billion Threshold  Antonakes has said that most large banks, those with assets
above $100 billion, would be subject to full-time supervision.
Smaller ones, down to a threshold of $10 billion in assets, will
face exams about every two years, he said. Banks with less than
$10 billion in assets will not be subject to bureau supervision.  Treasury said the consumer bureau’s examination team will
include “more than 100 staff members” from the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation , the  Federal Reserve , the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift
Supervision. They will manage the supervisory process from
 Washington , with satellite offices in  New York ,  San Francisco 
and  Chicago , Treasury said.  If examiners decide a bank is not complying with federal
rules, they will seek changes “including strengthening the
company’s programs and processes,” Treasury said.  “When necessary, examiners will coordinate and work
closely with CFPB’s enforcement staff to implement appropriate
enforcement actions to address harm to consumers,” Treasury
said.  Dodd-Frank also grants the consumer bureau authority to
supervise non-bank financial firms. That authority does not kick
in until it has a Senate-confirmed director, and no one has been
nominated. Until a director is in place, the bureau is housed at
Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 