-- 
U.S. Senators Push for Gross-Backed Bill to Ease Refinancing

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-07-12T22:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-senators-push-for-gross-backed-bill-to-ease-refinancing.html
U.S. Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  said she found a Republican colleague to help push a bill
requiring  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac to let homeowners refinance
properties worth less than their existing mortgage.  Senator  Johnny Isakson , of  Georgia , agreed to back the
proposal that is also supported by  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
Boxer told reporters today on a conference call.  “It’s really looking at how we can help those homeowners
who have been so solid in the mortgage payments every month,
regardless of how the value of their housing is going down,”
said Boxer, of  California .  Lawmakers are seeking ways to boost an economy crimped by
falling home prices as borrowers struggle to repay mortgages.
Boxer’s bill aims to help homeowners with negative equity
refinance at a time of historically low rates. It would also end
fees Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  charge lenders for borrowers
deemed to present greater risks, if the firms already guarantee
the loans.  U.S. policies so far “have fallen short,”  Mark Zandi , the
chief economist for Moody’s Analytics and a supporter of Boxer’s
bill, said on the call. “I think they have been helpful, but
they clearly have not been adequate.”  Of 27.5 million mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, more than 8 million carry an interest rate at
or above 6 percent, according to Boxer, whose proposal would
only apply loans backed by the companies. The average offered on
a typical new 30-year loan was 4.6 percent last week, according
to data from Freddie Mac.  Lauren Culbertson, a spokeswoman for Isakson, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
the bill.  Reluctance Over Putbacks  Lenders may remain reluctant to refinance underwater
borrowers because if loans later sour, Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac may force the firms to repurchase debts with faulty
documentation, said  Mahesh Swaminathan , a mortgage-bond analyst
in  New York  at Credit Suisse Group.  “The core issue is that banks are not going to refi
borrowers unless they’re given indemnity against putbacks,”
Swaminathan said. “Unless the proposal addresses that, it would
only have a marginal impact.”  If the program were broadly used, rates on new mortgages
for home buyers and refinancing may be driven up, he said.
That’s because the supply of low-coupon securities would
increase and mortgage-bond investors would demand greater yields
to compensate for extra uncertainty about repayment patterns, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  