-- 
U.S. Lawmaker Questions Mobile-Phone Security After U.K. Hacking

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-lawmaker-questions-mobile-phone-security-after-u-k-hacking.html
The unfolding phone-hacking scandal
in Britain is heightening concern about the security of mobile
devices, prompting one U.S. lawmaker to query companies
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  about potential risks.  “As mobile devices become more integrated into our daily
lives and do more critical functions like e-banking, then we’ll
see more hacking incidents because you’ll have higher reward,”
Chenxi Wang, a San Francisco-based security analyst at
 Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) , said in an interview.  Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican who
chairs the House subcommittee on commerce, manufacturing and
trade, is contacting companies including Apple, maker of the
iPhone and iPad, and Google, whose Android operating system
powers millions of smartphones, in the wake of the British
scandal, her spokesman  Ken Johnson  said.  “While this appears to be primarily a British issue,
Chairman Bono Mack is reaching out to industry to determine if
there are any vulnerabilities in cell phones or mobile devices
which can be exploited by criminals and other unscrupulous
individuals,” Johnson said in an e-mail. “Clearly, we want to
prevent this from ever happening in the United States.”  Allegations that the U.K. tabloid News of the World hacked
into voicemails including those of a murdered schoolgirl have
sparked a public outcry in Britain and led  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News
Corp. (NWSA)  to close the newspaper.  Vulnerable Applications  The number of U.S. smartphone users is expected to jump to
158.9 million in 2015 from 99.6 million this year, according to
Forrester Research Inc., a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
technology research firm.  Downloadable applications for smartphones and tablet
computers are vulnerable to attacks by hackers,  Enrique Salem ,
chief executive officer of  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  the largest maker of
security software, said in a June 1 interview.  “It’s very hard to completely vet everything,” Salem
said. “It’s early in mobile security.”  Cupertino, California-based Apple’s App Store has more than
425,000 applications, while Google’s Android Market has more
than 200,000.  “Apple takes security very seriously,” said  Natalie Kerris , an Apple spokeswoman. “We have a very thorough approval
process and review every app. We also check the identities of
every developer and if we ever find anything malicious, the
developer will be removed from the iPhone Developer Program and
their apps can be removed from the App Store.”  Mountain View, California-based Google declined to comment
in an e-mail.  ‘Easy to Hack’  Bono Mack also is contacting BlackBerry maker  Research in
Motion Ltd.  and wireless companies  AT&T Inc. (T) , Verizon Wireless
and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in the wake of the British phone hack
scandal, Johnson said.  “It’s fairly easy to hack into a cell phone,” Lawrence Ponemon, director of the Ponemon Institute, an information
security research firm in North Traverse City,  Michigan , said in
an interview. Hackers can gain access to cell phones by calling
a person and impersonating a phone company official, or using
software to correctly guess a password.  The British scandal may boost awareness about the broader
data risks posed by mobile devices, including smartphones that
carry advanced features such as Web browsing and software
applications, Ponemon said.  “If a tabloid has the ability to get this type of
information and hack into phones, then very likely in fact it’s
happening in other venues and in other ways,” Ponemon said.  Senate Bill  Bono Mack released draft legislation June 13 that seeks to
tighten data security in the wake of recent cyber attacks,
including an April assault on  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s entertainment
networks. Under the proposal, companies that experience a breach
that exposes consumer data would have 48 hours to contact law
enforcement agencies and begin assessing the potential damage.  U.S. lawmakers have scrutinized the privacy and security of
consumer data on mobile devices in a series of hearings this
year. Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and Representative
Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, introduced a separate measure
June 15 requiring law enforcement agencies to obtain a warrant
to access location data from an individual’s smartphone.  Democratic Senators Al Franken of Minnesota and  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut introduced legislation last month that
would require companies such as Apple and Google as well as
application developers to obtain permission from mobile users
before collecting location data and sharing that information
with third parties.  “Manufacturers are consumer focused and are less concerned
with security,” Wang said. “Until there’s a major hack and
consumers start demanding increased security, or it becomes
required by regulation, security will remain a step behind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  