-- 
U.S. May Job Openings and Labor Turnover Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T14:14:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-may-job-openings-and-labor-turnover-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the May job
openings and labor turnover rates.  There were 3.0 million job openings on the last business
day of May, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
The hires rate (3.1 percent) and separations rate (3.1 percent)
were again little changed over the month. This release includes
estimates of the number and rate of job openings, hires, and
separations for the total nonfarm sector by industry and by
geographic region.  Job Openings  The number of job openings in May was 3.0 million,
unchanged from April. The number of job openings in May was
862,000 higher than in July 2009 (the series trough) but remains
well below the 4.4 million openings when the recession began in
December 2007.  The number of job openings in May (not seasonally adjusted)
rose over the last 12 months for total private as the number of
job openings rose in durable goods manufacturing; transportation,
warehousing, and utilities; information; and healthcare and
social assistance. The level decreased over the year for federal
government due largely to a drop in the number of temporary
workers needed to conduct the 2010 Census.  Hires  In May, the hires rate was unchanged at 3.1 percent for
total nonfarm. The hires rate was also essentially unchanged for
all industries and regions. At 4.1 million in May, the number of
hires is up from 3.6 million in October 2009 (the series trough)
but remains below the 5.0 million hires when the recession began
in December 2007.  Over the past 12 months, the hires rate (not seasonally
adjusted) showed no significant over-the-year increase in any
industry or region.  The hires rate fell in federal government
and in the West.  Separations  The total separations figure includes voluntary quits,
involuntary layoffs and discharges, and other separations,
including retirements. Total separations is also referred to as
turnover.  The seasonally adjusted total separations rate was
essentially unchanged in May for total nonfarm (3.1 percent) and
government (1.3 percent); the rate increased for total private
(to 3.5 percent). Over the year, the total separations rate (not
seasonally adjusted) was essentially unchanged for total nonfarm,
total private, and government.  The quits rate can serve as a measure of workers’
willingness or ability to change jobs. In May, the quits rate
was essentially unchanged for total nonfarm (1.5 percent), total
private (1.7 percent), and government (0.6 percent). Although
the number of quits rose from 1.5 million in January 2010 (the
most recent trough) to 2.0 million in May 2011, the number
remained below the 2.8 million quits when the recession began in
December 2007.  The number of quits (not seasonally adjusted) in May 2011
was higher than 12 months earlier for total nonfarm, total
private, and government. Several industries experienced a rise
in the number of quits over the year, and federal government
experienced a decline. In the regions, the number of quits rose
in the South but was little changed in the other three regions.  The layoffs and discharges component of total separations
is seasonally adjusted only at the total nonfarm, total private,
and government levels. The layoffs and discharges rate was
little changed in May for total nonfarm, total private, and
government. The number of layoffs and discharges for total
nonfarm was 1.8 million in May, up slightly from the recent low
point of 1.5 million in January 2011, but still well below the
peak of 2.5 million in February 2009.  The layoffs and discharges level (not seasonally adjusted)
was essentially unchanged over the 12 months ending in May for
total nonfarm and total private. The level decreased over the
year for federal government, returning to a more typical level
after a large number of layoffs in May 2010 of temporary Census
workers. The number of layoffs and discharges was steady in the
regions.  The other separations series is not seasonally adjusted. In
May, there were 302,000 other separations for total nonfarm,
234,000 for total private, and 68,000 for government. Compared
to May 2010, the number of other separations was little changed
for total nonfarm, total private, and government.  Relative Contributions to Separations  The total separations level is influenced by the relative
contribution of its three components -- quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations. The percentage of total
separations attributable to the individual components has varied
over time at the total nonfarm level, but for the majority of
the months since the series began in December 2000, the
proportion of quits has exceeded the proportion of layoffs and
discharges. Other separations is historically a very small
portion of total separations; it has rarely been above 10
percent of total separations.  The proportions of quits and layoffs and discharges were
last equal in November 2010. Since then, the proportion of quits
has trended upward, again exceeding the proportion of layoffs
and discharges, which has trended downward. In May, the
proportion of quits for total nonfarm was 49 percent and the
proportion of layoffs and discharges was 44 percent. The
proportions were similar for total private with 50 percent quits
and 44 percent layoffs and discharges. For government, the
proportions were 41 percent quits and 38 percent layoffs and
discharges.  Net Change in Employment  Over the 12 months ending in May, not seasonally adjusted
data totaled 47.5 million hires and 46.7 million separations,
yielding a net employment gain of 0.7 million. These figures
include workers who may have been hired and separated more than
once during the year. Nearly half of the hires and nearly half
of the separations during these 12 months occurred in three
industries: retail trade; professional and business services;
and accommodation and food services. The large share of total
hires and separations accounted for by these three industries
reflects the size of the industries as well as their relatively
high hires and separations rates.  The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey results for June
2011 are scheduled to be released on Wednesday, August 10, 2011
at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  