-- 
U.S. Company Default Swaps Snap Biggest 2-Day Gain Since March

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-12T17:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-company-default-swaps-snap-biggest-2-day-gain-since-march.html
Prices of credit-default swaps tied
to the debt of U.S. companies snapped the biggest two-day gain
since March, as comments from European officials bolstered
optimism that the region’s debt crisis may be contained.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index was
little changed, gaining 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 96.5
basis points as of 12:36 p.m. in  New York , according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index, which investors use
to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, surged a total of 5.8 yesterday and on July 8,
the biggest two-day jump since rising 11.9 on March 21 and 22
when it changed to a new series.  Traders are reluctant to push swaps prices higher without
further evidence that  Greece  may default, causing the crisis to
spread to other nations in  Europe . Luxembourg Finance Minister
Luc Frieden said today that selective default on Greek debt is
not an option “envisaged” by euro-region finance ministers.  “The credit markets are at a bit of a crossroads here as
we all contemplate what’s going on,” said  Rizwan Hussain , a
credit strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York. There are “not
very decisive views in the marketplace right now” as investors
wait to see whether European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
will call for an emergency meeting on the debt crisis, he said.  MBIA, Staples  The index is the highest since reaching 98 on June 28.
Perceptions of credit risk declined for bond insurer MBIA Inc.
and office-supply retailer Staples Inc.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and decline as it improves. They pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Traders pushed the index up by 4 basis points yesterday, as
European finance ministers meeting in Brussels failed to damp
concern that debt troubles are spreading. Government bond yields
soared in  Italy  and  Spain , with Italy’s 10-year debt exceeding 6
percent, the highest level since 1997, before retreating. The
euro dropped to its lowest level in four months against the
dollar.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Armonk, New York-based
MBIA fell 2.1 percentage points to 18.3 percent upfront,
according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent
a year, meaning it would cost $1.83 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of obligations for five
years.  Swaps on Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples dropped
7.9 basis points to 142.6, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  