-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Drops on European Woes, Dollar

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-12T12:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-drops-on-european-woes-dollar.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Drops for First Day in Seven as Dollar Strength Cuts Demand  Gold fell for the first time in seven days in London as
growing concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening
strengthened the dollar, curbing demand for the metal as an
alternative investment.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Oil Pushes Yields Lower Ahead of Record Debt Sale: Russia Credit  Russia will hold its biggest sale of longer-term ruble
bonds for at least three years as rebounding  oil prices  and
slowing inflation help shield the world’s largest energy
exporter from concern Europe’s sovereign debt woes will spread
throughout the region.  Saudi Arabia  Said to Seek Iran Crude Supply Share to  India  (2)  Saudi Arabia is seeking to benefit from a payment dispute
between Iran and India by selling additional cargoes of crude
oil to refiners in the South Asian nation, two people with
direct knowledge of the talks said.  JPMorgan Leads in Chemical M&A as 2011 to Challenge Record (1)  JPMorgan Chase & Co. took the lead in advising on chemical
mergers and acquisitions in the first half as 2011 shapes up to
be a potential record beater for deals in the $2.5 trillion
industry.  Sichuan Hongda May Spend $3 Billion on Tanzanian Coal, Iron (1)  Tanzania said Sichuan Hongda Co., a Chinese minerals
company, may agree to invest $3 billion in  iron ore  and coal
projects in the African nation in an accord that may be signed
next month.  Oil Inventories Decline for Sixth Week in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. crude oil supplies dropped for a sixth week, the
longest stretch of declines this year, as refiners bolstered
fuel output and imports fell from a 10-month high, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  India’s $3 Billion Wind Market to Slump as Tax Break Nears End  Ending a federal tax break for wind farms in India, the
largest market for turbines after China and the U.S., would
cause a $540 million drop in demand just as suppliers including
General Electric Co. expand local capacity.  Solar to Be EU’s Most-Installed Power Source: Chart of the Day  Solar power is poised to become the most-installed energy
source in the European Union this year, buoyed by subsidies in
countries including Germany and Italy, according to data from
renewable energy-industry groups.  Cocoa Seen Climbing on Africa- Indonesia  Fix: Freight Markets  The U.S., the world’s biggest market for chocolate, is
importing the most West African cocoa in three years as disease
and taxes curb Indonesian supply, driving prices to a three-
decade high.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls for Third Day as Europe’s Debt Crisis May Broaden  Copper fell for a third day in London on concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis may spread beyond Greece, potentially
weighing on economies and curbing metals demand.  Alcoa Profit Doubles as Aluminum Price Gain Outweighs Costs (1)  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, said
second-quarter profit more than doubled after higher prices for
the lightweight metal outweighed increasing raw-material costs.  LME Aluminum Stockpiles Move to ‘Invisible’ Storage, Alcoa Says  The decline in aluminum inventories on the  London  Metal
Exchange is the result of a shift into “invisible” stockpiles
rather than to consumers, said Alcoa Inc., the top U.S. producer
of the metal used in cans and cars.  MINING:  Zambia Lures Vale, Vedanta in $6 Billion Copper-Mine Expansion  Zambia, Africa’s largest copper-mining nation, is set to
enter the world’s top five producers as Vale SA, First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. and Vedanta Resources Plc lead more than $6
billion of investment in the country’s mines.  Macarthur Coal Rises After A$4.7 Billion Takeover Proposal (2)  Macarthur Coal Ltd., the world’s biggest producer of
pulverized coal, surged the most in 10 years in Sydney trading
following a A$4.7 billion ($5 billion) takeover proposal from
ArcelorMittal and Peabody Energy Corp.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Economist Gartman Cutting Gold Held in Euros at Record Price (1)  Dennis Gartman , the economist and editor of the Gartman
Letter who correctly forecast 2008’s commodities slump, said
he’s cutting his euro-denominated gold holdings as “too many
people have joined the trade.”  Gold Trades by Foreigners in  Shanghai  Surges, Exchange Says (1)  Gold trading in Shanghai by foreign members of the
precious-metals bourse surged more than twofold in the first
half of the year as total volume jumped, the Shanghai Gold
Exchange said.  Gold Set to Rally to Record, Trumping Silver: Chart of the Day  Gold may rally to a record $1,600, outperforming silver, as
investors favor the metal to protect their wealth because of
concerns about Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and slowing global
growth, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Global Gold Mined Output to Increase by 5% in 2011, GFMS Says  Global mined output of gold will rise 5 percent this year
from 2,689 metric tons last year, Cameron Alexander, an analyst
with  GFMS Ltd ., said today at a briefing in Beijing.  AGRICULTURE:  Rice May Extend Gains as Supply Tightens on Thai Hoarding (1)  Rice prices in Thailand, the world’s biggest exporter, may
extend gains as supplies tighten at the end of the harvest
season and millers hoard the grain on expectations of an
increase in the government’s purchase price.  Palm Oil  Drops on Concern Stockpiles May Gain on Surging Output  Palm oil fell the most in two weeks on speculation that
stockpiles in Malaysia, the second largest-grower, will expand
from the highest level in 18 months as production increases on
favorable weather.  Wheat, Corn Decline for a Second Day as Investors Shun Risk  Wheat and corn fell for a second day in Chicago as
investors shunned risk amid mounting concern that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis may spread and U.S. legislators’ failure
to agree on deficit reduction.  Coffee Retreats Amid European Sovereign Debt Crisis; Sugar Falls  Coffee fell for a fourth day in London as concerns Europe’s
sovereign debt woes will worsen helped lift the  U.S. dollar .
Sugar also slid.  Brazil’s Crystal Sugar Rises 7.3% on Strong Demand, Cepea Says  Crystal sugar prices in Brazil, the world’s largest
producer, climbed 7.3 percent in the first week of this month as
strong demand drove prices, according to Cepea, a University of
Sao Paulo research group.  SHIPPING:  Medvedev Orders Probe After Deadly Russian River Cruise (2)  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  vowed “a complete
review” of passenger ships after one of the deadliest accidents
since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 killed as many as
129 people on an unlicensed cruise.  ECONOMIES:  China ’s Money Supply Growth, New Lending Rebound in June (2)  China’s new loans exceeded estimates in June and foreign-
exchange reserves jumped by $153 billion in the second quarter,
bolstering the case for more increases in bank reserve
requirements.  China Banks Side With Geithner on Yuan to Challenge Goldman (1)  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has gained an
unlikely ally in his push for China to let its currency rise
faster: Chinese banks.  Top Debt Arranger Sees Demand as Firms Bleed Cash: China Credit  Guotai Junan Securities Co., China’s top corporate bond
underwriter, is seeing demand for debt sold by companies linked
to the nation’s cities and provinces, after its own analysts
warned one-in-three of these borrowers are bleeding cash.  China End-June Forex Reserves $3.20 Trillion, M2 Rises 15.9%  China’s foreign-exchange reserves were $3.2 trillion at the
end of June, compared with $3.04 trillion at the end of March,
the central bank said on its website today.  Starwood Hotels May Consider Share Listing in China, CEO Says  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc., owner of the St.
Regis and W brands, may consider listing in Shanghai if foreign
companies gain approval as it expects China to overtake the U.S.
as the world’s biggest hotel market.  EU Revives Buybacks for Greek Solution as Crisis Slams  Italy  (2)  European finance ministers revived the prospect of bond
buybacks to ease Greece’s plight and declined to rule out a
temporary default, struggling to contain the debt crisis as
investors pounded Italy, the continent’s third-largest economy.  Italy Becoming Spain Makes Crisis ‘Systemic’: Chart of the Day  Investors are treating Italy increasingly like Spain as
contagion pushes bond yields in two of Europe’s largest
economies toward levels that forced Greece, Ireland and Portugal
to request external help.  U.K. Inflation Slows in June for First Time in Three Months (2)  U.K. inflation unexpectedly slowed in June for the first
time in three months as Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
repeated his view that price growth will ease to the bank’s
target in two years.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Weakens, Italy Credit Risk Rises to Record as Stocks Slide  The euro weakened and the cost of insuring debt from Italy,
Spain and Portugal climbed to records as the chance of a Greek
default increased. European stocks tumbled the most since March
while Treasuries rose.  Rupiah, Won to Lead Asia Currency Gains, Top Forecaster Says (1)  Indonesia’s rupiah and South Korea’s won will lead Asian
currency gains for the rest of 2011 as central banks use
appreciation to counter inflation, says Credit Suisse Group AG,
the region’s most-accurate forecaster.  European Stocks Sink for Third Straight Day Amid Debt Concern  European stocks tumbled, dragging the Stoxx Europe 600
Index to the biggest three-day drop since March, amid growing
concern that the region’s debt crisis is spreading. Asian shares
and U.S. index futures fell.  Crude Declines a Third Day on European Debt, U.S. Fuel Supplies  Oil declined for a third day in  New York  on speculation
that Europe’s spreading debt crisis will curb demand for raw
materials and that U.S. fuel stockpiles increased last week.  ‘Double Eagle’ Gold Dispute Harkens to Last U.S. Default in 1933  The 10 rare Double Eagle gold coins at the heart of a
federal trial in Philadelphia are remnants of the last U.S.
government default, almost eight decades before the current
stalemate in Congress over raising the debt limit.  Obama Seeks Grand Bargain on Debt as Republicans Balk on Taxes  President  Barack Obama  pushed back against Republican
efforts to focus on a scaled-down deficit deal, arguing for a
broader package of spending cuts and tax increases to put the
U.S. on a sounder long-term fiscal footing.  Assad Has ‘Lost Legitimacy,’ Clinton Says After Attacks (1)  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad has lost his legitimacy amid a crackdown on
dissent across the country and mob attacks on the U.S. and
French embassies in Damascus.  SPORTS:  Inter’s Sneijder Poised to Join United for $55 Million: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Berlusconi’s AC Milan May Seek Hong Kong IPO, Il Sole Reports  Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s AC Milan soccer
club may consider selling shares in a Hong Kong initial public
offering, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Argentina Beats  Costa Rica  to Reach Copa America Quarterfinals  Argentina beat Costa Rica 3-0 in a must-win match to
advance to the quarterfinals of soccer’s Copa America as a group
runner-up.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  