-- 
UN Security Council, Ban Condemn Syrian Attacks on Embassies

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-12T20:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/un-security-council-condemns-mob-attacks-on-embassies-in-syria.html
The United Nations  Security Council 
and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today condemned the mob
attacks on the U.S. and French embassies in Syria.  The  Security Council  “condemns in the strongest terms”
the attacks yesterday, Ambassador Peter Wittig of Germany, which
holds the rotating presidency of the panel, told reporters.  Ban condemned the attacks and reminded Syria’s government
of its responsibility to protect diplomatic missions. Syria’s
President Bashar al-Assad must engage in “genuine and credible
dialogue and political reforms, which should be carried out
without delay,” he said in a statement released in  New York .  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , in New York to
chair a meeting of the Security Council on the protection of
children in conflict zones, said “every government in every
country has the clear duty to protect diplomatic and foreign
missions on their land.”  The mobs attacked the embassies in Damascus to protest
visits last week by the American and French ambassadors to Hama,
an opposition stronghold in central Syria.  The incidents will cause  Germany  to renew the effort in the
Security Council to censure Syria for its actions, including the
repression of anti-regime protesters, Westerwelle said.  “We think common language of the international community,
of the Security Council, against these and other measures of the
regime in Syria is necessary and we will work for it,”
Westerwelle said.  ‘No Longer Acceptable’  A U.S. and European effort to condemn the repression in a
draft resolution has been blocked since late May. China and
Russia have led the opposition, which also includes  Brazil ,
 India  and  South Africa .  French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said in a radio
interview today that the Security Council should take action on
the draft resolution “which has been blocked by  Russia  and
China,” the Press Trust of India reported  “This is no longer acceptable,” Fillon said, according to
the agency, calling the attack on his government’s embassy, in
which three French personnel were wounded, “extremely
violent.”  In Berlin, Germany summoned the Syrian ambassador to
criticize the treatment of demonstrators by Syrian security
forces. Westerwelle repeated that Assad must meet the demands of
his opponents and arrive at a “credible national dialog that
will lead to democracy and real political participation.”  Syria’s Ambassador to the UN, Bashar Ja’afari, said in a
letter to the Security Council that reports of the attacks were
“distorted and exaggerated.” Referring to the Europeans, he
said that the “description of the events as an attack is part
of the well known campaign those countries are conducting
against Syria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net 
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  