-- 
Forint Drops to Record Low Against Swiss Franc on Europe Debt

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-12T11:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/hungarian-forint-depreciates-to-record-low-against-swiss-franc.html
The forint weakened to a record low
against the  Swiss franc  and had its biggest three-day drop
against the euro since November on concern the currency zone’s
crisis will spread and after Hungarian inflation slowed.  The forint depreciated as much as 2.7 percent to 233.6 per
franc and traded down 1.7 percent at 231.541 by 12:32 p.m. in
Budapest. The Hungarian currency depreciated 0.8 percent versus
the euro to 269, extending its three-day slide to 2.5 percent,
the most since November.  Government bonds  maturing in June 2022
slumped for a second day, lifting the yield nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.436 percent.  European finance ministers revived the prospect of bond
buybacks to ease  Greece ’s plight and declined to rule out a
temporary default, struggling to contain the debt crisis as
investors pounded  Italy , the continent’s third-largest economy.
Hungary was forced to ask for an international financial bailout
in 2008 when the credit crisis prompted investors to sell off
emerging-market assets. The country has the biggest debt burden
among the European Union’s eastern members.  “European finance ministers failed to convince the
market,” Peter Karsai, a trader at Commerzbank AG in Budapest,
and colleagues wrote in an e-mailed note today. “It isn’t
surprising that eastern European currencies have come under
pressure. This morning’s inflation data didn’t change that
picture either.”  The inflation rate slowed for a second month in June to 3.5
percent, the lowest since April 2009, compared with 3.9 percent
in May. The median estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was 3.8 percent.  Inflation  “Lower-than-expected inflation is negative for the
forint,”  Piotr Kalisz , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Warsaw, wrote in a research note today. “Amid increased risk
aversion connected with euro zone-fiscal problems, the downside
inflation surprise does not support the forint, especially amid
gradual rate hikes by the  European Central Bank .”  The ECB lifted its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to 1.5
percent last week, the second increase in three months.  Hungarian central bankers voted June 20 to leave the
benchmark interest rate at 6 percent for a fifth month, saying
inflation may slow to their 3 percent target by the end of next
year if rates are left at the current level.  “Monetary Council members have historically been very
sensitive to adverse fluctuations on Hungarian risk,” Citigroup
said in a separate note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  