-- 
Murdoch Mess Would Thrill Lancaster’s Sleazy Scandalmonger: Peter Rainer

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-07-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/murdoch-mess-would-thrill-lancaster-s-sleazy-scandalmonger-peter-rainer.html
If you’re mesmerized by the News of
the World scandal, you’ll surely love “ Sweet Smell of Success ”
(1957), the most entertaining slice of depravity Hollywood ever
cooked up about tabloid journalism.  Burt Lancaster’s big-city newspaper columnist J.J.
Hunsecker was modeled on Walter Winchell, who was still powerful
at the time and none too amused. Tony Curtis plays Sidney Falco,
the sleazy blackmailing press agent who will do anything to win
Hunsecker over. Watching these two together beats anything in
“The Borgias.”  “Sweet Smell of Success,” which has been brought out in a
fine two-disc restoration by Criterion, wasn’t initially a
success. Now it’s considered a classic.  Maybe it didn’t click with 1950s audiences because of its
thoroughgoing nastiness. Lancaster had been a star for years but
mostly in sympathetic roles, so his fans were unprepared for
such industrial-strength villainy.  This is certainly true of Curtis, who previously seemed
like a pleasant enough pretty boy with no overt acting skills.  He attacks his role as Falco and makes it his own. Every
gesture is entirely in character, from the swift way he lights
J.J.’s cigarettes to the way he oozes himself into a cocktail
waitress’s good graces. It’s the best performance Curtis ever
gave and the best role he ever had.  Comedy Director  Director Alexander Mackendrick wanted to shake up his
reputation as the maker of a highly amusing series of comedies
for  England ’s fabled Ealing Studios, including “The Man in the
White Suit” (1951), starring Alec Guinness as the inventor of a
dirt-proof fabric, and “The Ladykillers” (1955), with Guinness
playing the toothsome boss of a bumbling gang of thieves.  “Sweet Smell of Success” is an amalgam of many genres:
the Broadway picture, the newspaper melodrama, film noir, even
the jazz documentary. (The Chico Hamilton Quintet gets prominent
play.)  Although its interiors were all shot on studio-built sets
in Hollywood, it was one of the first major movies to shoot on
location in the seething heart of Times Square. James Wong
Howe’s great black-and-white cinematography makes the city as
formidable and forbidding a protagonist as Hunsecker.  Mackendrick made a great film about the dog-eat-dog world
of showbiz press agentry, but he couldn’t handle Hollywood’s
real-life larceny.  Legendary Teacher  After being fired from a subsequent Lancaster production,
“The Devil’s Disciple,” he didn’t make a movie for five years.
Following the fascinating pirate-themed “A High Wind in
 Jamaica ”(1965) and the comedy “Don’t Make Waves” (1967) with
Curtis, he became the founding dean of the film school at the
Disney-financed California Institute of the Arts and never
looked back.  He became a legendary teacher to a generation of students
who revered him. Several of them, including James Mangold, who
directed “Walk the Line” and “3:10 to Yuma,” sing his
praises in a DVD extra. An excerpt from Mackendrick’s book “On
Filmmaking: An Introduction to the Craft of the Director” --
drawn from his class lectures -- is also included in the
Criterion package.  The excerpt details the ways in which the script for
“Sweet Smell of Success” evolved from a nuts-and-bolts
narrative by its original screenwriter, Ernest Lehman, to its
wholesale rewrite by Clifford Odets.  Although Lehman had once been a Broadway press agent and
written several stories and a short novel utilizing the
characters of Hunsecker and Falco, the rich, streetwise idiom in
the film is all Odets.  “I love this dirty town,” Hunsecker gloats as he walks
past a bum being rousted out of a Broadway club.  Who can disagree with him? If ever a film proved how
degeneracy outshines goodness, this is it.  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  