-- 
Turkey Battle to Contain Record Current Account Deficit Targets Exporters

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-07-12T13:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/turkey-government-to-finish-work-in-2011-to-cut-intermediate-goods-imports.html
Turkey  will allow the lira to weaken
and give incentives to manufacturers of car parts and steel in
an effort to narrow a record current-account deficit that may
threaten financial stability.  Measures to encourage domestic production and reduce
dependence on scrap-metal imports will be ready by the end of
the year, Zafer Caglayan, the minister responsible for exports
and manufacturing, said in a speech to journalists today in
Istanbul. Budget discipline will remain the government’s
“biggest weapon” against the widening gap, he said.  Turkish authorities are battling a current-account deficit
that has widened to the biggest since records began in 1984 as
an expanding economy draws in oil, raw materials and  consumer
goods . The country, which imports almost all its oil and gas,
grew an annual 11 percent in the first quarter of the year, the
fastest rate among the Group of 20 major economies.  The incentives to boost the use of Turkish materials in
manufacturing will be “at the core” of the agenda of the
government that was re-elected June 12, and “will solve the
current-account deficit permanently,” Caglayan said.  The lira fell to the lowest level in more than two years,
trading at 1.6534 per dollar at 4:24 p.m. in Istanbul. The
currency has fallen 6.6 percent this year, the most of 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘No Concern’  A weak currency is “no concern” and helps alleviate the
current-account gap by assisting exporters, Caglayan said. A
lira that’s stronger than 1.6 per dollar will hamper efforts to
shrink the deficit, he said. He declined to say how far the
currency may fall.  The current-account gap in May more than doubled to $7.8
billion, bringing the 12-month cumulative total deficit to $68.2
billion, equivalent to about 9 percent of the government’s
estimate for gross domestic product in 2011. The gap is the
biggest risk to financial stability in the $740 billion economy,
according to a central bank report in May.  The country can eliminate $5 billion in annual imports by
encouraging local production of car parts, $2.5 billion by using
domestic scrap steel and $4 billion by utilizing local non-
ferrous metals, Caglayan said. The incentives will focus on six
industries that account for $30 billion a year in imports of
intermediate materials: steel, automotives, chemicals, textiles,
machinery and food, he said.  Mining Industry   Turkey will also take steps to develop the mining industry
and make a full inventory of what mineral assets it has as the
country moves to supply more of the materials needed by its
manufacturers, Caglayan said.  “The government’s analysis is correct and the measures are
correct, but all these steps will only produce results in the
medium term,” said  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners
in Istanbul. “What we need is short-term action: tax increases,
policy-rate hikes, action on bank regulation.”  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has held the benchmark
one-week repo lending rate at a historic low of 6.25 percent
since January to deter inflows of short-term money that might
strengthen the lira. He’s trying to slow growth by restricting
the cash that banks have available to lend to consumers through
increases to  reserve requirements .  Tax increases are a “last option” among measures the
government is considering to reduce demand for imports and rein
in the current-account deficit, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said June 7. Budget spending, excluding interest
payments on debt, rose an annual 12 percent in first five months
of the year, faster than the 8 percent growth that the
government plans for 2011.  No Help  The higher reserve requirements haven’t helped because
consumers boosted their borrowing in anticipation of higher
lending costs, while the central bank’s moves also restricted
loans to the alternative-energy businesses that Turkey needs to
reduce dependence on imported oil and gas, Caglayan said.  Caglayan, who said his newly created Economy Ministry would
be at the center of economic-policy decisions, said he’s
consulting with the bank and other bodies on the incentives.
Babacan has overall control of the policy.  Caglayan said Turkey can achieve sustainable growth of 5
percent to 7 percent. The annual GDP growth rate will slow to 7
percent in the second quarter and end this year at about the
same pace, he said.  The current account is a “key risk factor” for Turkey and
is likely to delay an upgrade of the country’s credit rating,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a March report.  Moody’s rates Turkish credit Ba2 with a positive outlook.
Ba2 is the risk assessor’s second-highest non-investment grade.
 Standard & Poor’s  rates the country an equivalent BB, also with
a positive outlook, and  Fitch Ratings  ranks Turkey as BB+, one
notch below investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 