-- 
Viacom Must Face Family Suites Suit Over Nickelodeon License to Marriott

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/viacom-must-face-family-suites-lawsuit-over-nickelodeon-license.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) , the owner of cable
networks, must face a lawsuit accusing it of violating its
contract with Family Suites Resort LLC by licensing the
Nickelodeon brand to Marriott International Inc.  New York  Supreme Court  Judge Barbara A. Kapnick in
Manhattan denied Viacom’s request to dismiss the suit, in which
Family Suites accuses Viacom of improperly entering a
“Nickelodeon Getaway” branding deal with Marriott for hotels
in Florida.  The lawsuit, seeking as much as $180 million in damages, is
based on breach-of-contract and fraud claims, as well as claims
for legal expenses. Kapnick dismissed the fraud claim, ruling it
duplicates the contract claim. The first and third claims of the
complaint -- the breach-of-contract and legal-expenses claims --
are “severed and continued,” Kapnick ruled.  MTV Networks , a unit of Viacom and a defendant in the suit,
“has not shown conclusively that its interpretation of the
agreement is the only reasonable one,” Kapnick wrote, referring
to the breach-of-contract claim and denying Viacom’s motion to
dismiss it.  The judge ordered New York-based Viacom to respond to the
remaining claims within 20 days of her July 7 order.  Kapnick rejected an argument that Viacom is violating a
provision of the contract giving Family Suites exclusive rights
to run a Nickelodeon-themed hotel within 150 miles of its
Nickelodeon Suites Hotel in  Orlando , Florida. Viacom began the
Getaway program last June at Marriott hotels in Miami and
Naples, Florida, and has since added one in  Fort Lauderdale ,
Family Suites said.  150 Miles  The locations “are all more than 150 miles from Orlando,”
Kapnick wrote in her order, and as such don’t violate the
agreement.  “The ruling affirms what we have believed all along --that
Viacom should be taken to trial for breaching its contract and
entering into arrangements that directly compete with our
property,” William A. Brewer III, a lawyer for Family Suites,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  David Bittler, a spokesman for Nickelodeon, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Family Suites Resort LLC v. Viacom
International Inc., 650489/2010, Supreme Court of the State of
 New York , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  