-- 
VMware Unveils Software Designed to Help Companies Compute Remotely

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-12T19:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/vmware-unveils-software-that-helps-companies-compute-remotely.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the largest seller of
virtualization software that lets corporate servers run multiple
operating systems, unveiled programs designed to help companies
handle remote computing tasks more efficiently.  One product, vSphere 5, will help customers get more out of
their servers, the machines that run networks and handle complex
computing functions, VMware Chief Executive Officer Paul Maritz
said at a presentation today. Other new programs aim to make it
easier for companies to access storage and perform other tasks
over the Internet, through what’s known as the cloud.  VMware is updating its software to attract customers to
higher-priced versions and to keep rivals like  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
from eroding its market leadership. Virtualization software
revenue rose 36 percent to $877 million in the fourth quarter of
2010, as more companies now require pricier programs to handle
larger and more complex networks of servers, according to IDC.  By the end of 2012, about half of corporate applications
running on so-called virtual-machine software could use VMware’s
products, Maritz said an in interview at the  San Francisco 
event. Expanding VMware’s market share further will require
customers to move more of their key applications for finance and
other functions into pools of computers managed by the company’s
programs, he said.  “By and large, people haven’t taken any critical workloads
and put them in the cloud,” he said.  More Memory, Power  VSphere 5 software can handle groups of computers with more
memory and computing power than previous versions of VMware’s
software, Maritz said.  The updated vSphere program will help VMware extend its
technology lead and help the company increase license sales and
prices, said Adam Holt, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, in a note
last week. The product will have a “material impact” on
license revenue starting in the fourth quarter, he predicted.  Sales of the 4.0 version were muted by the recession, while
later updates produced several quarters of license revenue
growth, ranging from 30 percent to 85 percent, he said. The new
program will probably boost speed and memory capacity to
“levels far above competitors,” he said.  Spending on  information technology  has improved in the past
nine months, Maritz said.  “We’re launching vSphere 5 into a more favorable
macroeconomic climate,” he said. “On the other hand, it’s a
big release, and customers aren’t going to move there
overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  