-- 
Watchdog Proposes Dodd-Frank Standards for Broker-Dealer Audits

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T18:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/watchdog-proposes-dodd-frank-standards-for-broker-dealer-audits.html
Accounting firms would have to
consider how much risk their clients take when auditing
brokerage firms under rules proposed by the industry’s new
watchdog.  The proposal from the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board  comes a month after the nonprofit corporation established
an inspection program for auditors of broker-dealers under terms
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform act.  “It would require auditors to use judgment to identify and
focus on matters that are most important to the customer-
protection objectives,” said PCAOB Chairman James R. Doty, in a
statement.  The proposed standards are open for a two-month public
comment period. A final version would be adopted only if the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which oversees the PCAOB,
approves its own rule proposed last month to beef up disclosure
requirements for broker-dealers who hold clients’ funds.  “The broker-dealer community is very diverse, and the
business models and risk profiles of the roughly 5,000
registered broker-dealer firms vary,” said Daniel Goelzer, a
member of the audit board. “The proposals recognize that
reality. They are explicitly risk-based and are intended to be
scalable to firms of different types and sizes.”  Also today, the PCAOB proposed standards for auditor
reviewing supplemental information a company files with its
financial statements.  Quarterly earnings announcements sometimes are accompanied
by longer, more detailed financial tables that go beyond
the standard income statement and balance sheet, offering
information that some investors would consider material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 