-- 
Where Have All the Envoys Gone? Obama Could Use Help: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/where-have-all-the-special-envoys-gone-obama-could-use-their-help-view.html
In his first week in office,
President  Barack Obama  made a consequential choice. By
appointing three special envoys to tackle three important
problems, he established his foreign-policy priorities.  George Mitchell , the former Senate majority leader, was
assigned to restart Arab-Israeli peace talks. Former ambassador
 Richard Holbrooke  was put in charge of Afghanistan and Pakistan.
And former ambassador  Dennis Ross , a Middle East expert, was
selected to oversee the administration’s effort to prevent Iran
from developing a nuclear-weapons capability. These were the
right issues to focus on, and the people selected were all
competent, experienced and respected.  The decision to appoint envoys was a signal that the
president would concentrate decision-making power over
international affairs in the White House. By contrast, President
 George H.W. Bush  used a more traditional model. On the three
biggest international challenges of his presidency -- managing
the collapse of the former Soviet Union in 1989, building the
coalition that reversed Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990, and
initiating the 1991 Middle East peace talks between Arabs and
Israelis -- he delegated power to his secretary of state,  James Baker .  This recent history is relevant because all of Obama’s
presidential envoys are now gone. Mitchell resigned in May;
Holbrooke died unexpectedly last winter; and Ross moved to the
White House in the spring of 2009, when it became evident that
the outreach to Iran wouldn’t result in high-level diplomatic
engagement.  Obama’s failure to appoint replacements is seen abroad as
an indication of declining interest in these priorities. For
example, the belief that the president isn’t committed to
restarting the  peace process  was one of the reasons the
president of the  Palestinian Authority ,  Mahmoud Abbas , agreed to
a national reconciliation deal with Hamas.  We have no special attachment to the concept of a special
envoy, and in one case, at least, the administration is showing
it may be able to do without. With respect to  Afghanistan ,
Holbrooke’s portfolio was carefully divided among several
officials, and the new top team of military officers and
diplomats that is heading to Kabul is well-qualified to manage
the administration’s policy of winding down U.S. involvement in
that country. Whether it is possible to achieve a lasting
settlement involving the Afghan government, the hydra-headed
 Taliban movement  and Pakistan, is an open question. But the
White House is devoting appropriate resources and energy to this
issue.  In the case of Iran and the  Arab-Israeli negotiations ,
however, the absence of consistent, high-level attention entails
real risk. No president’s foreign-policy team can focus on more
than a few issues at a time. And under the Obama system,
decision-making requires daily input or approval from the White
House. Right now, in addition to managing talks on the debt
crisis, the president is juggling the Arab Spring, Afghanistan
and  Pakistan , the war in Libya, as well as the next high-profile
presidential visit or summit meeting. It’s no wonder there’s no
strategy to deal with the possibility that a crisis could occur
this fall if the United Nations recognizes a Palestinian state.  Or look at Iran. The situation is worse than when the Obama
administration took office. Tehran is moving toward a nuclear-
weapons capability, and Iranian leaders interested in exploring
a diplomatic solution are being pushed aside. Despite the
economic sanctions that were imposed last year, there is no sign
of any change in the regime’s determination to enrich uranium
for the purposes of building a weapon. And Russia and  China  have
made clear that no more economic sanctions will be possible in
the  UN Security Council . Sanctions may hurt  Iran  -- they have
affected financial transactions and transportation costs for
international trade -- but they clearly aren’t going to stop
Tehran from pursuing nuclear weapons. So how will the president
make good on his pledge to prevent the Iranian government from
crossing that threshold?  There are no easy responses to the Iranian nuclear
challenge or possible UN recognition of a Palestinian state. But
an already dangerous world would be safer if these two issues
were getting high-level attention. Right now, they aren’t. Obama
should either empower Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to take
charge or he should choose new presidential envoys. Further
delay is not an adequate answer.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 