-- 
Twombly’s Death Adds Poignancy to Quirky London Exhibit: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-07-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/twombly-s-death-adds-poignancy-to-quirky-london-exhibition-martin-gayford.html
The significance of the exhibition
“Twombly and Poussin: Arcadian Painters,” at  Dulwich Picture
Gallery  in  London , changed abruptly a few days after it opened.  It was conceived as an exercise in compare and contrast
between a contemporary artist and an old master (Nicolas Poussin, 1594-1665). With the news of Cy Twombly’s death on July
5, the natural response of a viewer shifted. Instead, this
became a mini-retrospective of a historic figure in modern art,
paired with pictures by a predecessor he revered.  In recent years, London audiences have caught up with
Twombly, born in 1928. His painting -- and also his less-
familiar sculpture -- was the subject of a triumphant exhibition
at Tate Modern in 2008. That show proved that he made a unique
contribution to the visual art of our times.  Or, to put it another way: There is nothing quite like a
Twombly. As he said in a rare interview with Nicholas Serota,
director of the  Tate , he never took to the “Wagnerian
American” mode of painting.  A generation younger than abstract expressionists such as
 Mark Rothko  and  Jackson Pollock , Twombly took their idiom and
made of it something less grandiloquent and more quirkily
intimate. Over 60 years, his work developed into one of the most
rich and idiosyncratic oeuvres in contemporary art -- loosely
gestural, romantic, often containing stray words or fragments of
poetry written onto the canvas.  Chilly Eroticism  Poignant though it has become in the light of Twombly’s
death, it must be said that at first glance the Dulwich show is
puzzling. These are two considerable artists from wildly diverse
eras. Poussin (1594-1665) was the master classicist of 17th-
century art. He took the carnal, erotic idiom of Venetian
mythological painting and disciplined it into a stately,
intellectual and, if you don’t like it, chilly grandeur.  So why put him on the same walls as Twombly? The basic
premise is that Twombly, unexpectedly, loved Poussin. He told
Serota, “I had different crushes on different artists. But I
look a lot at Poussin.” And, even more vividly, “I would’ve
liked to be Poussin, if I’d had a choice, in another time.”  There are more connections between Twombly and Poussin than
you might imagine. Both were non-Italians -- Poussin from
Normandy, Twombly from  Virginia  -- who ended up based around
 Rome . Each took inspiration from literature.  Twombly’s “Hero and Leander (To Christopher Marlowe)”
(1985) deals with a classical legend of doomed lovers, a subject
that Poussin might well have treated. Twombly’s picture, though,
is operatically emotional and watery (Leander drowned while
swimming to a tryst with Hero, a priestess of Aphrodite, goddess
of love). It looks more like Monet than anything by Poussin.  Abstract Tradition  The U.S. artist comes at the far end of a painterly
tradition to which Poussin belonged at a much earlier stage.
Twombly pictures such as the pair “Untitled (Bassano in
Teverina)” from 1985 on show at the Dulwich are evidence of
that. In those works there is an image of vegetation, light, sky
and clouds, abstract yet in the same tradition as Poussin and
his contemporary Claude Lorrain. A Poussin picture, “Landscape
with Travellers Resting” (1648) hangs nearby.  Even so, notwithstanding such art-historical echoes, this
odd couple of painters have little, visually, in common. But
suddenly, for the saddest of reasons, it’s welcome to have an
opportunity to look at prime examples of Twombly’s work.  “Twombly and Poussin: Arcadian Painters” runs through
Sept. 25. Information:  http://www.dulwichpicturegallery.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 