-- 
TMX Staying Independent More Likely Than Maple Buy, RBC Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-12T20:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/tmx-group-is-more-likely-to-stay-independent-than-sell-to-maple-rbc-says.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , the Toronto-based
bourse owner that failed to sell itself to  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE) , is “slightly more likely” to remain independent
than be taken over by 13 Canadian banks and pensions, according
to  RBC Capital Markets .  The C$3.73 billion ($3.85 billion) bid by Maple Group
Acquisition Corp. faces regulatory reviews that may scuttle the
transaction, said Geoffrey Kwan, an analyst at RBC. Maple, whose
investors include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Manulife Financial
Corp. (MFC) , may also have difficulty buying the 70 percent of TMX
shares needed for its bid to succeed, he wrote in a report.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc withdrew its deal to buy
TMX, which owns the main equity and derivatives exchanges in
 Canada , on June 29 after failing to win support from enough
shareholders. That left only Maple’s C$50-a-share bid.  “A ‘stand-alone’ outcome is slightly more likely given
material uncertainty regarding the Maple bid, and the absence of
a potential foreign M&A partner (given LSE’s departure) negates
one of the two rationales for Maple’s existence,” Vancouver-
based Kwan wrote in a report today.  The Maple offer, which expires Aug. 8, requires approval
from Canada’s competition authority and provincial securities
regulators in Ontario and  Quebec .  Maple plans to buy Alpha Group, a bank-owned trading
platform that competes with the Toronto Stock Exchange, and
clearing house CDS Inc. after completing the TMX purchase.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  “It is extremely difficult to ascertain whether Maple will
be able to acquire CDS and Alpha without any conditions,” Kwan
said. Merging the three entities is a “primary benefit” for
shareholders from Maple’s proposal, he said.  Maple’s investors don’t have enough ownership of CDS to
complete a takeover without bringing another bank into its
group, Kwan said. Bank of Montreal and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) 
didn’t join Maple because they were advisers to the TMX-LSE
transaction.  Other questions are unanswered, including those on the cost
of buying Alpha and CDS, Alpha’s financial performance, plans
for fees, and potential expense cuts generated by merging the
markets, Kwan said.  A TMX takeover would likely require conditions from
regulators to succeed, Kwan said.  “Some of the competitive and other potential regulatory
concerns raised previously could result in regulators requiring
Maple to make some concessions and/or accept restrictions
pertaining to an acquisition of CDS and/or Alpha,” Kwan said.  Kwan, who rates TMX stock “sector perform,” raised his
12-month share price estimate for TMX to C$45 from C$40. The
stock rose 0.1 percent to C$43.79 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  