-- 
Yankees’ Robinson Cano Wins Home Run Derby Title by Teaming With His Dad

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-12T04:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/yankees-robinson-cano-wins-baseball-s-home-run-derby-beating-gonzalez.html
Robinson Cano of the  New York
Yankees  outslugged Adrian Gonzalez of the rival  Boston Red Sox 
to win  Major League Baseball ’s Home Run Derby thanks to the
pitching of his father Jose.  “The best thing was not my swing, it was the kind of man
who was throwing,” Cano said last night at Chase Field in
Phoenix. “He’s my dad, the one that knows me very well, the one
I practice with in the offseason and go to every day after the
game on the phone.”  The Yankees’ 28-year-old second baseman won the contest, a
prelude to tonight’s All-Star Game, by blasting a final-round
record 12 homers to beat the 11 hit by Gonzalez.  After the left-hander’s winning home run soared over the
right-centerfield fence, Cano threw his arms into the air and
then hugged his dad, who pitched in six games for the  Houston
Astros  in 1989. Jose Cano named his son after Hall of Fame
infielder Jackie Robinson.  “I want to tell him he’s one of the best fathers, thank
him for the support and making me the man I am today,” Cano
said on the field, shortly after receiving the trophy from
former Yankee manager  Joe Torre , now baseball’s executive vice
president of baseball operations.  Cano is the third Yankee to win the Home Run Derby, joining
 Jason Giambi  in 2002 and Tino Martinez in 1997.  Cano and Gonzalez reached the final by each hitting 20 home
runs over the first two rounds. The other semifinalists, Prince Fielder of the  Milwaukee Brewers  and defending champion David Ortiz of the Red Sox, totaled nine homers each.  League Lineups  Ortiz was the captain of the American League team and
selected his roster, which featured Cano, Gonzalez and Jose Bautista of the Toronto Blue Jays. Fielder captained the NL
lineup of Brewers teammate Rickie Weeks, Matt Kemp of the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  and Matt Holliday of the  St. Louis Cardinals .  Bautista, whose 31 homers are the most in the majors at the
All-Star break, failed to get past the first round with four
homers. Holliday hit five and was beaten by Ortiz and Fielder in
a three-way tiebreaker, while Weeks (3) and Kemp (2) also were
eliminated after the opening round.  Cano finished with 32 homers, the third-most by one player
in the event’s history, and said he’s not concerned about the
competition affecting him physically during the second half of
the major-league season. The Yankees’ campaign resumes July 14
with a four-game series in Toronto.  “I feel great,” said Cano, who’s starting at second base
and hitting eighth for the AL All-Star team tonight. “I’m still
young and still have three days to rest and then meet the guys
in Toronto.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  