-- 
Yell Group Rises After Online Advertising Tie-Up With Microsoft

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-12T10:07:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/yell-forms-alliance-with-microsoft-to-deliver-online-advertising.html
Yell Group Plc (YELL) , a U.K. classified
advertising publisher, rose as much as 24 percent after saying
it would provide online services to companies in partnership
with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
　　Yell will use Microsoft’s suite of cloud-computing tools,
including Office 365, to create a market for small- and medium-
sized businesses, according to a Regulatory News Service
statement. Yell, based in Reading,  England , said results from
its online directory yell.com will appear on Bing, Microsoft’s
search engine.
　　The tie-up with Microsoft is part of a strategy to expand
Yell’s online operation as revenue from print advertising drops.
Company revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31 fell 12.4
percent from the previous year to 1.88 billion pounds ($3
billion).
　　About 1.3 million small- and medium-sized businesses in the
U.K., U.S.,  Spain  and  Latin America  advertised using Yell Group
in the year ended March 31, according to the statement.
　　Anthony Carlisle, a media representative for Yell with
Citigate Dewe Rogerson Ltd., said the company aims to become “a
one-stop service to small and medium-sized businesses to connect
them with their consumers in the digital marketplace.” Yell
yesterday said it acquired Znode Inc., a software development
company which makes website for retailers.
　　Shares traded in London up 16 percent at 11 pence as of 11
a.m. The shares, which fell from a peak of 603 pence in February
2007 as the company struggled to deal with debt, earlier rose as
much as 24 percent to 11.75 pence, the highest since Jan. 27.
　　Rakesh Patel, an analyst at Goldman Sachs with a
“sell/neutral” recommendation on the company, said the deal
with Microsoft isn’t likely to reverse Yell’s fortunes.
　　“It’s the kind of stuff they should have been doing
already,” he said. The second issue is “how do they resolve
the debt,” Patel added, saying that refinancing is likely to
happen in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ed Ballard in  London  at
+44-20-7330-7500 or  eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story：
London Ed Ballard  eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story：
Colin Keatinge  ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  