-- 
Myhrvold Sues Hynix, Elpida as Chipmakers Balk at Royalty Demand

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-12T14:41:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/myhrvold-sues-hynix-elpida-as-chipmakers-balk-at-royalty-demand.html
A patent business controlled by
former Microsoft Corp. Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold 
sued  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and Elpida Memory Inc., along with
10 of their customers, after the companies refused to pay
royalties on computer-chip technology.  The complaint by  Intellectual Ventures  LLC targets products
made by Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix, the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-memory chips, and Tokyo-based Elpida,
the third-largest.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Best Buy
Co., which make or sell products that have Hynix or Elpida
chips, were also targeted in the lawsuit.  Closely held Intellectual Ventures, founded by Myhrvold
after he left Microsoft in 2000, has bought more than 30,000
patents and collected almost $2 billion in licensing fees,
according to the complaint. Hynix and Elpida have “failed and
refused to license Intellectual Ventures’ patents on reasonable
terms and continues to use those inventions without
permission,” the Bellevue, Washington-based company said in the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Seattle .  The other companies named in the case are:  Acer Inc. (2353) , A-
Data Technology Co., Asustek Computer Inc.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
Kingston Technology Co.,  Logitech International SA (LOGN)  and Pantech
Co.  In addition to buying patents, Intellectual Ventures also
pays scientists to come up with ideas that can be patented in
industries including nuclear power, medical devices, agriculture
and computers. Investors in Intellectual Ventures include
Microsoft, Apple Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and the Mayo
Clinic, according to a court filing in a Xilinx Inc. lawsuit
against Intellectual Ventures that challenged some of patents.  Myhrvold is a columnist for Bloomberg View, which is owned
by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  The case is Intellectual Ventures I LLC v. Hynix
Semiconductor Inc., 11cv1145, U.S. District Court for the
Western District of  Washington  (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  