-- 
Hyposwiss Reappoints Convicted Money Launderer Hans Bodmer to Bank’s Board

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-07-12T16:35:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/hyposwiss-reappoints-convicted-money-launderer-hans-bodmer-to-bank-s-board.html
A lawyer who pleaded guilty to a
money laundering conspiracy and testified for U.S. prosecutors
in a bribery case was reappointed to the board of a Swiss bank
that the government said he used in the criminal scheme.  Hyposwiss Private Bank Zurich announced Hans Bodmer’s
appointment in a June 6  press release  that didn’t mention his
2004 guilty plea in  Manhattan  federal court or his testimony at
the 2009 bribery trial. The Zurich-based wealth manager also
named Adolf Real, chairman of the Liechtenstein Bankers
Association, to its board.  “Hans Bodmer and Adolf E. Real both have years of
management experience in private banking as well as in its
regulatory environment,” Roland Ledergerber, chairman of
Hyposwiss, said in the release. “With these two new members, I
am convinced that we are in a good position to continue our
controlling and management tasks efficiently and effectively.”  Marisa De Faveri Schweizer, head of communications at
Hyposwiss, didn’t have an immediate comment. Hyposwiss Private
Bank Zurich and its Geneva-based affiliate are part of Hyposwiss
Private Bank Ltd., a unit of St. Galler Kantonalbank AG, a
regional bank based in  St. Gallen , Switzerland.  “Mr. Bodmer’s case, dating back nearly 10 years, did not
involve any violations of Swiss law,” Bodmer’s lawyer, Saul Pilchen of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP in  Washington ,
said in a statement today. “The appointment by Hyposwiss shows
the bank’s well-placed confidence in his integrity as well as
his business judgment.”  Bribery Trial  At the 2009 bribery trial of Frederic Bourke, the co-
founder of handbag maker Dooney & Bourke, Bodmer was one of two
prosecution witnesses to testify that they told Bourke about
bribes paid to government leaders in Azerbaijan as part of a
1998 bid to win control of the state oil company. Bourke was
part of a group of investors led by Czech expatriate Viktor Kozeny and his company, Oily Rock Group Ltd.  According to the U.S. indictment in the case, Bodmer used
“his position as a member of the board of directors of
Hyposwiss Bank” to route payments from Kozeny to government
officials in  Azerbaijan . At the trial, Bodmer testified about
how he used Swiss accounts as part of the scheme.  Bourke was convicted of conspiring to violate the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, a U.S. anti-bribery law, and sentenced to
a year in prison. He is appealing. Bodmer, who is seeking
leniency in return for his testimony, has yet to be sentenced,
and his case is pending in Manhattan.  Hyposwiss, which has been in business for 120 years, has
11.4 billion Swiss francs ($13.7 billion) in assets under
management and employs more than 200 people, according to its
press release.  Awaiting Sentencing  In a March court filing, lawyers for Bourke asked for a new
trial because they say prosecutors knew Bodmer lied when
testifying about a meeting with Bourke that was key to the U.S.
case. Prosecutors deny the claim and say jurors were able to
weigh inconsistencies in Bodmer’s testimony. A  New York  judge is
weighing the request.  “Mr. Bodmer is awaiting sentencing, and therefore one
would wish to know what information the bank had when it made
this appointment,” Bourke’s lawyer, Michael Tigar, said in an
interview today. “One would also wish to know what if any
information Mr. Bodmer obtained from the government to help know
whether he’d be able to fulfill the responsibilities of this
position.”  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York, whose office prosecuted the Bourke case,
declined to comment.  Guilty Plea  Bodmer was indicted in 2003 and arrested in  South Korea  on
a U.S. warrant. He pleaded guilty after being extradited to the
U.S. and spending months in prison. U.S. prosecutors allowed him
to return to his native  Switzerland , where he now practices law
at the Zurich-based firm  BodmerFischer Ltd.   U.S. prosecutors have been trying to extradite Kozeny from
the Bahamas, where he lives, since charging him with bribery in
2005. The U.K.-based Privy Council, the final appeals court for
some Commonwealth nations, has agreed to review the refusal of
Bahamian courts to extradite him.  The case is U.S. v. Bourke, 05-cr-00518, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in U.S. District Court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  