-- 
Yuan Weakens Most in July on Growth Concern, Euro Debt Crisis

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-12T09:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/yuan-weakens-most-in-july-on-growth-concern-euro-debt-crisis.html
China ’s yuan dropped the most this
month as concern growth in  Asia ’s largest economy is slowing and
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening damped investor sentiment.  Data tomorrow will show the Chinese economy grew 9.3
percent last quarter, the least in almost two years, according
to a Bloomberg survey. Twelve-month yuan forwards dropped by the
most in four weeks after European finance ministers declined to
rule out a temporary default on Greek bonds yesterday,
struggling to contain the region’s debt crisis as bond yields in
Italy and  Spain  surged. Annual Inflation reached a three-year
high of 6.4 percent in June, a July 9 report showed.  “China’s slowing growth coupled with high inflation has
added more concerns as investors are taking money off the table
in Asia,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Yuan forwards are reacting to the
deterioration of sentiment in the global market on disappointing
developments in Europe.”  The yuan weakened 0.08 percent to 6.4722 per dollar as of
the 4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , the biggest one-day decline
since June 24, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.20
percent to 6.4780.  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference rate
0.06 percent weaker at 6.4748 per dollar today. The yuan isn’t
allowed to trade more than 0.5 percent on either side of the
fixing.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards declined 0.31 percent
to 6.4165 per dollar, the biggest daily loss since June 9. The
contracts were trading at a 0.9 percent premium to the onshore
spot rate.  ‘Wait-and-See’  China’s monetary policy may enter a wait-and-see period as
tightening takes effect and growth slows while benchmark
 interest rates  in developed nations remain low, according to a
commentary today in the China Securities Journal.  Consumer prices may peak in July and “quickly” slow in
the fourth quarter on declines in commodity prices and strong
summer harvests, 21st Century Business Herald reported today,
citing Chen Dongqi, deputy head of the National Development and
Reform Commission’s macroeconomic research institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  