-- 
Zambia Lures Vale, Vedanta in $6 Billion Copper-Mine Expansion

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-07-12T06:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/zambia-s-copper-poised-for-global-top-5-as-government-lures-vale-vedanta.html
Zambia,  Africa ’s largest copper-
mining nation, is set to enter the world’s top five producers as
 Vale SA (VALE3) ,  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) 
lead more than $6 billion of investment in the country’s mines.  “If all the planned projects take off, Zambia is expected
to overtake Australia and  Indonesia  to become the fifth-largest
copper-producing country in the world by 2013,” Sophie Chung,
an analyst at Wood Mackenzie unit Brook Hunt, said yesterday in
an e-mail. The country’s “positive” investment climate sets it
apart from its neighbors, Brook Hunt said in a separate note.  Zambia has pledged not to take mines into state hands or
impose windfall taxes, even as Tanzania and the Democratic
Republic of Congo to the north, and Zimbabwe to the south, study
measures to boost mining revenue as commodity prices climb.
Zambia’s copper output, some 681,000 metric tons last year, may
double to 1.44 million tons by 2015, according to Brook Hunt.  “Many mining companies have managed to enter into
extremely good development deals in their contracts,” Jacob
Lushinga, an economist at the Economics Association of Zambia,
said June 20 by phone. The agreements include incentives such as
favorable power rates and unrestricted ownership, he said.  The only other African country among the top 10 copper
producers is Congo, ranked 10th, while  Chile ,  China ,  Peru  and
the U.S. are the largest, according to 2010 data from Edinburgh-
based Wood Mackenzie.  Vale, Glencore  Canada’s First Quantum has said it may spend $1.9 billion
on its Trident and Kansanshi mines in Zambia after losing the
Kolwezi copper project in Congo in a 2009 rights battle with the
government. Vale’s joint venture with African Rainbow Minerals
Ltd. will invest $1 billion in Zambia’s Konkola North project,
while Vedanta’s Konkola Copper Mines unit plans to spend about
$1 billion over the next three years and Glencore International
Plc will invest $500 million in its Zambian Mopani operation.  Copper producers are betting on increasing demand from
China, the largest consumer of the metal used in wires and
pipes, as the economic recovery fuels a building boom. Copper
prices tripled to $9,600 a ton in London trading from 2008
through 2010, contributing to a commodities rally that saw
nickel prices double and gold jump 62 percent.  In Tanzania, which has gold and tanzanite mines, the
national planning commission in June recommended consideration
of a so-called super-profit tax on miners. In  Zimbabwe , the
government passed a law this year that will force foreign
companies to sell a 51 percent stake in mining assets to black
Zimbabweans, while in  South Africa  the ruling party is studying
mine nationalization following proposals by its youth wing.  Nationalization ‘Mistake’  Zambia nationalized its mines in the 1960s, a move that
combined with falling copper prices to slow economic expansion.  “It was a mistake” to bring mines under state control as
the government didn’t have the funds or skills to run them,
President Rupiah Banda said in a Lusaka interview last month.  This government won’t make the same mistake, Mines Minister
Maxwell Mwale said at  Zambia ’s first international mining
conference on June 15, adding that the country is “reaping the
benefits” of selling state-owned Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mines Ltd.’s assets, a process that started in 1996.  Investing in Zambia isn’t without its risks. State-owned
Zambia Electricity Supply Corp. said in May that prices may rise
for mining companies by as much as 30 percent to help fund an
expansion of generating capacity. Transport is hampered by the
state of the road network, of which only 22 percent is paved,
while the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority has said strikes on
the rail line connecting the countries may slow expansion plans.  Investment Needed  “Zambia’s transport infrastructure and power generating
capacity require investment before the country’s potential can
be fully realized,” Brook Hunt said.  While Zambia’s copper output could reach about 1.5 million
tons a year by 2016, 1.1 million tons is a more “realistic”
expectation since projects aren’t always executed as planned,
Eleni Joannides, a London-based analyst at researcher CRU, said
in an e-mail. Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  has said
the country may more than double production in five years.  The nation’s economy will probably expand by 6.8 percent
this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in March. The
country may record “double-digit” growth by 2015 if mining
investment continues at the current pace, Musokotwane said in
April. Copper exports generate 70 percent of Zambia’s foreign-
exchange earnings, he said.  Chinese Demand  China is snapping up resources abroad to feed its growing
demand for commodities. Companies including China Nonferrous
Metals Co. are investing $2.4 billion in copper projects in
Zambia, Chinese Ambassador Li Qiangmin said in January.  Zambia’s copper has also attracted miners traditionally
focused on precious metals.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
largest gold producer, agreed to buy copper company Equinox
Minerals Ltd. for $7.5 billion in April to gain control of its
Lumwana mine in Zambia.  The country’s copper output is returning to levels last
seen in the 1970s after falling to 250,000 tons a year in the
late 1990s, when the metal generated 90 percent of the nation’s
foreign-exchange earnings.  In 2009, Zambia scrapped a proposed windfall tax after the
plan prompted legal action. The country is no longer considering
such a levy, even as “outsiders” say it should demand more
from producers amid price gains, President Banda said, adding
that the copper companies help Zambia in other ways.  “Maybe we don’t get everything in taxes as such, but their
responsibilities to the societies around increase as a result of
the amount of money they’re getting,” Banda said. “I haven’t
stopped to ask for a more equitable arrangement, but it’s good
to look at it objectively. It’s a continuous process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 Mukwita1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 