-- 
Spain Calls on ‘Powerful’ Euro Nations to Take Responsibility

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-07-12T14:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/zapatero-summons-salgado-ahead-of-eu-visit-as-spanish-bonds-sink.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called on the euro region’s “most powerful”
nations to take responsibility in the debt crisis, saying  Spain 
made budget sacrifices “for a reason.”  “All that work was done for a reason and was done within
European agreements,” Zapatero said at a press conference in
Madrid today after meeting European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy . “All euro-region nations have to assume their
responsibility, particularly the most powerful countries, and
that responsibility means backing the common project.”  Zapatero said Spain remains opposed to “exploring”
private-sector involvement in a second Greek rescue. The
Socialist government, which is ready to adopt more budget cuts
if needed, has already slashed spending and overhauled
legislation to meet pledges to its euro partners, he said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged to 6.3 percent today,
more than twice what  Germany  pays to borrow for the same period.
European finance ministers meeting in Brussels failed to reach
an agreement on how to help  Greece  and didn’t rule out a
temporary default.  Spanish Budget Cuts  The gap between Spanish and German yields widened to as
much as 376 basis points, the most since the start of the euro,
before easing to 321 basis points at 3:10 p.m. in Madrid. The
Ibex 35 stock index fell as much as 4.1 percent and Banca Civica
SA, a lender formed from a savings-bank merger, postponed
setting the price for its initial public offering.  Spain has already slashed public wages, frozen pensions,
increased the  retirement age  and axed subsidies as part of its
efforts to regain investor confidence. The country aims to rein
in the euro region’s third-largest deficit to 6 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 9.2 percent in 2010.  Spanish yields are also rising as the minority government
faces a test of its support in Parliament. The 2012 spending-
limit bill, the first stage of drafting next year’s budget, will
be voted on today in a session that starts at 4 p.m. If the
budget, which has to be presented in September, doesn’t win
lawmakers’ backing, pressure for elections to be called before
the March 2012 deadline may increase.  Regional Woes  Investors are also focusing on Spain’s regional finances.
Maria Dolores de Cospedal, leader of the Castilla-La Mancha
region, said yesterday its deficit was “extremely serious” and
called for an “urgent” meeting with Finance Minister  Elena Salgado .  The minister told Cospedal today to have a “sense of
timing” and said that the regional government, elected on May
22, will have to set out a deficit-cutting plan once all
relevant audited data are available. Salgado spoke in an
interview with Cadena Ser radio.  Castilla-La Mancha, where power is shifting after three
decades of Socialist rule, had the largest deficit of Spain’s 17
states last year and the third-biggest debt burden at 16.9
percent of its GDP. The central Spanish region represents 3
percent of Spanish GDP.  Salgado, who left the European finance ministers’ meeting
early to return to Spain, said today the surge in borrowing
costs isn’t “logical,” while acknowledging that  Europe  has
been slow to respond to the debt crisis.  “All that uncertainty, and we must admit, a certain
slowness in Europe -- there are a lot of countries and we need
time to reach agreements -- all that is producing volatility
that has been more focused on  Italy  than on us,” she said in an
interview with Cadena Ser radio.  Still, Salgado said yields are low compared with “10 or 15
years ago.” The Treasury isn’t issuing debt this week, making
the situation less “urgent,” even as the government views the
market with “concern,” she said. The Treasury is scheduled to
sell bills on July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  