-- 
Zloty Has Worst Slump Since March on Euro ‘Contagion’ Concern

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-07-12T15:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-12/zloty-has-worst-slump-since-march-on-euro-contagion-concern.html
The Polish zloty slid, marking its
biggest three-day slump against the euro since March, on concern
 Greece  may default and Italy will be engulfed in the European
Union’s debt crisis.  The zloty slumped 1.1 percent to 4.0295 per euro as of 5:33
p.m. in Warsaw, bringing its three-day loss to 2.4 percent, the
second-steepest among more than 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The yield on Polish 10-year bonds rose five basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 5.91 percent.  European officials said after yesterday’s meeting that a
bailout fund set up last year may be used to buy bonds in the
secondary market or enable Greece to retire its debt at a
discount. The 17-nation currency fell dropped to the lowest
level in four months versus the yen and the dollar. The euro
area is  Poland ’s biggest trading partner, accounting for 57
percent of exports in the first four months of the year,
according to the statistics office.  “Greece and the Euro periphery continues to drive negative
sentiment, confounding hopes of a summer lull in the negative
news flow,” wrote RBC Capital strategists including  Nigel Rendell  in  London .  The cost of insuring Polish government debt for five years
in the credit default swaps market has surged to the highest
since June 2010 today. The swaps rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 171 basis points today, according to data
provider CMA and data compiled by Bloomberg.  International investors raised their holdings of zloty
bonds by 22.9 billion zloty ($7.9 billion) to a record 147.6
billion zloty in the five months through the end of May,
according to the  Finance Ministry ’s website.  Elections  “The contagion seems to have started and Poland will not
be isolated from this,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a note to
clients. “Given the upcoming election, the continual heavy
positioning and deteriorating liquidity in the foreign currency
market, it could be closer to the centre of such a storm than it
would like.”  Poland will hold general elections on Oct. 9. Backing for
Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s Civic Platform fell 2.9 percentage
points to 34 percent, and support for the largest opposition
party, Law & Justice, dropped 1.2 percentage points to 27.3
percent, according to a July 8 survey by the research institute
Homo Homini for Polish public radio, published today.  Poland’s government sold euros on the  currency markets 
yesterday and today, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill 
said today in Warsaw. The sale was “not intended to influence
the  exchange rate  which is a secondary effect,” he told
reporters in parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  