-- Aaron Sorkin’s Latest Crusade; Smithsonian’s Crimes: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/aaron-sorkin-s-latest-crusade-smithsonian-s-crimes-tv.html
Derided by  Vanity Fair  as “the  Jay Leno  of news anchors,” Jeff Daniels’s charm-challenged news
anchor Will McElvoy is tired of playing it safe and dumbing it
down.  “The West Wing” with pundits,  HBO (TWX) ’s glossy “ Newsroom ” has
the requisite Aaron Sorkin tics: hyper-articulate ethical
wrangling and jacked-up storytelling that can raise goosebumps
one minute and hackles the next.  In a rare unguarded moment, Will informs a stunned audience
of college students that America is not, in fact, the greatest
country in the world.  “But it could be.”  Hardly Howard Beale’s “I’m mad as hell” speech from
“ Network ,” McElvoy’s obscenity-heavy declaration goes viral
nonetheless. Soon enough, the newsman, encouraged by the
executive producer who once broke his heart ( Emily Mortimer ), is
on “a mission to civilize.”  “I’m quitting the circus,” McAvoy announces on camera,
pledging that his newscast will henceforth “be the mortal enemy
of innuendo, speculation, hyperbole and nonsense.”  He should have added humility to that list.  Tea Party  Set in the recent past, “The Newsroom” chronicles the
fictional ACN network as it tackles news stories from the
Deepwater Horizon oil spill to the rise of the  Tea Party .  “We lost David and Charles,” laments a network numbers
crunchers after McAvoy’s heresy angers the mega-wealthy Koch
brothers.  Current events notwithstanding, “The Newsroom” is thoroughly
situated in the Sorkin universe, where people don’t chat, they
bloviate.  “There’s nothing that’s more important to a democracy than a
well informed electorate,” says Mortimer’s idealistic, hard-
charging producer MacKenzie “Mac” McHale. “I’d rather do a good
show for 100 people than a bad one for a million.”  Later, she’s more succinct. “Be the integrity,” Mac tells
her self-doubting star, the romantic sparks obvious to everyone
but them.  Unrestrained by the outside source material of his best
movies (“The  Social Network ,” “Moneyball”), “Newsroom” doesn’t
skimp on Sorkin’s TV self-indulgent homilies.  Loveable Jerk  Daniels taps into the loveable jerk he unveiled decades ago
in “Terms of Endearment.” Mortimer, though saddled with Sorkin’s
worn-out brand of female insecurity, can pull off even the
weightiest pontifications.  Alison Pill, as an eager intern, doesn’t fare as well,
mugging through her jitters. Better is John Gallagher Jr. as the
brainy, puppyish J-school grad smitten with her.  Thomas Sadoski is a stand-out as the newsroom’s resident
cynic, and Sam Waterston as the bow-tied news division president
represents the old guard -- in the cast as well as the newsroom
-- with surly grace.  Waterston has his best moments when  Jane Fonda  sweeps into
the series in the third episode. As the fire-breathing network
owner none too pleased with the newscast’s new eat-the-rich
attitude, Fonda tells Waterston’s defiant Charlie Skinner to
cool it.  The Koch brothers, she warns, “drop Brinks trucks” on their
enemies.  No one writes the breathless walk and talk like Sorkin, and
no one has a better instinct for choosing his actors.  “The Newsroom” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 10 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: ***  ‘Forensic Firsts’  Dramatic re-creations and cheesy music might be in the DNA
of every true-crime series, but  Smithsonian Channel ’s “Forensic
Firsts” has a bloody fingerprint all its own.  Illuminating grisly crime tales with egghead investigations,
“Forensic Firsts” takes a science nerd’s delight in explaining,
for example, how DNA cracked the BTK serial killings, or how
fingerprint analysis was first used in 1892  Argentina  to crack a
case of child murders.  Re-enactments and, for the more recent crimes, news footage
place the series squarely within the lurid cable genre, but the
science lessons can be intriguing.  That smudge of blood on the wall? It’s actually an intricate
mosaic of arches, loops, whorls, bifurcations and dots. And it’s
literally a dead giveaway.  “Forensic Firsts” airs Sunday on Smithsonian Channel at 9
p.m. New York time. Rating: **  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 