-- Macy’s Lundgren to Be Deposed in Martha Stewart Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-06-21T22:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/macy-s-lundgren-to-be-deposed-in-martha-stewart-lawsuit.html
Macy’s Inc. (M)  Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Lundgren  is scheduled to give a deposition next month in a
contract dispute with  Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc.,
according to documents filed today in New York state court.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, sued in January to stop New
York-based Martha Stewart Living from executing a sales
agreement announced in December with J.C. Penney Co. Macy’s said
it has the exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded
products in certain categories.  J.C. Penney, based in Plano, Texas, acquired a 17 percent
stake in Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the U.S.
department-store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-
stores dedicated to the home goods brand.  Martha Stewart Living in May asked  New York  State Supreme
Court Justice Jeffrey Oing to order Macy’s to make Lundgren
available for a deposition as soon as possible, saying he has
“unique, relevant personal knowledge.” Macy’s asked Oing to
deny the request, saying it was “unreasonable and untimely.”  Lundgren is scheduled for a half-day of questioning on July
3 in advance of a July 13 hearing on his company’s request for a
preliminary injunction, according to a letter filed in the case
by lawyers for Macy’s.  Company Founder  Lawyers for Macy’s also asked the judge to order Martha
Stewart, the company’s founder, to appear for three more hours
to continue her deposition in the case, saying she “possesses
new and unique information that would unquestionably be relevant
and helpful to the court,” according to the filing.  Martha Stewart Living lawyers argued that Macy’s “should
not be entitled to rolling discovery in aid of their motion for
a preliminary injunction.”  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, and Jeanne Meyer, a
spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone messages seeking comment on the court
filings.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v.  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO) , 650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  