-- Maersk Drops as Economic Concern Lowers Rates: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-21T09:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/maersk-drops-as-economic-concern-lowers-rates-copenhagen-mover.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s largest container line, declined in Copenhagen
trading, snapping a two-day advance, on concerns that freight
rates will fall amid slowing economic growth.  Maersk’s B shares dropped as much as 1.2 percent, the
biggest intraday decline in a week. The stock fell 0.5 percent,
or 200 kroner, to 38,400 kroner at 11:30 a.m. in the Danish
capital.  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index for exports out of
 China  fell 1.7 percent today, the biggest weekly contraction
since May 18. Container lines, including Copenhagen-based Maersk
Line, have been increasing rates this year to return the
industry to profit after overcapacity eroded earnings.  Federal Reserve officials yesterday cut their central
tendency estimate for U.S. 2012 gross domestic product growth to
1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in
April. The Chinese purchasing managers’ index, compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, today signaled a contraction
in June, which would be an eighth straight month of shrinking
manufacturing for the world’s second-largest economy.  Frode Moerkedal, an Oslo-based analyst with RS Platou
Markets, said shipping companies need to see demand increase.  “With the U.S. Federal bank lowering its growth forecast
yesterday and Chinese economy showing no signs of bottoming out
yet, both dry bulk and container shipping markets would be
hoping for a revival in demand soon to lend support to weakening
fundamentals,” Moerkedal said today in a note to clients.  -- Editor: Frances Schwartzkopff, Alastair Reed  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  