-- Thai Foes Unite on Leaving Monarchy Law Alone: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-21T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/thai-foes-unite-on-leaving-monarchy-law-alone-southeast-asia.html
For all the bickering among Thai
political parties, they agree on one thing: Now isn’t the time
to amend a law last changed in 1976 that has been used to shield
the royal family from criticism.  Only about three of 500 House of Representatives members
support a bill that reduces jail terms for people convicted of
royal insults, according to Jarupan Kuldiloke, one of the
members backing the effort. The ruling party has declined to
endorse it.  The aversion from Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s Pheu
Thai party may bolster its monarchist credentials as it seeks to
avoid being ousted in a similar way to governments linked to her
brother Thaksin since he was deposed in 2006. The army, which
opposes changes to the law,  cited  disrespect of the king to
justify the coup against Thaksin and declined to disperse
royalist protests in 2008 that preceded the fall of his allies.  “Rational public debate is playing second fiddle to
various political imperatives -- these include constantly
changing attempts to appease hardline royalists,” said Michael Connors, a Thai studies scholar at La Trobe University in
 Melbourne . The strongest bargaining point for Pheu Thai leaders
may be their ability to “largely shut down anti-monarchy
discourse or at least alienate it,” he said.  Yingluck’s party has instead prioritized amending the
constitution, and passing a broad amnesty that would include
Thaksin, who’s in self-imposed exile abroad after his 2008
conviction for abuse of power as prime minister.  ‘Revered Worship’  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 84, assumed the throne in 1946 and
serves as head of state. Thailand’s constitution says the king
“shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall
not be violated.” Five state-run television channels air
broadcasts on royal activities each night, and an anthem
praising him is played before movies in theaters across the
country. The king’s only son, Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, 59,
has fought off publicity about his personal life.  Thailand  will
mark 80 years since absolute monarchy ended on June 24.  The lese-majeste law, which falls under Article 112 of the
criminal code, mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for
defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir
apparent or regent.  The punishment wasn’t always as harsh. In 1908, when
Bhumibol’s grandfather King Chulalongkorn reigned, displays of
malice or defamation carried a seven-year jail sentence,
according to a research  paper  by academics Somchai
Preechasilpakul and David Streckfuss. The government tightened
the law in 1956 to outlaw insults and a military order in 1976
increased jail terms to 15 years, according to the paper.  Public Petition  The submission of the new bill came through a petition with
about 30,000 signatures from members of the public, triple the
amount required by the  constitution  for lawmakers to consider
legislative initiatives. Parliament, which is set to reconvene
in August, is vetting the signatures submitted by the Campaign
Committee for the Amendment of Article 112 of the criminal code.  Hundreds of people who joined a January event kicking off
the signature drive wore  red shirts , linking them with a pro-
Thaksin group that the army accused of  plotting  to overthrow the
monarchy during demonstrations in 2010. The protests ended in a
military crackdown and left 93 people dead.  Thaksin, who has seen parties linked to him win the past
five elections, has blamed Prem Tinsulanonda, head of the king’s
19-member Privy Council and a former prime minister, for helping
orchestrate his overthrow. Thaksin has lived overseas since
fleeing a two-year jail sentence in 2008 on charges that stemmed
from a military-appointed panel after the coup.  Protect the Monarchy  Jarupan, a member of Pheu Thai, says amending the law would
protect the monarchy, in part because of the divisiveness over
the current high punishment. “I’m trying right now to explain
to our friends in the Pheu Thai party to make this law
prioritized,” she said.  Pheu Thai, which controls 53 percent of seats in the lower
house, “has no policy to amend section 112,” Prompong
Nopparit, a spokesman, said by phone. After taking office last
year, the government set up a war room to monitor lese-majeste
offenses on the Internet and  shut down  more than 5,000 web pages
with material it deemed offensive,  Human Rights Watch  said in
April.  The main opposition Democrat party, which holds 32 percent
of seats, also won’t back changes to the law at the moment,
according to Chavanond Intarakomalyasut, a spokesman.  “We are open to listen to people who have ideas to change
the laws, but we are not supporting the people who use this to
attack the royal family,” he said by phone. “The royal family
needs protection.”  Cases Surge  The number of lese-majeste cases before the lower courts
increased to 478 in 2010 from 33 in 2005, a year before the coup
that ousted Thaksin, according to statistics compiled by the
Article 112 campaign committee. The law’s application is also
linked to the Computer Crimes Act, which Google Inc. criticized
last month after a court penalized a web master for insults to
the royal family posted to a Bangkok-based website.  The U.S., European Union and  United Nations  called on
Thailand to respect freedom of speech following convictions last
year, including of Ampol Tangnoppakul, who received a 20-year
jail term for sending four mobile-phone  text messages  that
defamed Queen Sirikit. The 62-year-old former truck driver died
in custody last month.  Proponents of leaving the law unchanged reject criticism
from foreigners as undue meddling in Thai affairs. Political
parties will lose support among the country’s  67 million people 
if they back any proposal to amend the law, according to Komsan
Photikong, a law lecturer at Sukhothai Thammathirat Open
University who opposes any change to the current statute.  ‘Shouldn’t Interfere’  “Foreigners shouldn’t interfere with our issue because
they don’t understand us,” he said by phone. “The status of
our king and other kings in western countries are totally
different. Our king is the center of people’s hearts. They can’t
use their standards to judge our case.”  Some pushing to change the law say they have received
threats. Pavin Chachavalpongpun, an associate professor at  Kyoto
University  in  Japan  who helped lead a campaign to free Ampol and
called for the law’s abolition, said he received two anonymous
phone calls warning him of bodily harm if he speaks about the
issue while visiting his homeland this week.  “It worries me a little bit but I can’t run away from
Thailand,” said Pavin, a former Thai diplomat who is also
affiliated with the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in
 Singapore . “If I run away this time, then what about in the
future. Does it mean I can’t go back to Thailand? That’s a bit
absurd because I haven’t done anything wrong.”  Source of Support  Calls to change the lese-majeste law extend beyond
academics and the Thaksin-linked Red Shirts. A reconciliation
committee established by former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
in the wake of the 2010 violence, and supported by Yingluck’s
government after it took office last August, proposed changes to
the law because maintaining it may “obstruct reconciliation.”  The group proposed in December to lower the maximum penalty
for lese majeste to seven years, with all investigations
preceding only on authority of the Lord Chamberlain, a part of
the palace bureaucracy. Currently, any Thai citizen can lodge a
lese-majeste complaint with the police.  The bill submitted to Parliament would reduce the maximum
penalty to three years for insulting, defaming and threatening
the king and two years for the queen, heir apparent and regent.
The proposal allows special exemptions for “good-faith”
criticisms or truthful claims made in the public interest and
prevents anyone except the king’s principal private secretary’s
office from bringing charges.  Even if rejected, the proposals are useful for educating
people about the need to change Article 112 before challenges
escalate as the succession to King Bhumibol approaches,
according to  Charnvit Kasetsiri , a former rector of Thammasat
University who helped present the bill to parliament.  “On the surface Thailand looks like a land of smiles,”
Charnvit said. “But deep down in cyberspace, with the coming of
the new world, it’s rather messy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  