-- AIG Says Koellner to Lead ILFC as CEO Relationship Probed
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-21T21:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/aig-names-koellner-to-lead-ilfc-as-courpron-relationship-probed.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
named ex-Boeing Co. executive Laurette T. Koellner to oversee
the insurer’s plane-leasing unit, putting her in charge of Henri Courpron after he was investigated over a relationship with an
employee.  Courpron’s annual compensation as chief executive officer
was cut by $1 million at International Lease Finance Corp., and
Koellner was named executive chairman of the unit,  New York- 
based AIG said in a statement today.  “AIG assessed Mr. Courpron’s conduct as contrary to AIG’s
expectations of its officers,” the insurer said.  AIG is seeking to prepare Los Angeles-based ILFC for an
eventual public offering as the insurer works to raise funds to
repay a U.S. bailout. Courpron, 49, a former Airbus SAS manager,
was named to lead ILFC in 2010. Two other executives led the
unit between the departure of founder Steven Udvar-Hazy in
February of that year and Courpron’s arrival.  Courpron and the employee acknowledged they had a voluntary
relationship that had ended, the company said. The review
followed an anonymous complaint that also alleged that the
relationship involved improper use of company assets and
inappropriate personnel decisions, according to AIG. Those
claims were found to be unsubstantiated after a review conducted
with outside counsel, the insurer said.  “I apologize for my mistake and the time-consuming
distractions it created,” Courpron said in the statement. “I
am committed to keep moving forward with the ILFC team
and Laurette.”  ‘Right Steps’  Koellner, 57, worked at planemaker Boeing from 1997 through
2008, becoming president of Boeing International. Before that
she spent 19 years at McDonnell Douglas Corp., AIG said.  She is stepping down from AIG’s board of directors because
she no longer meets the panel’s requirement for independence,
the insurer said. As head of ILFC, she’ll report to AIG CEO
Robert “Bob” Benmosche.  “We have taken the right steps to affirm AIG’s and ILFC’s
commitment to sound conduct in the workplace,” Koellner said in
the statement. “The board, Bob, and I are confident in Henri’s
leadership at ILFC, and we will work together to assure that
ILFC continues to build on its momentum as the largest
independent aircraft lessor in the industry.”  Courpron’s annual stock salary was cut by $1 million to
$3.43 million, AIG’s Executive Vice President of Human Resources
Jeffrey Hurd wrote in a letter that was released as an
attachment to a regulatory filing. Courpron agreed to forfeit
$500,000 in grants made through the end of this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  