-- Lakers’ Kobe Bryant Has Top-Selling NBA Jersey Internationally
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-21T16:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/lakers-kobe-bryant-has-top-selling-nba-jersey-internationally.html
Kobe Bryant  of the  Los Angeles
Lakers  had the top-selling National Basketball Association
jersey outside the U.S. over the past season, the league said
after its first gauge of international sales.  Bryant, who’s won five NBA titles with the Lakers, topped
 Derrick Rose  of the Chicago Bulls, LeBron James of the Miami
Heat and Kevin Garnett of the Boston Celtics. This marks the
first year that the NBA has released a list of its most popular
international jerseys, based on sales at  Adidas AG (ADS)  locations
outside the U.S. during the 2011-12 season.  Sales figures weren’t released.  Bryant, 33, had the top-selling NBA jersey for the sixth
straight year in China, the world’s most populous country. His
jersey was also the league’s best-seller in Europe and Latin
America, the NBA said.  Rose, who won the NBA Most Valuable Player award with the
Bulls in 2010-11, ranked second to Bryant in jersey sales in
China and Europe. The NBA said in April that Rose had the best-
selling jersey in the U.S. over the past year, with Jeremy Lin
of the  New York  Knicks second and Bryant third.  While Lin, who wasn’t in the NBA at the start of the
2011-12 regular season, didn’t rank among the top 15 in jersey
sales outside the U.S., four other international players did.
Knicks teammate Carmelo Anthony also made the list, placing
eighth behind Miami’s Dwyane Wade and Boston’s Rajon Rondo.  Blake Griffin of the Los Angeles Clippers had the ninth
best-selling jersey internationally, followed by Kevin Durant of
the Oklahoma City Thunder, Pau Gasol of the Lakers, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks, Amar’e Stoudemire of the
Knicks, Tony Parker of the San Antonio Spurs and Ricky Rubio of
the Minnesota Timberwolves. Gasol and Rubio are from  Spain ,
Parker is from France and Nowitzki is from Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  