-- Ambienta Set to Raise Minimum $276 Million, Beat Intesa-Led Fund
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-21T12:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/ambienta-set-to-raise-minimum-276-million-beat-intesa-led-fund.html
Ambienta SGR SpA plans to set up an
environmental fund with the aim of trumping the 217.5 million
euros ($276 million) it raised in October 2009 from investors
including Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and a Macquarie Group Ltd. unit.  Ambienta, based in Milan, plans to invest in companies that
improve  energy efficiency  and curb use of natural resources,
Chief Executive Officer Nino Tronchetti Provera said in an
interview in London. The latest investment vehicle will be
larger than the Ambienta I fund, he said, without elaborating.  “It makes macroeconomic sense,” Tronchetti Provera said.
“Your business is going to win against the others as people
call for a more efficient way of using natural resources.”  Investors hope to benefit from the conflicting ambitions of
meeting humanity’s rising demand for resources, while steering
the world away from environmental and social catastrophe. The
 United Nations  said in a  2012 report  the world needs to secure
50 percent more food, 45 percent more energy and 30 percent more
water by 2030, while limiting the effect on the environment.  Ambienta hired Rede Partners LLP, a fundraising advisory
business in London, to bring in investors, while the new fund
will take stakes of about 25 million euros each in companies.  Ambienta plans to spend its remaining 45 million euros of
 Ambienta I  on at most three investments this year,  Tronchetti
Provera  said. It is looking at an energy storage company in
 Europe  and a German business that specializes in lightweight
materials that reduce consumption of energy, he said.  Fossil fuel will remain dominant in generating power as
demand rises, Tronchetti Provera said, while renewable energy
projects such as wind will also be a part of the solution.  Investment is needed to boost the efficiency of buildings,
industry and transport, as well as waste and water recycling, as
commodity prices increase and water becomes scarce, he said.  Ambienta’s investments include Spig SpA, an Arona, Italy-
based maker of products to manage water, 10 million euros in
FoundOcean Ltd. and a majority stake in Tower Light Srl.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  