-- Americans Hold Dimmest View on Economic Outlook in Five Months
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-21T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/americans-hold-dimmest-view-on-economic-outlook-in-five-months.html
The fewest Americans in five months
said the economy was improving in June, signaling the slowdown
in employment is seeping into consumer psychology.  The  share  of households viewing the economy as heading in
the right direction fell to 22 percent this month, the lowest
since January, pushing the Bloomberg monthly expectations gauge
to minus 11 from minus 1 in May. The weekly Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index was minus 37.9 in the period ended June 17, down
from a four-week high of minus 36.4.  “The steady drip of dreary economic data and deteriorating
labor market is reshaping public expectations,” said Bloomberg
LP senior economist  Joseph Brusuelas  in  New York . The decline
“will likely result in slower spending, which in turn will
likely have an adverse impact on business confidence.”  Growing pessimism raises the odds that retailers will
continue to see demand cool after sales dropped over the past
two months. Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday said they
will expand a program aimed at reducing long-term  interest rates 
in a bid to spur the world’s largest economy after lowering
their outlook for growth and employment.  Another report today showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week,
indicating the labor market continues to struggle.  Jobless claims  decreased by 2,000 to 387,000 in the week
ended June 16, according to data from the Labor Department. The
median forecast of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for 383,000. The four-week average, a less volatile
measure, climbed to the highest of the year.  Little Changed  Stocks swung between gains and losses as the figures gave
no evidence of a pickup in the labor market. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was at 1,355.09 at 9:40 a.m. in New York, down
less than 0.1 percent from yesterday’s close.  The Fed said yesterday it will expand its program to
replace short-term  Treasury securities  with longer-term debt by
$267 billion through the end of 2012. Central bankers also said
they were “prepared to take further action as appropriate to
promote a stronger economic recovery and sustain improvement in
labor market conditions in a context of  price stability .”  The slump in expectations this month was led by households
living in the western U.S. and by registered Democrats, today’s
report showed.  All three components of the weekly comfort declined. The
index of the state of the national economy dropped to minus 69.8
from minus 65.7, and the personal finance gauge was at minus 2.3
percent compared with minus 2 the prior week. The gauge of
whether consumers consider it a good time to buy was little
changed at minus 41.7 from minus 41.4.  ‘Perilous Condition’  “Consumer views remain in perilous condition,”  Gary
Langer , president of Langer Research Associates in New York,
which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.
“Still, the index may finish the second quarter slightly ahead
of its first, and certainly well ahead of the dreadful fourth
quarter of 2011.”  The index averaged minus 49.9 in the last three months of
2011, and minus 40.5 in this year’s first quarter.  Waning employment gains have probably contributed to the
decrease in optimism. Job openings were at a five-month low in
April, and the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent in May,
according to figures from the Labor Department. A slump in
income and employment may be among reasons households confidence
has slid even as gasoline prices have fallen to their lowest
since February.  Retail sales  fell 0.2 percent for a second month in May,
data from the Commerce Department showed last week. The smallest
wage gain in a year may be taking a toll on consumer spending.
The hit may leave companies more vulnerable to shocks from the
European crisis.  Cutting Forecasts  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-goods
company, reduced its earnings and revenue forecasts yesterday
for the second time in three months, hurt by slowing sales
growth in  Europe  and the U.S. The reduction by the maker of Tide
washing detergent and Gillette razors illustrates the
difficulties faced by consumer-products makers as rising
unemployment in Europe and  North America  restricts spending.  Today’s confidence report showed the  drop  in gasoline
prices is providing little relief to lower-income earners.
Sentiment among families making from $25,000 to $39,900 slid to
minus 39 from minus 32.3 the previous week. The gauge for those
earning between $15,000 and $24,500 also took a hit, falling to
minus 79.3, the lowest level of the year, from minus 73.9.  Fewer Jobs  “The lower income earners have really turned sour,
suggesting that they are the cohort likely losing jobs and
partially explains why they have not responded favorably to the
drop in gasoline prices,” Brusuelas said. The Bloomberg buying-
climate gauge moves in the same direction as inflation-adjusted
 consumer spending  about 70 percent of the time on a quarterly
basis, according to his calculations.  Last week also marked a setback in confidence for Americans
with household incomes of at least $100,000. The figure for that
group was 3.2, down from 10.3 the previous week. Nonetheless,
the index has been positive for 13 weeks, the best performance
since early 2008.  Other optimism measures, including those from the New York-
based Conference Board and from Thompson Reuters/University of
Michigan, have also reflected the decline in total confidence.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  