-- American Airlines Asks Court to Block Agents’ Union Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-06-21T21:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/american-airlines-asks-court-to-block-agents-union-vote.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , the
bankrupt carrier fighting to cut labor costs, asked a federal
court to block a union-representation election among passenger
service employees.  American argued before U.S. District Judge Terry Means in
 Fort Worth , Texas, today that the National Mediation Board
applied an outdated standard when it authorized an election and
must require a higher threshold before voting can occur.  “There’s a clear congressional directive here and the
board ran afoul of it,”  Roger Diseker , a lawyer for Fort Worth-
based American, told the judge. Means said he would rule on the
dispute later today or tomorrow.  American sued in May, seeking a ruling prohibiting the
agency from directing an election unless there is a “showing of
interest” from at least 50 percent of the employees, not the 35
percent standard the board used.  Passenger service employees, who take reservations and work
at ticket counters and gates, were set to vote on whether to
join the  Communications Workers of America  when American
obtained a temporary restraining order June 13 stopping the
voting.  American argued the 50 percent standard for an election
took effect under federal law on Feb. 14, before the agency
authorized the election. There are almost 10,000 workers in the
passenger service employee class, according to the union.  Labor Savings  “We will continue to stand up for our employees and
respect their right to decide whether or not to seek union
representation, but want to ensure the correct law was applied
in our case,” Missy Cousino, a spokeswoman for American, said
in a statement.  The airline, which filed for bankruptcy last year, is
seeking $1.25 billion in annual labor savings as part of its
restructuring. It has sought court approval to scrap union
contracts with pilots, flight attendants and mechanics.  Peter Wechsler, a government attorney representing the
 National Mediation Board , told the judge that the 35 percent
standard applied because there was a Dec. 7 deadline for
employees to turn in cards indicating they wanted an election.  Before the hearing, about 30 employees and members of the
CWA demonstrated outside the courthouse.  “American wants to stop the vote, and we think that’s
unjust,” CWA District 6 Vice President Claude Cummings said.
“We’re here to support the workers.”  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. National Mediation
Board, 12-00276, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in Fort Worth at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  