-- Americans Want Health-Law Revisions Rather Than Repeal
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/americans-want-health-law-revisions-rather-than-repeal.html
Republicans have pledged to “repeal
and replace” President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul. If
the U.S. Supreme Court strikes down the law, they may struggle
to deliver on the second part of their vow.  A plurality of Americans, 43 percent, say they want to
retain the 2010 law with only small modifications, while 15
percent say the measure should be left alone, a Bloomberg
National Poll shows. One-third say it should be repealed.  The court will rule in the next week on the
constitutionality of the law, the centerpiece of which is the
mandate that most Americans buy  insurance  or pay a fine.  A rejection of all or part of the Affordable Care Act would
be a setback for Obama, undercutting his biggest legislative
victory. It would also present a challenge to Republicans. With
elections approaching, House Republicans are signaling they have
no immediate replacement to offer.  “If you’re out to get more votes in six months, coming
forward with a detailed program is not the optimal strategy,”
said Henry Aaron, a health-policy scholar at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington. Republicans have little to gain in
proposing a comprehensive plan since it may draw criticism from
health-care providers or consumers, he said.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said
on June 19 the House would take a “step-by-step approach” to
revamping health care.  Popular Features  A number of the law’s features are popular. Laetitia Adam,
a 33-year-old independent voter from Miami, said she supports
the insurance mandate as well as the provision allowing children
up to age 26 to stay on their parents’ health plans.  “For the most part, I agree with the law as it is,” Adam,
a respondent to the June 15-18 poll, said in a follow-up
interview. “You can’t afford to get sick without insurance,”
said the graphic artist. The law just “needs to be made more
simple.”  In a nod to public support for aspects of the law, insurers
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET)  and  Humana Inc. (HUM)  said this
month they would retain some benefits even if the court strikes
down the law, including allowing young adults to stay on their
parents’ plans and offering free preventive care.  Partisan Gulf  The partisan divide over the health-care plan was
underscored in 2010, when the legislation passed a then-
Democratic-controlled Congress with no Republican votes.  Republican leaders now are mapping out a legislative
response to a possible Supreme Court rejection of that law,
which is intended to expand coverage to at least 30 million
uninsured Americans.  Advisers to Boehner, Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  and other party leaders have held meetings in recent
weeks to discuss the issue.  “We’re just going through different scenarios,”
Republican Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of  California  said
earlier this month. “You’ve got to see what the ruling is.”  Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican and a
medical doctor, said his party has no major proposal on the
drawing board.  “We don’t plan on coming out with an omnibus bill to
replace Obamacare,” said Gingrey. “The American people don’t
like that,” he said. “We certainly don’t want to try to cram
something down their throats.”  Mandate Burden  Almost seven in 10 Republicans say the law should be
repealed, according to the Bloomberg poll. Support for keeping
it in place with minor changes is shared by 43 percent of
independents, 17 percent of Republicans, and 64 percent of
Democrats.  Leonard Gosselin, a 58-year-old disabled veteran from
Raymond,  New Hampshire  who gets his health care through the
Veterans’ Administration, said he’s opposed to the insurance
requirement.  “I feel sorry for the rest of the people” who have to buy
insurance, said Gosselin, a Republican. “I don’t like that at
all.”  Fifty-eight percent of Americans say the quality of health
care they are receiving is about the same as last year at this
time, while 18 percent said they are worse off, the Bloomberg
poll found. At the same time, 36 percent said they are worse off
in what they pay for health care through premiums, co-pays or
deductibles than last year -- a seven-percentage point increase
from September 2009. Forty-one percent said it’s about the same,
and 8 percent said they’re better off.  Supreme Court Politics  One belief unites most Americans: 71 percent say politics
will influence the  Supreme Court ’s decision, with just 20
percent saying the court will decide solely on legal merits.
Five justices are Republican appointees, and four are Democrats.  The poll of 1,002 adults has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points. It was conducted by  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based Selzer & Co.  Another survey, an AP-GfK  poll  conducted June 14-18, showed
that 77 percent of Americans want the president and Congress to
start work on a new health-care bill if the Supreme Court rules
the law unconstitutional. Forty-seven percent said they oppose
the 2010 measure and 33 percent expressed support.  To date, no legislation to fully replace the law has come
to the House floor, nor does it appear on Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s summer priorities list.  Republicans executed the first half of their “repeal and
replace” promise soon after taking control of the House in
2011. They passed a bill to repeal the law on Jan. 19, of that
year -- with all 242 Republicans joined by three Democrats. The
measure died in the Democratic-controlled Senate.  Replacement Plan  The next day, the House adopted a resolution charging four
separate committees to hold hearings and move legislation based
on a 13-point replacement plan that included a mandate to
permanently fix a Medicare-reimbursement rate formula for
doctors that frequently comes under review by Congress, increase
the number of insured Americans and lower health-care premiums
through increased competition and choice.  House Republicans  have also voted 30 times to eliminate,
defund or scale back parts or all of the health law, most
recently approving a measure to repeal a 2.3 percent tax on
medical devices set to take effect in January.  Aaron, of Brookings, said if the Supreme Court overturns
the law, Republicans will be in no rush to come up with their
own comprehensive plan on an issue that has damaged two
presidencies, including that of  Bill Clinton , a Democrat who
failed to win congressional support for his 1993 plan to provide
universal health care.  “What one is dealing with here are a set of institutions
that determine how we’re going to be treated when we’re in our
most vulnerable state, how we’re going to be treated when we’re
fearful about death,” said Aaron. “It’s a hard problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
 Washington  at   hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  