-- Billionaire Slim Claims European Victory With KPN Stake
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-22T20:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/america-movil-has-21-of-kpn.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  succeeded in
his quest for an influential stake in Royal  KPN NV (KPN) , more than
doubling his shares after the former Dutch phone monopoly failed
to persuade investors to refuse his advances.  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , Slim’s wireless carrier, yesterday
disclosed a 21 percent stake in KPN, up from 8.7 percent the
previous day. KPN earlier ended talks on a combination of its
German business with a rival, a deal the company had sought to
convince shareholders would provide greater value than Slim’s
offer of 8 euros a share.  Slim, who agreed to acquire 21 percent of  Telekom Austria
AG (TKA)  last week, is taking advantage of bargain prices in  Europe  to
expand America Movil’s assets beyond  Latin America , where it’s
the biggest carrier. America Movil said yesterday it wants a
long-term partnership with KPN and is ready to begin working
with its executives.  “KPN is going to have to accept that the Mexicans have
arrived,” said Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in
Mexico City. He recommends buying America Movil shares. “They
can’t spurn a shareholder that has 21 percent and soon will
surely exceed 27 percent.”  KPN’s stock has traded below the 8-euro offer price since
early April. It fell 4.4 percent to 7.15 euros at the close in
Amsterdam. America Movil was unchanged at 17.45 pesos in Mexico
City.  Last Resort  America Movil’s 2.6 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) offer,
which expires June 27, is for a stake in  The Hague , Netherlands-
based KPN of as much as 28 percent. KPN has “taken note” of
America Movil’s share purchases, it said yesterday.  “We will see at the end of the tender period,” said
Maryse Ducheine, a KPN spokeswoman.  As a last resort, KPN could get help from its independent
foundation, which has responsibility for defending the company
from “influences that may threaten the continuity, independence
and identity” of the company by issuing shares that carry
 voting rights . The foundation continues to monitor developments,
spokesman Walter Samuels said yesterday.  Along with the stake in  Telekom Austria  acquired from
investor Ronny Pecik, the KPN investment will give America Movil
a window into markets that can be very different than its own,
with higher levels of mobile voice and data use, Chief Financial
Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said yesterday on a conference
call.  Different Market  “For us it’s important to exchange experiences,” he said.
“They have gone through some issues we will likely have to
confront in Latin America as the industry matures.”  KPN and Telekom  Austria , which has welcomed Slim’s
investment, will get access to handsets and other communications
equipment at lower prices because of  America Movil ’s purchasing
power, Garcia-Moreno said. The Mexican carrier has 246 million
wireless subscribers, while the two European companies have a
combined 57 million.  America Movil’s appetite for European investments is
whetted for now because it needs to keep debt under a certain
threshold to maintain its credit ratings, Garcia-Moreno said.  The two transactions would increase America Movil’s net
debt to $27.8 billion, or 1.4 times its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for the past 12
months. Moody’s Investors Service would revise its America Movil
rating of A2, or five levels above investment grade, if that
ratio exceeded 1.5 for a “sustainable period,” Garcia-Moreno
said.  The carrier had net debt of $23.1 billion on Dec. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Failed German Talks  KPN ended discussions on potential market consolidation in
 Germany  because of “adverse conditions” in the financial
markets, the company said June 20, without naming any other
party. KPN and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  were evaluating options, including
a merger of KPN’s E-Plus unit with Telefonica’s O2, the two
smaller of Germany’s four wireless operators, people familiar
the matter said this month.  The failed talks left KPN Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok with few options to counter America Movil’s unsolicited
offer. Blok and Chief Financial Officer Eric Hageman have been
visiting KPN investors in the past weeks to ask them not to
tender their shares.  KPN also plans to sell its Belgian mobile-phone division.
The carrier completed a strategic review and will begin the sale
process next month for the BASE unit, which people familiar with
the matter previously estimated may fetch about 1.8 billion
euros.  The Dutch government said yesterday that the minister of
economic affairs is in touch with KPN on its latest
developments. The interests of KPN clients, shareholders and
employees must be prioritized, the government said on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  