-- AMR Bankruptcy Judge Postpones Labor Ruling Until June 29
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-22T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/amr-bankruptcy-judge-postpones-labor-ruling-until-june-29.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines 
reduced the value of concessions sought from its pilots union by
15 percent, to $315 million, to help speed its exit from
bankruptcy as an independent carrier.  Those terms are part of talks continuing today as the two
sides take advantage of additional time granted by a judge to
reach an agreement. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane had been set
to rule today on  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR’s request to void
union contracts in a plan to cut labor costs by $1.25 billion.  Spending cuts are central to AMR’s bid to win creditor
support for its plan to exit Chapter 11, and voluntary accords
would lock in savings now that have eluded the carrier in more
than five years of talks. Potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
has reached tentative contracts with American’s unions,
contingent on a merger.  “The creditors committee wants to see a business plan laid
out with contractual terms for labor so they can evaluate two
plans side by side,”  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst,
said in an interview.  “If American is unable to execute a deal with labor, they
are unable to give the creditors that option,” he said. “That
makes the creditors unhappy, and the last thing American wants
is an unhappy creditors committee.”  Exit Goal  American Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  has set a goal
of exiting bankruptcy near the end of 2012, and has said
securing new labor accords is the greatest threat to that plan.  Agreements between American and its unions also could help
US Airways because it would preserve the labor groups’ claims in
bankruptcy and their status as creditors, he said. The  Allied
Pilots Association ,  Association of Professional Flight
Attendants  and the Transport Workers Union hold seats on AMR’s
nine-member creditors committee, which has a say in major
decisions made during the restructuring.  US Airways  fell 2.2 percent to $13.17 at the close of
trading in  New York , the biggest drop among the 10 carriers in
the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index. The shares have more than
doubled since Jan. 24, the day before the Tempe, Arizona-based
airline said that it was studying a merger bid.  AMR’s 6.25 percent convertible notes due in October 2014
were unchanged at 60.5 cents on the dollar at 11:49 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting service of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Savings Target  American has been emphasizing consensual agreements
throughout negotiations, Denise Lynn, senior vice president for
labor, said in a letter to employees.  “It was that focus, and the additional benefit of our
recent revenue improvements, that allowed us to put forward a
proposal to APA that adjusts the savings target while still
achieving the goals of our business plan,” Lynn said.  American will extend the same reduction in the value of
concessions to five work groups represented by the Transport
Workers Union that earlier reached agreements with the carrier
as well as to nonunion customer service and reservations agents,
 Bruce Hicks , an airline spokesman, said today.  The TWU has said its accords included guarantees that
members would receive any improvements gained by other labor
groups in talks. The union didn’t immediately comment today on
the status of talks for its mechanics and aircraft stock clerks.  Flight attendants union leaders are “carefully assessing
the situation,” Leslie Mayo, a spokeswoman, said in an
interview. The union has said that its members wouldn’t approve
any agreement that included the full $230 million in cost
reductions sought by American.  Union Vote  American and the pilots union plan to use the extra week to
clarify proposals the APA said were too vague when its board
decided June 20 not to send the airline’s latest proposal to its
members for a vote. The board will decide by the end of business
June 27 whether to let pilots vote on the carrier’s final offer,
the union said.  Hicks couldn’t immediately quantify the change in total
annual labor savings from American’s original target of $1.25
billion, which included $990 million from unions.  “The sooner we get agreements, the sooner we can begin to
achieve the cost savings we must have,” he said. “Labor
agreements allow us to keep moving the restructuring forward.”  Among other items, American’s last offer to pilots would
provide a 14.8 percent compounded pay increase over the six-year
plan and a 13.5 percent stake in the reorganized airline, while
avoiding furloughs, according to an e-mail to pilots from John Hale, the carrier’s vice president of flight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  