-- Amway Joins Sellers Lobbying Against Distributor-Protection Rule
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2012-06-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/amway-joins-sellers-lobbying-against-distributor-protection-rule.html
For years so-called multilevel or
direct-selling marketers, which enlist individuals to flog
vitamins, cosmetics, and weight-loss supplements to their
friends and acquaintances, have drawn criticism from consumer
advocates who liken the businesses to illegal pyramid schemes.  That’s because distributors also make money by recruiting
other sellers and getting a cut of their revenue, and newcomers
are often encouraged to invest in training materials and
supplies, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 25 issue.  Those practices have led to class actions filed by former
distributors who claim they were defrauded and calls for
increased regulation to protect them. Two years ago, Amway
Corp., among the largest and best-known direct sales retailers,
agreed to settle a class action in  California  with a $56 million
payment, without admitting any wrongdoing. The Federal Trade
Commission has brought more than a dozen actions against
multilevel marketers since 1994.  Because multilevel marketers “don’t have to make
disclosures, they’re widely deceptive,” says Robert FitzPatrick,
who runs the nonprofit Pyramid Scheme Alert.  A new FTC rule was supposed to protect prospective
distributors by requiring companies to provide a one-page
disclosure form that includes support for earnings claims, a
list of previous legal actions against the firm, and its
cancellation or refund policy. Still, the regulation, which went
into effect in April, excludes multilevel marketers.  Lobbying ‘Firestorm’  Critics of the $28.5 billion industry -- which also
includes Avon Produucts Inc.,  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , and  Tupperware
Brands Corp. (TUP)  -- say that’s because of intense lobbying.  “The industry raised a firestorm of opposition to a rule
that for any legitimate company would not have been too
burdensome,” says Douglas Brooks, a Boston franchise attorney
who says he has brought 10 class actions against multilevel
marketer, or MLM, companies over the past 20 years.  On the front line of the lobbying effort to secure an
exemption were three lawyers who had previously held high-level
positions at the FTC: Timothy Muris and J. Howard Beales, both
working on behalf of Primerica Financial Services; and Joan
Bernstein, who represents Amway’s North American unit.  “The fix was put in here,” says FitzPatrick, who submitted
comments to the agency in favor of the rule as it was originally
proposed. “It was astounding to many of us to watch this process
undergo a direct reversal.”  FTC Response  Monica Vaca, assistant director of the FTC’s Division of
Marketing Practices, denies the letters from the former
commission officials were given any special consideration,
noting that all comments, pro and con, were taken into account.  Vaca says an internal study commissioned by the agency
concluded “the rule would not work very well with the MLM
business model.” The FTC will continue with its practice of
suing MLM companies when they violate federal laws against
unfair and deceptive acts, Vaca says.  Joseph Mariano, president of the Direct Selling
Association, which claims 200 member companies, says the FTC
regulation, as originally written, would have burdened
businesses with costly and unnecessary paperwork.  “We were very concerned that the original incarnation of
the rule would have had deleterious consequences for the
16 million distributors in the  United States ,” Mariano says.
Direct selling “is a very innocuous and simple activity. Most
people only get involved for a few hours a week on an informal
basis, and there’s little upfront cost, if any.”  Compliance Expense  Chris Willis, a lawyer representing Primerica, which sells
insurance and mutual fund investments, concurs.  “The expense of complying was going to be very large,” says
Willis, a partner at Ballard Spahr in Atlanta. “The FTC agreed
that the burdens of the rule would outweigh any benefit.”  Anna Bryce, a spokeswoman for Amway, declined to comment,
saying the DSA is the voice of the industry.  At least one critic is optimistic the FTC will eventually
come around.  “I truly think it’s unfortunate that this industry has
continually escaped regulation,” says Brooks, who adds that he
has represented clients suing MLMs who have lost homes, maxed
out their credit cards, and gone bankrupt trying to achieve
success as distributors.  “I don’t believe this is over,” Brooks says. “The FTC did
a beautiful job in 2006 with an extremely careful and detailed
justification for the need for regulation and the basis for
doing it. They were subjected to a tremendous amount of pressure
to change that, but none of the reasons for regulation went
away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen E. Klein in  Los Angeles  at  karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rocks at 
 Drocks1@bloomberg.net  