-- Angry Moms Take on Nutella to Fight Sugary Advertising
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-06-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/angry-moms-take-on-nutella-to-fight-sugary-advertising.html
Laura Rude-Barbato, a coffee shop
owner in Imperial Beach,  California , used to feed her children
Nutella several times a week.  It was easy to identify with the advertising that depicted
a frenzied mom serving up the chocolate-hazelnut spread with the
tagline “breakfast never tasted this good,” said Rude-Barbato.
Then she noticed the 10.5 grams of sugar per tablespoon.  “I had no idea,” she says. “I might as well have been
giving my kids a brownie for breakfast.”  Rude-Barbato kicked the Nutella habit, then joined a class
action lawsuit in a federal court in California that claimed
Ferrero SpA’s U.S. unit misled consumers via labeling and
marketing into thinking Nutella was healthy. In January, Ferrero
settled the case and a similar one brought in  New Jersey ,
without admitting guilt, for almost $7 million.  It turns out Rude-Barbato is no outlier. In 2011,  Battle
Creek , Michigan-based  Kellogg Co. (K)  consented without admitting
guilt to a $5 million settlement in a class action claiming it
touted Cocoa Krispies and Rice Krispies as helpful to children’s
immunity without any clinical studies to back up the marketing.  Danone SA (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt maker, was targeted
in a false-advertising lawsuit in a federal court in  Ohio ,
claiming the company lacked conclusive evidence to say its
Activia and DanActive products prevented illness. The company
agreed in 2009 to pay consumers and lawyers at least $35
million. The company says it stands by its advertising.  Fruity Flavors  Stephen Gardner, litigation director for the Center for
Science in the Public Interest, a Washington-based consumer
advocacy group, says all he has to do to find candidates for
such cases is conduct yearly “supermarket sweeps.” In 2011 his
group filed a federal lawsuit in California against  General
Mills Inc. (GIS)  for marketing Fruit Roll-Ups, Fruit by the Foot and
Fruit Gushers as “fruit flavored.”  CSPI says the snacks mostly consist of sugars, and
Strawberry Fruit Roll-Ups don’t have any strawberries in them.  “We stand behind our products and the accuracy of the
labeling of those products,” said a spokeswoman for
Minneapolis-based General Mills, Maerenn Jepsen.  Jack Fitzgerald, a lawyer in California, said suing food
makers can be more lucrative than the patent law practice he
left in 2010. He’s among a group of lawyers that was awarded
about 66 percent, or $4.6 million, of the Nutella settlements.  Oatmeal, Granola  Fitzgerald is also representing consumers suing  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP) ’s Quaker Oats for touting some of its oatmeal and granola
as wholesome even though they contain  trans fats . Quaker
declined to comment. He’s filed a similar case against
Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)   “We do our best to make sure our labels give consumers
accurate and useful information that complies with applicable
government regulations and is presented responsibly,” said
Basil Maglaris, a spokesman for Kraft.  Angel Garganta, a San Francisco-based attorney who defended
Dannon, said a lot of these cases are “kind of silly.”  “Most consumers don’t care,” he said. “You tell them
what these cases are about, and the responses are, ‘You’re
kidding, someone is suing over that?’”  The  Food and Drug Administration  has the power to enforce
rules requiring food and drink labels to be truthful. Yet it
doesn’t always have the bandwidth to do so, said  Marion Nestle ,
professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at  New
York  University.  “So private lawyers are going into action,” she said.
“They’re making real progress.”  Busy Moms  Companies are overhauling their advertising as part of the
settlements. On its Nutella labels, Ferrero consented to
swapping “an example of a tasty yet balanced breakfast” to the
phrase “turn a balanced breakfast into a tasty one.”  “We continue to stand by the quality and ingredients of
Nutella hazelnut spread,” said Elise Titan, a spokeswoman for
Ferrero USA Inc.  Still, the change was sweet vindication for Rude-Barbato,
who said a blogger called her an idiot for joining the Nutella
case.  “Moms are busy, and we don’t have time to stop and read
every label,” she said. “There should be truth in
advertising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  