-- Anna Schwartz, Economist Milton Friedman’s Co-Author, Dies at 96
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/anna-schwartz-economist-milton-friedman-s-co-author-dies-at-96.html
Anna Schwartz, an economist and co-
author with Milton Friedman of a book on monetary policy that
shaped the views of central bankers including  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , has died. She was 96.  She died yesterday at her home in  Manhattan  after a long
illness, said her daughter, Naomi Pasachoff.  The first book that Schwartz wrote with Friedman, “A
Monetary History of the  United States , 1867-1960,” had
“critical influence” on the outlook “of a generation of
 policy makers ,” Bernanke said in 2003, when he was a Fed
governor.  Published in 1963, the book advanced the idea that the
Great Depression had been triggered by the central bank’s
reduction in the U.S. money supply from 1928 until the early
1930s. That contradicted the prevailing view that it resulted
from the 1929 stock-market crash.  “Nobody knew as much about the history of monetary theory
and the history of monetary policy in the United States as she
did,” Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  Schwartz wrote or edited nine books on monetary policy,
including three with Friedman. Friedman won the  Nobel Prize  in
1976 for work that included his projects with Schwartz.  Plosser recalled that Friedman said his work with Schwartz
was “a true collaboration.” Plosser, who served as co-chairman
of the Shadow Open Market Committee with Schwartz, said that
while “Milton gets a lot of the credit for it, I think Anna
should share in that legacy.”  Friedman Partnership  Schwartz’s name was not included in Friedman’s Nobel
commendation.  “Anna was neglected in the citation,” said Edward Nelson,
chief of the monetary studies section at the Fed in  Washington ,
who interviewed Schwartz in 2003 for Macroeconomics Dynamics, an
academic journal. Still, “the phrase ‘Friedman and Schwartz’
has become second nature in economics when discussing the
importance of monetary policy.”  Schwartz, at a Cato Institute conference in November 2006
following Friedman’s death, said Friedman was “a great person
to work with.”  “He could tell me I was wrong -- ‘You have to rewrite,’”
she recalled. “And I could tell him, ‘No, what you’ve written
isn’t clear. You’ve got to go over it.’ It was that kind of
exchange that made it possible for the ‘Monetary History’ to
have such an extended life.’’  NBER Work  She worked at the  National Bureau of Economic Research  into
her 90s. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based organization is the
arbiter of U.S. recessions. On its website, her latest
 curriculum vitae  was dated January 2010, when she was 94. She
said in a 2003 interview she had no interest in retiring,
because “having something to think about is a much better
life.”  “Anyone who has attended a conference or a seminar with
Anna knows that she was brilliant and to the point,”  Christina Romer , former head of President  Barack Obama ’s  Council of
Economic Advisers , said in an e-mail. “Her comments were
piercing and often devastating.”  In recent years, Schwartz emerged as an outspoken critic of
efforts by the Fed and Treasury to revive credit and bail out
companies during the financial crisis of 2008 and to combat the
recession that lasted from December 2007 until June 2009. She
called the 2008 rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. a “rogue
operation” and an unwise widening of the government’s safety
net.  Fed Criticism  “To me, it is an open and shut case,” she said in an
interview in May 2008. “The Fed had no business intervening
there.”  In a 2008 interview with Barron’s, Schwartz said the
government needed to stop injecting liquidity into markets and
reacting to the credit crisis with ad hoc programs.  “If I regret one thing, it’s that  Milton Friedman  isn’t
alive to see what’s happening today,” she told the magazine.
Referring to Bernanke, she said, “It’s like the only lesson the
Federal Reserve took from the Great Depression was to flood the
market with liquidity. Well, it isn’t working.”  Schwartz said in a July 2009 commentary for the  New York 
Times that Bernanke, the architect of the central bank’s
emergency programs, didn’t deserve reappointment as Fed chief.  “Mr. Bernanke seems to know only two amounts: zero and
trillions,” she said, referring to his policy of holding the
target interest rate near zero and the expansion of the Fed’s
assets to $2 trillion in July 2009, more than double the level
of early 2008. The U.S. Senate’s 70-30 vote to approve Bernanke
for a second four-year term in 2010 marked the greatest
opposition to a Fed chairman since the office became subject to
Senate confirmation in 1978.  Immigrant’s Daughter  Anna Jacobson was born in  New York City  on Nov. 11, 1915,
the third of five children of Hillel Jacobson and the former
Pauline Shainmark, Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe,
according to a  biography  on the website of the nonprofit Jewish
Women’s Archive. Her father was a manager in a kosher meat
department at Swift & Co., according to the biography.  She met her husband, Isaac Schwartz, at a high school
Hebrew camp. They were married from 1936 until his death in
1999. They had four children: Jonathan, Paula, Naomi and Joel.  A 1934 graduate of Barnard College in New York at the age
of 18, Schwartz earned a master’s degree when she was 19, then a
doctorate, from  Columbia University . She first became interested
in economics during a course in high school.  She began working at NBER on a project on monetary data in
the 1940s before Friedman became involved in 1948, Nelson said.  Banking Knowledge  In collaborating with Friedman, Schwartz brought
“experience in historical research, especially banking history,
and her knowledge and compilation of monetary data,” he said.
“But when it came to the basic research and writing of the
‘Monetary History,’ there was not a division of labor between
Friedman and Schwartz.”  The two economists exchanged drafts of chapters and
manuscripts by mail, with Friedman working from his office at
the  University of Chicago  and Schwartz operating from New York,
where most of the statistical work was done.  “The ‘Monetary History’ was a monumental work of
scholarship, and Anna gets a lot of credit for enriching the
texture of the book,” said John H. Makin, an economist at the
 American Enterprise Institute  for Public Policy Research in
Washington.  Arthur Burns, who was at the NBER when Schwartz began
working there in 1941, suggested pairing Schwartz and Friedman,
Schwartz said in a 1993 interview published by the  Minneapolis
Fed . Burns later became Fed chairman.  Research Interests  At the NBER, Schwartz focused on banking and money,
monetary policy and statistics. The nonprofit research group
seeks to provide unbiased economic analysis for policy makers,
business people and academics. Its Business Cycle Dating
Committee determines when U.S. recessions begin and end.  Sixteen of the 31 American Nobel Prize winners in economics
and six of the past chairmen of the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers have been researchers at the NBER, the group
said on its website in August 2010.  “Anna is a symbol of the NBER,” Harvard University
economist  Martin Feldstein , a retired president of the group,
said at a dinner honoring her in 2000.  “The style of Anna’s work over many years at the NBER is
something that we aspire to as an organization but rarely
achieve,” he said. “It’s careful, serious, empirical
research.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  