-- Apple’s Retail Workers Are Said to Get Pay Increases
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-06-22T13:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/apple-retail-store-workers-said-to-receive-wage-increases.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is giving some retail
workers raises of as much as 25 percent following a review of
store operations earlier in the year, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Apple employees at stores across the U.S. have been
notified about the coming pay increases, according to workers
who asked not be named for fear of losing their jobs. The raises
are based on performance reviews and should take effect next
month, one person said.  The increase is one of the first major initiatives by new
Apple retail chief  John Browett , who took over earlier this year
for  Ron Johnson , now the chief executive officer of  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)  Apple has about 36,000 retail employees at more than 350
stores worldwide, about two-thirds of which are in the U.S. Some
workers have complained that hourly wages aren’t enough to
comfortably live in the metropolitan areas where many stores are
located, said Cory Moll, an Apple employee in  San Francisco .  “People have definitely listed it as a top issue,” said
Moll, who started the Apple Retail Workers Union in an attempt
to unionize U.S. store workers. “Because of our low wages we
often can’t afford to buy the technology that we sell.”  Moll, who has worked at Apple since October 2007, said he’s
getting a 19 percent raise, to $17.31 an hour. Apple is also
instituting employee discounts, he said. Workers will receive
either $500 off a new Mac computer or $250 off an iPad, he said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Browett Video  Browett, the senior vice president of Apple’s retail
stores, sent a video message to employees about a month ago
saying that performance reviews would be accelerated, one person
said. Browett, who was previously CEO of  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  in
the U.K., was hired in January after Johnson departed.  Typically, performance reviews are done in July or August
and any resulting raises take effect in September or October,
one person said. This year, evaluations were done earlier.  Apple’s retail stores generated $4.4 billion in revenue
last quarter, up 38 percent from the same period a year earlier.  The shares rose 0.2 percent to $578.62 at 9:45 a.m. in New
York. The  stock  has climbed 43 percent this year.  The pay increases were reported earlier by Business Insider
and the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  