-- Taqa Borrows $1.4 Billion for Morocco Coal Power Plant Expansion
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-06-21T07:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/taqa-borrows-1-4-billion-for-morocco-coal-power-plant-expansion.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , the
state-controlled power and oil producer known as Taqa, signed a
multicurrency project finance loan of $1.4 billion-equivalent to
expand its Jorf Lasfar thermal power plant in Morocco.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  are the mandated lead arrangers for the international debt
facilities, which mature in 16 years, Taqa said in an e-mailed
statement today. Japan Bank for International Cooperation,
Nippon Export and Investment Insurance and Export-Import Bank of
Korea will provide direct loans and loan guarantees for more
than 50 percent of the total project debt, it said.  Taqa, founded in 2005, owns stakes in businesses that
generate power or produce oil and natural gas in the Middle
East,  North America , the North Sea and India. The Abu Dhabi-
based company will spend $2.25 billion this year, Chief
Executive Officer Carl Sheldon said in May. This deal is the
first time JBIC, NEXI and Korea Eximbank have participated in a
project finance transaction in Morocco, according to today’s
statement.  JBIC contributed $216 million to be used for import of
equipment from Mitsui & Co.,  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) 
and  IHI Corp. (7013) , the Japanese lender said in a separate statement
today. NEXI will offer 115.2 million euro ($146 million) in
credit insurance, it said in a separate  statement .  Jorf Lasfar Power Complex is the largest coal-fired power
project in the region and is 100 percent-owned by Taqa, the
company said. The construction contracts were awarded to Mitsui
and Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. in 2010, it said.  Taqa has the equivalent of $22.2 billion in  outstanding
bonds and loans , including $911 million of 5.62 percent notes
which mature in October, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s debt is  rated  A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its fourth-lowest investment grade.  Morocco’s  Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP)  is the mandated lead
arranger for the Moroccan dirham credit facilities, which
represent about 40 percent of the total debt, Taqa said. The
planned expansion will bring Jorf Lasfar’s gross capacity to
2,056 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  