-- Harvest Shares Soar on Venezuela Oil Sale to Indonesia
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-06-22T21:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/harvest-natural-to-sell-venezuela-stake-to-pertamina.html
Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR) 
climbed the most since shares began trading in 1989 after the
Houston-based company agreed to divest oil assets in Venezuela.  Harvest will sell its 32 percent stake in Petrodelta SA, a
joint venture with  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , to  Indonesia ’s
state-owned oil company PT Pertamina for $725 million in cash,
the company said yesterday in a statement. The price is four
times the company’s market value yesterday.  “If you do the simple math of the net proceeds to the
company after they pay taxes and transaction costs, the deal is
worth approximately $14 a share, and the company still has
assets in  Gabon  in western  Africa  which are worth $5 a share or
more,” Patrick Goff, a senior analyst at First Capital Alliance
LLC in  Chicago , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Harvest rose 87 percent to $9.12 at the close in  New York 
as 10.2 million shares changed hands.  The company has had trouble getting regular payments from
PDVSA, as its Caracas-based state oil company is known, and its
assets in the South American country are undervalued because of
political risk,  John Malone , a senior analyst at Global Hunter
Securities LLC in New York, said on March 6.  “An American company does not have any leverage whatsoever
in terms of getting their capital out of the country,” Zachary Prensky, an analyst with Little Bear Research in New York, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “The people getting in to
Venezuela are governments.”  Sale Terms  The sale agreement was announced after the close of regular
trading in New York yesterday when Harvest shares hit a 52-week
low of $4.85 in intraday trading. Wunderlich Securities Inc.
today raised its price target on Harvest from $7.00 to $11.00.  The deal needs approval from shareholders as well as the
Venezuelan and Indonesian governments, Harvest said in the
statement, adding that net proceeds from the sale are estimated
to be about $525 million after “deductions for transaction
related costs and taxes.”  “This deal is going to close 100 percent,” said Prensky.
“It’s an enormous amount of money that will accrue to the
Venezuelan treasury. They’ve got 200 million reasons to get this
done.”  Both companies will meet during the week of Sept. 5 to
assess progress of obtaining governmental approvals and have the
right to terminate the purchase agreement at that time, Harvest
said in a  filing  to U.S. regulators.  China Interest  Harvest agreed not to solicit other offers and is allowed
to enter into discussions with another potential purchaser if it
receives an unsolicited bid as long as it gives Pertamina a
chance to match a “superior proposal,” said Harvest.  Some observers speculated that  China  National Offshore Oil
Corp. or  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  would be the likely
buyer for Harvest’s reserves in Venezuela, as the Asian country
has invested billions of dollars to expand oil operations and
political ties in Venezuela, said Thomas O’Donnell, an oil
analyst affiliated with The New School university in New York.  “Whether in fact CNPC or Sinopec were involved at some
stage, the fact that they have both not significantly increased
their reserve holdings in Venezuela is a continuing sore point
in their relationship with Caracas given Beijing’s huge state-
sponsored investments to date,” O’Donnell said yesterday in an
e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Good Price’  China’s penchant for not wanting to pay a “good price”
for Harvest’s assets kept them out of the deal, and China has
pinned its hopes for acquiring reserves in  Venezuela  on its
close ties with PDVSA and government, said O’Donnell.  “A sale of a lucrative Venezuelan mature field by Harvest
to Indonesia while China has made such huge investments with the
Chavez government, is but another reminder for Chinese companies
of their difficulties in Venezuela,” said O’Donnell.  Petrodelta’s six fields hold gross proved reserves of 195
million barrels of oil and 235 billion cubic feet of gas,
according to Harvest’s  website .  Indonesia, which was in OPEC with Venezuela until three
years ago when it began importing more oil than it exported and
left the cartel, has been looking for a way to get involved in
the South American country to tap reserves in the Orinoco heavy
crude belt,  Russell Dallen , head bond trader at Caracas  Capital
Markets  in Miami, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Both are leaders in the non-aligned movement and the
investment allows them to secure their oil supplies on the
cheap, Dallen said.  ‘Advantageous Time’  Venezuela surpassed Saudi Arabia this month to become the
world’s largest holder of proved oil reserves, a resource that
President  Hugo Chavez , who is facing an undisclosed type of
cancer, promises to tap if he gets re-elected in October.  The South American country’s deposits were at 296.5 billion
barrels at the end of last year compared with Saudi Arabia’s
265.4 billion barrels,  BP Plc (BP/)  said on June 13 in its annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “This gets to the heart of the fact that outside of the
U.S. everyone else is clamoring to get in,” Prensky said.
“People are trying to use the next year or so to get in there
at an advantageous time. There’s no other country outside of
 Saudi Arabia  where you can have a lower drilling risk profile.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  