-- Asian Stocks Fall on China Manufacturing, U.S. Growth Cut
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-06-21T09:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/asian-stocks-rises-as-federal-reserve-extends-economic-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan fell,
with the regional benchmark index retreating from a one-month
high, as a survey showed China’s manufacturing may shrink for an
eighth month and after the  Federal Reserve  cut its U.S. growth
estimate and extended its Operation Twist.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , a mobile-phone maker that counts
China and the U.S. as its top markets, dropped 2 percent in
 Seoul .  BHP Billiton  Ltd., the world’s largest mining company and
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, declined 1.2 percent in Sydney
as crude and copper futures fell. Renesas Electronics Corp.
gained 3.1 percent in Tokyo on a report that KKR & Co. and
Silver Lake are in talks to invest in the chipmaker.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.7 percent to 115.88
as of 6:57 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost three shares falling for
every two that rose. A measure that excludes Japanese equities
dropped 1.5 percent. More than $5 trillion has been erased from
global equities since March amid slowing economic growth in the
U.S. and  China , and a spreading European debt crisis that pushed
Spain’s borrowing costs to a record.  “The Fed extending Operation Twist reflects their concern
economic growth in the U.S. is slowing,” said  Andrew Pease ,
Sydney-based chief investment strategist at Russell Investment
Group, which manages about $150 billion. “Even though markets
are cheap, we’re not back to a risk-on mode. Risks in  Europe  are
not over by a long way. Rising bond yields in Spain and Italy
make it very challenging for policy makers in Europe.”  China Manufacturing  China’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.4 percent. The
nation’s manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in June,
matching the streak during the global financial crisis in a
signal the government’s stimulus measures have yet to reverse
the economy’s slowdown, a survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index sank 1.3 and South Korea’s
Kospi slipped 0.8 percent. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slid
1.1 percent.  The Fed decided to expand its so-called Operation Twist
program at the end of a two-day meeting yesterday, replacing
short-term bonds with longer-term debt by $267 billion through
the end of 2012, and pledged to make “broader financial
conditions more accommodative.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  advanced 0.8 percent,
bucking declines across the region, as the Fed’s decision to
lengthen the maturity of its assets, as opposed to buying more,
was seen curtailing the yen’s advance, boosting the outlook for
exporters’ earnings. Stocks also gained as the country’s upper
house confirmed two new members for the Bank of  Japan ’s board
who have signaled support for monetary stimulus.  Sentiment Slump  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The gauge retreated 0.2 percent yesterday after the
central bank cut its growth estimates after a slowdown in hiring
last month.  “Markets had been hoping for a little bit more from the
Fed,” said Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Markets in
 Melbourne , a provider of trading services in stocks, bonds and
commodities. “Sentiment has really slumped after the lower
growth forecast.”  Exporters declined. Samsung Electronics dropped 2 percent
to 1.227 million won in Seoul.  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382) , the world’s
largest contract manufacturer for  laptop computers , sank 3.5
percent to NT$78.10 in Taipei. Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier of
toys and clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
slipped 2.8 percent to HK$15.32 in Hong Kong.  Energy and raw-material producers led losses among the 10
industry groups in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  as crude and
copper futures fell. BHP Billiton lost 1.2 percent to A$32.20 in
Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining
company by market value, slid 1.4 percent to A$56.90. Cnooc
Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil producer, dropped 3.2 percent
to HK$14.98 in Hong Kong.  Renesas, Yakult  The Asian benchmark index lost 9.5 percent through
yesterday from this year’s highest level in February amid signs
global economic growth was slowing as Europe struggled to
contain its debt crisis. This left the gauge trading at 1.2
times book value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and
1.4 times for the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A number below one means companies can be bought for
less than value of their assets.  Among stocks that advanced, Renesas gained 3.1 percent to
334 yen in  Tokyo  after the Yomiuri newspaper said KKR and Silver
Lake are in talks to invest “several tens of billions of yen”
in the Japanese chipmaker. “Nothing has been decided,” Yoichi
Kobayashi, a spokesman for Renesas, said by phone.  Yakult Honsha Co. climbed 3.4 percent to 3,045 yen after
the maker of fermented-milk drinks said it will continue talks
with France’s Danone SA, which has said it wants to increase its
stake from the current 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  