-- Stocks Drop as Commodities Enter Bear Market on Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-21T22:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/asian-stocks-gain-after-fed-extends-stimulus-as-oil-euro-drop.html
U.S.  stocks  tumbled, driving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the second-biggest loss of the
year, and commodities entered a  bear market  while Treasuries and
the dollar rallied as reports on global manufacturing fueled
concern the economy is slowing.  The S&P 500 sank 2.2 percent. The S&P GSCI commodities
gauge slid to the lowest level since 2010 and is down 22 percent
from a February peak. Oil fell below $80 a barrel for the first
time in eight months. Ten-year Treasury yields lost four basis
points to 1.62 percent. The dollar gained versus all major
peers. S&P 500 futures rose 0.3 percent at 6:21 p.m.  New York 
time after bank credit downgrades announced by Moody’s Investors
Service matched expectations.  Stocks extended losses as the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s  economic index  signaled the worst contraction in
manufacturing in almost a year, while other reports showed
existing home sales decreased more than forecast and jobless
claims topped estimates. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Noah Weisberger recommended shorting the  S&P 500 , or betting on
declines of as much as 5.2 percent from yesterday’s close.  “Anticipation of further slowdown in the U.S. and  China 
and an acceleration of the European crisis is spooking
investors,” said Jeffrey Sica, the Morristown, New Jersey-based
president of SICA Wealth Management who helps oversee $1 billion
of assets. “There is overall hopelessness that many measures to
boost the global economy have not had the desired effect.”  Economic Data  Earlier reports showed manufacturing in the euro-area
shrank at the fastest pace in three years, while China’s factory
output was seen falling for an eighth month in what would match
the longest contraction since the global financial crisis in
2008-2009.  The MSCI All-Country World Index sank 2 percent today for
its worst drop since March 6.  During the regular U.S. trading session, Bank of America
Corp. and Citigroup Inc. tumbled at least 3.6 percent to help
lead declines in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , as all 24 stocks in the
gauge retreated. Two people with knowledge of the matter said
before the Moody’s announcement that the credit rating firm had
told banks downgrades were imminent.  Stock futures gained following the Moody’s announcement,
which came after U.S. exchanges closed. None of the cuts were
bigger than Moody’s had previously outlined.  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
 climbed  3.1 percent in after-hours trading. The bank was
downgraded two levels by Moody’s rather than the three-grade cut
that the ratings firm said was possible.  Rebound Threatened  The slump in the S&P 500 during the regular session
threatened to derail a rebound from a five-month low on June 1,
when the index tumbled the most since November after Labor
Department data showed the weakest U.S. employment growth in a
year. Ten-year Treasury yields have increased from a record low
of 1.4387 percent reached that same day, while the S&P GSCI
commodities gauge has sunk below its eight-month low reached on
June 1.  The rebound in stocks, which reached 6.3 percent two days
ago, came after a 9.9 percent slump from April 2 through June 1
dragged the index’s valuation to 12.9 times reported profits,
the cheapest level since November. Analysts project S&P 500
earnings will decline 0.7 percent in the second quarter, which
would mark the first year-of-year decrease since the third
quarter of 2009. Alcoa Inc. will mark the unofficial start of
the earnings reporting season on July 9.  ‘Deteriorating’ Growth  U.S. stocks dropped yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  cut
its estimates for growth amid a slowdown in hiring and extended
its stimulus program known as Operation Twist, disappointing
investors anticipating a more aggressive approach. The Fed
lowered its central tendency estimate for U.S. 2012 gross
domestic product growth to 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent from 2.4
percent to 2.9 percent in April.  “With incremental U.S. monetary policy on hold, the market
will need to confront a deteriorating growth picture near
term,” Goldman Sachs’s Weisberger wrote in a note to clients,
citing the drop in the Philadelphia Fed index to minus 16.6.  Indexes of commodity, technology and financial companies
tumbled at least 2.3 percent to lead declines in all 10 of the
 main industry groups  in the S&P 500 today. Canada’s S&P/TSX
Composite Index sank 3 percent for its biggest drop since
October and the worst performance among 24 developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. tumbled 17 percent, the most since
going public in 1992, after the retailer forecast second-quarter
profit below analysts’ estimates. Red Hat Inc. slumped 6.2
percent as billings at the largest seller of the open-source
Linux operating system missed some estimates.  Builders Decline  An S&P gauge of  homebuilders  declined 2.6 percent as KB
Home and PulteGroup Inc. lost more than 4 percent each. National
Association of Realtors’ data showed sales of existing homes
dropped 1.5 percent. Jobless claims totaled 387,000 last week,
more than the 383,000 estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Cotton, silver, nickel, oil and gold lost more than 3
percent to lead declines in 21 of 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI Index, which slumped 2.8 percent in its biggest drop of
the year. Gold futures fell 3.1 percent, the worst decline in
two months, and erased their gain for the year.  The GSCI index surged 92 percent from the end of December
2008 to June 2011 as the Fed kept borrowing costs at a record
low and bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing.  The dollar’s gain was led by rallies of at least 1.5
percent versus the currencies of  Brazil ,  Mexico ,  Australia  and
 South Africa . The Dollar Index surged 0.9 percent.  ‘Great Uncertainty’  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 0.5 percent, reversing
an early gain of as much as 0.3 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd. and
Anglo American Plc retreated at least 3 percent to lead metal
producers lower. Invensys Plc plunged 14 percent, its largest
retreat in five months, after saying it’s no longer in talks
with third parties.  There’s still “great uncertainty about future developments
in Europe and the slowdown in China,” said Stefan Angele, head
of  investment management  at Swiss & Global Asset Management Ltd.
in Zurich, where he helps oversee the equivalent of $84 billion.
“The extension of Operation Twist was largely symbolic and will
have no significant effect on either economic growth or the
markets.”  The Spanish 10-year  bond yield  lost 14 basis points to 6.61
percent as the nation sold 2.22 billion euros ($2.8 billion) of
bonds, more than the maximum target of 2 billion euros.  Italy, Spain  Italy and  Spain , which account for more than a quarter of
the euro-area economy, are heading for sovereign bailouts in the
next 12 months that will send shock waves through the global
economy,  Fidelity Investments ’s Jamie Stuttard said. Both likely
will stumble over debt auctions in the next year, Stuttard,
Fidelity’s head of international bond portfolio management in
 London , said in a telephone interview on June 19.  Spain’s banks would need as much as 62 billion euros ($78
billion) in capital to withstand a worst-case economic scenario,
according to two consulting firms hired by the government to
conduct stress tests on the lenders.  The yield on France’s five-year bond fell six basis points
to 1.45 percent. The government sold 8.43 billion euros in debt,
with yields falling in the first bond sale after President
 Francois Hollande  consolidated his position in the country’s
parliament. France’s 3.34 billion euros in five-year notes
yielded 1.43 percent compared with 1.72 percent on May 16.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.7 percent today,
retreating from the highest level since May 14, as benchmark
gauges in Brazil and Colombia sank almost 3 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 1.4 percent.  India ’s Sensex
index rose 0.8 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended
buying the country’s stocks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  