-- Australian Rescuers Hunt for 90 People After Boat Sinks
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-06-22T02:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/asylum-seekers-drown-off-indonesia-en-route-to-australia.html
Australian rescuers are searching
for about 90 asylum seekers missing in Indonesian waters after
their boat sank, at least the fourth fatal incident since 2010.  “The objective is to save as many lives as possible,”
Home Affairs Minister Jason Clare said in a press conference
broadcast by Sky TV today. Of the 200 all-male passengers on
board, three bodies have been found and 110 people rescued and
taken to  Christmas Island  off Australia, he said.  The so-called boat people issue is hurting Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s Labor government, which is in a political
stalemate with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National opposition over
where to base offshore refugee processing centers. Refugees
seeking asylum, usually from the  Middle East , often pay illegal
people smugglers in Indonesia thousands of dollars to ferry them
in overcrowded boats to Australia.  “Voters have become tired of the boat-people issue and
just want the government to sort it out,” said  Nick Economou , a
political analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “Both
parties have shown they can’t really deal with the matter.”  Navy boats, aircraft and merchant vessels are assisting
with rescue efforts, Clare said. The boat was about 110 nautical
miles northwest of Christmas Island when it capsized, he said.  “We do face considerable loss of life at sea,” Gillard
said in Rio de Janero, where she is attending the  United Nations 
Rio+20 summit on sustainability. “It is still possible for
people to have survived and still be in the water.”  Minority Government  Gillard in October failed to pass a law to create offshore
refugee processing centers due to opposition in parliament,
where her minority government holds power in the lower house by
one seat. Boats typically set out for Christmas Island, which
lies about 2,600 kilometers (1,616 miles) northwest of Perth,
the capital of Western Australia state.  “It shows what a horrible business this whole people
smuggling racket is,” opposition leader Abbott said in an
interview with Channel 9 today. “Obviously it’s important we
stop it one way or another, but as I said I don’t think today is
a day for politics.”  On Dec. 17, an overloaded vessel carrying asylum seekers to
 Australia  sank in stormy weather off East Java province, killing
at least 38 people. Less than a week later, at least 10 people
died when a vessel sank near the Maluku islands east of Java.  Wooden Boat  A year before, footage of a wooden boat crammed with about
90 people was broadcast on Australian television networks
showing the vessel crashing in heavy seas against the cliffs of
Christmas Island, killing as many as 50 people.  Gillard was forced to abandon a plan to handle refugees
outside the country when it was opposed by opposition lawmakers.  Under an agreement with Malaysia, Australia was planning to
send 800 asylum seekers to the Southeast Asian nation and accept
4,000 people from that country who have been verified as
legitimate refugees by the United Nations. Australia’s High
Court declared her initial deal with Malaysia to process the
migrants illegal on Aug. 31.  Gillard’s  Labor party  trails the opposition by 22
percentage points in the most recent nationwide poll, which was
taken May 31-June 2 by Nielsen and had a margin of error of 2.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  