-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Climb as Data to Boost Easing Bets
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-22T06:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/aussie-dollar-set-for-weekly-slide-on-global-stock-losses.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars climbed as U.S. reports next week may show slowing new
home sales and weakening confidence, boosting speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will add measures to support the economy.  The so-called Aussie strengthened versus most of its 16
major peers this week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he
may consider a third round of asset purchases, or quantitative
easing, after a two-day central bank meeting this week. Gains in
both South Pacific currencies were tempered as Asian stocks
extended a global equity rout and after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered the ratings for 15 banks, including Credit
Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley.  “There are some prospects the Fed will embark on QE3
somewhere in the later part of the year,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “There will
still be interest to buy the Aussie and the kiwi on dips, but
they’re still a sell on rallies.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0055 at 3:52
p.m. in Sydney. It added 0.4 percent to 80.89 yen after falling
0.7 percent yesterday. New Zealand’s currency gained 0.3 percent
to 78.87 U.S. cents. It added 0.5 percent to 63.45 yen.  The Aussie was little changed versus the  U.S. dollar  since
June 15, after posting the biggest two-week advance since the
period through Dec. 9. Its New Zealand counterpart has climbed
0.1 percent, following a three-week gain.  Australian bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield down by
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.06 percent.
New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell one basis point to 2.74 percent.  Stock Losses  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares slid 1.1 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slumped 2.2 percent yesterday, the
biggest one-day decline since June 1, and the Stoxx Europe 600
Index fell 0.5 percent.  Sales of  new homes  in the U.S. probably rose 0.7 percent in
May after a 3.3 percent gain in the previous month, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce
Department will issue the data on June 25. Figures from the
Conference Board the following day may show a  consumer
confidence  index declined to 64 in June from 64.9 last month, a
separate poll showed.  The Aussie has lost 0.7 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its New
Zealand counterpart added 0.1 percent, according to the gauge
that tracks 10 developed-nation currencies.  The banks that Moody’s downgraded have “significant
exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized losses inherent
to capital-markets activities,” the company’s Global Banking
Managing Director Greg Bauer said yesterday in a statement.  “The environment is still quite risk averse,” said Janu Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “There’s
probably likelihood of more downward pressure on the Aussie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  