-- Azeri-Armenia Clashes May Escalate Into War, Research Group Says
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-06-21T14:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/azeri-armenia-clashes-may-escalate-into-war-research-group-says.html
Clashes between  Azerbaijan  and
 Armenia  that killed at least ten soldiers this month risk
escalating into all out war in a region where  BP Plc (BP/)  and its
partners have invested $35 billion in energy projects, an
international research group said.  “There is a weak control of the cease-fire line by
Azerbaijan and Armenia and almost no international monitoring,”
Sabine Freizer, director of the Europe Program of the
 International Crisis Group , or ICG, said by phone from Istanbul
today. “Large-scale hostilities can break out accidentally, as
a result of tit-for-tat responses by the sides.”  Azerbaijan and Armenia fought over Nagorno-Karabakh, a
mostly ethnic-Armenian region that broke free of Baku’s control
after the disintegration of the former Soviet Union in 1991. As
as many as 30,000 people died in the war, which left Nagorno-
Karabakh and seven adjacent Azeri districts under Armenian
control. Large-scale hostilities ended with a Russia-brokered
cease-fire agreement in 1994, though the two sides have yet to
sign a peace agreement.  Azerbaijan, the third largest oil producer in the former
 Soviet Union , has invested heavily on its army since the cease
fire, weaponry purchase from Israel. President Ilham Aliyev has
repeatedly said Azerbaijan reserves the right to use military
force to regain control of its internationally-recognized
territory should peace talks mediated by the U.S., France and
Russia fail.  Neither Azerbaijan nor Armenia plan an all-out military
offensive in the short term, Freizer said.  “If large-scale hostilities resume, it will be a
protracted war as neither side has a huge advantage over the
other,” Freizer said. “It is also unclear how Russia and
Turkey will respond. They may be drawn in due to security
guarantees they have provided.”  Russia, Turkey  Russia has a military base in Armenia’s Gyumri region and
is obliged to help Armenia militarily as both are members of the
 Collective Security Treaty Organization . Azerbaijan has close
ethnic, political and economic ties to  Turkey .  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who visited the
region earlier this month, also warned of an escalation with
“disastrous and unpredictable consequences”.  She added that prospects for a negotiated solution to the
conflict look dim as both countries are holding elections next
year.  “Now it will be hard to compromise as both have elections
next year,” she said. “So far they cannot even agree on basic
confidence-building and security measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  