-- Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney's Speech in Halifax (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-06-21T15:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bank-of-canada-governor-mark-carney-s-speech-in-halifax-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s speech to the Atlantic Institute
for Market Studies in Halifax, Nova Scotia. The document was
released today in Ottawa.  Financing the Global Transition  Introduction  I want to thank the Atlantic Institute for Market
Studies (AIMS) for the invitation to speak here in Halifax.
One of Halifax’s greatest entrepreneurs was Samuel Cunard,
whose shipping empire, like this centre, still bears his
name. Launched more than 100 years ago, the Cunard business
prospered in the last great era of global change.  In my remarks today, I will speak about the
transformation currently under way in the global economy.
In touching on the situation in Europe, and the challenges
of the international monetary system, I will concentrate on
the central role of an open, resilient financial system to
sustained global growth.  The Transition to a Multi-Polar World  I would like to start by putting the recent darkening
of the global economic outlook in perspective.  Europe  has
built a single market of 500 million people and 27
countries, with free movement of goods, services, capital
and people. In the process, it has transformed the
economies of southern and eastern Europe. It has also
played a consistently positive role in rising above
national interests to address global problems.  On a global scale, never in history has economic
integration involved so many people, such a variety of
goods and so much capital.  This process lifted hundreds of millions of people out
of poverty and created the potential for hundreds of
millions more to follow in their path. The gap between rich
and poor countries has narrowed dramatically and soon the
global middle class will outnumber the poor. The shrinking
disparity between the United States and  China  is
particularly striking. In 1990, GDP per capita in the
United States was almost 30 times higher than in China; by
2010, this ratio had fallen to just six times.  The crisis is accelerating this transformation.  But this transition will not be smooth, and it is not
preordained. Downside risks to Europe are materialising,
threatening the pace of global growth. More broadly, the
rebalancing of the global economy is stalled, as much of
the advanced world remains mired in a prolonged
deleveraging.  During this challenging time, we must remember that
realising Europe’s and globalisation’s potential requires
an open system.  It is reasonable to expect capital to flow, on a net
basis, from advanced economies towards higher expected
returns in emerging-market economies. This is what happened
during the last wave of globalisation at the turn of the
20th century when  Canada , then an emerging economy, ran
current account deficits averaging 7 per cent of GDP over
three decades.  These were good imbalances. Imported capital was
invested in productive capacity that later served to pay
off the accumulated debts.  Global imbalances over the past decade have too often
been bad, if not positively un-Canadian. In some cases,
public capital has flowed from emerging-market economies to
advanced economies to be invested in non-tradable goods
such as housing. In others, private flows overshot in a
complacent, deregulated “new era.”  Large current account imbalances are an inherent part
of strong global growth, but in order to be sustainable,
they must be:  * the product of private decisions taken in a context of  * sound macroeconomic policies and robust market  * structures; and  * financed by an open, resilient financial system.  In many respects, the problems we face today are the
product of two flawed monetary unions: one formal -- the
European monetary union; the other informal -- Bretton
Woods II. In both cases, financial reforms will be integral
to the solution.  European Monetary Union  Europe’s problems today are partly a product of the
initial success of the single currency. After the euro’s
launch, the European financial system quickly became
integrated, and cross-border lending exploded. Easy money
fed booms, which flattered government fiscal positions and
supported bank balance sheets.  In aggregate, the euro area’s debt metrics may not
look daunting: the total euro-area public debt burden is
lower than that of the  United States  or  Japan , and its
current account with the rest of the world is roughly
balanced, as it has been for some time.  But as is now blindingly obvious, these aggregates
mask large internal imbalances.  For example, since 2007, public debt in  Spain 
increased by 30 percentage points of GDP, in  Portugal  by 40
percentage points, in  Greece  by 50 percentage points and in
Ireland by 80 percentage points...and counting. Much of
these increases are the consequence of private losses in
real estate and banking sectors. Indeed, the euro crisis
reminds us that, one way or another, excessive private
debts usually end up in the public sector.  Further,  price stability  across the euro area has been
composed of large differences in national inflation rates.
In the eight-year run-up to the crisis, inflation in the
crisis economies was about twice that of the core
countries.  Most importantly, unit labour costs in peripheral
countries shot up relative to those in the core economies,
particularly Germany. The resulting deterioration in
competitiveness has made the continuation of past trends
unsustainable.  Europe is now stagnating. Its GDP is still more than 2
per cent below its pre-crisis peak, and private domestic
demand sits a stunning 6 per cent below.  The contraction is driving banking losses and fiscal
shortfalls. These are understandably receiving much
attention, but it should be remembered that these
challenges are symptoms of an underlying sickness: a
balance-of-payments crisis.  What Should the Europeans Do?  To repay the creditors in the core euro area
countries, the debtors of the periphery must regain
competitiveness. This will be neither easy nor quick.  A sustained process of relative wage adjustment will
be necessary, implying large declines in  living standards 
in one-third of the euro area.  A comprehensive adjustment is necessary. The burden
cannot only be on increasing unemployment and falling wages
in countries like Spain. Deflation in the peripheral
countries will not likely prove any more tolerable than it
did in the  United Kingdom  under the gold standard of the
1920s. An increase in German wages and private demand (and
inflation) would ease the transition. It is striking that
German real wages barely grew in the two decades before the
crisis.  Moreover, it is essential that the structural reforms
now under way across the deficit countries boost
productivity.  With domestic incomes squeezed, some of the required
investment will have to be financed abroad.  Unfortunately, the European financial system has
aggressively renationalised in recent months. Intra-
European cross-border lending--which had been growing by 25
per cent per year in the run-up to the crisis--has been
falling at a rate of 10 per cent per annum since. While the
 European Central Bank  (ECB) has adroitly stepped into the
breach, reliance on central bank lending is not a recipe
for robust private investment.  Bold steps are required to restore the single
financial market. And bold steps are now under
consideration. One example is the current European proposal
to create a banking union. By centralising bank
restructuring, re-capitalising banks with European rather
than national resources, moving towards centralised (or
federalised) supervisory oversight and harmonising (or
better still mutualising)  deposit insurance , Europe can
break the increasingly toxic links between banks and
sovereigns.  The recent agreement to recapitalise the Spanish
banking system marks progress towards a greater financial
and fiscal union that will reinforce the monetary union. It
is further evidence of Europe’s resolve to address its
problems.  If such measures are combined with swift
implementation of the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB)
financial reform agenda, which I will outline in a moment,
there is a prospect of relaunching a deeper, more robust
pan-European financial system.  Bretton Woods II  The second flawed monetary union is at the heart of
the current international monetary system: the so-called
Bretton Woods II arrangement, which is centred on China and
the United States.  The current international monetary system is a hybrid
of, on the one hand, mainly major advanced economies with
floating exchange rates and liberalised capital flows and,
on the other, a group of countries that actively manage
their exchange rates. The result is a system that does not
facilitate timely and symmetric adjustment to shocks or
structural change. For example, despite its economic
miracle, China’s real exchange rate did not appreciate in
the two decades before the global financial crisis.  In the decade before the crisis erupted, China’s
relentless accumulation of reserves contributed to low real
 interest rates  and, for a time, subdued macroeconomic
volatility.  Market participants increasingly assumed this stable
macroeconomic environment would persist--prompting a search
for yield, rising leverage and a dramatic underpricing of
risks.  When combined with inadequate supervision of the
financial system and ill-conceived deregulation of housing
and financial markets, U.S. private non-financial debt
quickly rose to levels last seen during the Great
Depression.  With 20 per cent of global output, the United States
imported 60 per cent of global capital (on a net basis) on
the eve of the crisis. This would not have been a problem
if this capital had been invested in expanding productive
capacity. Unfortunately, not enough of it was.  Now, the debt cycle has decisively turned. Creditors
demand repayment, and global growth will require global
rebalancing.  How To Pay Down Debt  Austerity is a necessary condition for rebalancing,
but it is seldom sufficient. There are really only three
options to reduce debt: restructuring, inflation and
growth.  Whether we like it or not, debt restructuring may
happen. If it is to be done, it is best done quickly, and
on a sufficient scale to restore sustainability. Policy-
makers need to be careful about delaying the inevitable and
merely funding the private exit.  Some have suggested that higher inflation may be a way
out from the burden of excessive debt. To be effective,
this would need to be coupled with various forms of
financial repression, including  capital controls  and forced
holdings of government debt.  This is a counsel of despair.  An inflation surprise needs to be very large or very
sudden to work. Moving opportunistically to a higher
inflation target would risk unmooring inflation
expectations, destroying the hard-won gains that have come
from the entrenchment of price stability, and increasing
real rates that would exacerbate unfavourable debt
dynamics.  Financial repression would have to be both massive and
sustained. It would undermine the system that has helped
bring us the prosperity of the past three decades.  The most palatable strategy to reduce debt is to
increase growth.  Private growth will not flourish in an environment of
macro instability. Fiscal sustainability and price
stability are essentials, not luxuries.  Private growth needs an enabling environment,
including tax competitiveness and a framework for
infrastructure investment. It needs a sound financial
sector that is diverse, resilient and open.  Sustainable Private Growth and the Role of Financial
Reform  This is not yet assured.  Most immediately, there is a risk that a series of
contingency measures could extend to a global scale the
current European trend towards renationalisation. That is
one reason why the European initiatives expected in the
coming weeks are so important.  More broadly, the financial reform agenda must address
legitimate emerging-market concerns over the resiliency of
the advanced-economy financial systems. Because of these
worries, there is pressure for localisation to protect
domestic systems and renewed use of capital controls to
dampen the volatility of cross-border flows. If allowed to
persist, these nascent trends could seriously restrain the
global capital flows necessary for the next stage of the
global transformation.  The Imbalance Between States and Markets  I recall the German Finance Minister, Peer Steinbrück,
at a fateful G-7 meeting in the wake of Lehman’s failure,
relating that he had met a woman in East Germany earlier
that week who told him that: “I have seen the fall of
communism and now I am seeing the fall of capitalism.”  The complete loss of confidence in private finance at
that time could only be arrested by the provision of
comprehensive backstops by the richest economies in the
world.  Even with these heroic efforts, the global financial
crisis has cost $4 trillion in lost output and 28 million
lost jobs, and built perilous fiscal deficits. As is
typically the case, much of the cost has been borne by
countries, businesses and individuals who did not directly
contribute to the fiasco.  To restore confidence in the system, we must create a
truly global system, in part by rebalancing the
relationship between governments and markets. Governments
must discard the myth that finance is self-regulating and
self-stabilising, and financial policy-making can no longer
be concentrated at national levels.  Given the reality of global finance, it is not enough
to have our own house in order unless we seal ourselves off
from the world--and if we were to do that we will end up
much poorer.  An open, resilient global financial system will be
central to the transformation of the global economy. In
order to achieve that, financial sector reform is a must.
The G-20 has a serious agenda, being aggressively
implemented. The current intensification of the euro crisis
has only sharpened our resolve.  Building Resilient Financial Institutions  Achieving a stronger banking system is the overriding
priority, hence the importance assigned to full
implementation of Basel capital and liquidity standards. A
simple, but effective, leverage standard has been imported
from Canada. It will protect the system from risks we think
are low but in fact are not.  These measures have lowered the probability of
failure. However, our goal is not a fully risk-proofed
system. That is neither attainable nor desirable.  Ending Too-Big-To-Fail  Since failures will still happen, there remains the
need to reduce their impact, which is one of the reasons to
focus on ending too-big-to-fail. More fundamentally, we
must address, once and for all, the unfairness of a system
that privatises gains and socialises losses. By restoring
capitalism to the capitalists, discipline in the system
will increase and, with time, systemic risks will be
reduced. Most importantly, the knowledge that major firms
in markets far away can fail, without meaningful
consequences at home, will restore confidence in an open
global system.  To achieve this objective, bondholders, shareholders
and management--rather than taxpayers--must bear the brunt
of losses. To this end, all FSB member countries have
committed to have in place a bail-in authority. In
addition, each global systemically important bank must have
in place a Resolution and Recovery Plan within the next six
months, to be supplemented by cross-border co-operation
agreements.  The framework for systemic institutions is now being
extended to domestic banks, global insurers, and key shadow
banks. When implemented, greater supervisory intensity and
higher loss absorbency will ensure that the system is never
again beholden to the fate of a single firm or group of
firms.  Creating Continuously Open Markets  An important element of ending too-big-to-fail is
ensuring that key markets can withstand the failure of
systemic firms. It is unacceptable that core markets seized
up during crisis, and that relatively small firms had to be
saved because of concerns that they would take markets with
them if they failed. Creating continuously open core
markets requires changes to the plumbing of derivative and
repo markets, along with better data and tracking of
exposures.  Moving from Shadow Banking to Market-Based Finance  The FSB is working to strengthen the oversight and
regulation of shadow banking so that it is a source of
competition (to promote efficiency) and diversity (to
promote resilience) to the regulated sector. This will
require changes to how money-market funds are managed, the
terms of securitisation and, most importantly, how links
between the regulated banking sector and shadow banks are
managed.  Timely, Consistent Implementation  Finally, the FSB is increasingly focused on timely,
full and consistent implementation of agreed reforms. This
is essential to preserve the advantages of an open and
globally integrated financial system. Recent experience
demonstrates that when mutual confidence is lost, the
retreat from an open and integrated system can occur
rapidly. A return to a nationally segmented global
financial system would reduce both systemic resilience and
financial capacity for investment and growth.  Conclusion  Let me conclude with some comments on the current
economic environment.  The recoveries in advanced economies continue to be
dampened by the ongoing need to repair sovereign, bank and
household balance sheets. While the  U.S. economy  is
expanding at a modest pace, some of the risks around the
European crisis are materialising and risks remain skewed
to the downside.  The emerging world continues to be the engine of
global growth, although weak demand in advanced economies
and the effects of past policy tightening are slowing the
pace of expansion in China and other major emerging-market
economies.  As a result of more modest global economic momentum
and heightened financial  risk aversion , commodity prices
have fallen in recent months, although they remain at
historically elevated levels.  Despite these ongoing global headwinds, the Canadian
economy continues to grow with an underlying momentum
consistent with the gradual absorption of the remaining
small degree of economic slack. Total CPI inflation is
expected to fall below 2 per cent in the short term, as a
result of lower gasoline prices, while  core inflation  is
expected to remain around 2 per cent.  Canada’s relatively favourable economic performance
continues to rely significantly on the resilience of
Canadian household spending, supported by very
accommodative monetary policy and a well-functioning
financial system. Our economy cannot, however, depend
indefinitely on debt-fuelled household expenditures,
particularly in an environment of modest income growth.
Notably, housing investment rose further in the first
quarter, accounting for an unusually elevated share of the
overall Canadian economy. In this context, Canadian
authorities are co-operating closely to monitor the
financial situation of the household sector, and are
responding appropriately.  Today, federal authorities have
taken additional prudent and timely measures to support the
long-term stability of the Canadian housing market, and
mitigate the risk of financial excesses.  Against this backdrop, to the extent that the economic
expansion continues and the current excess supply in the
economy is gradually absorbed, some modest withdrawal of
the present considerable monetary policy stimulus may
become appropriate, consistent with achieving the 2 per
cent inflation target over the medium term. The timing and
degree of any such withdrawal will be weighed carefully
against domestic and global economic developments.  As I have argued today, these global developments will
depend importantly on sustaining an open, global system. At
the G-20 meeting this week in Los Cabos, Mexico, leaders
reaffirmed that “multilateralism is of even greater
importance in the current climate, and remains our best
asset to resolve the global economy’s difficulties,” and
committed to “timely, full and consistent implementation of
agreed policies to support a stable and integrated global
financial system.”  This resolve bodes well for securing the global
transformation and, with it, realising the full potential
of Canadian prosperity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  