-- Bankers Advise Greece Don’t Cry Like Argentina: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bankers-advise-greece-don-t-cry-like-argentina-cutting-research.html
Greece  wouldn’t be able to emulate
Argentina’s post-crisis recovery should it decide to seek
economic solace by quitting the currency shared by 17 European
countries.  That’s the conclusion of a June 15 study by economists
Gustavo Canonero and Gilles Moec of Deutsche Bank AG. They use
it as reason to warn Greece that the cost of embracing default
and devaluation “would go far beyond” the pain of the
austerity measures required to stay in the euro.  Argentina reneged on its debt and abandoned its link to the
dollar at the start of 2002, paving the way for a 20 percent
slump in output over three years and unemployment as high as 23
percent. While the switch was brutal at first, the Deutsche Bank
economists found  Argentina  was blessed by stronger fundamentals
and other sources of economic growth that helped drive a rapid
recovery. After contracting 11 percent in 2002, the Argentine
economy expanded about 9 percent in each of the next three years.  The bad news for Greece is it’s not so blessed. For one
thing, Greece’s public and external debt, as well as its current
account deficit, are two to three times bigger than Argentina’s
were before its turmoil, said Canonero and Moec.  Argentina also benefited from increased demand for its
exports, made cheaper by devaluation, as well as acceleration in
the economy of  Brazil , a major trading partner. Meantime, higher
global prices helped lift the cost of soybeans, which
represented about 6 percent of Argentine gross domestic product
and helped boost tax revenues.  “Nothing of that sort is expected to be present in the
case of Greece, with its negative commodity balance and limited
exportable production, lackluster regional growth and inadequate
productivity growth,” wrote Canonero and Moec.  In their estimates, even a controlled 50 percent
devaluation would slice 15 percent from Greek GDP in the first
year on a price-adjusted basis and propel annual inflation to 10
percent in the three years after default.  * * *  Declining trade among euro countries is set to offset the
economic boost of a falling exchange rate for the region’s major
economies, according to Societe Generale SA.  The euro’s slide, which includes dropping about 12 percent
against the dollar in the past year, should add 0.5 percentage
point to the euro countries’ gross domestic product over the
next year, estimated economist Michel Martinez in a June 15
report.  That positive force will nevertheless be countered by
falling shipments inside the bloc, he said. Trading with
neighbors in the euro region accounts for about 4 percent of GDP
in the so-called core economies, including France and  Germany .
That’s fallen by about 10 percent in a year and set to wipe off
another 0.3 percentage point from growth through next year,
Martinez found.  “Intra-zone trade alone is expected to neutralize much of
the positive exchange-rate effect for the core countries,” he
said.  Aggregate imports for Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and
 Spain  all have weakened since the middle of last year and
contracted 10 percent versus their 2011 average in the first
quarter. France sends 18 percent of its exports to those
countries and Germany 11 percent, Martinez estimated.  * * *  England soccer fans would be willing to sacrifice more than
supporters of Italy would if it meant their team beat the other
this weekend in the quarterfinals of the European championship,
according to a poll of 16,000 people by ING Groep NV released on
June 21.  England supporters would be willing to pay 207 euros ($260)
if it meant their national side securing a victory, while
Italians would part with 167 euros. Workers from both countries
say they would surrender two days of vacation in return for a
win. Twelve percent of the English would hand over 1 percent of
their income to guarantee success, compared with 8 percent of
Italians.  “Football exposes some fascinating economics lessons,”
wrote Ian Bright, an ING economist in  London . “One of them is
the need to control emotions. On the field, sticking to a long-
term plan and trusting objective statistics can keep emotions
under control and, in the long run, may bring better results.
The same can hold true off the field as well.”  * * *  There is a growing global mismatch in the supply of workers,
according to McKinsey & Co.’s  research  division.  It estimates in a June 14 report that by 2020 the global
labor force of 3.5 billion will include about 85 million too few
high-and medium-skilled workers and around 90 million too many
low-skilled people.  Income inequality  will climb as those without
qualifications suffer unemployment and stagnating wages, said
authors led by Richard Dobbs.  Using trends in demographics, labor markets and education
in 70 countries, the report by the McKinsey Global Institute
projected that in 18 years there will be around 40 million fewer
workers with college training than employers need.  Developing
countries  will have 45 million too few people with secondary
education.  “For the global labor market to continue to deliver
benefits to all workers, employers and national economies over
the next 30 years, these imbalances must be avoided,” the study
said. That requires “a concerted, global effort by governments
and businesses to raise educational attainment and provide job-
specific training.”  * * *  Policy makers must be on alert for “unfinished”
recessions when coming to the rescue of economies they fear may
be threatened by slumps in stock prices.  A study released last week by economists from the Basel,
Switzerland-based  Bank for International Settlements  found
authorities sometimes ignore the medium-term performance of
financial assets when trying to protect economic growth.  That happens when policy makers “overreact” to short-term
developments and lose sight of the financial trends behind them.
That “can store up bigger trouble down the road,” wrote
economists Mathias Drehmann, Claudio Borio and Kostas
Tsatsaronis.  On three occasions, in the mid-1980s, early 1990s and from
2001 to 2007, policy makers reacted to declines in equity prices
only to discover shares weren’t a reliable indicator of
financial conditions, the authors said.  After the  stock-market  crashes of 1987 and 2001 “credit
and property prices continued to increase, benefitting from a
second breath of life,” the economists wrote. “A few years
later, the credit and property booms in turn collapsed, causing
serious financial disruptions and dragging down the economy with
them.”  “Policy responses that fail to take (medium-term)
financial cycles into account can help contain recessions in the
short run, but at the expense of larger recessions down the
road,” the study said.  The report also found financial cycles have increased in
length since the 1980s amid greater liberalization. Their peaks
are closely associated with systematic banking turmoil, it said.  Recessions coinciding with the contraction of finance are
particularly severe given gross domestic product drops by 50
percent more than otherwise, the report said.  * * *  Venture capitalists looking to unite with others should
focus more on working with people of similar skills than those
with whom they share similarities or interests.  In researching “The Cost of Friendship,” economists Paul Gompers, Vladimir Mukharlyamov and Yuhai Xuan found
collaborations are most likely to happen between people who have
similar abilities, such as degrees from a top university, and
between those who have an affinity, such as having attended the
same school.  The economists, in a working paper for the  National Bureau
of Economic Research , used a data set of 3,510 venture
capitalists investing in 11,895 portfolio companies from 1975 to
2003. They found individuals were more likely to collaborate
with others who have similar characteristics and backgrounds.  For example, two venture capitalists with degrees from
major universities were found to be 8.5 percent more likely to
co-invest than individuals who don’t share that educational
background.  The economists found the investment performance improved
with the number of top school degree holders in the partnership.
Having one increases the chance of the portfolio company selling
shares to the public by 9 percent and having two increases the
chance of success by 11 percent.  By contrast, performance is less impressive when people who
share affinities work together. The economists found that the
probability of a successful outcome decreased by 18 percent if
two venture capitalists who previously worked at the same
company partner up. The likelihood of success falls by 22
percent if two graduates from the same lower-ranked school link
and there’s a 25 percent reduction in performance when people
from the same ethnic group unite, they said.  “Collaborating for ability-based characteristics enhances
 investment performance  while collaborating for affinity-based
characteristics dramatically reduces investment returns,” the
economists said. “Our conclusion is that, to paraphrase Ralph Waldo Emerson, you cannot afford to be stupid with old friends
when you are venture capitalists co-investing together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  