-- Bernanke Signals More Easing Likely if Job Growth Wanes
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bernanke-signals-more-easing-likely-if-job-growth-wanes.html
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
signaling the  Federal Reserve  will probably add to its record
stimulus should the economy fail to make sufficient progress in
creating jobs for 12.7 million unemployed Americans.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee yesterday
extended its Operation Twist program and will swap $267 billion
in short-term securities with longer-term debt through the end
of 2012. Fed officials also downgraded their forecasts for
growth and employment while noting “significant downside
risks” to the economy.  Bernanke, speaking at a Washington press conference, said
policy makers are focusing “primarily” on the outlook for jobs
in deciding whether to ease further, and more action would be
needed without “sustained improvement in the labor market.”
Payrolls grew at the slowest pace in a year in May, and the
jobless rate has been stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  “If job growth doesn’t pick up from the recent soft
readings in the next few months, then the Fed would likely do
more and do a full scale asset-purchase program,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in New York and a
former Fed economist. “They’re prepared to take further
action.”  U.S. stocks slipped after the Fed cut its estimates for
growth and Bernanke said progress in the labor market has slowed.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,355.69 in
New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.66 percent.  ‘On Alert’  “They’re on alert for confirmation that the labor market
weakness is a passing phenomenon,” said  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and a former
Fed economist. “There is certainly a decent chance that we
don’t see a rebound in the labor market, and then they’d act
again.”  Job growth short of 100,000 a month would probably prompt a
third round of large-scale asset purchases, while monthly
payroll increases of about 150,000 would probably make such a
program unnecessary, Maki said. The Fed has already bought $2.3
trillion of securities in two quantitative-easing programs.  Bernanke said in April that employment growth of 100,000 a
month is needed for “stability” in the job market, and that
payroll increases of about 150,000 to 200,000 were consistent
with the Fed’s forecasts for joblessness.  The economy added 69,000 jobs in May, while the
 unemployment rate  climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in
April. Fed officials predict unemployment of 8 percent to 8.2
percent at year-end, compared with an April projection of 7.8
percent to 8 percent. They expect joblessness of 7.5 percent to
8 percent in 2013, up from 7.3 percent to 7.7 percent.  Fiscal Tightening  Bernanke said the economy is vulnerable to looming U.S.
fiscal tightening and fallout from the sovereign-debt crisis in
 Europe . The FOMC, which has kept its  benchmark interest rate 
near zero since December 2008, reiterated yesterday it expects
to keep rates “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  “Additional asset purchases would be among the things that
we would certainly consider if we need to take additional
measures to strengthen the economy,” Bernanke said. “Our tools,
while they are non-standard, still can create more accommodative
financial conditions, can still provide support for the economy,
can still help us to return to a more normal economic
situation.”  The Fed said it will sell  Treasury securities  maturing in
about three years or sooner and purchase a comparable amount of
securities due in six years to 30 years. The central bank
announced the current $400 billion maturity-extension program on
Sept. 21, and it is due to expire this month.  ‘Below Target’  “Unemployment is still way too high and inflation is below
target,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. in New York. “The bottom line is that the Fed
feels like they needed to do more, but at this point in time at
least, they were reluctant to expand the balance sheet again.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented for the
fourth meeting in a row, saying he doesn’t support extending
Operation Twist. He said last month the central bank will
probably need to raise its benchmark rate next year.  Economic data in recent weeks have pointed to slowing
growth. Retail sales fell 0.2 percent for a second month in May,
according to a June 13 report from the Commerce Department, as
elevated unemployment and the smallest wage gains in a year
prompted consumers to curtail their spending.  Industrial production unexpectedly dropped in May for the
second time in three months as factories turned out fewer
vehicles and  consumer goods , data from the Fed showed last week.  Growth Forecasts  Fed officials see growth ranging from 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent this year, down from an April forecast of 2.4 percent to
2.9 percent, according to their so-called central tendency
estimates, which exclude the three highest and three lowest
projections.  The FOMC may be taking an approach closer to that advocated
by Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  by placing more emphasis
on creating jobs, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at
Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  In April, the FOMC said it “will regularly review the size
and composition of its securities holdings and is prepared to
adjust those holdings as appropriate.” That language was two-
sided because the committee could also shrink the balance sheet
to keep prices stable, Crandall said.  In their statement yesterday, policy makers pledged
“further action as appropriate” to promote a stronger recovery
and “sustained improvement” in the labor market, a one-sided
bias toward further easing, Crandall said.  Policy Link  “They sharpened the conditionality and took a step toward
Evans’s view that the Fed should explicitly link its policy
plans to progress on employment,” he said.  The FOMC also said yesterday that inflation “has declined,
mainly reflecting lower prices of crude oil and gasoline, and
longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.”  Oil
prices  tumbled to an eight month-low yesterday of $81.80 a
barrel after U.S. inventories climbed to a 22-year high.  Fed officials project inflation of 1.2 percent to 1.7
percent this year, down from an April prediction of 1.9 percent
to 2 percent.  The commitment to more stimulus if labor markets don’t
improve is a “notable addition” to the statement, said Roberto Perli, managing director of policy research at International
Strategy & Investment Group in  Washington .  Easing Bias  “It focuses them even more on the labor market, and it
does suggest there is a bias toward further easing,” said Perli,
who worked in the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs under
Bernanke.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the FOMC, said May 24 that
he’d “like to see payroll gains in the 300,000 a month” range
for “a while.”  “The Chairman mentioned 10 times that they are prepared to
do more, so clearly the bias is still towards even more
easing,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America 
at BNP Paribas in New York. Coronado, a former Fed economist,
said there’s “more than a 50-50 chance” the Fed will provide
more accommodation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  