-- Best Buy ‘on Track’ to Meet Annual Plan, Interim CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-06-21T17:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/best-buy-on-track-to-meet-annual-plan-interim-ceo-says-1-.html
Best Buy Co. (BBBY)  interim Chief Executive
Officer Mike Mikan said the consumer-electronics retailer is
“on track” to deliver on its annual plan and will focus more
on training employees.  Best Buy has “work to do,” Mikan said today at the
company’s annual shareholder meeting at its headquarters in
Richfield,  Minnesota .  The company plans to spend more on training, enabling
workers to sell to consumers who are now using its stores to
compare prices and then buy from online rivals. Getting
customers to understand consumer electronics “will help us
ensure that sales take place with us and not with others,”
Mikan said, calling the effort part of a strategy to combat
customers’ treating stores as showrooms.  The company today raised its quarterly dividend 6.3
percent, to 17 cents a share. The higher amount begins with a
dividend payable Oct. 2 to shareholders of record Sept. 11.  Best Buy lost sales to Amazon.com Inc. and Apple Inc.,
spurring then-CEO  Brian Dunn  to plan 50 closings of big-box
stores this year and accelerate efforts to boost online sales
and open stores selling mobile phones. Two weeks before
announcing Dunn’s resignation in April, the company reported a
$1.7 billion loss for the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter, which
ended in March. Best Buy plans $800 million in cost cuts in the
next three years.  Dunn’s Relationship  Some of the efforts outlined today by Mikan were initiated
by Dunn before he resigned. He departed at the outset of a board
investigation that found he had an inappropriate relationship
with a 29-year-old female employee. The board is seeking Dunn’s
successor.  Technology improvements will enable employees to download
consumer reviews and other information about products to help
shoppers, Stephen Gillett, president of Best Buy Digital and
Global Business Services, told shareholders. The company has
simplified price-matching and other policies to avoid confusion
among employees and customers, according to  Mike Vitelli ,
president of U.S. operations.  In March, Best Buy projected profit, excluding some items,
of $3.50 to $3.80 a share in the current fiscal year. Analysts
now are projecting $3.62, the average of 24 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sales may range from $50 billion to $51 billion, the
retailer said in March. Fiscal 2012 sales were $50.7 billion.
The average of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg now is
$49.8 billion for fiscal 2013.  Best Buy  fell  4.4 percent to $19.41 at 1:15 p.m. in  New
York . The shares had declined 13 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  