-- Billabong to Raise A$225 Million After Cutting Earnings
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-06-21T04:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/billabong-to-raise-225-million-after-cutting-earnings-target.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
 Australia ’s largest surf-wear maker, plans to raise A$225
million ($229 million) selling  new stock  at a discount to repay
 debt  after cutting its earnings target.  Investors can buy six shares for every seven they already
own at A$1.02 apiece, 44 percent less than yesterday’s closing
price,  Gold Coast , Australia-based Billabong said in a filing
today. Earnings in the 12 months ended June will be as much as
17 percent less the previous target, it said.  The maker of Kustom shoes and Billabong clothing, which has
lost  89 percent  of its market value in the past five years, is
raising cash four months after spurning an approach from TPG
Capital and selling control of its Nixon watches and accessories
unit to cut debt. The buyout firm indicated it was prepared to
pay as much as A$3.30 a share, the company said in February.  “Private equity pulled the plug and the company now needs
to take more pain by raising equity from already struggling
shareholders,” said Peter Esho, the Sydney-based chief market
analyst at  City Index  Ltd. “Knocking back private equity’s A$3-
a-share takeover offer and then raising equity at A$1.02 will no
doubt see a lot of criticism from shareholders.”  Billabong last month named Launa Inman as chief executive
officer to replace Derek O’Neill as it seeks to turn around
falling sales and earnings. Billabong plans to close as many as
150 of its 677 retail outlets and cut  400 jobs . As of today, 45
shops have been shut.  Net Debt  The equity raising will help cut net  debt  as on June 30 to
about A$100 million from the previous forecast of A$300 million
to A$350 million. Billabong has also renegotiated its banking
covenants.  The company’s  shares  closed yesterday at A$1.83 and have
slumped 70 percent in the past year. The stock was halted on the
Australian Securities Exchange and trading will resume on June
25.  Billabong considered selling the rest of Nixon before
choosing the capital raising, Inman told reporters on a
conference call today.  Full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will be as low as A$130 million in the year ending
this month, down from its previous target of A$157 million,
Billabong said.  Billabong doesn’t expect to pay  dividends  for the second
half of the 12 months ending June 30 and the first half of
fiscal 2013, according to the statement. “The dividend policy
will be reviewed thereafter,” it said.  ‘Current Softness’  “The company has generally continued to face challenging
trading conditions, in particular in  Europe , Australia and
 Canada ,” it said in the statement.  “The board expects the
current softness in trading conditions to continue.”  A letter to the board from lawyers representing founder and
biggest shareholder Gordon Merchant as well as fellow director
Colette Paull said both would oppose steps to let TPG conduct
due diligence even with an offer of A$4 a share, the retailer
said in February.  Merchant took up 85 percent of his  rights  as part of the
capital raising, or A$30 million worth of shares, Billabong said
today. The company will get a one-time gain of between A$200
million and A$225 million on the partial sale of Nixon, the
company said.  “It’s hard to justify the sale of one of the  best units  in
the group and then tap shareholders for equity only a few months
later,” City Index’s Esho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  