-- BlackRock Energy-Fund Manager Rice to Leave Money Manager
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-21T23:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/blackrock-says-energy-fund-manager-daniel-rice-to-leave-firm.html
BlackRock Inc.’s (BLK)  Daniel Rice, who
helped manage five energy and natural resource mutual funds for
the world’s largest asset manager, is retiring from the firm to
avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest.  “BlackRock is committed to avoiding not only actual
conflicts of interest, but even the appearance of a conflict,”
Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman for the New York-based firm, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “As we have worked through with
Dan Rice how to best avoid any perception of conflict involving
his family’s energy company, Dan has decided to retire from
BlackRock.”  Rice, the third high-profile departure for BlackRock this
month, had been the lead manager for the $925 million BlackRock
Energy & Resources Portfolio since it was created in 1990. He’s
also one of the founders of Rice Energy, a company with a
subsidiary that has a joint venture with one of the mutual
fund’s top holdings,  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  The fund had
raised its holding of Alpha Natural Resources since 2010, when
the joint venture was created, the Wall Street Journal reported
June 1.  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  placed the rating of the fund under review
earlier this month.  Rice “could easily be subjected to future conflicts of
interest,” analyst Rob Wherry wrote in a research note June 6.
“Stewardship issues are overshadowing this fund’s merits.”  Fund Disclosures  Separately, BlackRock said today that in January it changed
the description of the investment process for three stock mutual
funds run by  Robert Doll , the firm’s chief equity strategist, to
show the funds use models from third-party providers that are
then adjusted. The prospectuses had previously described the
model as proprietary, Reuters reported today.  The change was made in the regular process of keeping the
fund board up-to-date on its management and to provide more
detail about the investment model and methods used to construct
the portfolio, Collins said in a separate statement.  Rice’s Energy & Resources Portfolio fund has lost 20
percent this year, trailing 99 percent of peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the fund
has declined 4.5 percent on average annually, trailing 69
percent of rivals. Alpha Natural Resources represented 3.9
percent of the fund’s assets, making it the sixth-largest
holding as of May 31, Morningstar data show.  Walsh, Neumann  BlackRock’s Denis Walsh and Dan Neumann, who already serve
as lead or co-manager of the five funds, will continue to manage
them, Collins said. Rice will work with BlackRock on a
transition of the institutional private funds he oversees, to be
completed no later than December.  BlackRock acquired Rice’s former employer, Boston-based
State Street Research & Management Co., in 2005 and renamed the
energy and resources fund.  Rice’s departure comes one day after BlackRock said
founding partner Susan L. Wagner will retire from her role as
vice chairman at the end of this month and join the company’s
board of directors. Earlier this month, BlackRock said Doll
would retire to devote more time to his family, faith and
philanthropic interests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  