-- Blankfein Sees 80% of Goldman Sachs’s Growth Coming From BRICs
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-21T09:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/blankfein-says-80-of-our-business-growth-to-come-from-brics.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said the firm will rely on the
biggest  emerging markets  for most of its growth even amid
increasing concern economic expansion in Brazil, Russia, India
and China may be slowing.  “Eighty percent of the growth of our business is going to
come from high-growth areas identified as BRICs,” Blankfein,
57, said at the  St. Petersburg International Economic Forum  in
Russia’s second-largest city today. “Our footprint will
correlate with the ring of growth in various places around the
world, providing they have good open markets.”  Blankfein, who began cutting costs in 2011 as revenue fell
for the second straight year, is betting on international
expansion and a market rebound to restore profit growth. The
world’s emerging economies will drive growth this year and next
as the euro area’s debt crisis weighs down richer nations, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a report yesterday.  Still,  Jim O’Neill , who as Goldman Sachs’s chief economist
coined the BRICs term in 2001, this month warned that growth in
the four countries may be slowing. O’Neill, now chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said his thesis that Brazil,
Russia, India and China would buoy the global economy faces “a
more challenging test” as investors dump the countries’ stocks.  China pared its growth target to the lowest since 2004,
 Standard & Poor’s  may cut India’s investment-grade credit
rating, Brazil is on pace to expand less than 3 percent for a
second straight year and falling oil prices may hurt Russia.  ‘Temporary Phenomenon’  “The crisis we are going through, while severe, is a
temporary phenomenon,” Blankfein said, referring to  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis. “The commitment to the euro is total.”  Blankfein said policy makers should do everything possible
to keep  Greece  in the euro. Greek political parties supporting a
European bailout and austerity plan won elections on June 17,
trumping calls for the country to exit the 17-nation currency.  “People should work hard on keeping Greece in the euro,” he
said. “The consequences of this not working are generational,”
Blankfein added, referring to the euro zone.  The MSCI All-Country World Index fell 0.2 percent by 10:25
a.m. in London as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.7 percent.
Oil dropped as much as 1.9 percent to the lowest since October
and copper slid about 1.5 percent.  Blankfein has been pushing to win mandates from the
Kremlin’s $30 billion privatization program and was appointed to
an advisory committee for turning Moscow into a financial
center. The firm scaled back its operations in Moscow soon after
opening an office in 1994 amid a worldwide retrenchment and
returned in 1998, weeks before  Russia  defaulted on domestic
debt, prompting it to withdraw almost entirely before ramping up
again in 2006.  In China, Goldman Sachs became the first Wall Street bank
to form a local securities venture with management control. The
nation last month agreed to let foreign banks raise their stakes
in domestic securities firms to as much as 49 percent from 33
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net :  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  