-- BlueMountain Said to Help Unwind JPMorgan’s Whale Trades
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e ,   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-06-21T13:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bluemountain-said-to-help-unwind-jpmorgan-s-london-whale-trades.html
A hedge fund run by a former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive who helped create the credit-
derivatives market is aiding the lender as it unwinds trades in
an index at the heart of a loss of more than $2 billion.  BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, co-founded by Andrew Feldstein, has been compiling trades in recent weeks that would
offset JPMorgan’s risk in Series 9 of the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, then selling the positions to
the bank, according to three people outside the firms who are
familiar with the strategy. That allowed the bank, which is said
to have amassed as much as $100 billion in bets on the index, to
unwind trades outside the traditional web of dealers.  “They used BlueMountain to disguise what they were
doing,” Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based macro advisory
firm TF Market Advisors, said in a telephone interview. “It all
gets a little bizarre and shows how screwy this whole market
is.”  JPMorgan tapped BlueMountain as a middleman after trades in
its London chief investment office grew so large that the bank
was creating price distortions that hedge funds sought to
exploit, said the market participants, who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to discuss the
trades. BlueMountain was one of the funds that benefited from
the price dislocations, the people said.  Signaling Unwinds  Doug Hesney, a spokesman for New York-based BlueMountain,
declined to comment, as did JPMorgan’s Kristin Lemkau.  Trading volumes in the past three weeks signal JPMorgan has
been unwinding its positions in the Markit CDX index known as
IG9, a credit-default swaps benchmark created in 2007 that’s
linked to the debt of 121 companies in the U.S. and  Canada .  A record $31 billion of IG9 index contracts expiring in
December 2017 traded June 19, up from a daily average of $2.4
billion in the previous three months, according to Markit Group
Ltd., which administers the index.  The trading surge in the contracts that fueled much of
JPMorgan’s loss follows a 35 percent reduction in the net amount
of protection that dealers sold on the index in the three weeks
ended June 15, data from the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
show.  Strategy Backfires  JPMorgan is seeking to stem the losses after its chief
investment office shifted its strategy of buying credit-default
swaps on corporate debt to protect the bank against a financial
crisis or deteriorating economy. At the start of the year, the
group was ordered to reduce its positions and instead executed a
series of trades that left the bank with even bigger and harder-
to-manage exposures, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told
the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington  last week.  Bloomberg News first reported April 5 that Bruno Iksil, a
trader in the chief investment office’s U.K. group known as the
London Whale, had built a portfolio of  credit derivatives  so
large it distorted price relationships in the market. Total net
wagers on the IG9 index  surged  an unprecedented 67 percent to
$150 billion in the 17 weeks ended April 27 as Iksil was said to
have amassed his position, DTCC data show.  While Iksil is still employed by the bank, Henry Kim is now
trading synthetic credit in the CIO, reporting to Rob O’Rahilly,
who replaced Achilles Macris as the chief investment officer of
 Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa , a person familiar with the moves
said.  ‘Dead Wrong’  Feldstein helped create the credit-default swaps market
while he worked for JPMorgan in the 1990s before co-founding
BlueMountain in 2003.  Dimon, 56, defended the company’s disclosures of the
trading loss on June 19, testifying before a House Financial
Services Committee hearing in Washington.  “We disclosed what we knew when we knew it,” Dimon said.  Dimon also said he was “dead wrong” when he dismissed
news reports about the trades as a “tempest in a teapot”
during an earnings call with analysts on April 13.  He declined to disclose the size of the loss, saying the
bank will provide that information along with more details of
the position when JPMorgan reports earnings on July 13.
Unwinding the positions by the end of this month allows the bank
to take losses in the current quarter.  JPMorgan’s share price has declined more than 10 percent
since Dimon revealed the loss on May 10.  IG9 Soars  After the disclosure, the cost of CDX IG9 swaps surged as
hedge funds and other traders placed opposite bets that the bank
would be forced to unwind its position.  The index climbed as much as 49 basis points to 175 basis
points on June 5, according to prices from data provider CMA.
The contracts have since fallen back to 152, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Unwinding the trade may have been eased by both a decline
in the index and an increase in trading across the market as
participants began moving positions into the current benchmark
expiration date. Dealers begin offering new standard contract
maturities for swaps on individual companies every three months,
and that can boost trading in indexes from hedge funds and
others that profit from gaps in the indexes and swaps on their
individual components, said Otis Casey, director of credit
research for Markit in  New York .  “If you were to need to move a large position, there
should be greater liquidity around those days than other days,
all else being equal,” Casey said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  