-- BMW in Talks on Future of Peugeot Electric-Motor Venture
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-06-21T16:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bmw-in-talks-on-future-of-peugeot-electric-motor-venture.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  said they’re looking at the future of a venture
to develop parts for hybrid cars after General Motors Co. bought
a stake in the French carmaker as part of a cooperation accord.  “The change in ownership structure at PSA have changed the
terms of the joint venture,”  Mathias Schmidt , a spokesman at
Munich-based BMW, said in a phone interview. “BMW remains
committed to the business, regardless of the changes” at Paris-
based Peugeot.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury vehicles, may buy
out the 50 percent stake that Peugeot currently holds in the BMW
Peugeot Citroen Electrification partnership as a consequence of
the alliance signed by the French carmaker and Detroit-based  GM (GM) 
in February,  latribune.fr  news website reported today, citing
unidentified industrial sources. GM owns 7 percent of Peugeot,
Europe’s second-largest carmaker.  “We’re currently examining the functioning conditions of
the JV,” Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a spokesman at Peugeot, said by
phone. “An alliance has been signed with GM, which compels us
to look at how things could evolve” in the partnership with the
German luxury automaker.  BPCE, which is also based in Munich, was  established  in
October 2011 to develop and produce electric powertrains and
components. The production of components for the electrification
of cars was due to begin in 2015 in the the French town of
Mulhouse with a target volume of 10,000 vehicles per year,
according to the venture’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  