-- BOE Confronts Case to Ease Liquidity Rules to Stoke Lending
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-22T08:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/boe-confronts-case-to-ease-bank-liquidity-rules-to-stoke-lending.html
The Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee may today discuss whether banks’ liquidity
requirements should be eased as the panel works together with
monetary policy makers to spur U.K. lending.  The 11-member FPC will assess institutions’ buffers as it
gathers for a quarterly meeting that marks one year since its
creation in a government drive to promote financial stability.
Governor  Mervyn King , who sits on the panel along with three
other members of the Monetary Policy Committee, will present the
findings at a June 29 press conference in London.  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , who is also on both panels,
said this month that liquidity rules may be increasing demand
for reserves at the expense of lending, a concern shared by some
of the MPC in the minutes of its June 7 meeting. An FPC move to
address the regulations would signal the two panels are starting
to work in tandem on ways to protect the economy from  Europe ’s
debt crisis.  “You don’t often hear the FPC discussed in the minutes, so
it’s going to be a very meaty issue,” said Richard Barwell, an
economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and a former
central bank official. “It looks like they’re going to say
banks can run down their liquidity buffers.”  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar, trading at
$1.5611 at 9:10 a.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year
government bond fell 3 basis points to 1.665 percent.  QE Hindered  Britain’s Financial Services Authority says U.K. banks must
maintain a buffer of high-quality liquid assets such as
 government bonds  and central bank reserves to allow them to cope
for three and a half months in the event of a liquidity crisis.  Bank of England officials are concerned that an increase in
reserves to meet liquidity requirements may impede the ability
of their  bond-purchase program  to aid the economy.  Under quantitative easing, the central bank has bought 125
billion pounds ($195 billion) of gilts since restarting the
program in October. During that time, central bank reserves have
increased by 106 billion pounds, suggesting U.K. banks have
passed on only 19 billion pounds from QE into the economy, said
Tom Vosa, an economist at National Australia Bank in  London .  Moody’s Cut  “QE isn’t going to work if it builds up in bank
reserves,” he said. “Regulators need to think about whether
they can reduce liquidity ratios.”  As strains from the sovereign debt crisis in Europe
persist, the central bank has activated its Extended Collateral
Term Repo facility to provide banks with liquidity against the
widest possible collateral. At the first auction, held on June
20, banks were allotted 5 billion pounds of six-month funds.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings of the
U.K.’s four largest lenders late yesterday, part of a raft of 15
downgrades of global banks as the crisis in Europe intensified.
The move may have longer-term effects on operations, forcing
banks to post more collateral to trading partners in derivatives
deals.  With the  Bank of England  showing its willingness to provide
liquidity, regulators should consider encouraging banks to dip
into their stocks, Tucker said on June 12. That in turn “might
be helpful to the operation of monetary policy” now that the
central bank has injected a “huge amount of reserves” into the
financial system, he said.  Liquidity Push  “The regulatory liquidity requirement might be operating,
inadvertently, as a de facto reserves requirement,” he said.
“If so, our supply of reserves is in part meeting a regulation-
inspired increase in demand for reserves, leaving less than we
have injected free as a ‘masse de manoeuvre’ for the banks to
deploy in expanding their loan books.”  Policy maker  Martin Weale  said in a speech late yesterday
that if banks “could lend more, and do it more cheaply, that
could help deliver a more normal pattern of demand growth.”  The central bank’s quarterly  Credit Conditions Survey  in
March showed lenders expected the availability of both secured
and unsecured credit to households to decrease in the second
quarter. Spreads on secured lending to households and on loans
to companies were forecast to widen.  ‘Not Helpful’  John Cridland , director general of the  Confederation of
British Industry , the U.K.’s biggest business lobby, yesterday
called on officials to ease the disparity between U.K. and
international liquidity rules to encourage lending.  “The U.K.’s gold-plating of internationally agreed reforms
is not helpful,” he said in a speech. It’s a “major constraint
on banks’ ability to lend.”  King said on June 14 that as central banks are ready to
provide “extraordinary amounts” of liquidity, the need for
banks to hold large liquid asset buffers is “‘much
diminished.’’  For now, the FPC is limited to  policy recommendations , as
it’s operating on an interim basis while Parliament debates the
Banking Bill that will enshrine its powers. It recommended at
its last meeting in March that it be given powers of direction
over counter-cyclical capital buffers, sectoral  capital
requirements  and leverage ratios.  A recommendation today on bank liquidity would join the
‘‘funding for lending’’ program announced by King that also
seeks to boost credit.  ‘‘This is the first time the FPC has been in a position to
flex its muscles,’’ said  David Tinsley , an economist at  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  in London and a former central bank official.
‘‘There’s a sense that as the impact of traditional measures
slackens that puts more of an onus on other policies.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  