-- Bondage Party, Group Therapy Boost Brussels ‘Trovatore’
-- B y   J i m   R u a n e
-- 2012-06-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bondage-party-group-therapy-boost-brussels-trovatore-.html
A bejeweled gypsy in a black lace
gown silently greets five visitors in a vast, crimson-walled
apartment. She locks the door. An orchestra rumbles.  So begins Dmitri Tcherniakov’s starkly theatrical new
production of Verdi’s “Il Trovatore” at  La Monnaie/De Munt  in
Brussels.  You may recall the plot features a demented gypsy who
accidentally baked her own baby, and two brothers who don’t know
they are brothers and duel over the soprano.  The gypsy woman, for reasons that become clear at the very
end, is the only one who knows the truth.  Tcherniakov starts his staging with what amounts to a role-
playing therapy session -- the singers even read their parts
from sheets of paper -- designed to elucidate the past.  The deconstructed opera is organized into tableaux, each
preceded by a text introducing the scene, which is projected
above the stage with surtitles in French, Dutch and English --
welcome to Brussels.  The gypsy Azucena (Sylvie Brunet-Grupposo) dominates the
first half of the production as she prods the unveiling of
memories.  Raw emotions and cruel secrets behind this odd reunion
start emerging, and the characters end up playing for real. The
son who has inherited his father’s title as Count (Scott
Hendricks) takes over as a violent, bondage-obsessed fiend.  Madre, Mia Madre!  One person is left standing at the end, and it’s not him.  Marc Minkowski, conducting his first Verdi opera, elicits a
lean yet moving performance from the house orchestra that suits
the staging and shows a Baroque expert’s respect for nuance.  The singers are a disparate bunch. Hendricks is a forceful,
obsessed Count and a fine actor. Marina Poplavskaya, looking
like a 1960s Courreges model in knee-high white boots, is
spirited, though unsubtle and chilly as Leonora.  Misha Didyk overdoes the vibrato and sounds strained as
Manrico, the Count’s long-lost brother. Brunet-Grupposo, with a
rich, fluid mezzo, intrigues as Azucena. Giovanni Furlanetto, as
the military aide Ferrando, is discreetly solid.  From where I sat, they all sounded too loud.  This is definitely the director’s show. He takes liberties
with the libretto and indulges in superfluous conceits, such as
having Leonora sing her star aria facing a wall, with her back
to the audience (OK, her lover is imprisoned behind the wall).  Still, Tcherniakov succeeds in renewing the dramatic
strength of “Trovatore.” The audience roared approval.  Rating: ***.  “Il Trovatore,” sponsored by Belfius Bank SA/NV, is at La
Monnaie/De Munt, Brussels, through July 6. Information:
 http://www.lamonnaie.be .  (Jim Ruane is an editor-at-large for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Lewis Lapham  on history,  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and
 Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jim Ruane, in Brussels, at   jruane1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 