-- HBOS Criticized by U.K. Judge Over Gift-Basket Firm Collapse
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-21T18:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/hbos-criticized-by-u-k-judge-over-gift-basket-firm-collapse.html
A U.K. judge criticized HBOS Plc
today for its handling of the 2006 collapse of a gift-basket
company Farepak Foods and Gifts Ltd. following a month-long
trial.  A London court case to disqualify the directors of the
defunct firm was abandoned yesterday by the British government,
“based on consideration of evidence.” Judge Peter Smith, in a
statement made today in court, said it was impossible for the
Insolvency Service to continue a case against the Farepak
directors, a group that included a former president of the
 Confederation of British Industry .  “It is ironic that if the bank’s reputation for playing
hardball had been repeated by the government two years later,
HBOS would not be here and that is something else that HBOS
might like to think about,” Smith said.  HBOS is a unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
second biggest publicly owned lender.  In excess of 100,000 customers lost 40 million pounds
($62.5 million) when Farepak, a subsidiary of  European Home
Retail Plc (EHR) , collapsed in October 2006. Most were low-income
families who made weekly contributions that were to be exchanged
for vouchers for Christmas presents. While an investment of as
little as 3 million pounds would have been enough to save the
company, HBOS “was not prepared to do it,” Smith said.  “The bank and its employees acted entirely appropriately
throughout its relationship with European Home Retail,” HBOS
said in an e-mailed statement today. “It made entirely
reasonable decisions based on the information available.”  HBOS said it contributed 2 million pounds to a compensation
fund after Farepak collapsed.  Smith said it was a tragedy customers had lost their money.  “This is not a court of morality, but I would suggest that
HBOS really ought to look at the collections that they took in
September and October and seriously consider whether or not they
ought to make a further substantial payment to the compensation
fund,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  