-- Bouton Won’t Apologize for Calling Kerviel a ‘Terrorist’
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-06-21T19:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bouton-won-t-apologize-for-calling-kerviel-a-terrorist-.html
Former  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  Chief
Executive Officer  Daniel Bouton  said it was a mistake to call
 Jerome Kerviel  a “terrorist,” while refusing to apologize for
the remark when he testified at a Paris appeals court today.  Bouton, who made the remark after the bank announced in
2008 it lost 4.9 billion euros ($6.2 billion) on unauthorized
trades, refused defense lawyer David Koubbi’s request today to
apologize, saying he would await the court’s judgment.  “I loved Societe Generale,” Kerviel said when asked if he
had any final remarks before closing arguments begin next week.
“Honestly, I made mistakes,” he said, explaining he had been
raised with a strong work ethic and “my goal was to earn the
maximum for the bank.”  Kerviel, 35, is fighting a three-year jail sentence and an
order to repay the Paris-based bank’s loss. He has argued that
his superiors knew he was exceeding trading limits, so he didn’t
betray their trust or commit other crimes he was found guilty of
in 2010. During his appeal, he advanced a theory that the bank
plotted to use unwinding his positions to distract attention
from an almost 2 billion-euro loss on U.S. subprime mortgages.  Bouton, 62, denied the conspiracy when he appeared as one
of the final witnesses before the appeals court.  “I don’t understand the reasoning that one blow could hide
another blow,” said Bouton, comparing the idea to a television
show.  He began his testimony by describing how the bank detected
Kerviel’s 50 billion euros in unauthorized futures positions,
and the fake hedges used to mask the exposure.  ‘Coincidence’  “It was a pretty astonishing coincidence” that as the
bank prepared to announce the subprime loss, it discovered
Kerviel’s actions through checking with counterparties to
confirm orders, Bouton said.  Witnesses for the bank and prosecution denied either prior
knowledge of Kerviel’s actions or that the bank opted to lay its
losses from the subprime market on a single trader evading
controls. Kerviel was called back to the bank over the weekend
in January 2008 to explain his trades to managers. His responses
continually changed and Bouton called him “an astounding
liar,” who couldn’t be relied upon to aid in  Societe Generale ’s
work uncovering the extent of the trades.  Trading ‘Catastrophe’  Bouton offered to resign soon after announcing the loss, a
move that was turned down by the board despite calls by then-
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that management face “consequences.”
He gave up the CEO post three months later and stepped down as
chairman in 2009, complaining of “repeated attacks against me
personally” after the loss.  During Kerviel’s first trial in 2010, Bouton called the
trader’s actions “evil” and said the incident was a
“catastrophe” for the bank.  Societe Generale was sanctioned 4 million euros by  France ’s
bank regulator in July 2008 for compliance failures after an
investigation showed “serious shortcomings.”  Today is the final day of witness testimony and a verdict
is expected later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  