-- Branson Wages War on CO2 Amid Government Sluggishness
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-21T17:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/branson-wages-war-on-co2-amid-government-sluggishness.html
Richard Branson has lent his name and directed his profits to the search for
carbon-light business models. Virgin Airlines is developing biofuels. The Carbon
War Room works with industry to identify market opportunities that can make
money and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the UN Rio+20 Sustainability
Summit, he signed on his support to a Greenpeace call banning Arctic oil
drilling. I caught up with him at the world green summit, one of dozens of side
events that have sprouted up around the  UN's Rio+20 Summit . Q:   No one seems happy with the negotiated document
coming out of Rio. What's the role of  companies going
forward? A:  The role of companies is all the more
important for the world because so little has come out of governments.
Governments could have made some big announcements this week that wouldn’t have
cost their countries any money -- that could have made their companies money.
They could have got rid of the subsidy on fossil fuels, which would have helped
start a complete clean industry and given it the massive boost it needed and
save their countries money. They chose not to do that. They could have agreed to
protect the open seas and police the open seas instead of letting them carry on
getting decimated by fishing and so on. So companies have really got to step in
and do the best they can without the proper ground rules set by governments. Q:   Will any progress come out of the event
overall? A:  It was basically a tremendous
disappointment, with lots of words like "We hope" and "We plan to," but no
specific actions at all. Copenhagen was disappointing. Cancun was disappointing.
And now, sadly, Rio is disappointing. Behind the scenes there are lots of
fantastic initiatives, but [there's] one big thing that governments could do --
get rid of fossil fuel subsidies. It’s something I think every single government
could do. The fossil fuel industry is making tons of money. It’s not going to
harm them very much and it would be the one move which could get the whole world
back on track. Q:  What's the single most sustainable thing you've ever
done? A:  We've got quite a lot of different things
going on. First of all 100 percent of all the profit from our airlines our dirty
businesses we put into developing clean fuels. We're close to having clean fuels
that we can put in our planes. Algae-based fuels, isobutanol-based fuels and
fuels that literally just come out of (steel plants)? And they can be turns into
aviation fuels. We set up an organisation called the Carbon War Room that is
working with al the industry sectors in trying to get 70 gigatons of carbon out
of the industries. Q:  Former Costa Rican President Jose Maria Figueres
recently became president of the Carbon War Room. What mandate have you given
him? A:  We're very lucky to have him running it. Today
we announced a tie-up with islands in the Caribbean. Aruba we've said we'll make
100 percent carbon neutral by 2020. Q:   In 2007, you and Vice President Gore announced a $25
million Virgin Earth Prize for scientists who invent a way to reduce greenhouse
gases. What happened to that initiative? A:  We've had
thousands of applicants. We've got ten that have come up with extremely good
ideas, and which we're following. Whether any one of them could produce enough
carbon reductions in themselves to be a winner, we'll have to wait and see. Morales covers renewable energy and climate change for Bloomberg
News. Read complete Bloomberg News coverage of the  UN Rio+20 Conference on
Sustainable Development . Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability   for the
latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.  