-- Brazil Banks Sweeten Loans to Win Over Wary: Mortgages
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-06-21T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brazil-banks-sweeten-loans-to-win-over-wary-mortgages.html
Brazilian banks are competing for a
bigger share of the expanding mortgage lending market, offering
lower rates and longer repayment terms as slower economic growth
depresses demand for other kinds of consumer loans.  Caixa Economica Federal, the state-run lender that accounts
for more than 70 percent of home loans in  Brazil , and Madrid-
based Banco Santander SA’s local unit said this month they will
offer 35-year mortgages for the first time. Caixa, based in 
Brasilia, also cut  mortgage rates  to 8.85 percent, while 
government-controlled  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  cut rates to 7.9 
percent for clients who pay on time and open an account.  The home-loan market will grow by about 30 percent this
year, according to Abecip, Brazil’s mortgage lenders
association, amid a housing shortage of at least 6 million
units. That’s double the pace of all  consumer lending . Tempering
growth is the slowing economy and a cautious approach by
Brazilians for taking on debt, said Victor Moscoso, a director
at Brazilian Capital, which oversees 2.5 billion reais ($1.2
billion) of real estate investments in Brazil.  Brazilians “don’t like to borrow money but now that credit
is available, they may say, ‘I should take advantage of that,”’
Moscoso said. “That could change the mentality.”  Bruno Giovani Capelin, a bank product manager at Itau
Unibanco Holding SA who’s taking his first mortgage, only
borrowed 60 percent of the price of the apartment he bought with
his fiancee Maira Bedran Gouveia, 26, and took a 20-year loan he
says he plans to repay in 7 years.  Comparing Rates  Capelin and Gouveia, a teacher, compared rates and
financing terms at Santander, Banco do Brasil and Itau before
opting for a Caixa loan because of better rates, and the bank’s
greater experience, Capelin said. They bought a 60 square-meter
(646 square-foot) two-bedroom apartment in Vila Mascote, a
neighborhood in southern  Sao Paulo , for 365,000 reais. They used
their savings to cover 40 percent of the cost.  “I got the financing just because I don’t have enough cash
in hand to pay for the whole apartment,” Capelin said.  Outstanding home loans account for just 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product in Brazil, Caixa data show. That compares
with 81 percent in the U.S. If the market in Brazil grows to 16
percent of GDP by 2020, that would mean a 1 trillion reais
market, Banco do Brasil mortgage director Gueitiro Matsuo Genso
said in a phone interview. “The volume of credit the banks are
competing for is bigger than the whole portfolio of many
institutions in Brazil,” he said.  Aggressive Cuts  Brazilian banks are making home loans at lower margins to
gain market share after the  central bank  embarked on the most
aggressive interest rate cuts among the largest  emerging
markets . Brazil’s central bank lowered the country’s benchmark
Selic rate to a record 8.5 percent from 12 percent in August. It
was the seventh straight cut, and analysts in the central bank’s
weekly survey of about 100 analysts expect more, after annual
inflation slowed to 4.99 percent in May, the weakest pace in 21
months. The central bank has a target inflation rate of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  “The market is undergoing an evolution,” said Joel Wells,
who manages Alpine Emerging Market Real Estate Fund in New York.
“It just tells you the mortgage market is deepening.”  Some of the competition is between state-owned banks. Banco
do Brasil, which currently ranks fifth with 3.6 percent of
mortgages, sees an opportunity to expand. It wants to reach the
second position in the market, behind Caixa, with a share of
about 9 percent, by the end of 2014.  “This is healthy competition to build a robust mortgage
portfolio,” Genso said.  Market Growth  The Brazilian mortgage market grew 42 percent in 2011 and
65 percent in 2010, according to Abecip. By comparison, consumer
loans grew 15.3 percent in 2011 and 18.8 percent in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While mortgage lending growth is slowing, it’s still
“absolutely healthy,” Abecip’s President Octavio de Lazari Jr.
said in a phone interview. “We prefer to grow less, but grow
with a high quality of assets, of building, so that default
rates remain low and the mortgage sector can continue in a
virtuous cycle.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has cut taxes on
consumer and industrial goods and increased low-cost loans by
the state development bank BNDES to help accelerate growth.
She’s also ordered state banks to cut borrowing costs to induce
private lenders to make more credit available.  Economic Growth  The Brazilian economy will grow 2.3 percent this year,
below last year’s 2.7 percent rate, according to the central
bank survey.  Growth in the mortgage market will continue to exceed
economic expansion and while margins are only about 1 percent,
the high volumes and extra business it brings to the bank with
the mortgage client compensate for it, said Banco Santander
Brasil SA’s executive director for housing business Jose Roberto Machado.  “We are in the childhood of the mortgage sector in
Brazil,” Machado said. “It is like a son who grows too fast
and outgrows his clothes, and it should continue like this for
quite a while.”  Santander expects its mortgage business to expand faster
than its competitors as is extends the maximum term on mortgages
by 5 years to 35 years, said Machado.  Santander sees an opportunity to grow in  Latin America ’s
largest economy as mortgages account for 10 percent of its asset
s in Brazil. Globally, mortgages are 50 percent of the Spanish
lender’s assets.  “We see this as a convenience to our customer,” Machado
said. “They can extend the terms of their contracts while
keeping the installments palatable.”  Insurance Policy  Both Santander and Caixa executives say the longer terms
don’t increase their risks because they limit the age of the
borrower so that the loan must be paid off by the time the
borrower turns 80, and the home buyer also must take out a
mandatory life insurance policy before the loan is made.  Brazil’s two main sources of mortgage financing are  savings
accounts  and a workers’ compensation fund. Banks are required by
law to earmark 65 percent of savings account money into  mortgage
loans . In addition, all employers in Brazil are required to make
monthly deposits into a Caixa account on behalf of each of their
workers that total a month’s pay over the course of the year.
This money can be used to buy a residence or for retirement.  The market for mortgage securities remains small, providing
about 2 percent of all funding for home loans. It’s poised to
expand as lenders seek alternative sources of capital,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a report last week.  Housing Finance  Caixa’s lending business, both mortgages and construction
loans, may exceed 100 billion reais by 2012, Jose Urbano Duarte,
the bank’s vice president for government and housing, told
reporters in Brasilia on June 5. The state-owned bank’s housing
financing increased 46 percent to 36.7 billion reais in the
January-May period, when compared with a year ago, Duarte said.  While home loans continue to grow, the Brazilian economy is
slowing down. Brazil said June 1 that the economy grew 0.2
percent in the first quarter, less than half the pace analysts
predicted in a Bloomberg survey and slower than  Japan ’s 1
percent expansion.  The report prompted Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to abandon his 4.5 percent growth target for this year.
Mantega said the government would be satisfied if the economy’s
expansion in 2012 exceeded last year’s rate, which was the
second-worst performance since 2003.  As the market continues to grow, Caixa’s Duarte said he
believes other banks will follow its lead and increase mortgage
terms to 35 years.  “Considering the share we have in this market, we know we
will establish a benchmark,” Duarte said. “The Brazilian
market is still very young and very small. It has space to
grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net 
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  