-- Brazil Real Falls as Report Shows Slower-Than-Forecast Inflation
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-06-21T21:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brazil-real-falls-as-report-shows-slower-than-forecast-inflation.html
Brazil ’s real dropped for the first
time in three days after a report showed inflation was slower
than economists forecast, bolstering speculation the central
bank will maintain the pace of cuts in borrowing costs.  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts traded
near record lows as the national statistics agency said today
that consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.18
percent in the month through mid-June, less than the median
forecast of 0.29 percent among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The real depreciated 1.8 percent to 2.0619 per  U.S. dollar ,
the biggest drop since June 11. The yield on the interest-rate
futures contract due in January decreased one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 7.72 percent. It touched a record low
7.65 percent on June 14.  “Inflation isn’t a problem now, and the central bank will
have to cut borrowing costs to stimulate investment,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said in
a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The outlook abroad is
getting worse again and commodities are falling. The central
bank doesn’t have any reason not to keep cutting rates.”  The real remained lower after a U.S. report showed
manufacturing in eastern Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware  shrank in June at the fastest pace in almost a year.
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell to minus 16.6, the lowest level since August, from
minus 5.8 in the previous month. Zero is the dividing line
between growth and contraction.  Drop in Unemployment  The decline in Brazilian interest-rate futures yields was
limited as the  unemployment rate  fell and a newspaper reported
that the government has decided to allow  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
to raise fuel prices, according to  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  “Counterbalancing the more favorable inflation numbers,
you have unemployment, which surprised by falling, along with
the Petrobras news,” Rostagno said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to 5.8 percent in May from
6 percent in the previous month, the national statistics agency
said today. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for the jobless rate to remain at 6 percent.  The Brazilian government has decided to authorize the
state-controlled  oil company  to raise fuel prices, Folha de
S.Paulo reported, without saying where it obtained the
information. Gasoline prices may increase 10 percent at
refineries, with a lower percentage being passed on to
consumers, the newspaper said.  A Petrobras official declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News. A Finance Ministry
official also declined to comment.  Brazil’s central bank has reduced the target lending rate
by four percentage points to a record low 8.5 percent since
August on concern slower global growth will have a
disinflationary impact on Brazil. Traders expect the benchmark
Selic will be cut to 7.75 percent this year, yields on interest-
rate futures contracts indicate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  