-- Brazil-China to Sign $30 Billion Currency Swap Agreement Soon
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-21T23:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brazil-china-to-sign-30-billion-currency-swap-accord-soon-1-.html
Brazil and China will sign an
agreement in the coming weeks to swap as much as $30 billion in
their two currencies, Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said.  The  currency swap , worth 60 billion reais or 190 billion
 yuan , will be the first step in a broader agreement with Russia,
India and South Africa to allow members of the so-called BRICS
group of  emerging markets  to pool resources to better weather
the global financial crisis, Mantega told reporters yesterday in
Rio de Janeiro.  The agreement, which was discussed this week by leaders of
the BRICS at a Group of 20 summit in Mexico, marks another step
in a deepening trade between the world’s two largest emerging
markets. China overtook the U.S. in recent years to become
Brazil’s biggest trading partner, though Mantega said yesterday
that the $76 billion in bilateral commerce last year, 17 percent
of Brazil’s total, is just the beginning.  “There’s no limit to how much trade can grow,” Mantega
said.  The agreement to swap currencies was reached during a
meeting between Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  and her
counterpart, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, visiting Rio for an
United Nations environmental conference.  As part of a series of bilateral accords signed yesterday,
both governments pledged to boost cooperation and investment in
aerospace, beginning with the launch this year of a joint
weather satellite. Brazil’s central bank will also increase the
amount of information it shares with the China Banking
Regulatory Commission to better supervise affiliates of the two
nations’ financial institutions.  Mantega said the agreements will help boost the sale of
Embraer SA-manufactured jets and other industrial goods so that
bilateral trade isn’t dominated by Chinese demand for Brazilian
 iron ore , soy and other commodities.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  