-- Brazil’s Inflation Slows More Than Expected on Weak Growth
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-06-21T13:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brazil-s-inflation-slows-more-than-expected-on-weak-growth-2-.html
Brazil’s  inflation  through mid-June
slowed more than analysts forecast, cementing expectations the
central bank will further reduce the benchmark  interest rate  to
reignite growth.  Consumer  prices  rose 0.18 percent in the month through mid-
June, the national statistics agency said today in  Rio de
Janeiro . The number was lower than every estimate of 42 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for an increase
of 0.29 percent. Annual inflation as measured by the IPCA-15
 price index  decelerated for a ninth straight month to 5 percent.  Since August, the central bank has reduced the benchmark
rate by four percentage points to a record low 8.5 percent,
saying slower global growth will have a disinflationary impact
on Brazil. Traders expect the Selic rate to be cut to 7.75
percent this year as the government tries to offset fallout in
 Latin America ’s biggest economy from the  European debt crisis ,
futures show.  “We are likely to go through a phase of inflation under
control, which will leave the central bank at ease to continue
to cut interest rates,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The international outlook remains quite uncertain.”  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014 was unchanged at 8.08 percent at 10:22 a.m. in Sao
Paulo. The real declined 0.2 percent to 2.0306 per  U.S. dollar .  Reignite Growth  Economists predict that the government’s effort to rekindle
growth with record low  borrowing costs , reduced taxes and credit
stimulus will prevent inflation from slowing toward its 4.5
percent target in 2012 and 2013.  Brazil ’s economy will be
expanding at the beginning of next year at the  fastest pace 
since the last quarter of 2010, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said June 19.  Record low unemployment will help sustain domestic demand,
allowing the country to expand more than 4.5 percent in the
first quarter of 2013 from a year earlier, Tombini said.  In the first three months of this year, the economy grew
0.75 percent from the same period a year ago, its worst
performance since a 1.47 percent contraction in the third
quarter of 2009.  Unemployment fell to 5.8 percent in May, a historical low
for the month, the statistics agency said in a separate report
today. The median estimate of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the jobless rate to remain at 6 percent.  ‘Temporary Relief’  “We are seeing a temporary relief in inflation,” Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank,
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “In the medium term,
we continue to be concerned because inflation will quicken
again.”  Without the  tax cut  on car sales announced last month and
due to expire by the end of August, consumer prices would have
increased 0.34 percent, Serrano said. Speculation the government
plans to increase gasoline prices also raises doubts that
inflation will continue to converge to the 4.5 percent target,
he said.  Consumer prices will rise 5 percent this year and 5.5
percent in 2013, according to the median estimate in a June 15
central bank survey of about 100 analysts. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Tombini said inflation, which has remained above 4.5
percent for the past 22 months, will continue to slow toward its
target even as growth accelerates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 