-- Brevan Howard Seeks $20 Million Investments for Debt Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-06-22T12:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brevan-howard-seeks-20-million-investments-for-debt-fund.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
 Europe ’s second-biggest hedge-fund manager, is seeking capital
for a new pool that buys securities tied to mortgages and other
debt.  The Brevan Howard Credit Value Master Fund invests in
mortgage-backed securities, collateralized debt obligations
linked to real-estate and illiquid securities trading below
their “intrinsic value,” the London-based firm wrote in a
marketing document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The hedge fund has a $20 million investment minimum. Money
will be locked up for as long as two years depending on the
share class clients choose, according to the document, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Brevan Howard, which has $36 billion under management, is
among a growing list of firms forming  hedge funds  to invest in
assets that plunged last year. CQS U.K. LLP started a hedge fund
in February to buy less liquid securities after some categories
of  U.S. mortgage bonds  that lack government backing fell more
than 30 percent in 2011.  In the note sent to potential investors, Brevan Howard said
prices of mortgage-backed securities and other “out-of-favor”
assets plunged so sharply last year that they should lead to
“excellent opportunities” in 2012. European banks trying to
reduce leverage and adhere to new capital rules will also create
buying opportunities through asset sales, the firm said.  Motivated Sellers  So-called non-agency mortgage securities gained 10.5
percent on average in the first five months of 2012 after losing
6.9 percent last year, according to Amherst Securities Group LP.
That debt lacks guarantees from government-supported  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae. U.S. speculative-grade
company bonds, coming off gains of 4.4 percent in 2011, returned
about 4.9 percent through May, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Motivated sellers of asset-backed securities will include
U.S. banks shutting down proprietary-trading desks and money
managers with “strong memories” of unexpected price declines
in 2007, 2008 and 2011, according to Brevan Howard.  The fund started in March and is managed by David Warren,
the former head of structured credit at Morgan Stanley who
already oversees the Brevan Howard Credit Catalysts fund. The
Catalysts fund gained 7 percent in the first five months of this
year, according to a person briefed on the pool’s performance
who asked not to be identified because the firm is private. The
fund advanced 1 percent in 2011, according to a note released in
January by a publicly traded company that raises money for
Brevan Howard. Officials at the fund declined to comment.  Alan Howard  founded Brevan Howard in 2002 with four other
traders from Credit Suisse Group AG. The firm’s biggest fund
hasn’t posted an annual loss since its inception in April 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  