-- BRICS See Anti-Crisis Fund as Option to IMF, Russia Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-06-21T10:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brics-see-anti-crisis-fund-as-option-to-imf-russia-says.html
The BRICS group of emerging-market
economies may set up an anti-crisis fund if their demand for a
greater say in the  International Monetary Fund  is rebuffed, said
Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak.  Brazil,  Russia , India, China and  South Africa , which
together make up the BRICS, pledged $75 billion at the Group of
20 summit in Mexico yesterday to bolster the IMF’s capacity to
help limit contagion from the European sovereign-debt crisis.
They said they expected IMF members to reciprocate their
contribution by carrying out agreed changes that would bolster
the voting power of emerging economies in the organization.  China and Russia, holders of the world’s biggest and
fourth-largest currency reserves, and the other three BRICS
nations have agreed on a system of currency swaps that could
later be succeeded by an anti-crisis fund, Storchak told
reporters on his way back from Los Cabos,  Mexico .  “Practical steps will depend largely on the extent to
which the BRICS’ position will be taken on board concerning the
allocation of new quotas” in the IMF, he said. “BRICS states
have reached a level of development that gives them the right to
insist on getting their interests respected.”  The new BRICS anti-crisis fund would function as a
“parallel” mechanism that would show there is alternative
source of financial support to the IMF, Storchak said.  In return for providing aid to the 17-member euro region,
BRICS nations are seeking sufficient voting power to “influence
key decisions” at the IMF, Russia said in November at the last
G-20 summit in Cannes, France.  Emerging nations have urged an end to the convention of
naming the IMF’s head from Europe and World Bank presidents from
the U.S.  Christine Lagarde , a former French finance minister,
was appointed to the IMF job in June 2011 after her countryman,
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , quit.  The IMF was formed after World War II to help stabilize the
currencies and economies of  member states  and lends to countries
in financial difficulty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  