-- BrightSource Wins Bid for Solar Trust’s 500-Megawatt Project
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-06-21T23:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/brightsource-wins-bid-for-solar-trust-s-500-megawatt-project.html
BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , the U.S.
solar-thermal developer, was the top bidder at an auction today
in  Delaware  to buy an unbuilt California power plant proposed by
the bankrupt Solar Trust of America LLC.  “BrightSource has been confirmed as the winning bidder for
the Palen Solar Power Project,” the Oakland, California-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. “Once the court
approves the sale and the conditions are satisfied, the
acquisition will be complete.”  The winner of the auction couldn’t immediately be confirmed
in court papers.  Palen, located in Desert Center, California, is expected to
have a 500-megawatt generating capacity and is one of three
unfinished projects Solar Trust plans to sell.  The others are the 1,000-megawatt Blythe project in
Riverside County,  California , which is fully permitted and has
grid interconnection rights, and another 500-megawatt project
still in the planning stage in Amargosa Valley,  Nevada .  Solar Trust planned to use arrays of trough-shaped mirrors
at Palen to focus sunlight on a fluid-filled pipe to power a
steam turbine and generate electricity.  BrightSource, which is building its $2.2 billion Ivanpah
plant in California’s Mojave desert, uses a different solar-
thermal design. Its  power-tower  system uses mirrors to focus
sunlight on a boiler atop a central tower, generating steam to
produce electricity.  Bankruptcy Filing  Solar Trust and other units filed Chapter 11 on April 2
when rent was coming due on the 7,000-acre Blythe project. The
company, based in Oakland, is a joint venture of the insolvent
German company  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and steelmaker Ferrostaal AG.  The court on June 15 approved BrightSource as a stalking-
horse bidder for Palen, enabling it to submit a minimum bid that
other buyers would have to surpass. The price could be as much
as about $30 million, if all contingent payments are made,
according to court documents.  A hearing to approve the sale will take place June 27. Bids
for the remaining projects haven’t been published by the court.  The case is In re Solar Trust of America LLC, 12-11136,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  