-- Storm Cluster Off Yucatan Better Defined as Chris Weakens
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-06-22T15:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/budding-gulf-storm-watched-as-chris-weakens-in-atlantic.html
A storm cluster near the Yucatan
Peninsula is becoming better defined and may move into the
central  Gulf of Mexico , while Chris weakened to a post-tropical
system off  Canada , the  National Hurricane Center  said.  A swath of rain and storms across the Caribbean from  Mexico 
to Cuba and  Florida  has a 70 percent chance of forming into a
tropical cyclone within 48 hours, the Miami-based center said in
an 8 a.m. Atlantic time  advisory . Floods and heavy rain may
occur from southern Florida to the Yucatan through tomorrow.  “Interests along the entire U.S. Gulf Coast should monitor
the progress of this disturbance through the weekend,” the NHC
said. An Air Force reserve reconnaissance aircraft is scheduled
to investigate the system later today.  The NHC said the low is expected to slowly move north into
the central Gulf possibly as a tropical cyclone, then track
northeast across the eastern Gulf on June 25-26.  A storm in the Gulf that moves east may threaten Florida,
the second-largest producer of oranges behind  Brazil . Should it
move north and west, that could affect oil and gas interests as
the Gulf is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. natural gas output, 29
percent of oil production and 40 percent of refining capacity.  “It’s too early to tell what its track might be but I
don’t pull anybody off the danger list,” said  Jeff Masters , co-
founder of  Weather Underground Inc.  “It could affect any part
of the Gulf, with Florida being the highest risk right now.”  Storm Debby?  Petromatrix GmbH said in a report today it was “likely
that the U.S. Gulf will see its first tropical storm (Debby)
over the weekend. For now the models are not fully in accordance
on the track but the probabilities are for a path toward the
oil-producing region of the U.S. Gulf.”  There could be some headlines later today or over the
weekend about “cooks on the platforms being flown back to land
in precaution,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
Switzerland-based Petromatrix, said in the e-mailed report.  “Given that the U.S. Gulf now has become a significant
exporter of products, it is a bit more difficult to estimate the
net impact of U.S. Gulf tropical storms as delays in export
shipments due to bad weather can also translate into product
stock builds,” Petromatrix said.  Computer models are split over the exact track the storm
may take, Masters said. One projection takes it into Florida;
others have it tracking further west into the Gulf. Another
scenario has the system crossing Florida and entering the
Atlantic, said  Tom Kines , a senior meteorologist at  AccuWeather
Inc.  If that happens, the storm might move up the East Coast.  The maximum sustained winds of Chris, this year’s first
 Atlantic hurricane , decreased to 45 miles (72 kilometers) per
hour 335 miles east-southeast of Cape Race,  Newfoundland , and
the hurricane center stopped issuing advisories on the system at
11 a.m. It’s expected to be absorbed by another low tomorrow.  Chris lasted six hours as a Category 1 hurricane, with a
minimum speed of 74 mph on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  