-- Spanish Bonds Rise on Rescue Fund Debt-Buying Speculation
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-21T16:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/bunds-halt-decline-before-output-data-as-spain-prepares-for-sale.html
Spanish  government bonds  advanced
for a third day on speculation euro-area leaders will deploy
their bailout facilities to buy sovereign debt.  Spain’s five-year yields  headed for their biggest three-day
drop since January as the nation sold more securities than
planned at an auction. Spanish banks need as much as 62 billion
euros ($78 billion) of capital, according to a private-sector
report published today in  Madrid . German bunds rose for the
first time in three days after a report showed euro-area
services and manufacturing contracted for a fifth month in June.  “There’s a risk that something more positive might happen
in the euro region,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “There’s talk that the rescue funds might be able to
intervene in the Spanish and Italian markets, and that means
that people who were short these markets are exiting their
positions,” he said, referring to bets prices will fall.  Spain’s five-year note yield tumbled 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 5.93 percent at 4:58 p.m. London time.
It reached 5.85 percent, the lowest since June 12. The yield has
fallen 62 basis points in the past three days, the largest slide
since the period through Jan. 12. The 4.25 percent security
maturing in October 2016 advanced 0.87, or 8.70 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,258) face amount, to 93.705.  Investors have increased the premium they charge to lend to
 Spain  and Italy amid concern the two nations will struggle to
curb their debt levels.  Coeure ‘Mystery’  European Central Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
told the Financial Times that the European Financial Stability
Facility has the ability to reduce yields. “Certainly it’s a
mystery why the EFSF was allowed almost a year ago to undertake
secondary market interventions and governments have not yet
chosen to use that possibility,” Coeure said in an interview
with the newspaper published today. The Frankfurt-based ECB
confirmed the comments.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said allowing direct
sovereign debt purchases through the euro-area bailout fund “is
not up for debate” at present. French President  Francois
Hollande  told reporters at a press conference after the Group-
of-20 nations summit in Los Cabos,  Mexico , this week, that he
backs the idea.  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed to a euro-era record 7.29
percent on June 18 after the nation sought a bailout of as much
as 100 billion euros for its banks on June 9, amid speculation
it will need still more aid. The government said today it will
make a formal bailout request in the coming days, based on the
results of the stress tests.  Spanish Auction  The nation sold 2.2 billion euros of debt maturing in 2014,
2015 and 2017, exceeding the maximum target of 2 billion euros.
The notes maturing in April 2014 were sold at an average yield
of 4.706 percent, compared with 2.069 percent when they were
last auctioned in March. Demand for the securities was 3.97
times the amount allotted, up from 2.81 times in March.  Ten-year Spanish yields fell 13 basis points to 6.61
percent and the yield on similar-maturity Italian bonds declined
two basis points to 5.75 percent.  “Demand was strong for the 2014 and 2015 bonds and the
market is rallying,” said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate
strategist at UBS AG in London. “That Spain was able to issue
that much is a good sign. The front-end of the curve remains
underpinned by domestic demand,” he said, referring to shorter-
maturity debt.  Sovereign Bailouts  Italy  and Spain will probably require sovereign bailouts in
the next 12 months as they stumble over their auctions, Jamie Stuttard, Fidelity Investment’s head of international bond
portfolio management in London, said in a telephone interview on
June 19.  German 10-year bond yields fell eight basis points to 1.53
percent. The rate climbed 20 basis points in the past two days
and reached 1.64 percent yesterday, the highest since May 3.
French 10-year yields declined four basis points to 2.64 percent
after sales of almost 10 billion euros in debt.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in services and manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area was at
46, the same reading as in May, London-based Markit Economics
said today in an initial estimate. Economists had forecast a
drop to 45.5, the median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. It’s the fifth reading in a row below the 50
level that separates contraction from expansion.  Rate Cut  “Against this backdrop, the chance of an ECB rate cut,
perhaps in July, appears to be growing,”  Ben May , a European
economist at  Capital Economics  in London, wrote in a note to
clients. “Much bolder action will be needed to restore growth
to the region and the peripheral economies in particular,” he
wrote, referring to nations including Spain and Italy.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by  Finland , according to measures of 10-
year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year securities and
credit-default swaps.  German debt returned 2 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities lost 5.9
percent, and Italian bonds rose 8.1 percent, the indexes showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 