-- Burger-Loving Kuwait Becomes Oasis for U.S. Franchises: Retail
-- B y   D i a n e   B r a d y ,   M i c h a e l   D o l g o w   a n d   M e g h a n   W a l s h
-- 2012-06-21T02:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/burger-loving-kuwait-becomes-oasis-for-u-s-franchises-retail.html
Jonathan Spiel has tried three times
to turn his  Tea Lounge  in  Brooklyn  into a thriving chain. Four
years ago, he closed his second location after his landlord
raised the rent. Another outlet failed because of poor sales,
and he abandoned his last attempt when a co-op board imposed
tough rules.  With the sluggish economy crimping his  cash flow , Spiel has
found a new way to expand: franchising. In  Kuwait .  Spiel hadn’t planned on doing business in the Gulf emirate.
His first -- and, so far, only -- taker is in Kuwait,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its June 25 issue.  How does a Brooklyn lounge that boasts a bar and is popular
with nursing mothers become a winning concept in an Arab country
where alcohol is banned and women must be modest?  “It’s a tea culture, yet there are no tea places,” said
Spiel.  While that’s not technically true, the desert state does
have two things Brooklyn lacks: oil money and a hunger for more
U.S. brands.  For franchisee Mohammed Al-Arbash, whose family’s holdings
range from its original jewelry business to recycling machines,
that makes Tea Lounge a terrific bet.  “I don’t care if it’s famous,” said Al-Arbash. “I was
looking for new ideas in the  United States .”  He’s not alone.  Hans Hess  had barely expanded  Elevation
Burger  beyond  Falls Church ,  Virginia , when he struck a deal in
2010 to bring the chain to Kuwait. While some might balk at
handing their organic burger concept to a Kuwaiti owner of
hookah bars, Hess never looked back.  ‘American Brands’  He has since signed several deals across the  Middle East ,
and sales at Elevation’s restaurants there are more than double
the average of their U.S. counterparts.  While Hess said he never thought he’d hit Kuwait before
hanging a shingle in, say, New York, “it made sense once I
understood how in love they are with American brands.”  The Middle East has long been a magnet for U.S. restaurant
chains thanks to its wealth and large numbers of foreign workers
-- not to mention its malls, tax-free zones and jet-setting
elites. Still, the usual franchising formula is to have some
heft at home and then go global, often starting with a move into
Canada or  Mexico .  That was before slow growth, tight capital and stiff
competition made expanding next door more difficult than opening
in Dubai.  Beverly Hills  The result: Dubai diners get to line up, New York-style, at
local incarnations of Manhattan hot spots like  Shake Shack  and
 Magnolia Bakery  (housed in a  Bloomingdale’s (M) , the 140-year-old
retailer’s first foray abroad when it opened in 2010). Soon
they’ll also be able to sample the goodies at  Sprinkles
Cupcakes , a 10-unit chain from  Beverly Hills  that just agreed to
franchise 34 Middle East shops.  Some question the logic of franchising a budding brand. In
return for an upfront fee and a cut of sales, buyers are
supposed to get a distinctive and proven business model that can
be replicated.  “Franchisees are generally entrepreneur wannabes,” said
restaurant consultant Michael Seid of  MSA Worldwide LLC . When a
seller has only a handful of outlets or little experience, Seid
asks, what system is being sold?  Smashburger Chief Executive Officer David Prokupek, whose
first foreign store opened in Kuwait in April, said he’s glad
his five-year-old brand had 120 units at home before venturing
overseas.  “I don’t think we’d have had the horsepower or supply
chain to support a foreign franchisee before now,” he said.
“There’s a real risk in these high-visibility cities. If
someone has a bad experience, it can really damage your brand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diane Brady in  New York  at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Dolgow in New York at 
 mdolgow@bloomberg.net ;
Meghan Walsh in New York at 
 mwalsh97@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  