-- Buying Europe Banks Is Easy for Herro as Cheap Stocks Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-22T00:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/buying-europe-banks-is-easy-for-herro-as-cheap-stocks-fall-most.html
European banks, Japanese carmakers,
Hong Kong  developers  and Russian oil producers have gotten so
cheap that stock investors from Harris Associates LP’s David Herro to Aberdeen Asset Management’s Kathy Xu are buying.  “I’ve been significantly adding,” said Herro, whose $7.9
billion Oakmark International Fund beat 81 percent of peers in
the past three years. “Even though it feels gloomy, this type
of environment makes my job quite easy.”  The retreat that erased $3.6 trillion from global stocks
this quarter has left more than 580 companies in MSCI Inc.
indexes, including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , valued at
less than their net assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
cheapest shares trade for an average 0.7 times book value. That
compares with 9.6 for the most expensive equities, led by
health-care and consumer products companies such as Kimberly-
Clark Corp. whose  earnings  aren’t tied to the economy.  Stocks with the lowest price-to-book ratios have returned
an average 6.2 percent per quarter during the past decade,
beating the 4.3 percent gain for shares with the highest
valuations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Xu, whose Aberdeen  China Opportunities Fund (GOPAX)  topped 94
percent of peers the past three years, has been adding Hong Kong
developers after  China ’s economic slowdown and corruption probes
sent  valuations  to a five-year low versus global peers. HSBC
Global Asset Management, with about $400 billion of client
assets, says Russian energy  companies  are attractive after they
fell to a 45 percent discount to their net assets, the cheapest
level since 2009.  Value Stocks  The declines show that most investors are still more
concerned with preserving their capital than earning higher
returns, five years after the collapse of securities tied to
subprime mortgages helped trigger the global financial crisis.  Shares with the lowest price-to-book  ratios  retreated an
average 10 percent since March, led by companies linked to
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the economic slowdown. They trailed the
most expensive shares by 7.2 percentage points, the widest gap
since Bloomberg began tracking quarterly data in 2002.  “We can find many value stocks at current levels,” saidXu, a Hong Kong-based  money manager  at Aberdeen, which oversees
$295 billion and held about 18.9 million shares of  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong Kong’s biggest developer by market value,
at the end of May. “We’ve topped up some of our weightings.”  ‘Brave Enough’  Global investors surveyed by  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp. from May 31 to June 7 cut their
equity holdings in  Russia  and  Japan  and had their biggest
underweight positions in banks, meaning they own less of the
shares than are represented in benchmark indexes.  The respondents, who manage a combined $689 billion,
favored health-care companies and household-products makers.
 Kimberly-Clark (KMB) , the Dallas-based maker of Kleenex tissues and
Huggies diapers, has jumped 10 percent this quarter and hit an
all-time high in  New York  trading on June 19. The shares are
valued at 6 times net assets, the highest on a quarterly basis
since December 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve kicked around this question quite a bit of whether
we’re brave enough to buy into some of the deeply undervalued
but risky stocks,” said  David Semple , who oversees about $35
billion as director of international equity at Van Eck Global in
New York. “I don’t think we’re there yet.”  Bullish Analysts  Europe’s economy stalled in the first quarter while Japan’s
May  exports  to the region fell 0.9 percent, hurt by the yen’s
4.5 percent rally against the dollar since March 15. Economic
growth in China slowed to the weakest pace since 2009 in the
first quarter. Oil, Russia’s biggest source of export revenue,
has tumbled 21 percent this quarter.  “Until we have more visibility from a geopolitical
perspective, it’s difficult to be particularly bullish on the
Russian market,” said Gareth Morgan, a London-based money
manager at F&C Investments, which oversees about $157 billion.  The cheapest stocks now are favored most by analysts, who
predict average gains of 24 percent for the group and 27 percent
earnings growth during the next 12 months, according to about
12,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
average return prediction of 14 percent and projected profit
growth of 20 percent for the most expensive companies, the data
show.  Moody’s Downgrades  BNP Paribas may rally 36 percent after the Paris-based bank
plunged to 0.45 times its reported net assets at the end of May,
the lowest level on a monthly basis since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 1995, according to the average share-price
projection of 26  analysts . France’s largest bank posted first
quarter net income of 2.87 billion euros ($3.64 billion),
topping estimates, and said it will boost  capital  by retaining
earnings.  Moody’s Investors Service cut BNP’s long-term credit rating
to A2 from Aa3 yesterday, one of 15 bank downgrades made by
the ratings company.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , UBS AG, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, Societe Generale SA,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
Credit Agricole SA were among European lenders downgraded,
according to a Moody’s statement.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Japan’s biggest automaker, predicted in
February that sales will climb 21 percent to a record 9.58
million vehicles in 2012. Akio Toyoda, president of the Toyota
City, Japan-based company, said on June 4 he’s still optimistic
as consumers replace older vehicles. The shares trade for 0.9
times reported book value, a 34 percent discount versus the 10-
year average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BNP Paribas shares lost 15 percent since March, while
Toyota retreated 14 percent.  Property Slump  “What we’ve seen now since the end of the first quarter is
extreme stress on equity markets,” said Herro, whose Chicago-
based firm reported a $519 million stake in BNP Paribas at the
end of the first quarter and a position of about $1.1 billion in
Toyota. “People like us, who really focus on good quality
companies at low prices, are getting very enthused.”  Sun Hung Kai has tumbled 19 percent since March 29 after
the firm’s billionaire co-chairmen were arrested by Hong Kong’s
anti-corruption commission.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a June 15
statement that daily operations at the developer remain
“intact” after the probe.  The company will boost its per-share book value by 5
percent this year, according to the average of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shares tumbled to 0.7 times
book value in May, the lowest on a monthly basis since September
1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , comprised of seven developers
in the world’s most expensive place to own a home, sank to the
lowest valuation in five years versus the  MSCI World Real Estate
Index (MXWO0RE) , the data show.  Buying Opportunity  Gazprom,  Russia (INDEXCF) ’s natural-gas export monopoly, has
retreated 13 percent this quarter and its price-to-book  ratio 
fell to a record low last month. The Moscow-based company was
valued at 0.5 times net assets yesterday, compared with an
average multiple of 1.2 since 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Moscow-based OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil
producer, trades for 3.9 times earnings, a 42 percent discount
to its historical average. The MSCI All-Country World Energy
index has a multiple of 9.1, the data show.  “The long term prospects of the Russian oil industry look
promising,” said Ed Conroy, a London-based money manager at
HSBC Global Asset Management, which oversees about $10 billion
in stocks of the four largest  emerging markets  and is placing
its biggest bet on Russia. “Current valuations definitely
constitute a buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  