-- California’s Stockton May Skip $10 Million Owed on Debt
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-21T04:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/california-s-stockton-may-skip-10-million-owed-on-debt.html
Stockton,  California , facing a $26
million deficit, laid out a bankruptcy contingency plan that
includes skipping $10.2 million in debt service in the fiscal
year that starts next month.  The plan,  described  on Stockton’s website yesterday, would
pair a total of $12 million in debt expenditure reductions with
$11.2 million in cuts to employee pay and benefits. It will be
presented to the City Council June 26 for consideration.  The community of about 292,000, described as the 10th-most
dangerous in the U.S. in terms of violent crime, is poised to
become the biggest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy. The council
will vote on the plan a day after the close of mandated talks
with creditors on concessions to help avoid a bankruptcy filing.  “The city cannot assume that agreements reached will
enable the City Council to completely close the budget gap,”
City Manager Bob Deis said in a memo accompanying the plan. The
plan says the city’s proposed general-fund budget for fiscal
2013 has an operating shortfall of $25.9 million.  If tentative agreements are reached in the talks, “they
will be honored and will contribute to the city’s ability to use
bankruptcy as efficiently and expeditiously as possible,” he
said.  The city, located about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of
 San Francisco , is required by the state constitution to adopt a
balanced budget for the year that starts July 1.  Retiree Cuts  The plan, which would produce a general-fund surplus of
$39,000, includes a $7.1 million reduction in payments for
retiree medical benefits for a year before eliminating the
payments the following year. Deis has said escalating health
costs for pensioners contributed to the city’s insolvency.  The debt service reductions would skip paying $5.8 million
owed on 2007 pension-obligation bonds and $2.6 million on 2007
variable-rate debt lease-revenue bonds for a new  City Hall . The
plan also calls for appropriating $3.5 million for Chapter 9
restructuring costs.  The council voted June 5 to give Deis the authority to seek
Chapter 9 municipal  bankruptcy protection  for Stockton as soon
as June 26, if the negotiations with creditors fail.  Stockton could join  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , which
filed in August after failing to win union concessions, and
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which initiated the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy in November, with $4.2 billion in debt.
Vallejo, California, near  Napa Valley ’s famed wineries, exited
court protection last year.  Fiscal Factors  Stockton buckled under the weight of retiree health costs,
dwindling tax dollars in the wake of the recession and
accounting errors that overstated municipal revenue. City
officials in February agreed to the talks with creditors under a
labor-backed state law aimed at deterring bankruptcy filings
while providing guidelines to follow.  Negotiations began on March 27 and were extended to June
25. The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest U.S. pension, and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the nation’s biggest home lender, were among 18 creditors
involved in the talks.  “By the time the City Council hears this item, we are
hopeful that we will have reached tentative agreements with some
creditors,” Deis said in the memo.  The community’s financial practices and reporting are the
subject of a state investigation to clarify the fiscal
situation, California Controller John Chiang said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  