-- Can Everyone Please Lighten Up About the Supreme Court?
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-06-21T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/can-everyone-please-lighten-up-about-the-supreme-court-.html
As we await the U.S.  Supreme Court ’s
decision on the constitutionality of the  Affordable Care Act ,
the rhetoric of the statute’s supporters is growing increasingly
heated -- almost panicky.  A decision against the act,  we are told , would “reshape
our fundamental understanding of the Court, the power of
Congress, and long-standing principles of federalism.” A
sweeping decision,  critics have warned , “could challenge the
basis of our modern federal administrative state.” Striking
down the statute,  we are assured , “will define John Roberts’s
tenure and legacy.”  Even President  Barack Obama  and members of his
administration have gotten into the act, solemnly warning of the
consequences to the court itself should the statute be held
unconstitutional.  To which I say: Lighten up!  Readers of this column know that  I have problems  with the
law. But I think it highly unlikely that the justices will
strike it down, and I am sticking to my view that the objections
I and others harbor should not be the stuff of litigation. I
have been teaching law for 30 years, and I just don’t see the
criticisms of the act as raising serious constitutional
questions.  Of course, the justices might disagree. If they do, so
what? The courts have struck down statutes before, including big
and important ones, and have often upset the working balance of
government powers.  School Prayer  Think how different the nation would look, for example, had
the school-prayer cases of the early 1960s come out the other
way. One might object that there the justices were vindicating a
fundamental right. But until they did so, the right not to
listen to prayers did not exist. The very concept of the U.S.
public school had been, since the system began, tied up with the
idea of piety, Bible reading and communal prayer. An
understanding that had existed since the founding, the court
simply upended.  Well, yes (one might say), but that’s just the states.
What about the federal government? The courts don’t strike down
big, carefully thought-out regulatory plans. Not since the New
Deal.  Really? Consider the  Religious Freedom Restoration Act ,
passed overwhelmingly by a bipartisan vote in Congress and
signed in 1993 by President  Bill Clinton , who had lobbied hard
for it. The statute was designed to make it easier for people of
strong religious conviction to gain conscience exemptions from
statutes of general application. (Yes, that was not long ago
considered a core liberal principle.) The states and many
businesses screamed about the costs the regulations would
impose.  The Supreme Court  brushed the law aside  almost
contemptuously, and somehow the republic survived. If the
statute doesn’t ring a bell, the reason is only that it never
went into effect; had it been upheld, the U.S. would be quite
different.  Yes, the court has waded into divisive political
controversies and, for doing so, has taken its lumps. In the end
the court lost little of its legitimacy after its decisions in
Roe v. Wade, which continues to infuriate many on the right, or
Bush v. Gore, which continues to infuriate many on the left --
decisions that have in common shaky reasoning, inattention to
precedent and holdings far broader than necessary to deal with
the facts presented. (In a less polarized world, it would be
unnecessary to note that one can criticize a case even when one
is happy with the outcome.)  Two Cases  Indeed, in the court’s history, there are probably only two
decisions that have actually weakened it -- cases handed down a
century apart, that went in quite opposite directions. One was
in 1857,  Dred Scott v. Sanford ; the other was in 1954,  Brown v.
Board of Education .  The Dred Scott case, declaring the Missouri Compromise
unconstitutional and returning the freedman Scott to slavery,
was so hated that politicians were able to campaign on its
illegitimacy. One beneficiary was a little-known lawyer and
former one-term congressman named  Abraham Lincoln , who in a
speech delivered in Springfield,  Illinois , 155 years ago this
month, suggested that the decision was not entitled to the same
respect that other precedents enjoyed. We need not “acquiesce
in it as a precedent,” said Lincoln, the way that we would had
it “been made by the unanimous concurrence of the judges, and
without any apparent partisan bias, and in accordance with legal
public expectation.”  What about Brown v. Board of Education? The decision was
plainly right, and timely, and moral, but it crippled the court
in a way that is rarely mentioned: It gave us confirmation
hearings. The Dixiecrats who in those days ran the Senate
insisted that all nominees for the court henceforth come to
 Capitol Hill  to answer questions about their views. In that
nobler era, liberals objected on principle, arguing ( correctly ,
I think) that the separation of powers forbade such inquiry.  The racists prevailed, however, and so started us down the
ridiculous road to our silly modern circuses, in which the
nominees pretend under oath to have no opinions on the grave
constitutional questions they are going to confront.  Apart from those signposts -- and they are very big
signposts -- the Supreme Court has survived all the mud that
politicians and activists have tossed at it. Should the
Affordable Care Act be struck down in any significant part, the
politicians will have to fix the mess, perhaps doing a better
job this time; the justices will survive.  Indeed, given the level of fervor directed at the court
generally, and at Chief Justice  John Roberts  in particular, one
could argue that the justices will be made weaker if they uphold
the statute.  Next Frenzy  That didn’t have to happen. It’s entirely the fault of
their critics. If after this public campaign the justices should
reach what I think is the correct decision (leaving the law in
place), activists of all stripes will quite sensibly begin to
wonder whether the drumbeat of criticism had its effect -- and
on what issue an anti-court frenzy might next be whipped up.  In 1992, in her plurality opinion in  Planned Parenthood v.
Casey , Justice Sandra Day O’Connor defended the court’s
constancy in protecting abortion rights against those who
disagreed. The country, she wrote, would lose confidence in a
judiciary that reached its decisions “unnecessarily and under
pressure.” Those who are launching today’s pre-emptive attacks
on the court evidently think she was wrong.  Delegitimizing the institutions that check and balance is a
dangerous game. Those who engage in it should remember that once
the game begins, everybody gets to play.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
next novel, “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln,” will be
published in July. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies  and on what a  shock-and-awe solution  to  Europe ’s
crisis would look like;  Jonathan Alter  on  Republican voter-
suppression efforts ; William Pesek on  Japan’s debt and nuclear
power plants ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan gains  that offset its
trading loss; Carl Pope on bringing  clean energy innovation  to
the global poor; Christopher Swift on  defeating al-Qaeda in
Yemen .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 