-- Canada’s Flaherty Tightens Mortgage Rules to Avert Bubble
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-21T13:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/canada-lowers-mortgage-amortizations-to-25-years-correct-.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will tighten mortgage terms as the Group of
Seven country with the soundest government finances tries to
avert a  household debt  crisis.  The government will shorten the maximum amortization period
on mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years,
and lower the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent, Flaherty
said in a  statement  delivered in Ottawa.  Flaherty has already reduced the amortization limits twice
since 2008, cutting them from 40 years amid concern historically
 low  borrowing costs are fueling a housing bubble and pushing
household debt to record highs. The shorter-term mortgages
increase monthly payments for home owners, which may prompt them
to take on smaller home loans.  “This will further reduce the total interest payments
Canadian families make on their mortgages, helping them build up
value in their homes more quickly and pay off their mortgage
debt sooner,” Flaherty said.  Canada  will also cap mortgage debt payments at 39 percent
of income and limit government mortgage insurance to homes worth
less than C$1 million ($979,048), Flaherty said.  The changes take effect July 9.  Line of Defense  The move extends a reversal for the Conservative government
of Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , which came to power in 2006
and initially lengthened mortgage terms to make it easier for
Canadians to buy homes.  Homeowners have taken advantage of the longer-term
mortgages to lower their monthly payments. The share of new
mortgages with amortizations of more than 25 years was 41
percent last year, compared with 8 percent between 2000 and
2005, according to a survey by the Toronto-based Canadian
Association of Accredited Mortgage Professionals.  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney , who has warned that
monetary policy should be used to address rising levels of
household debt only as a “last line of defense,” had been
involved in the discussions on the matter and encouraged
Flaherty to tighten regulations, a government official told
Bloomberg News, speaking on condition they not be identified
because they aren’t authorized to discuss details of the talks.
The central bank has kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 1
percent since September 2010.  Jeremy Harrison , a spokesman for
the Bank of Canada, declined to comment on Carney’s role in the
process.  Biggest Risk  The move may give Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney more
scope to extend a pause in interest rate increases, said  Mark Chandler  of  Royal Bank of Canada.   “At the margin it does give them more room for patience,”
said Chandler, Toronto-based head of fixed-income and currency
strategy at Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets.  Carney has said a surge in household debt has become the
economy’s biggest domestic risk, with levels relative to income
surpassing those in the U.S. and the U.K. Like other countries
such as  Australia  that largely escaped the global financial
crisis, Canadian banks continued to expand lending at a time
when record low borrowing costs fueled demand.  The risk to Canada’s economy is that a growing number of
Canadians taking on too much debt at low  interest rates  today
may not be able to afford their payments when borrowing costs
rise, Carney has said.  In a speech in  Vancouver  last year, Carney said the
increase in debt over the past decade has been driven by
households with the highest debt levels and the proportion of
Canadian homes that would be vulnerable to an adverse economic
shock is at the highest level in nine years.  Mortgage Cap  Flaherty has also acted recently to reduce taxpayer
exposure to the market. In April, he introduced legislation that
prevents lenders from using government-insured mortgages as
collateral for covered bonds.  Flaherty has also refused to raise the C$600 billion legal
limit on mortgage insurance of the Canada Mortgage Housing
Corp., and the federal housing agency has begun rationing bulk
insurance for financial institutions. Canadians who make a down
payment of less than 20 percent of the home’s value are required
to insure their mortgages.  Some banks have already sought to cut the exposure to long-
term mortgages, and said they welcomed today’s announcement.  In separate statements today, the  Bank of Montreal  said it
“strongly endorsed” the changes, while Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
Tim Hockey, who heads that lender’s consumer banking division,
said the changes “should  have a substantial moderating effect
on the growth of Canadians’ debt levels.”  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Chief Executive Officer William Downe said
in March the trend toward smaller down payments and longer term
mortgages coupled with low interest rates on mortgages had put
more borrowers at risk.  CIBC Mortgages  Canada’s fourth-biggest bank is seeking to make 25-year
amortizations more attractive by offering lower interest rates
on such loans. That’s helping the Toronto-based lender increase
the current share of new mortgages it issues with amortizations
of 25 years or less to about 70 percent, from 40 percent last
June, Downe said.  “We took a long, hard look at the Canadian housing market
and concluded, on the one hand, there was a legitimate concern
that  house prices  - particularly in the largest cities - had
been rising at a rate that was simply unsustainable,” Downe
said in a speech at the bank’s annual general meeting in
Halifax,  Nova Scotia  on March 20. “With growing concerns over
household debt, a soft landing in housing is in the best
interests of our customers and the national economy.”  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , meanwhile, said
yesterday it plans to shutter its mortgage-origination business
next month after failing to sell the unit.  Toronto-based CIBC, the No. 5 bank, said in March it was
reviewing options for the FirstLine mortgage brand, including a
potential sale, and would retain the division’s loan portfolio.  Weak Demand  The average sale price of a home in Canada has risen 98
percent over the past decade, and 35 percent since January 2009,
according to data from the  Canadian Real Estate Association .
Canada’s household debt relative to disposable income rose to a
record 154.3 percent in the first quarter.  Vancouver, where  home prices  had almost tripled in the
decade through last year, and Toronto are the country’s most
expensive markets.  Flaherty’s move comes as he tries to avert a bubble in
overheated areas without triggering a widespread drop in house
prices that could undermine the recovery at a time of weak
global demand. At a March 22 press conference, Flaherty said the
housing market is a source of jobs in the economy and that it’s
up to the lenders to tighten their own lending practices.  “I do find it a bit much when some of the bank executives
turn to the government, the minister of finance, and say ‘You
ought to change the rules and make it tighter,’” Flaherty said
at the time, adding bank executives have been calling on the
government to tighten mortgage insurance rules.  Housing Recovery  The share of gross domestic product in the world’s 10th-
largest economy linked to housing -- including construction,
renovation and ownership cost -- was 20.1 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, up from 19.2 percent in the third quarter
of 2008. In the U.S., a similar measure peaked at 18 percent in
2005.  The share of construction jobs in total employment is at a
record of 7.4 percent of total employment. Construction
employment makes up 4.2 percent of total jobs in the U.S.  Policy makers are wary of being blamed for choking off what
may be a smooth expansion of the housing market, said former
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Economist Don Drummond.  “As we saw in  Spain  and the  United States , it’s pretty
hard to determine if it’s going to go and when it’s going to
go,” Drummond said.  Canada has relied on households to drive its recovery, in
contrast to its three previous recessions, where rising exports
led growth. The domestic strength has helped the government
increase its revenue and implement a fiscal plan that projects a
return to balance by 2015. Canadian government net debt, at
about 33 percent in 2011, is the lowest in the G-7 and less than
half the level in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  