-- Canada Dollar Declines Most in 6 Months on Weak Growth Reports
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-06-21T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/canada-dollar-extends-drop-versus-u-s-peer-as-retail-sales-fall.html
Canada’s dollar dropped against its
U.S. counterpart by the most in six months as a drop in retail
sales and a third tightening of mortgage terms increased bets
the Bank of Canada may delay further rate increases.  The Canadian currency also declined after economic reports
in the U.S. were weaker than expected and a measure of China’s
manufacturing probably shrank for an eighth month. BOC Governor
 Mark Carney , speaking today in Halifax, Nova Scotia, reiterated
that he may raise  interest rates  as the economy continues to
move toward full output.  “You look long-term at the global economy in general, and
the outlook is pretty bleak,”  John Doyle , director of markets
in Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “I think investors are nervous.
There isn’t a really good reason to buy some of the higher-
yielding currencies, and what you see is that investors are
buying the  U.S. dollar  as a safe.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the water bird on the C$1 coin, fell 1.12 percent to C$1.0297 at
5 p.m. in  New York , the biggest drop since Dec. 12. One Canadian
dollar buys 97.12 U.S. cents.  Canadian 10-year bonds rose, pushing the yield down three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.75 percent. The
yield touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest since 1950,
according to Bloomberg and  Bank of Canada  data.  ‘Economic Expansion’  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the current excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed,
some modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary
policy stimulus may become appropriate,” Carney said according
to the text of his remarks to the Atlantic Institute for Market
Studies.  The world’s 10th largest economy grew at a 1.9 percent
annualized pace in the first quarter as the country’s ratio of
 household debt  to disposable income rose to a record. Carney has
held his policy rate at 1 percent since September 2010 in the
longest pause since the 1950s.  Retail sales in April  decreased  0.5 percent to C$38.9
billion ($38.1 billion), after a 0.4 percent gain in the
previous month, Statistics  Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast 0.2 percent
growth, based on the median of 22 projections.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will tighten
mortgage terms as the Group of Seven country with the soundest
government finances tries to avert a household debt crisis.  Mortgage Terms  The government will shorten the maximum amortization period
on mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years,
and lower the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent, Flaherty
said in a statement delivered in Ottawa. Flaherty has already
reduced the amortization limits twice since 2008.  “The combination of weaker retail sales and the shift in
mortgage regulation in Canada announced today are likely to take
some of the pressure off the BOC,” said  Camilla Sutton , a  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS)  currency strategist in Toronto. “The Canadian
dollar has gone back to earlier levels.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general  economic
index  fell to minus 16.6 in June, the lowest level since August,
from minus 5.8 the previous month. Economists forecast the gauge
would improve to zero, the dividing line between growth and
contraction, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. The report covers eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  China Manufacturing  Jobless claims  decreased by 2,000 to 387,000 in the week
ended June 16, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median forecast of 45 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for 383,000. The four-week average, a less
volatile measure, climbed to the highest of the year.  A report showed manufacturing in China may shrink for an
eighth month in June, damping demand for the currencies of
commodity exporting countries. A preliminary reading today for a
Chinese purchasing managers’ index was 48.1 for June from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. Above-50 readings indicate
expansion.  The U.S. dollar rose against all of its major counterparts
as investors sought greenback’s safety. The Canadian dollar rose
against 10 of its 16 major counterparts.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  fell 2.2 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials dropped 2.1
percent. Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 4.7 percent to
$77.97 a barrel in New York.  ‘Risk Rally’  The currency fell yesterday after the Fed fulfilled
analysts’ expectations by extending a measure of monetary
stimulus yesterday.  “The Fed did exactly what the market was expecting,”
 Steven Saywell , head of currency strategy for Europe at BNP
Paribas SA in London, said in a telephone interview. “There’s
already been a significant risk rally in the past two weeks, and
we’re taking a breather. We will continue to see a risk rally
and dollar weakness on expectations of further easing. We see
the Canadian dollar moving back down towards parity.”  The loonie last traded on a one-to-one basis with its U.S.
peer on May 15, when it reached 99.90 Canadian cents per U.S.
dollar. The Canadian dollar appreciated 23 percent from December
2008 through June 2011, when the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of
assets in two rounds of stimulus known as quantitative easing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in  Washington  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  