-- Carbon Buckyball Solar Panels Absorb More Light, MIT Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-21T17:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/carbon-buckyball-solar-panels-absorb-more-light-mit-says.html
Experimental solar cells made with
two types of pure carbon absorb infrared sunlight that
traditional  silicon panels  ignore and may eventually be used to
improve efficiency, according to researchers at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  MIT scientists used nanotubes and spherical molecules known
as buckyballs to make the first all-carbon photovoltaic cell,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based university said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Infrared light makes up about 40 percent of the solar
radiation that hits the earth. Solar cells that absorb that
energy may produce more electricity than conventional panels
that don’t, according to  Michael Strano , a professor of chemical
engineering at MIT.  “It’s a fundamentally new kind of photovoltaic cell,”
Strano said. “If you could harness even a portion of the near-
infrared spectrum, it adds value.” The findings were published
this week in the journal Advanced Materials.  The most efficient cells in production today convert about
20 percent of the energy in sunlight into electricity. Boosting
the efficiency of traditional solar power panels has helped
lower costs to below that of diesel generators in many regions.  More work on the carbon cells is needed to improve their
conversion rate to greater than than the 0.1 percent the team at
MIT produced, said Rishabh Jain, a graduate student and lead
author of the journal article.  “We are very much on the path  to making very high-
efficiency, near-infrared solar cells,” he said in the
statement. “It’s pretty clear to us the kinds of things that
need to happen to increase the efficiency,” including more
precise control of the shape and thickness of the carbon layers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  