-- Cash for Obama at Issue as Public-Workers’ Union Picks Leader
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/cash-for-obama-at-issue-as-public-workers-union-picks-leader.html
The American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees will select a new president today
in an election that could lead to reduced political spending for
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  The race to succeed  Gerald McEntee , who has led the union
since 1981 and emphasized national political activism, pits one
of his closest aides against the head of the union’s largest
local who argues for diverting political spending to local
campaigns. The vote is being held at the union’s biannual
convention in  Los Angeles .  Danny Donohue, the head of the Civil Service Employees
Association in New York, said in an interview before the
convention that the union has become too much “a top-down
organization.” He is opposed by Lee Saunders, now secretary-
treasurer of AFSCME.  “The White House will need money, that is a worry,”
 Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs at
 Princeton University  in  New Jersey , said in an interview. “The
labor vote will go for Obama, but money is limited.”  Any money diverted to other campaigns could be costly in a
tight race, Zelizer said.  Labor Spending  Labor groups spent about $450 million, a record, helping
elect Democrats to the White House and Congress in 2008,
including through political-action committees. McEntee pledged
to spend more than $90 million to elect Democrats this year.  The AFSCME race is a rematch from 2010, where Saunders and
Donahue faced each other for union’s secretary-treasurer post,
with Saunders winning by about 3,000 votes. AFSCME, the largest
U.S. union of government workers, has 1.6 million members.  Supporters of Donohue point to the failed, union-led effort
to recall  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican who
limited collective bargaining rights of state workers, as
demonstrating a need to spend more on state and city races.  “We should focus spending on the local, city council,
towns,” Matt Hattorff, representing Local 852 in Coram, New
York. “There’s been no focus on the large picture.”  Following the vote, union members complained they were
outspent by Walker supporters and the election wasn’t focused
enough on collective bargaining. Obama also received some blame
for not visiting the state during the general election.  Powerful PACs  “We need the international union to be pro-active to help
those of us in the trenches,” Donohue says on his campaign
website.  As the union’s No. 2 official, Saunders has been at
McEntee’s side as the union spent freely on national political
campaigns.  “A lot needs to be spent at the top to fight off the
powerful PACs,” Christopher McAuliffe, representing Local 1912
from Binghamton,  New York , at the convention and wearing a shirt
supporting Saunders.  Saunders would continue McEntee’s efforts to spend large
amounts of money on the national level and support Obama, said
Richard Abelson, the executive director of AFSCME’s district
council 48 in  Milwaukee  and a volunteer for Saunders’ campaign.  “Otherwise, some of these anti-union conservatives are
going to be emboldened by what happened in Wisconsin,” said
Abelson, to whom the Saunders campaign referred questions.  Labor remains a supportive of Obama, with 57 percent of
union members who are registered to vote supporting him,
compared with 35 percent for his likely Republican opponent  Mitt Romney , according to a Gallup  poll  released June 11. Among
government employees who are members of unions, Obama’s support
rises to 59 percent and Romney’s slips to 34 percent, according
to Gallup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  