-- McCain Seeks Air Strikes in Syria as Levin Urges Caution
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-21T20:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/mccain-seeks-air-strikes-in-syria-as-levin-urges-caution.html
Senator  John McCain  urged military
air strikes on  Syria , saying the U.S. can’t afford to be
“standing by, watching a massacre.”  While opposing the use of U.S. ground troops, the  Arizona 
senator said the U.S. should give weapons to the Syrian rebels
and establish “sanctuaries” in the war-torn country that would
be protected by allied air power.  “For the  United States  to stand by and for the president
of the United States not to say a word on behalf of these people
is shameful,” McCain said today at a Bloomberg Government
conference in Washington on defense strategy.  With  Iran  aiding the Syrian government and Russia providing
weapons to the regime, “it’s not a fair fight,” McCain, the
senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said.
“Here we are, standing by, watching a massacre go on.”  More than 10,000 people have been killed in the conflict,
which has flared for months as rebels seek to overthrow
President Bashar al-Assad. A Syrian air force colonel flew a
fighter jet into neighboring Jordan today and was granted
political asylum, according to U.S. and Jordanian officials.  Other lawmakers at the forum urged a more cautious
approach.  Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan, the Democratic chairman of
the Armed Services Committee, said military action risks
triggering a wider conflict in Syria.  Safe Zone  “Assuming the bad guys win, what do we do then?” Levin
said. “Up the ante?”  He said he favors exploring establishment of a “safe
zone” along the Turkish-Syrian border with NATO support.  “There’s some interest and possibility of going into Syria
along the border, creating a safe zone of 20 miles by 20 miles,
and for NATO to support that action,” Levin said. “So far,
NATO has not supported it.”  Beyond that, “people are very, very cautious because of
the uncertainties that exist there,” Levin said.  Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the House
intelligence committee, said he isn’t prepared to support arming
the rebels.  “We really are not in a good position today to fully
identify all the groups and all factions, who’s winning the
leadership fight and who’s not winning that fight,” Rogers, a
 Michigan  Republican, said in an interview after he spoke at the
conference.  “There’s a lot of work to be done, I argue, before the
introduction of weapons,” he said. “I don’t have the comfort
level today that we could be involved in that.”  Rogers also expressed concern about what would happen to
Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile in a change of regime.  “This will make  Libya  look like an antique gun show if
those weapons start spreading across the  Middle East  or al-
Qaeda,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  