-- McCain Says Revenue Increase Possible to Stop Defense Cut
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-06-21T19:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/mccain-says-revenue-increase-possible-to-stop-defense-cut.html
Senator  John McCain , the senior
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said a
revenue increase may be possible to avoid the threat of
automatic cuts known as sequestration.  A previous proposal to reduce spending and raise revenue
“could serve as a blueprint for further action,” McCain of
 Arizona  said today at a Bloomberg Government defense conference
in Washington.  The threat of automatic defense cuts “is so devastating
that the secretary of defense will not even contemplate the
plans necessary to implement sequestration,” said McCain, who
cited elimination of tax breaks for ethanol as part of a
potential compromise.  Automatic, across-the-board cuts of $1.2 trillion to both
domestic and national-security programs will take place over a
decade, beginning in January, if Congress and President  Barack Obama  don’t agree this year to make adjustments. The cuts were
imposed after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to
curb the nation’s soaring debt.  Efforts to forge a compromise have been frustrated by
Republican lawmakers opposed to any revenue increase and
Democrats who have said revenue must be part of the package.  The likeliest outcome is that Congress will avoid facing
the fiscal challenge and pass a continuing resolution that would
only postpone cuts, according to  Dov Zakheim , senior adviser at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies and a former
Pentagon comptroller.  Failure Predicted  “I don’t think this Congress can cut the deal,” Zakheim
said at the conference.  If the automatic cuts do occur, gross domestic product will
decline about 0.5 percent, Zakheim said. “It’s going to hit us
immediately,” he said.  The Pentagon already plans to cut about $487 billion
through fiscal 2021, and it would face more than $500 billion in
additional reductions if Congress and the White House don’t
agree by  year’s end on a plan to shrink the U.S. deficit.  Representative  Norm Dicks , a Democrat from Washington, said
he’d like to see “positive steps taken” on a legislative fix
before the November election.  “We will lose a million defense jobs if we allow
sequestration to go forward,” he said on a conference panel.
“This is all about trying to improve the economy of the  United
States  and reduce the deficit.”  Notifying Workers  Dicks said in an interview after the panel that he’s
“willing to consider” an accord that would reduce the Pentagon
budget by about $10 billion a year, instead of more than $50
billion a year under the automatic cuts.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Armed Services panel, said reductions at that level
wouldn’t harm national security.  Defense contractors are required by law to notify employees
in advance if they are likely to lose their jobs, Zakheim said.  The notification requirement is 60 days in most states, he
said. With sequestration scheduled to take effect Jan. 2, the
60-day notices may come just days “before some of these folks
are going to have to get re-elected,” he said of lawmakers.  “You’re going to see pink slips flying in October from
contractors across the country” unless action is taken by then,
said Representative Randy Forbes, a Republican from  Virginia .  Hurting Subcontractors  A significant number of U.S. military personnel might also
lose their jobs due to sequestration, Forbes said.  “We could be giving pink slips to 150,000 active-duty”
military members,’’ he said. “That’s like doing away with the
entire Marine Corps.”  The Pentagon’s biggest contractors, such as Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA) , “will survive,” Forbes said. The reductions are “going
to hit dramatically on subcontractors,” he said.  Potential job losses under sequestration would rise when
taking into account cuts to domestic spending, according to
Marion Blakey, chief executive officer of the Aerospace
Industries Association, a trade group that represents defense
contractors.  “We have several million jobs that are at stake,” she
said at the conference.  Boeing’s Exports  While Boeing’s defense exports have tripled over the past
eight years, the sales won’t be enough to offset U.S. budget
reductions, according to Chris Raymond, vice president of
business development and strategy for the world’s largest
aerospace company.  “This part of our business is a helpful component,” he
said at the conference. “I don’t think it’s the complete
rescue.”  Separately, Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican, said
today that a bipartisan consensus has emerged in recent weeks
that any long-term solution to the nation’s economic problems
would have to include a mix of spending cuts and revenue
increases.  “You can’t only cut your way out of this, and you can’t
only tax your way out of this,” Rubio told reporters at a
Christian Science Monitor breakfast.  While Pentagon budget reductions totaling almost $1
trillion during the next decade may be painful, they are also
manageable,  Gordon Adams , a professor at American University in
 Washington , said at the Bloomberg Government conference.  “It’s not the end of the world,” said Adams, who oversaw
national-security budgets at the Office of Management and Budget
under President  Bill Clinton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  