-- Charterhouse Said to Make Buyout Approach for Sorin
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-06-21T13:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/charterhouse-said-to-make-buyout-approach-for-sorin.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP 
approached shareholders of  Sorin SpA (SRN)  about buying the Italian
maker of cardiovascular devices in a deal that would value the
company at about 960 million euros ($1.2 billion), said people
with knowledge of the matter.  Charterhouse, a London-based private-equity firm, contacted
owners including  Mittel SpA  to discuss a 2-euro-a-share offer,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the talks
aren’t public. Milan-based Sorin rose the most in more than
three years.  “We believe that 2 euros per share, which is in line with
our current target price, could be an interesting value also for
the minority shareholders in case of a public offer,” said
Paola Saglietti, an analyst at Banca Akros in Milan, in a report
today. She recommends buying the stock.  Such a deal would be the largest announced purchase in
 Italy  by a private-equity firm since May 2011, when BC Partners
Ltd. said it would buy Gruppo Coin SpA for 930 million euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other private-equity firms also have approached Sorin about
a potential acquisition, one of the people said, without
identifying the parties. No formal negotiations are under way
and a deal isn’t imminent, this person said. Charterhouse made
its own approach this month, another person said.  Shareholder Confirmation  A shareholder group consisting of Mittel, Equinox Two ScA
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  and  Unipol Gruppo
Finanziario SpA (UNI)  confirmed today that it received expressions of
interest about the acquisition of a “sizeable stake” in Sorin.
The approaches have come both from financial firms, including
Charterhouse, and industrial companies, the group said in a
statement put out at the request of the Italian market
regulator.  Some of the talks centered on a price range of between 1.55
and 1.60 euros a share, according to another person close to the
situation. Financing is becoming harder to line up for private-
equity firms, this person said. Recent earthquakes in the Emilia
Romagna region, which damaged a Sorin plant there, also may make
a valuation harder, this person said.  Sorin climbed 9.7 percent to 1.67 euros at 2:55 p.m. in
Milan. The stock gained as much as 15 percent, the biggest
intraday advance since April 27, 2009. Sorin’s stock has risen
41 percent this year,  compared with  a 7.8 percent decline for
the FTSE MIB Index.  Pact Expiration  Private-equity firms are looking at Sorin because an
agreement among the four shareholders in the group expires this
year, one person said. The group owns 35.7 percent of Sorin and
its agreement ends Nov. 18, it said in the statement today.  Mittel is a Milan-based financial-services company headed
by  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Chairman Giovanni Bazoli, Equinox is an
investment fund run by Salvatore Mancuso, Siena-based Monte dei
Paschi is Italy’s third-largest bank and Bologna-based Unipol is
an insurer.  Officials at Sorin and Charterhouse declined to comment on
a potential transaction.  Sorin’s products include implantable defibrillators,  heart
valves , oxygenators and heart-lung machines. The company had  net
income  of 58 million euros last year on sales of 743.4 million
euros. The company has more than 3,750 employees, according to
its  website .  Mittel and Equinox held exclusive talks in 2010 about Sorin
with a group that included Ares Life Sciences AG, Essex
Woodlands Health Ventures UK Ltd., Intesa Sanpaolo and Alpha
Private Equity Funds. Sorin granted the investment firms limited
access to its books as part of the talks. The discussions ended
without an agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  