-- Chesapeake Appoints Dunham Chairman, Stripping McClendon
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-21T20:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/chesapeake-appoints-dunham-chairman-stripping-mcclendon.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  named former
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  Chairman Archie Dunham to lead its board as the
second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer struggles with falling
energy prices and mistrust of its management.  Dunham, 73, fits Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake’s tradition
of choosing leaders in sync with its culture. The Oklahoma
native attended the University of Oklahoma and spent almost five
decades in the Oklahoma oil patch where Chief Executive Officer
 Aubrey McClendon  got his start. McClendon will remain on the
board as CEO after losing the chairman’s post amid scrutiny of
his personal finances and potential conflicts of interest.  Chesapeake is racing to sell $7.4 billion in assets by the
end of December to avoid a cash crunch that could cripple its
drilling program. The company appointed four other directors
today picked by major investors including  Carl Icahn , with a
mandate to rein in spending and risk-taking by the CEO.  “Now strong governance is essential to restoring trust,”
Bill George, a director at  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , and a Harvard Business School professor, said in an
interview before Dunham’s appointment was announced.  “McClendon is such an entrepreneur, and he seems to have
gotten confused and acted like he still owned the company after
he took it public.”  New Board  Chesapeake named Bob Alexander, R. Brad Martin, Frederic Poses and Vincent Intrieri to its board, according to a
statement today from the Oklahoma City-based company McClendon
co-founded 23 years ago.  Chesapeake declined 4.8 percent to $18.12 at the close in
New York. The shares have fallen 19 percent this year as the
impact of falling gas prices and soaring debt compounded the
controversy over McClendon’s use of personal stakes in company-
owned wells to obtain loans.  Dunham takes charge of a board reconstituted at the
insistence of its  two largest shareholders , Icahn and
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. The company agreed on June 4
to let Icahn and Southeastern pick four new directors after
Icahn likened the board to a fox that had “plundered the hen
house.”  McClendon, who co-founded Chesapeake in 1989, was forced to
surrender the role of chairman after revelations that he took
personal loans from entities that also were involved in
financial transactions with the company.  Ongoing Investigations  The board’s  audit committee , the  Internal Revenue Service 
and U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission are conducting
reviews, Chesapeake has said.  Dunham retired two years after leading Conoco Inc. into a
$25 billion merger with Phillips Petroleum Co. that created the
third-largest U.S. oil company at the time. The 2002 deal capped
a four-year consolidation in the U.S. oil industry that included
the formation of Exxon Mobil and what is now  BP Plc. (BP/)   During his tenure at Conoco, the shares rose an average of
12 percent annually, outperforming Exxon Mobil and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  Dunham dispatched Conoco’s engineers and geologists to
explore far-flung prospects in Vietnam and the former Soviet
Union at a time when the largest U.S. energy companies had
dismissed domestic oilfields as largely played out. During that
period, McClendon and Chesapeake co-founder  Tom Ward  were among
the pioneers of new drilling techniques that in the next decade
brought a renaissance in U.S. oil and gas production.  Eating Reindeer  Dunham joined Conoco in 1966 as an associate engineer and
then rose through the ranks to CEO. Along the way, he honed the
diplomatic skills required to win permission to drill for oil
and gas internationally. During a trip to Siberia, he followed
the lead of his hosts and ate raw reindeer dipped in blood.  “I just swallowed it whole,” Dunham said in a 1998
interview with Bloomberg during which he recounted the episode.
“You can’t offend people.”  Under Dunham, Conoco was struggling to find new reserves of
oil and gas, said  John Parry , an analyst at  IHS Inc. (IHS)  in Norwalk,
Connecticut, who followed the company during Dunham’s tenure.
“It had a lot of mature assets and they needed to move
themselves into a growth mode,” Parry said.  The new chairman’s arrival will mark a shift in
Chesapeake’s corporate strategy from a so-called wildcatter that
explores high-risk oil and gas fields to a developer of previous
discoveries focused on cutting production costs and shedding
lower-profit assets.  First Task  Dunham’s first task will be to help McClendon find buyers
for Chesapeake assets from Texas to Ohio to close a  cash flow 
shortfall that could reach $22 billion by the end of 2013, said
 James Sullivan , an analyst at Alembic Global Advisors in New
York.  Chesapeake outspent cash flow in 19 of the past 21 years as
it acquired drilling leases from Appalachia to the Rocky
Mountains and made some of the biggest onshore discoveries of
the past 20 years, including the Haynesville Shale formation in
Louisiana and the Utica Shale in Ohio.  Last month, Chesapeake warned that it may run out of money
next year. The cash crunch could force the company to curtail
some drilling projects and scale back its production targets.  The board’s new slate of independent directors will help
oversee Chesapeake’s’ efforts to avoid that outcome.  Intrieri, 55, has worked for entities associated with Icahn
since 1998, including as senior managing director of Icahn
Capital LP. While attending Chesapeake’s annual meeting in
 Oklahoma City  on June 8, he told McClendon he was “a great oil
and gas man” in need of oversight.  New Directors  Martin, 60, formerly was chairman and CEO at Saks Inc., the
department store operator. Alexander, 78, has the same alma
mater as Dunham and serves on the board of  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) ,
which is mostly owned by Icahn.  Poses, 69, is a director at Raytheon Co. and is non-
executive chairman at TE Connectivity Ltd. He has a business
degree from  New York University .  Chesapeake directors Richard Davidson, Kathleen Eisbrenner,
 Frank Keating  and Don Nickles have resigned. The company is
allowing V. Burns Hargis to remain on the board after Hargis and
Davidson offered to resign following a June 8 shareholder vote
opposing their re-election. Chesapeake said Hargis will remain
in his position on the audit committee to help complete the
review of McClendon’s finances.  “We welcome the new board chair and directors but the
misguided decision to keep a director who was opposed by an
overwhelming majority of investors tarnishes today’s
announcement,” New York City Comptroller John C. Liu said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Chesapeake was the worst performing stock in the Standard
and Poor’s 500  Oil & Gas Exploration & Production (4O1)  Index this
year until Icahn’s May 25 announcement that he’d taken a 7.6
percent stake and began pushing for reforms.  Exxon Mobil is the largest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  