-- Chile Inflation-Linked Curve Inverts for First Time Since August
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-21T21:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/chilean-peso-declines-as-copper-falls-on-data-showing-slowdown.html
Yields on Chilean five-year
inflation-linked bonds were higher than those on 10-year debt
for the first time since August as traders’ expectations for
consumer price increases collapsed.  An inverted curve, with yields on longer maturities lower
than those on shorter-term debt, indicates investors may be
expecting the economy to slow. The peso fell the most in a month
as a report suggested today that manufacturing growth in  China ,
the biggest market for Chilean exports, may contract for an
eighth month.  “The curve inverts when there’s a very negative future
scenario implicit,” said Cesar Guzman, an economist at Banco
Security in Santiago. “We trust that the European authorities
won’t allow a financial collapse and the curve should steepen
again as the world improves.”  Five-year inflation-linked bonds yields were 2.52 percent
at 3:30 p.m. in Santiago, compared with 2.50 percent for the 10-
year securities. The two-year breakeven rate, the interest-rate
swaps market’s projection, fell 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 2.43 percent, the lowest level on a closing
basis since February 2010. The peso fell 1.4 percent to 502.25
per dollar, the biggest drop since May 15.  The central bank said this week that inflation would end
the year at 2.7 percent, compared with a projection in April of
3.5 percent.  Five-year breakeven inflation measured in the  bond market 
plunged 15 basis points to 2.64 percent. Five-year breakeven
inflation in the  interest-rate swaps  market fell 14 basis points
to 2.72 percent.  Copper Drops  Copper, which makes up half of  Chile ’s exports, fell as
much as 2.7 percent to $3.302 a pound on the Comex in  New York .
Futures on crude oil dropped to below $80 a barrel for the first
time since October. Chile relies on imports for more than 95
percent of its oil and gas needs.  “Oil hits Chilean inflation directly,” Guzman said.
“Inflation expectations have fallen in line with the
deterioration in the global economy, but in the last couple of
weeks, as the rest of the world became more optimistic, Chilean
inflation expectations kept falling.”  International investors trimmed their net bets against the
peso in the forwards market to $9.8 billion on June 19, the
lowest since May 30 and down from $10 billion a day earlier.
Local investors, a category excluding banks and brokers, reduced
their long peso position to a one-month low of $16.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  