-- China Said to Propose Limits on Local Government Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-22T05:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/china-regulator-said-to-propose-limiting-local-government-loans.html
China ’s banking regulator proposed
keeping a cap on local government loans to curtail defaults
while encouraging funding for railways, roads and affordable
homes, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission suggested limiting
loans to local government financing vehicles to levels reached
at the end of 2011, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be named because the proposal is
confidential. The watchdog made the recommendation in a report
sent to the cabinet after Premier Wen Jiabao’s call last month
for the government to focus on growth, the person said.  China is introducing stimulus measures to arrest a  slowdown 
in the world’s second-biggest economy while enforcing risk
controls. Bad debts rose for a second straight quarter for the
first time since 2005 and banks’ earnings growth slowed in the
three months to March 31, as steps to curb inflation pushed up
funding costs and drove down property prices.  The CBRC’s proposal, which includes about 10 points and was
submitted to the State Council, China’s cabinet, at the end of
May, encourages banks to boost lending for “key” construction
projects, toll roads, agriculture, export financing,  consumer
credit  and small businesses, the person said. The regulator
didn’t specify targets, the person said.  A Beijing-based press officer for the CBRC declined to
immediately comment.  Faltering Economy  China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
the slowest pace in almost three years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
crimped exports and policy makers’ measures to cool consumer and
property prices damped domestic demand. That led the central
bank to cut  interest rates  on June 7 for the first time since
2008, and the government delayed more stringent bank capital
rules for one year to help bolster credit growth.  Premier Wen on May 20 called for “putting stabilizing
growth in a more important position.” The change of rhetoric
spurred speculation about a government stimulus similar to the 4
trillion-yuan ($628 billion) program unleashed during the 2008
credit crunch, which prompted a surge in local  government
borrowing  and spurred concern that defaults would rise.  China’s new lending in May exceeded analysts’ estimates,
aiding Wen’s efforts to reverse a slowdown in the country’s
economic growth. Local-currency loans were 793.2 billion  yuan ,
the People’s Bank of China said on its website on June 11. That
compared with the 700 billion yuan median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 29 economists and 681.8 billion yuan in
April.  Local Borrowing  The local governments, prohibited from directly taking bank
loans, had set up more than 6,000 financing companies to raise
funds for projects such as stadiums, roads and bridges, the
National Audit Office said in a report last year. Their bank
borrowings totaled 9 trillion yuan as of Dec. 31, with about
one-third coming due in the next three years, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in March, citing CBRC data.  China’s top economic planning agency ordered local
governments to examine the ability of companies to repay bonds
maturing in 2012 and 2013, two people with direct knowledge of
the matter had said earlier this week, asking not to be
identified as they weren’t authorized to speak to media.  Cash Flows  While CBRC’s new rules would cap total lending levels,
banks would be allowed to refinance loans to the local
government financing vehicles for completed projects that aren’t
generating income if estimated future cash flows can cover
payments, the person said. The amount for such refinancing may
not exceed the value of the original loan, the person said.  “This is a prudent risk-management measure,” Stanley Li,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd.,
said by phone today. “LGFV loans can still be risky. People
still remember the side effects of the previous stimulus
package. CBRC will continue to request banks to be disciplined
in lending unless the economy turns really bad.”  Banks may also be allowed to revise repayment arrangements
for the financing vehicles if the loans mature before the
projects are completed, the person said. Last year, the CBRC
hadn’t yet formulated refinancing rules and was urging banks to
not roll over any such loans, the person said.  Banks can exceed a debt-concentration rule in lending to
railway projects this year if their risk controls permit, the
person said, without elaborating. Under Chinese rules, a bank’s
total credit to its biggest customer can’t exceed 15 percent of
the lender’s net capital, a requirement they should “firmly”
abide by, then-Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said in an April 2011
 statement  on the regulator’s website.  The most recent proposal also aims to encourage lenders to
prioritize mortgages for buyers of affordable housing and
smaller, lower-priced homes, the person said. Home values fell
in a record 54 of 70 cities in May as developers cut prices to
boost sales, the statistics bureau said this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  