-- China Manufacturing Slump May Match That of 2008 Crisis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-21T07:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/china-manufacturing-slump-may-match-that-of-2008-crisis.html
China ’s manufacturing may shrink for
an eighth month in June, matching the streak during the global
financial crisis in a signal the government’s  stimulus  has yet
to reverse the economy’s slowdown.  The preliminary reading was 48.1 for a purchasing managers’
index today from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.
Above-50 readings indicate expansion. The lowest crisis level
was 40.9 in November 2008, when industrial production increased
5.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with a gain of 9.6 
percent last month.  Today’s report contrasts with comments by officials
expressing confidence growth will rebound, with President  Hu Jintao  saying in remarks published June 17 that China has taken
“targeted measures” to boost domestic demand. Asian stocks
fell and the  yuan  weakened for a second day against the dollar.  “Beijing’s policy easing so far has not been enough,”  Qu Hongbin , Hong Kong-based chief China economist for HSBC, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “Probably more needs to be
done if they really want to stabilize the growth.”  If confirmed on July 2, the gauge would be at the lowest
since November 2011 and equal the run of below-50 readings from
August 2008 to March 2009.  The yuan was at 6.3638 at 3:04 p.m. in  Shanghai . The MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of stocks dropped 0.6 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index declined 1.4 percent.  The Chinese government signaled a more-aggressive approach
to sustaining expansion last month when Premier  Wen Jiabao 
called for more efforts toward stabilizing growth. The People’s
Bank of China on June 7 cut interest rates for the first time
since 2008 and the economic planning agency is stepping up
approvals of investment projects.  Loosening Policy  A quarterly central bank survey of 3,000 bankers in China,
published June 19, found that 32 percent said monetary policy
will be loosened next quarter, compared with 6.7 percent in the
prior survey. About 68 percent of respondents deem current
monetary policy “appropriate,” up 8.6 percentage points from
the previous quarter.  Exports may slow in the coming months, and falling prices
and moderation in new orders “suggest weak domestic demand”
that will probably weigh on the labor market, Qu said in a
statement.  The expansion is starting to accelerate, according to some
officials. The economy is rebounding this month after a “pretty
obvious” downward trend in April and May, Chinese Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  told reporters on June 18 in Los Cabos,
 Mexico . Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to China’s central bank,
said in a June 16 interview that the economy will bottom out
this quarter.  Paring Forecasts  Some economists are paring forecasts for growth this year.
Credit Suisse Group AG last week cut its estimate to 7.7 percent
from 8 percent, while Deutsche Bank AG lowered its prediction to
7.9 percent from 8.2 percent. The median estimate of 15 analysts
was 8.2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey conducted June 8-13.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement maker, said
June 7 that its first-half profit may fall by more than 50
percent from a year earlier because of low product prices.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s economy
grew at the fastest pace in five years last quarter. Gross
domestic product expanded 1.1 percent from the previous three
months, almost three times the 0.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  BOK Forecast  The  Bank of Korea  indicated it may cut its 2012 economic-
growth forecast for the second time in four months in July after
lowering its projection to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent in
April. In Japan, parliament approved the government’s nominees
for the  Bank of Japan  policy board, economists Takahide Kiuchi
of Nomura Securities Co. and Takehiro Sato of Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co.  Retail sales in the U.K. probably climbed 1.2 percent in
May from the previous month, when they slid the most in more
than two years, according to analyst forecasts ahead of a report
today.  An index of  consumer confidence  in the euro area probably
fell to a four-month low of minus 20 in June, according to
economist predictions.  Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Hong Kong-based chief
economist for China, said in a note today that the report “does
not change our view that, underpinned by increasingly
accommodative monetary and fiscal policies,  China’s economy  is
in the process of bottoming out.” The HSBC index has risen in
June in just two of the last eight years, he said.  Growth Rebound  Zhang forecasts growth of 7.8 percent this quarter followed
by 8.6 percent in the third period and 8.9 percent in the last
three months of the year.  Falling borrowing costs for first-home buyers in China may
indicate that the government wants to limit the slowdown in the
 property market  caused by a clampdown on speculation. Home
values fell in a record 54 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in May.  Today’s preliminary reading, called the Flash PMI, is based
on 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of more
than 420 companies, according to HSBC. The government releases
its own monthly index on July 1. That gauge has shown six
straight months of expansion while declining to 50.4 in May from
53.3 in April.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  