-- China Crude Imports From Iran Climb to Highest This Year
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-06-21T09:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/china-crude-imports-from-iran-climb-to-highest-this-year.html
China ’s  imports  of crude from  Iran 
rose to the highest level this year even as Western nations
stepped up pressure to cut purchases of the commodity from the
Persian Gulf nation.  China, the world’s second-biggest crude consumer, bought
2.22 million tons of oil from Iran in May, according to a report
e-mailed by the Beijing-based General Administration of Customs
today. That’s equivalent to more than 524,000 barrels a day, up
35 percent from the 390,000 barrels a day purchased in April. It
imported 2.27 million tons, or about 537,000 barrels a day, in
May last year.  China’s crude shipments from Iran have rebounded since the
two countries resolved a payment dispute in the first quarter.
The U.S. has excluded China from a list of nations granted
exemptions from sanctions because of their attempts to reduce
purchases from the Islamic Republic. The European Union plans an
embargo on Iranian crude starting July 1 as part of Western
efforts to curb the Middle East nation’s nuclear program.  “China’s importing oil from Iran is fair and reasonable
and does not hurt the interests of the international community
or violate relevant Security Council resolutions,” Foreign
Ministry Spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today in Beijing.  Sanctions Pressure  British, Chinese, French, German, Russian and U.S.
diplomats ended talks in Moscow with their Iranian counterparts
on June 19 without a deal to lift the EU embargo. Technical
experts from the countries will meet in Istanbul on July 3 for
more discussions, according to  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s
foreign policy chief. “There is a long way to go” before a
resolution, she said.  The U.S. sanctions target banks globally that process
payments for Iranian oil, while the EU restrictions include a
ban on insurers providing cover for tankers carrying the Persian
Gulf nation’s crude. About 95 percent of the world’s tankers are
insured by the 13 members of the London-based  International
Group  of P&I Clubs.  Japan ’s parliament passed a bill yesterday to provide $7.6
billion of sovereign insurance to its country’s tanker owners
that carry Iranian oil. Iran’s insurance companies are ready to
offer coverage to ships transporting its crude, Fars reported
June 19, citing Mohammad Karimi, the president of Central
Insurance of the Islamic Republic of Iran.  China paid about $120 for each barrel of crude it bought
from Iran last month, down from about $122 in April, the customs
data show. Total  crude imports  cost an average $120 a barrel
compared with $123 the prior month.  Iran was China’s third-largest crude supplier last month,
according to the customs report.  Saudi Arabia  was the biggest at
4.39 million tons, followed by  Angola  at 3.93 million. Russia
was fourth with 1.73 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  