-- Citigroup Will Resolve CEO Pay by End of Year, Pandit Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2012-06-21T20:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/citigroup-will-resolve-ceo-pay-by-end-of-year-pandit-says-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose shareholders
rejected Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ’s compensation
plan in April, is committed to resolving the pay dispute and the
board will make a decision by the end of the year, he said.  Directors are still consulting with shareholders of the New
York-based lender about potential changes, Pandit said today in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in  St. Petersburg ,
Russia. The advisory vote last April was non-binding.  Investors rebelled after the board awarded Pandit about $15
million for 2011 along with a retention plan that could be worth
about $40 million. Pandit’s compensation has provided the least
 shareholder value  over the past three years, according to a
comparison of financial CEO incentive pay against stock returns,
Bloomberg has reported.  “The board has this process with them, they’re going
through it, and they are committed, as I am, to making sure that
they resolve this,” Pandit said. “I want to get paid what the
board thinks is right for me, for the job that I’ve done and for
the incentives that they think I ought to have.”  Pandit, 55, also received the final $80 million payment
last year from New York-based Citigroup’s $165 million purchase
of his Old Lane Partners LP hedge fund four years ago, before he
was named CEO in December 2007. Shares of Citigroup, ranked
third by assets among U.S. banks, fell 44 percent last year.  Deciding Pay  “There’s one thing that’s true for me and most Americans,
I don’t determine my own compensation and my own package,” he
said.  Citigroup’s board is led by Chairman  Michael O’Neill , the
former  Bank of Hawaii Corp . CEO who replaced  Richard Parsons 
after the shareholder vote. O’Neill also heads the board’s
compensation committee.  Pandit told lawmakers in 2009 that he would take a $1
annual salary until he restored the bank to profitability.
Citigroup made a $21.7 billion profit for 2011 and 2010
combined, compared with a $29.3 billion loss for the two
preceding years.  “When the company was losing money, I stepped up and said
I’ll take a dollar a year and I did, exactly for that reason,
exactly the right thing to do,” Pandit said.  New York  City Comptroller  John Liu , whose office controls
about 9 million Citigroup shares, has not been consulted,
according to Matthew Sweeney, a spokesman. The comptroller’s
office voted against Pandit’s compensation plan.  Shannon Bell , a
Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to say who had been contacted.
O’Neill didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests for
comment.  “We can accept a months-long process to revamp executive
compensation if the board truly consults shareowners and
ultimately restores the link between pay and long-term
performance,” Liu said in an e-mailed statement. “We have yet
to see evidence of either.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  