-- Citigroup Funds British Museum’s Money Gallery, Lends a Warhol
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-21T06:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/citigroup-funds-british-museum-s-money-gallery-lends-a-warhol.html
The  British Museum ’s Money Gallery
reopens on June 25 after a redisplay funded by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
which is lending a dollar-sign Warhol silkscreen print to it.  Starting in 2000 B.C. and leading to the present, the
gallery features 1,200 items. They range from some of the
earliest coins (from 7th-century B.C. Lydia, in what is now
Turkey) to a contemporary wave-and-pay watch for swiping in
cashless transactions.  “In the last few years,” said Catherine Eagleton, curator
of the Citi Money Gallery, “people have got a lot more
interested in money: thinking about why it’s worth what it is,
and where it came from. What we’re hoping this display will do
is give a longer timeframe to start understanding current
events.”  With Citi’s sponsorship lasting five years, “it won’t be a
permanent gallery that just sits there gathering dust,” she
said in an interview. Displays will stay current, and education
sessions will be linked to financial literacy and number skills.  The gallery features many other highlights. Gold coins from
the days of Nero -- who died at age 30 in 68 A.D. -- show the
debauched Roman emperor looking older and pudgier with time.  A 500 million Reichsmark note from 1923 speaks to the
horrors of hyperinflation in pre-Nazi  Germany . And a case in the
middle is filled with counterfeit British one-pound coins, many
of which could easily be mistaken for the real thing.  Also on show: a prototype of a cotton-and-lycra girdle with
secret pockets where Haitian women hid cash when the banks were
wiped out in the 2010 killer earthquake.  Michael Corbat , Citi’s chief executive for Europe,  Middle
East  and  Africa , said in an e-mailed news release that the
gallery would “allow visitors to get a better understanding of
the history of money, and see one of the largest collections of
coins in the world.”  Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org .  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 