-- Coffee Crop in India Seen Falling From Record on Weather
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-06-21T06:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/coffee-crop-in-india-seen-falling-from-record-on-weather.html
Coffee harvest in India,  Asia ’s
third-largest grower, is poised to decline from a record after
hot, dry weather delayed crop blossoming and a pest attack cut
yields, potentially lowering exports.  Output may decline 10 percent to 12 percent in the crop
year starting Oct. 1 from 320,000 metric tons this year, Anil Kumar Bhandari, a member of the state-run  Coffee Board of India ,
said by phone from Bangalore.  Robusta futures climbed 15 percent this year, jumping to
the highest level in almost nine months in May, on speculation
supplies will be limited next season as consumption of the beans
used in instant coffee continues to increase. Demand may rise by
about 1 million bags in the 2012-2013 season, with supplies
about matching demand at 58 million bags, according to
CoffeeNetwork, a unit of INTL FCStone Inc.  “A decline of 10 percent to 15 percent is on the cards for
exports next season,” Ramesh Rajah, president of the Coffee
Exporters Association of  India , said in a phone interview. “The
beneficiaries would be Vietnam and  Indonesia  as buyers will
import more from these origins.”  Exports have dropped 2.5 percent to 195,503 tons since Jan.
1, according to the coffee board. Sales were a record 344,301
tons last year, board data showed. The country ships more than
70 percent of its crop to mostly buyers in  Europe .  Robusta for delivery in September fell 0.7 percent to
$2,086 a ton on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  yesterday.
Arabica for delivery in the same month declined 4 percent to
$1.524 cents a pound on the ICE Futures Exchange.  ‘Economic Malaise’  Prices are poised to fall further as the global economic
slowdown and the  European debt crisis  cool demand, Rajah said.
Robusta futures may drop to $1,900 a ton “in the near term,”
he said. “There is less buying interest, less inventory holding
and funding is down because of the general economic malaise.”  India’s robusta harvest may drop due to lack of rains at
the time of blossoming, while arabica plants are hit by attacks
of white stem borer, Bhandari said. Rains are critical during
blossoming, or the flowering period, for development of beans.  “Arabica has had very reasonable blossom showers, but
subsequently there has been a long drought period,” he said.
“Arabica has been hit very badly by the white stem borer.”  Pest attacks such as the white stem borer have a longer-
term impact as it destroys the plants and it takes four years
before a newly-grown coffee plant can be productive, according
to the exporters association.  India’s monsoon had a slow start this year after reaching
the southern state of Kerala four days later than the usual date
of June 1, and was 26 percent below a 50-year average, the  India
Meteorological Department  said yesterday. Rains this year will
be 99 percent of the average, the bureau predicted in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  