-- Colombian Growth Slows to 4.7% as Peso Rally Hits Exporters
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-21T17:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/colombia-s-economic-growth-slowed-to-4-7-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Colombia’s economy grew at its
slowest pace since 2010 in the first quarter as public works
spending slumped and the world’s strongest currency rally this
year hurt farmers and manufacturers.  Gross domestic product grew 4.7 percent from the year
earlier, the national statistics agency said in a report, in
line with the median forecast of 27 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The figure lagged growth in  Chile ,  Peru  and
 Argentina , and exceeded expansion in  Brazil  and  Mexico .  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry last week cut his
2012 growth forecast and said Colombia could use fiscal and
monetary policy to stimulate demand if  Europe ’s debt crisis
deepens and takes a toll on  emerging markets . Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the central bank to hold the
 benchmark interest rate  at 5.25 percent for a fourth straight
policy meeting next week as it gauges the effect of European
turmoil on the Andean nation.  The slowdown was “in part due to the stronger local
currency having an impact on exports, and there are also signs
of weaker local demand,” said Camila Estrada, chief analyst at
Bogota-based  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB) , who had forecast 4.6 percent economic
growth.  Echeverry cut his forecast for 2012 growth to 4.8 percent,
from 5 percent.  Construction Decline  The slowdown was led by a 0.6 percent contraction in the
 construction industry  after public works spending fell 8.1
percent from a year earlier, the statistics agency said. Central
bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said last week that the fall in
public works had surprised him.  Agriculture contracted 0.4 percent, led by a 26 percent
drop in coffee.  The peso has appreciated 9 percent against the dollar this
year, the most of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg, leading
to complaints from exporters such as coffee, banana and flower
growers. Echeverry last week urged the central bank to take
“more aggressive” action to curb the rally, while Uribe said
the country wants a weaker peso.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  has repeatedly expressed
concern that the appreciation of the peso could harm Colombian
manufacturers.  The mining and energy industries registered the strongest
growth, expanding 12.4 percent from a year earlier. Financial
services grew 6.7 percent. Gross domestic product grew 0.3
percent from the previous quarter.  Interest Rates  Policy makers cited cooling demand, the European crisis and
cheaper oil for their decision to leave rates unchanged last
month. The bank raised borrowing costs last year, bucking a
global trend for cheaper money, to cool growth spurred by credit
expansion and record levels of foreign investment in the oil and
mining industries. Estrada said the slowdown in growth makes it
unlikely that central bank will raise rates this year.  The yield on  Colombia ’s benchmark 10 percent peso-
denominated debt bond due in July 2024 fell four basis points to
7 percent at 11:48 a.m. in Bogota, according to the central
bank. That’s the lowest level on a closing basis since the
securities were issued in 2009. Yields on the benchmark
securities have fallen from 7.15 percent a month ago as the
Andean economy showed signs of cooling, and traders increased
bets on interest rate cuts.  Retail sales fell 2.8 percent in April from a year earlier,
the first year-on-year decline since September 2009, the
statistics agency said in a report yesterday. The result was
worse than all 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists,
whose median estimate was for a 4.1 percent increase.  Share Rally  Industrial output contracted 1.6 percent over the same
period, the agency said, compared with the median estimate from
17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg of a 1 percent increase.
Urban unemployment unexpectedly rose in April, while building
permits fell 29.7 percent from a year earlier.  Even as the economy slows, Colombia’s IGBC stock index has
risen 20 percent in dollar terms this year, led by  oil companies 
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  and  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  The market has
outperformed Chile, Peru, Mexico and Brazil.  Shares in state-run Ecopetrol have risen 40 percent in
dollar terms this year, the most of oil companies with a market
capitalization of more than $50 billion. Oil accounted for 49
percent of the country’s exports last year.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.44 percent in May, from 3.73
percent at the start of the year. Colombia targets inflation of
3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in  New York  at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  