-- Colombia Swap Yields Fall to Four-Month Low on Rate Cut Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-21T17:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/colombia-swap-yields-fall-to-four-month-low-on-rate-cut-outlook.html
Yields on Colombia’s  interest-rate
swaps  fell to a four-month low as signs the economy is slowing
led traders to bet on a cut in borrowing costs this year.  The yield on three-month interest-rate swaps fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.05 percent at 12:06 p.m.
in Bogota, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
lowest level on a closing basis since Feb. 13.  The drop indicates traders expect policy makers to cut the
overnight lending rate within the next three months from the
current 5.25 percent. That differs from a central bank survey
published June 13 showing most analysts expect them to raise the
target rate by a quarter-percentage point in December.  “The economy is decelerating,” Pedro Ospina, a fixed-
income analyst at Interbolsa SA in Bogota, said in a phone
interview. “That puts a nail in the coffin on those bets for
more hikes.”  Gross domestic product  grew 4.7 percent in the first
quarter from the year earlier, the national statistics agency
said today. The increase was in line with the median forecast of
27 analysts in a Bloomberg survey and down from 6.1 percent in
the last three months of 2011.  April retail sales declined 2.8 percent in the first year-
on-year drop since September 2009, the government said
yesterday. The result was worse than all of the forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. Industrial output fell 1.6 percent,
compared with a median estimate for a 1 percent increase.
Colombia has raised  interest rates  nine times since the start of
2011 to cool growth propelled by consumer credit growth and
record levels of foreign investment in oil and mining.  Peso Bonds  The yield on  Colombia ’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 7 percent, according to the central bank. That’s the
lowest level on a closing basis since the securities were issued
in 2009.  “Fundamentals are positive to be invested in fixed-rate
securities in the medium and long end of the curve,” Ospina
said. “Inflation is under control, and inflation expectations
will remain low.”  Colombia’s peso depreciated 0.4 percent to 1,777 per
dollar. It has gained 9.1 percent this year, the best
performance among all of the 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  