-- Commodities Enter Bear Market as U.S. Economy Falters
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-21T20:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/commodities-fall-to-lowest-since-2010-as-fed-cuts-growth-outlook.html
Commodities tumbled into a  bear
market  as U.S. reports on manufacturing, jobless claims and home
sales signaled a faltering economy after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from announcing another round of stimulus.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
fell 2.8 percent to settle at 559 at 3:56 p.m.  New York  time.
The gauge has dropped 22 percent from this year’s highest close
of 715.52 on Feb. 24, entering a bear market. Earlier, the
measure touched 558.14, the lowest since November 2010. Metals
and energy led today’s slump.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted in June
at the fastest pace in almost a year. Existing U.S. home sales
fell more than forecast by analysts, and jobless claims topped
estimates. Yesterday, the Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
reduced its 2012 forecast for economic growth, and policy makers
decided against a third round of debt purchases.  “We got nothing significant from Bernanke, and data
continues to paint a horrible picture,” said Steve Mathews, the
chief investment officer of Flintlock Capital Asset Management
LLC in New York, which manages $105 million of assets. “We have
to wait until the next Bernanke event to know if the Fed will
indeed do something to perk the economy.”  The GSCI index surged 92 percent from the end of December
2008 to June 2011 as the Fed kept borrowing costs at a record
low and bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing.  Fed Forecast  The Fed reduced its 2012 estimate for economic growth to a
range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent from 2.4 percent to 2.9
percent. The central bank extended its Operation Twist program,
replacing short-term bonds with longer-term debt by $267 billion
through the end of the year to lower borrowing costs and boost
the economy.  Commodities slumped today amid signs that manufacturing
in  China , the world’s biggest user of energy and metals, will
shrink for the eighth straight month, matching the slump that
started in 2008. The 48.1 preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compared with a final 48.4 for May. A reading above 50
shows expansion.  Crude oil fell to an eight-month low as factory data from
the U.S.,  Europe  and China signaled easing fuel demand amid
increasing supplies.  Oil futures for August delivery fell 4 percent to $78.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Oct. 4.  “It doesn’t look like the economy is taking off anytime
soon, and oil demand is pretty poor,” said  Kyle Cooper , a
director of commodity research at IAF Advisors in Houston.  Gold Drops  Gold erased this year’s advance after tumbling the most in
two months.  “People were expecting the Fed to hint at some sort of
quantitative easing and they didn’t, so a lot of those people
are bailing out,” Carlos Perez-Santalla, a broker at Hoboken,
New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “The markets generally still believe something will,
happen this year, but the Fed is a slow-moving ship.”  Gold futures for August delivery dropped 3.1 percent, or
$50.30, to $1,565.50 an ounce on the Comex in New York, the
biggest drop since April 4. The metal has declined 0.1 percent
this year.  Copper fell the most in two months on the Fed statement and
the Chinese manufacturing data.  “Most markets are lower as poor headlines have been coming
at us all day,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in New
York, said in a report.  On the Comex, copper futures for September delivery fell
2.6 percent to $3.3065 a pound, the biggest drop for a most-
active contract since April 4.  Cotton plunged 6.9 percent, the most among GSCI components.  Silver fell 5.5 percent, the most since April 4. Nickel
slumped 4.4 percent. Zinc, heating oil, lead and corn fell more
than 2 percent.  Only coffee and natural gas posted gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  