-- Container Ships Miss Boat as Maersk Pushes Punctuality: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-06-21T22:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/container-ships-miss-boat-as-maersk-pushes-punctuality-freight.html
Maersk Line (MAERSKB) , the world’s biggest
container shipper, said last year that punctuality was poised to
replace pricing as the industry’s key battleground. Less than 12
months on, delivery delays are worsening.  Only 63.7 percent of boxes were on time in the first 20
weeks, versus 65.9 percent a year earlier, according to  INTTRA ,
a U.S. e-commerce platform which handles 525,000 shipments a
week. That means 2012 may fall short of 2011’s 66.5 percent on-
time delivery rate and the 68.8 percent level achieved in 2010.  Customers can cut their total  shipping costs  by as much as
70 percent through prompt deliveries, according to  Denmark ’s
Maersk, which began guaranteed daily departures in October in a
push to win market share. While rivals have sought to match the
model by pooling ships on key Asia- Europe  routes, the global
decline in dependability suggests many carriers are putting
their desire for a full load ahead of timeliness.  “Every time a carrier is late someone incurs an additional
cost,” said Lars Jensen, chief executive officer of Copenhagen-
based SeaIntel Maritime Analysis. “For Maersk, reliability is
extremely important, as it’s their strategic target. Other lines
are more interested in their bottom line.”  Storage Penalty  Late-arriving goods cost customers money in lost sales and
output and could leave shop shelves empty, while early arrivals
can result in higher storage costs and require a change in
collection procedures and sometimes production plans.  The number of containers arriving one day late or more
stood at 60.6 percent in the first 20 weeks, compared with 58.8
percent a year earlier, according to INTTRA, with 34.4 percent
unloaded at least a day early, up from 33.4 percent.  “The impact can ripple through the entire supply chain,”
said Ivan Latanision, INTTRA’s senior vice president for  product
management . “On-time is clearly preferable.”  More than 70 vessels operate the  Daily Maersk  route, which
has a fixed transit time between Shanghai and Europe of 34 days.  The service, which stops off at three other Asian ports and
calls at three in Europe, features cutoff times for delivery,
before which goods are guaranteed to depart that day. That
contrasts with the industry’s historical practice of overbooking
to guarantee a full load, which often led some containers to be
bounced to the next departure leaving as much as a week later.  Compensation  In the event of a delay to the Maersk service, clients are
compensated with a payment of $100 per box for the first three
days or $300 beyond that. Reliability has been above 97 percent
since its introduction and has “changed the industry
standard,” according to Maersk’s first-quarter report,
published May 16.  Maersk’s share of the global container market stood at 16.2
as of June 14, up from 14.5 percent in March last year, when
measured in terms of the capacity of vessels deployed, according
to Paris-based shipping data provider Alphaliner.  The introduction of the Daily Maersk service, which counts
Swedish clothing retailer  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  among its clients,
has been a factor in that improvement, the company reckons.  “Reliability is a competitive advantage for our customers
as much as their brands or the quality of their products,” Rune
Soerensen, Maersk’s head of customer needs, said in an e-mail.
“Clients will be more attracted to carriers who can deliver it
and reward them with market share and price premiums.”  Shares of parent A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S have advanced 1.1
percent this year, valuing the Copenhagen-based company at 165
billion kroner ($28 billion).  Consolidation  A dozen other shipping lines have sought to counter the
initiative by consolidating into three alliances which, together
with the Maersk service, account for 85 percent of Asia-Europe
box volumes, based on Citigroup Inc. figures.  Still, punctuality can differ wildly within that market,
with INTTRA data showing that less than 40 percent of boxes sent
from  China  to Britain arrived on time in the 20 weeks, compared
with 80 percent on routes to the U.K. from  Japan .  “Reliability is very important,” Hamburg-based Hapag-
Lloyd AG, Europe’s fourth-largest container carrier and allied
to five other operators including Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.’s
APL Ltd., said in response to questions. “We’re monitoring it
constantly. But shipping is also a business where unforeseeable
things can happen, such as bad weather, and safety always comes
first.”  Of the top 20 container shippers, SeaIntel’s Jensen reckons
only two, Maersk and  Hamburg Sued , have a markedly superior
punctuality record, and that the other 18 still manage to
attract their share of business.  Peter Sand, an analyst at Danish shipping association
BIMCO, which accounts for 65 percent of global tonnage, said
that’s because speed and reliability aren’t always at a premium.  “Some carriers make huge efforts to be punctual, others
almost don’t care and would rather be late than leave half-
full,” he said. “The same goes for clients. Those running a
very tight program prefer high reliability, while others with
less time-sensitive products may opt for the less-reliable
carriers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  