-- Corporations Win Criminal-Fine Limits in Top Court Ruling
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-21T19:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/corporations-win-criminal-fine-limits-in-top-court-ruling.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  made it more
difficult for prosecutors to secure stiff fines for corporate
wrongdoing, ruling that jurors must play a greater role in
determining how large criminal penalties can be.  The justices in a 6-3 vote today  set aside  a $6 million
fine and $12 million in community service obligations imposed
against Southern Union Co. for illegally storing liquid mercury.
The court said a judge couldn’t constitutionally impose a fine
that large without a specific jury finding about the length of
time the mercury was stored.  The ruling may have broad implications for corporate
prosecutions, complicating trials and giving defendants more
leverage in plea negotiations. At least 15 federal criminal
statutes, including environmental and banking laws, tie the
potential fine to the duration of the violation, and more than
40 states have similar provisions.  “For corporations, it’s huge because the only way they can
be punished is through fines,” said  Carter Phillips , a
Washington lawyer at Sidley Austin LLP who represented Southern
Union in the case.  More than 70 percent of federal sentences against
corporations and other organizational defendants involved fines
in fiscal 2011.  The case tested the reach of recent Supreme Court rulings
bolstering the constitutional right to a  jury trial . Starting
with a 2000 case known as Apprendi v.  New Jersey , the Supreme
Court has said juries must make any factual findings that
increase the maximum possible prison sentence.  Gas Regulators  Today’s ruling extends that reasoning to criminal fines.  “Apprendi’s core concern is to reserve to the jury the
determination of facts that warrant punishment for a specific
statutory offense,” Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  wrote for the
majority. “That concern applies whether the sentence is a
criminal fine or imprisonment or death.”  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Samuel Alito 
dissented. Breyer said the ruling “will lead to increased
problems of unfairness in the administration of our criminal
justice system.”  Prosecutors said Southern Union, a pipeline operator now
part of  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) , improperly stored mercury-
sealed gas regulators from customers’ homes in a company
building in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Company workers were
accused of putting the regulators in kiddie pools and the liquid
mercury in various containers, including a milk jug and a paint
can.  Youths broke into the brick building in 2004, found the
liquid mercury and spilled it around the building and at their
apartment complex.  Jury Verdict  A jury found Southern Union guilty of storing the mercury
without a permit. A trial judge then imposed a $6 million fine,
plus $12 million in community service obligations.  Southern Union contended that, based on the jury’s finding,
the maximum fine is the $50,000 the company would have to pay
under a federal environmental law for a single day’s violation.  The case now returns to a lower court, where Phillips said
one issue will be whether the Supreme Court ruling applies to
the community service obligation as well as the fine.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supported Southern Union at
the Supreme Court.  The case is Southern Union v.  United States , 11-94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  