-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Jobless Claims Higher Than Expected
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-21T15:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-spain-bond-auction-exceeds-target.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose for the first time in three days as jobless claims and
manufacturing data fueled concern that the economy is slowing.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1
basis point to a mid-price of 115 basis points at 11:47 a.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps measure reversed earlier declines after a gauge
of Philadelphia-area manufacturing fell at the fastest pace in
almost a year while jobless claims were more than forecast,
stoking concern that the global recovery is faltering.  Spain 
sold 2.2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) of notes due in five years
or less today, surpassing its 2 billion-euro target, pushing the
gauge down in early-morning trading.  The benchmark had decreased in “anticipation of good news,
given the rumors” of additional stimulus that emerged out of
the Group of 20 leaders’ summit in  Mexico , Mark Alexandridis, a
portfolio manager at First Principles Capital Management LLC,
said in a telephone interview.  “We’ve been disappointed by the political will in  Europe 
for more than two years, however the market continues to be
sanguine about their ability to stem the crisis,” Alexandridis
said. “It remains to be seen whether or not they can come up
with a credible package and a credible strategy.”  Jobless Claims  Yields on Spanish 10-year notes rose above 7 percent this
week for the first time since the creation of the euro in 1999.
Today’s sale follows an auction of 3.04 billion euros ($3.8
billion) of debt on Tuesday that also beat its target.  U.S. jobless claims decreased by 2,000 to 387,000 in the
week ended June 16, Labor Department data showed today in
 Washington . Economists had forecast 383,000 Americans would seek
benefits, according to the median of 45 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s economic
index also showed the worst contraction in manufacturing in
almost a year.  The U.S. central bank decided yesterday to extend its
program to lower borrowing costs by replacing short-term bonds
with longer-term debt, known as Operation Twist. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the bank may pursue additional stimulus
measures if the labor market fails to improve.  “The consensus is that job growth is weak and these
numbers don’t change that sentiment at all,” said Alexandridis,
who oversees about $7.9 billion in fixed-income assets.  A preliminary report showed  China ’s factory output may
shrink for an eighth month while manufacturing in the euro area
contracted at the fastest pace in three years in June.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  