-- Bank Investors Dismiss Moody’s Cuts as Years Too Late
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-22T17:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/credit-suisse-cut-3-levels-as-moody-s-downgrades-biggest-banks.html
Moody’s Investors Service suffered a
downgrade of its own as markets responded to the company’s
rating cuts of 15 of the world’s largest banks by bidding up the
value of their stocks and bonds.  Shares of 12 of the firms affected by yesterday’s action
rose as of 11:38 a.m. in New York, and the cost to protect
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  debt against losses dropped to the lowest in more
than seven weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after
the bank was cut two levels rather than a threatened three
grades. Credit-default swaps tied to  Bank of America Corp. ,
which was lowered to within two levels of junk along with
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , also improved. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index added as much as 1.5 percent.  “The ratings agencies themselves are looking for a raison
d’etre” as regulations in the U.S. and Europe try to reduce
investors’ dependence on the credit assessments, David Zervos,
chief market strategist at Jefferies & Co., said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” “They like to be
noisy, and this is a way to be noisy. I don’t think the effects
are big in the end.”  The prospect of downgrades had weighed on banks since
Moody’s said Feb. 15 it was reviewing 17 financial firms with
capital-markets operations because of fragile confidence and
tighter regulations that pinched revenue. Pressure mounted as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified and cast doubt on the
health of some of the continent’s lenders.  Market ‘Shrugging’  By the time the results came out four months later,
investors such as Thornburg Investment Management Inc.’s George Strickland had concluded the worst-case scenario for downgrades
was already reflected in securities prices.  “If anything, the market is reacting with relief,” said
Strickland, who helps oversee $14 billion of fixed-income assets
as a managing director at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg.
Morgan Stanley bonds likely will rally, said Strickland, whose
firm owns the firm’s debt. “The market is shrugging it off.”  The review concluded with none of the financial firms cut
more than Moody’s had forecast, removing a drag on bank stocks
brought on by the uncertainty,  David Konrad , a KBW Inc. analyst
in New York, wrote today.  “We view the Moody’s downgrade as another overhyped story
of 2012,”  David Trone , analyst at JMP Securities LLC, wrote to
his clients. “The corporate market thinks for itself and credit
rating agencies are often lagging indicators.”  Stocks React  Financial stocks in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index climbed
0.8 percent at 11:21 a.m. New York time, the biggest gain among
10 industries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  advanced as much as 2.8 percent and ranked among the
two biggest gainers in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Credit-default swaps on New York-based Morgan Stanley
declined 28 basis points to 353.3 basis points as of 10:21 a.m.
in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest on an intraday basis since May 4. Swaps are used to
protect investors against losses on company debt, and the price
increases along with doubt about a firm’s creditworthiness, so
today’s decline reflects an improving outlook.  Morgan Stanley’s long-term senior unsecured debt rating was
reduced two grades to Baa1, and nine other firms received two-
level reductions, Moody’s said yesterday in a statement.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s  rating  was lowered three levels to A2 and
Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , the other firm singled out for a potential
three-level cut, dropped just two instead.  European Banks  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, was lowered one
grade instead of two, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was reduced two steps.
Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  was lowered one
step, as was London-based  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender.  “All of the banks affected by today’s actions have
significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to capital-markets activities,” Greg Bauer,
Moody’s global banking managing director, said in the statement.  The 43-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index erased earlier losses and rose 0.1 percent to
73.01. Credit-default swaps on Barclays, BNP Paribas and  Societe
Generale  all fell, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs slid 16.9 basis
points to 277.4 basis points, the lowest since May 8, and
Citigroup decreased 13.4 basis points to 245.6, Bloomberg prices
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Stronger Now  “American banks are stronger today than they were three
years ago,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets, adding that market prices have long reflected concerns
raised by Moody’s. “Yes, their ratings are lower, but is Citi
tomorrow going to have to pay an extra 50 basis points for
commercial paper? I don’t think so.”  In March, a month after announcing its review, Moody’s cut
Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and Tokyo-based  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  one level each. Nomura is rated lowest of the 17
firms at Baa3, one grade above junk.  The downgrades reflect risks that the market has recognized
for years, investors said. The S&P 500 Financials Index dropped
61 percent over the last five years, while the Bloomberg
European banks  index (BEBANKS)  is down 75 percent. Morgan Stanley’s swap
prices are more than double what they were a year ago, while
Citigroup’s have jumped about 70 percent.  Advance Warning  “Moody’s is not going to detect some problem in advance
and move a rating to warn the public,” said  Ken Fisher , chief
executive officer and founder of Woodside, California-based
Fisher Investments, which has about $44 billion under
management. “Whether it’s a stock or a bond, the free market
already did that. Moody’s goes along afterwards and effectively
validates what the market’s already done.”  Large U.S. banks had ratings in the Baa range -- similar to
BBB at Standard & Poor’s -- in the 1980s and early 1990s, said
 David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York. That
era followed Latin America’s sovereign-debt defaults of the
1980s, which forced lenders to set aside funds to cover bad
loans to countries there.  “It’s almost like they’ve come full circle back to triple-
B,” Hendler said. “The industry has been through a triple-B
phase before, and they will come back from it.”  Collateral Impact  While bank stocks and bonds initially climbed yesterday,
the downgrades may have longer-term effects on operations,
forcing some firms to post more collateral to trading partners
in derivatives deals.  Citigroup and Bank of America, as the lowest-graded
companies after Nomura, may be at a disadvantage in businesses
such as trading derivatives that aren’t centrally cleared. That
market provides about 15 percent of the industry’s trading
revenue, Kinner Lakhani, a Citigroup analyst, wrote in an April
30 note. Both firms lost market share among the top nine banks
in fixed-income trading last year, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  “For the banks that are in the BBB category, I’m sure that
will have a negative impact on their ratings-sensitive
businesses, like derivatives,” Anil Lalchand, a credit analyst
at DoubleLine Capital LP in Los Angeles, which manages $35
billion, said in a telephone interview.  While higher-rated banks such as JPMorgan and HSBC received
credit for retail businesses that serve as “shock absorbers”
from the volatility of capital-markets-related units, Bank of
America and Citigroup’s consumer divisions were “thinner or
less reliable” cushions, Moody’s said.  Future Downgrades  All the U.S. firms remained on negative outlook, which
means their grades could be cut again, because government
support may wane, Bob Young, managing director of North American
banking for Moody’s, said in an interview.  Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest brokerage,
avoided the largest potential downgrade because of possible
support from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., according to
Moody’s. Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman also cited his firm’s
capital ratios in meetings with Moody’s to convince the ratings
company that a three-level cut wasn’t deserved.  The rating cuts underscore how much less creditworthy
Moody’s views global banks compared with smaller rivals.
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by
deposits, is still rated Aa3, five levels higher than fourth-
ranked Citigroup or Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, which is second behind JPMorgan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks Respond  Citigroup said in a statement that the downgrade was
“arbitrary and completely unwarranted,” and called Moody’s
approach “backward-looking.” Morgan Stanley said its ratings
don’t reflect the actions it has taken to cut risk. Credit
Suisse said it was pleased to remain among the top-rated large
banks, while Bank of America said it has strengthened its
capital and risk management.  The reductions by Moody’s are “a mea culpa from 2007 and
2008,” said James Leonard, a credit analyst in Chicago at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “The banks have gotten so much better in the
last few years in terms of capital, yet their ratings keep going
down. What does that tell you? That the ratings were so wrong
before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  