-- Crop Traders Bullish for Ninth Week on U.S. Drought
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-06-22T15:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/crop-traders-bullish-for-ninth-week-on-u-s-drought.html
Soybean and corn traders are bullish
for a ninth week on mounting concern that dry weather will cut
U.S. crop yields at a time when  hedge funds  are adding to wagers
on higher prices.  Twenty-three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they
expect soybeans to climb next week and three were bearish. A
further four were neutral. Twenty expect gains in corn, four
predicted a decline and five were neutral. Speculators raised
bets on costlier soybeans for the first time in six weeks and
increased net-long positions for corn from the lowest level in
almost two years in the week ended June 12, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its estimate for
corn and soybean conditions on June 18 after dry weather in the
Midwest, prompting the biggest two-day rally for corn since
October 2010 and soybeans since October 2011. Areas of Iowa and
 Illinois , the two largest U.S. growers of both crops, have had
less than half the normal amount of rain in the past 30 days,
National Weather Service data show. The USDA expects China to
import record amounts of both crops next season.  “The current dryness in the U.S. Midwest will further
reduce the crop yields and crop conditions,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Because of
the earlier planting and speedy crop progress, the need for
moisture is quite high.”  Drought Conditions  Soybeans rose 15 percent to $13.8325 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade this year as corn dropped 13 percent to
$5.6425 a bushel. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials slipped 13 percent and the MSCI All-Country World
 Index (MXWD)  of equities added 1.6 percent. Treasuries returned 1.8
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Seventy-one percent of the Midwest suffered from
“abnormally dry” or worse conditions by June 19, up from 60
percent a week earlier, according to data from the University of
 Nebraska  at Lincoln. As of June 17, crop ratings were the worst
for the time of year since 2008, with 63 percent of corn and 56
percent of soybeans in good or excellent condition, USDA data
show. That compares with 70 percent of corn and 68 percent of
soybeans receiving the top ratings a year earlier.  Demand for U.S. farm goods is strengthening. China may buy
61 million metric tons of soybeans and 7 million tons of corn in
the 2012-13 season, the most ever, the USDA said June 12. The
Asian nation is the world’s biggest soybean consumer and second-
largest user of corn after the U.S. While  China ’s economic
growth will slow to 8.2 percent this year from 9.2 percent in
2011, that’s still almost four times the anticipated expansion
in the U.S., the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Crop Plantings  The USDA said in March that farmers planted 95.9 million
acres of corn, the most since 1937. That reduced the area
available for soybeans, with plantings this year falling 1.5
percent to 73.9 million acres. Stockpiles of the oilseed may
drop 19 percent to 175 million bushels by the end of the
marketing year on Aug. 31 and slide to a four-year low of 140
million bushels next year, the USDA estimates.  Hedge funds and other money managers increased net-long
soybean positions by 19 percent in the week ended June 12, CFTC
 data  show. The 4.1 percent advance in corn wagers was from the
lowest level since late June 2010.  Declining energy prices may curb demand for crops used to
make biofuels. The USDA estimates that about 5 billion bushels
of the U.S. corn crop will be used to make ethanol in 2012-13,
close to the record 5.05 billion estimated for the 2011-12
season.  Energy Slumps  Crude oil slid to an eight-month low in New York today and
U.S. ethanol production tumbled 2.2 percent last week, the
Energy Department said June 20. Ethanol producers are losing
about 10 cents on every gallon, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and its impact on the
global economy may curb demand for all commodities. The S&P GSCI
gauge slid 22 percent from its closing high in February
yesterday, entering a  bear market .  The  Federal Reserve  cut its forecast for 2012 U.S. growth
on June 20 to 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, from an April forecast
of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent. The central bank also extended
Operation Twist, an economic stimulus plan to buy longer-
maturing debt, while refraining from additional purchases.  The USDA’s forecast of record corn yields of 166 bushels an
acre is “far too optimistic,” and the agency may need to cut
its outlook for the harvest, currently pegged at a record 14.79
billion bushels, Commerzbank’s Fritsch said. Morgan Stanley
recommended buying corn on June 19 and Societe Generale SA said
that day that corn and soy face “upside price risks.”  Sugar Prices  In other commodities, eight of 14 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect raw sugar to advance next week and
six were bearish. The commodity slid 14 percent this year to
20.04 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Twelve people surveyed said copper will rise next week and
11 predicted a drop, while nine were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, slumped 3.8 percent to $7,310 a ton this year.  Eleven of 25 traders and analysts surveyed said gold would
climb next week, 10 said prices would retreat and four predicted
little change. Futures on the Comex exchange in New York are
little changed since the start of January at $1,564.30 an ounce,
after 11 years of gains. Prices reached a record $1,923.70 in
September.  “Implementation of the mildest monetary policy easing
measurements as well as indications about U.S. growth risks due
to the European crisis does certainly not favor cyclical
commodities,” said Bayram Dincer, an analyst at LGT Capital
Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . “At these suppressed
prices, a supply response in some metals can be expected from
high-cost producers and this should support prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  