-- Cuomo’s Teacher-Evaluation Bill Approved by New York Legislature
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-21T18:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/cuomo-s-teacher-evaluation-bill-still-alive-in-new-york-senate.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s bill that
would limit disclosure of teacher evaluations to parents passed
the  New York  Legislature today, the last day of the session.  The measure, introduced by Cuomo minutes before a midnight
deadline June 18, won approval after Senate Republicans, who
control the chamber, backed it. It has the support of New York
State United Teachers, the largest educators union, and is
opposed by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who wants wider
evaluation disclosures.  “It struck a balance between parents’ right to know and
some confidentiality,” said Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos,
a Long Island Republican.  Cuomo, lawmakers and the teachers’ union struck a deal this
year on setting up an evaluation system that would make the
ratings public. School districts must implement the system by
January or risk losing a share of $800 million in state funds.
Cuomo’s proposal would release scores without identifying
individuals, while supplying full details to parents on those
who instruct their children.  The bill allows parents to get the information in any
manner, including by phone or in person, from the principal.
Bloomberg has said a required interaction with administrators
may be difficult for busy parents.  Two Working Parents  “I don’t know about the rest of the state, but in  New York
City  we have an awful lot of kids whose both parents work,”
Bloomberg said at a press conference yesterday in the Bronx.
“It would be a very difficult thing to go the principal’s
office.”  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, backed away from his measure
June 19, saying there was no rush to pass it in the legislative
session that ends today because no evaluations would be
available for disclosure for at least a year.  “Why do tomorrow what you can do today?” Skelos said.
“This is part of a two-year process we’ve had up here, early
budgets, cutting spending, a lot of accomplishments and this a
great result.”  Since taking office 18 months ago, Cuomo has pushed two on-
time budgets through the Legislature, the first time consecutive
spending plans were passed before the deadline since 2006. He’s
also cut spending to close combined budget deficits of more than
$12 billion. The teacher-evaluation deal is the latest in a
series of victories that includes a same-sex marriage law and
changes to the state pension plan.  Cherry on Cake  “This bill is the metaphorical cherry on the cake to the
end of what I believe is one of the most successful and broad-
ranging legislative sessions in modern political history,”
Cuomo said in an e-mailed statement. “From transformative
economic reforms to historic social progress, this session was a
magnificent accomplishment for the people of New York state.”  This week, Cuomo declared dead a measure to decriminalize
the public display of 25 grams or less of marijuana. He
supported the bill at the urging of New York City lawmakers and
civil libertarians. He couldn’t get Senate Republicans to agree.  “We’re going to end this session with a bang, not a
bong,” Skelos said.  New York’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  