-- Custom $200,000 Nissan Alpha 12 Blasts Through 200 MPH
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/custom-200-000-nissan-alpha-12-blasts-through-200-mph.html
There’s no reason to drive an
automobile at 200 miles per hour. No appointment is so
important, no traffic cop that lenient. Few cars are even
capable of it.  Imagine, though, that you’re idling in a 1,500 horsepower
car at the start of an airport runway two miles long. And you’re
cleared for takeoff.  Wouldn’t you want to break the 200 mph barrier?  As an automobile critic, I have an unusual occupation. So
this is why I actually find myself piloting a heavily-customized
 Nissan GT-R , dubbed the Alpha 12.  Fifteen hundred horsepower is a ludicrous amount of power,
but I’m on a decommissioned Air Force runway in northern
 Michigan  that once hosted B-52 bombers. It’s wide and long
enough for the task.  The Nissan GT-R already qualifies as a supercar. The 2013
model costs around $100,000 and delivers 545 hp, hitting 60 mph
in less than three seconds. That’s enough power, right?  Not for customers of  AMS Performance , a West Chicago,
Illinois-based tuning company. The 30-employee outfit has been
around for more than a decade, catering to a “mine is bigger
than yours,” demographic, where more power is always better.  Performance Package  AMS specializes in “Alpha”  performance packages  for the
GT-R, rebuilding the V-6 engine with sturdier parts, bigger
turbo chargers, special exhausts and reinforced transmissions.  Light modifications start at about $6,000. The Alpha 12
package costs around $100,000 (on top of the $100,000 of a new
GT-R). For that, you get a claimed 1,100 horsepower with
regular-pump gas, and 1,500 horses with 116-octane race fuel.
The company says you can hit 60 mph in 2.4 seconds and the
machine will cover a quarter of a mile in 8.97 seconds.  My goals today are twofold. I want to see how “real” the
Alpha is, and I hope to top my personal speed record of 200 mph,
achieved on a runway in a Lamborghini Gallardo nearly four years
ago. I’d prefer not to kill myself.  This is just a practice run, however, to get a feel for the
Alpha’s power. AMS sales manager Eric Gaudi is riding shotgun.
When I ask if he’d like to accompany me later on my top-speed
run, he fires back, “Not a chance.”  Gulping Air  I roll onto the gas carefully, clicking through the gears
well before the red line. The huge twin turbos quickly spool to
capacity, sucking in massive gulps of air, and then expelling
them harshly through the waste gates. It sounds like a jet
engine.  We streak down the runway, faster and faster. I’ve got eyes
only for the shift points on the tachometer and the tarmac in
front of me. Gaudi is watching a special GPS device called a
 VBOX , more accurate than the speedometer, which tends to be
significantly off at high speeds.  I slow down well before the runway’s halfway mark. Gaudi
points to the VBOX and says, simply, “199.”  Oh, man. I wasn’t even trying.  Rolling back to our staging area on the side of the runway,
I find the car drives easily: It’s very controllable and not at
all scary.  Gaudi’s team adds race fuel to the tank. I pull back onto
the runway, all alone now.  ‘Death Zone’  Accelerating toward and beyond 200 mph is akin to being at
 Mount Everest ’s so-called “death zone.” If any little thing
goes awry the situation can quickly turn critical. A strong
cross wind, a poorly timed sneeze or, my worst fear, a blown
tire, and the car’s straight-line trajectory could turn into an
extended barrel roll.  The faster you go, the more air the car has to displace.
Past 180 mph it becomes a dense wall. The car becomes unstable,
with air channeling underneath, trying to lift it skyward.  The AMS engineers estimate that the Alpha 12 is
mechanically capable of hitting 238 mph. It has no roll cage or
specialty safety equipment and I’m not wearing a helmet. It’s
basically a street-legal car capable of more than four times the
typical 55 mph speed limit.  I stomp on the gas. There’s a moment’s pause as the turbos
spool up to power. Then, like a match igniting gunpowder, a
flash and a boom. The entire front of the car lifts.  Displaced Space  I slam the gears into second, then third. There’s a
tingling at the nape of my neck. A sense of displacing air,
space and reality.  The runway is crisscrossed by black skid marks left by
jumbo jet landings that seem to streak toward me as I land-speed
over the wide runway. Then they, too, disappear.  Number markers from one to ten are on the side of the
tarmac. At the halfway mark, not even looking at the
speedometer, I let off the gas, step on the brake lightly and
then much harder.  I’m almost disappointed when I stop and find the runway
still continues on for quite a distance. The Alpha has a lot
more to give.  I look at my top speed on the VBOX then turn around and
cruise slowly back the way I’ve come. My heartbeat is fairly
steady.  In some 24 seconds, I’ve travelled from zero to 214 miles
per hour.  The Nissan GT-R/AMS Alpha 12 at a Glance  Engine: 4.0-liter twin-turbo V-6 with 1,100 horsepower and  900 pound-feet of torque (1,500 hp and 1,050 pound-feet  with high-octane race gas).  Transmission: Six-speed dual-clutch automated transmission.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 2.4 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city; 23 highway (estimated).  Price as tested: $200,000.  Best feature: Insane top speed.  Worst feature: Few roads on earth where you can use all  that power.  Target buyer: The power-mad.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Greg
Evans  on  television .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 