-- Czechs Aim to Deny Ronaldo Room to Run as Rosicky May Return
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-06-21T10:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/czechs-aim-to-deny-ronaldo-room-to-run-as-rosicky-may-return.html
Tomas Rosicky may start for the
 Czech Republic  against Portugal in the European soccer
championship’s first quarterfinal tonight as coach Michal Bilek
says defense may help repeat the 1996 success, when the Czechs
made the final.  After featuring in 38 games this season for Arsenal, the
most since he signed for the London club in May 2006, Rosicky
missed the second half of the Greece match and the entire game
against  Poland  because of an Achilles injury. He said on June 18
it wasn’t likely he’d play in the quarterfinal.  “It’s a complication, because every time he doesn’t play
we miss him,” Bilek said at the conference. “He’s our key
player.”  Rosicky also missed the Czechs’ previous game against
Portugal, when the two teams met in group stages of the European
championship in Austria and  Switzerland  in 2008. He then had a
hamstring injury that kept him out of soccer for 18 months.  “After I trained today the chance that I start tomorrow is
bigger,” Rosicky told a news conference at the National Stadium
in Warsaw yesterday.  The Czechs lost to  Russia  4-1 in their opening game of
this year’s tournament. They later beat Greece and Poland to
advance to the next stage as the group leader, while the other
two eastern European countries failed to qualify.  “We opened up the game too much and Russia punished us for
that,” Bilek said. “We strengthened the defense and that was
the key. We have learned a lot from the first match.”  Close Defense  The Portuguese enter the game as runners-up in the so-
called group of death, where they lost to  Germany  and beat
 Denmark  and the Netherlands, with Cristiano Ronaldo scoring two
goals against the latter. The Real Madrid player leads the
tournament with the most shots on target, 13, according to the
UEFA website.  “Ronaldo can score 40, 50 goals a season and defending
against him is exceptional,” the Czech coach said. “We have to
close the defense and not give him any space because if Ronaldo
runs, it’s impossible to stop him.”  Rosicky used to play against Ronaldo before the Portuguese
moved to  Spain  from  Manchester United .  “He’s a good attacker, but he doesn’t want to defend,”
Rosicky said at the conference. “If somebody’s on such a high
level he can afford not to help the defense and just score
goals.”  Before 2008, Czechs met  Portugal  in the 1996 quarterfinal
of the European championships held in  England . They beat
tomorrow’s opponent 1-0 with a long-distance shot by Karel
Poborsky before losing the final to Germany.  “Poborsky’s lob was fantastic and we wouldn’t be angry if
we repeated this result” tomorrow, Bilek said. “The situation
is similar as Portugal is also the favorite. If we repeat our
performances of the last two games we have a chance to go
through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz at   mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  