-- Dairy Queen CEO Says Diners Need Choice as He Enters NYC
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-06-21T18:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/dairy-queen-ceo-says-diners-need-choice-as-he-enters-nyc.html
International  Dairy Queen  said
customers should have a variety of menu choices as the fast-food
chain enters New York, where city officials are pressing for
restrictions on the size of soft drinks sold at restaurants.  “We want to have options on the menu,” John Gainor, Dairy
Queen’s chief executive officer, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “Obviously, if it’s passed,
we will have to work with it,” he said of Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s proposed ban at city restaurants on sales of sugary
soft drinks larger than 16 ounces a cup.  The administration announced the plan last month as part of
its strategy to combat what it described as an epidemic of
obesity and related illness such as  heart disease  and diabetes.
Companies including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-
drink maker, and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the biggest restaurant chain,
have criticized the restrictions.  Dairy Queen, with more than 6,000 locations in nations
including the U.S., Canada, Thailand and Egypt, currently has no
stores in New York City. The company, owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , expects to open three or four stores in
the city, including one in Staten Island, this year, according
to Gainor.  The restaurant chain has items on its menu that are lower
in sugar and some that are fat-free, he told Betty Liu in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “In The Loop, At the Half.”
Several years ago, Dairy Queen introduced a smaller portion size
for its Blizzard dessert, he said.  “That really was a result of the consumers saying we love
Dairy Queen treats, but we really want to eat in moderation,”
Gainor said.  ‘Nationwide Trend’  The planned  New York  law would allow patrons to buy as many
of the smaller soft drinks as they wanted and get refills. It
wouldn’t apply to  convenience stores  and groceries.  “People will come to see this very much in the interest of
public health,” Deputy Mayor Howard Wolfson said of the
proposed restrictions at a May 31 press conference. “This is
going to start a nationwide movement toward this, a nationwide
trend. I think it will prove to be very popular.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, is the
 largest shareholder  in Coca-Cola.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Norton in New York at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  