-- Deadly Bird Flu May Be Five Steps From Pandemic Potential
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-22T14:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/deadly-bird-flu-may-be-five-steps-from-pandemic-study-finds.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph to show Glaxo vaccine is
approved.)  Five genetic tweaks made a deadly
strain of bird flu that can infect humans spread more easily,
according to a study that the U.S. government had first sought
to censor on concerns it could be used by bioterrorists.  The genetic changes made the H5N1 virus airborne among
ferrets, the mammals whose response to flu is most like that of
humans, researchers from the Netherlands wrote in the journal
 Science  yesterday. The likelihood of those changes occurring
naturally is difficult to estimate but there is “no fundamental
hurdle to that happening,” said Derek Smith, a University of
Cambridge researcher who led a second study.  Scientists have been monitoring for pandemic-inducing
changes in H5N1 since the strain was recovered from a farmed
goose in  China ’s southern province of Guangdong in 1996. The
virus has since spread across  Asia ,  Europe , the  Middle East  and
parts of  Africa , devastating poultry flocks and causing sporadic
infections in people, among whom it doesn’t efficiently
transmit.  “We now know that we’re living on a fault line,” Smith
said on a conference call with reporters. “It’s an active fault
line, it really could do something, and now what we need to know
is, how likely is that?”  Publication of the paper was delayed after a U.S.
biosecurity panel in December asked the scientists to censor
some parts of their work to prevent it being used by
bioterrorists. Researchers meeting at the  World Health
Organization  in February agreed the full findings should be
published to help scientists design vaccines and drugs, and
public health officials prepare for a pandemic.  Vaccine Makers  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Sanofi (SAN) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  CSL Ltd. (CSL)  make
vaccines against H5N1 avian influenza.  More than 600 people have been infected with H5N1 since
2003, and almost 60 percent have died,  according  to the Geneva-
based WHO. Most had direct contact with infected poultry,
prompting scientists to question what it would take for the
virus to become easily transmissible between humans.  While influenza viruses mutate constantly in a process
called antigenic drift, the flu pandemics of the past century,
including the 1918 Spanish flu that killed as many as 50 million
people, have all been triggered by so-called antigenic shift,
the mixing of human and animal flu viruses to create new
pathogens to which people have no preexisting immunity.  Scientists led by  Ron Fouchier  at Erasmus Medical Center in
Rotterdam set out to test whether H5N1 could become more
transmissible by antigenic drift alone. The answer: yes.  Infected Ferrets  Fouchier and colleagues examined mutations in viruses
responsible for previous flu pandemics, and made three such
changes to a strain of H5N1 from  Indonesia , the country with the
most cases and deaths, which they used to infect a ferret. They
later took swabs from its nose and throat and used that to
infect another ferret, and so on up to 10 animals, to see how
the virus evolved.  Sure enough, it developed the ability to replicate in the
animals’ respiratory tract, suggesting the potential for
airborne transmission.  The researchers then put the virus to the test by putting
the infected animals next to healthy ferrets in neighboring
cages. Six out of eight of the healthy ferrets became infected.  In addition to the three genetic changes introduced by the
scientists, they identified two other mutations that enabled the
virus to spread, the researchers wrote. Those mutations are now
the subject of further research.  The five changes have all been observed in nature, but not
in the same virus, they wrote. The mutant viruses were
susceptible to  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s antiviral drug Tamiflu.  A similar study led by Yoshihiro Kawaoka at the  University
of Wisconsin  at Madison, which was also delayed, was published
in the journal Nature in May. That showed how H5N1 could become
highly transmissible by mixing with the H1N1 virus that sparked
the 2009 swine flu pandemic.  ‘Wrong Hands’  The two groups agreed in December to suspend their work for
60 days after the U.S. National Science Advisory Board for
Biosecurity asked two journals to censor some details of the
work to ensure it wouldn’t “fall into the wrong hands.”  The controversy over the studies triggered a new U.S.
government  policy  for conducting or funding research that could
potentially be used for harm, Anthony S. Fauci, the director of
the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases ,
and Francis S. Collins, the director of the U.S.  National
Institutes of Health , wrote in an accompanying article.  ‘Nefarious Use’  The benefits of the research “far outweigh the risks of
the nefarious use of this information,” Fauci said on the
conference call. “Being in the free and open literature would
make it much more easy to get a lot of the good guys involved
than the risk of getting the rare bad guy involved.”  Other pathogens studied by scientists are more
transmissible and deadlier than H5N1, Fouchier said.  “Anyone with access to the scientific literature can read
about all the dangerous pathogens that are more interesting to
terrorize the world with than our particular virus,” he said on
the conference call.  A moratorium on the research will remain in place until the
conditions under which the work is done are assessed by
authorities, Fouchier said.  The research was funded by the National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  