-- Not the Right Man to Lead Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-21T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/debt-nuclear-plants-signal-brewing-japanese-crisis.html
To some, Yoshihiko Noda is turning
out to be that rarest of things in  Japan : a prime minister who
makes the hard decisions.  Since assuming the job in September, Noda has taken aim at
two big goals. One, restarting the nuclear reactors shut after
last year’s deadly earthquake and tsunami. Two, doubling the
consumption tax to 10 percent to pay down some of Japan’s
mountainous debt, the highest among developed nations.  Japanese revere “gaman,” or fighting spirit. For years,
they have been clamoring for a leader who would do what’s
needed, never mind the political costs. Some pundits seem to
think Noda is such a leader and are rallying around him. Yet
that august status only applies when a leader does what’s right.
To me, Noda’s policies do more to show how little Japan has
changed.  Take Noda’s drive to end Japan’s nuclear freeze. When more
than two-thirds of the people in a democracy of 126 million are
against something, a leader might bother to listen. That’s how
many Japanese want the reactors to remain offline. Noda ignored
that increasingly vocal majority and cleared two reactors at
Kansai Electric Power Co.’s Ohi nuclear plant to reopen.  Idea Drought  What many observers see as bold leadership, I see as the
handiwork of a leader beholden to Japan’s powerful utilities and
bereft of fresh ideas. This judgment also applies to Noda’s push
to raise taxes. It’s the easy and obvious thing to do, not
something to inspire trust that Japan’s leaders are considering
new and creative ways to manage the economy.  There is no doubt Japan needs to gain control over its
fiscal policies. Its demographic trajectory is as ugly as they
come, with the population aging rapidly and young couples having
fewer babies. But raising the  consumption tax  is little more
than a generational wealth transfer, from young to old. Japanese
longevity is straining pension plans and the health-care system,
increasing the risk of credit downgrades that would raise the
cost of financing the nation’s deficit spending.  What if it turns out that higher taxes end up exacerbating
the country’s debt burden, not helping to fix it? Japan,
remember, tried this before. In the late 1990s, a similar
measure short-circuited Japan’s post-bubble recovery. Fifteen
years later, deflation is eating away at living standards while
companies are moving more jobs to cheaper locales overseas.  A bigger tax bite is the last thing the Japanese economy
needs right now, says  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Growth-wise, it will have a
downward impact,” he says.  Those considering a new car or home, an Okinawa vacation,
or a mobile-phone upgrade might think twice, or not buy at all.
Even if the economic hit were modest, Noda’s government has
focused every waking moment on a step that will do nothing to
restore Japan’s dynamism.  To his credit, Noda has had his moments of creativity. His
government wisely plans to sell shares of Japan Tobacco Inc.,
 Asia ’s largest cigarette maker. The proceeds will be used to
help pay for reconstruction in the part of northeast Japan that
was devastated by the tsunami and a partial meltdown of a
nuclear plant in Fukushima.  But raising taxes seems to be the centerpiece of Noda’s
plan to take on a national debt equal to a staggering 208
percent of gross domestic product. He’s dreaming.  Default Fears  As Japan’s power vacuum masquerades as reform, the ranks of
the fiscal bears are growing. Takeshi Fujimaki, former adviser
to billionaire  George Soros , thinks Japan may default by 2017.
Fujimaki isn’t alone in worrying that the yen and the government
bond market are enormous bubbles. Such concerns typically come
from  New York  or  London , not a major figure in Japanese finance.
“With the gigantic debt Japan has accumulated, a thin needle,
or even a gentle breeze may pop this,” he told Bloomberg News
last week.  The demographic trajectory that led Noda to push for higher
taxes worries investors, too. Japan’s debt will balloon to 246
percent of GDP by 2014, according to an  International Monetary
Fund  forecast. Yet Japan’s 10-year bond yields are an impossibly
low 0.81 percent.  With yields like that, it is pretty clear that investors
holding Japanese bonds see a default as unthinkable. Surely, a
nation in which more than 90 percent of public debt is held
domestically can avoid going the route of  Argentina  and,
potentially,  Greece . But is this complacence justified?  Faith in those in power enabled Japan’s nuclear lobby to
convince residents of one of the most seismically active nations
anywhere that they needed 54 reactors. It is a remarkable
paradox: The only nation attacked with atomic weapons, where the
shadow of that holocaust still lingers, has made nuclear power
the core of its energy grid.  The trust is ebbing and has been for years. The public
doesn’t believe that Japan’s reactors are any safer today than
they were before last year’s quake. If the day ever comes when
they don’t believe Japan’s debt is safe, the fiscal damage might
be irreparable. It’s hard to see how Noda is the man with the
fighting spirit to make a difference.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies  and on what a  shock-and-awe solution  to Europe’s
crisis would look like;  Jonathan Alter  on  Republican voter-
suppression efforts ; Stephen L. Carter on the  Supreme Court’s
legitimacy ; Jonathan Weil on  JPMorgan gains  that offset its
trading loss; Carl Pope on bringing  clean energy innovation  to
the global poor; Christopher Swift on  defeating al-Qaeda in
Yemen   To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 