-- Dewey & LeBoeuf Creditors to Hire $1,055-an-Hour Lawyer
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-21T17:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/dewey-leboeuf-creditors-to-hire-1-055-an-hour-lawyer.html
Creditors of bankrupt Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP asked a judge to approve payments of $1,055 an hour
for their lawyer,  Edward Weisfelner , in at least the 10th
request for professionals to assist with the law firm’s
liquidation.  Dewey’s unsecured creditors, who won’t get a dime until
banks and bondholders take more than $225 million, have a
committee drawn from a legal recruiting firm, a car service and
an equipment leasing company. Weisfelner is needed to help in
their discussions with Dewey, to analyze Dewey’s handling of the
wind down and to represent them in court, they said today in a
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Weisfelner, a creditors’ lawyer who runs Brown Rudnick
LLP’s bankruptcy group, has worked for billionaire  Carl Icahn  in
his dealings with Trump  Taj Mahal  and served creditors’
committees in the bankruptcies of Lyondell Chemical Co., Six
Flags Inc. and Global Crossing Ltd.  Dewey failed in May after piling on debt to expand and pay
partners. It wants to hire at least nine other firms to
liquidate it, according to filings. Clifford J. White, director
of the U.S. Justice Department’s office that oversees
bankruptcies, has said professionals’ “eye-catching” fees are
“difficult to explain in the current economic environment.”  Press Advisers  Dewey has said it expects to pay as much as $935 an hour
for partners of its lead law firm,  Togut Segal & Segal LLP . Its
press advisory firm  Sitrick & Co.  charges as much as $895 hourly
for its top people.  Thomas Mulligan, an executive at Sitrick, has declined to
comment on the fees that will be billed to Dewey.  Most law firms have few assets, and rely on collecting
bills to pay lenders. Dewey is hiring an agent to help collect
$217.4 million in billed and unbilled charges to clients.  Dewey guaranteed about 100 partners a total of about $100
million, according to people familiar with the firm’s finances.
 Steven Davis , the former chairman, was ousted on April 29 after
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. started a probe into
possible wrongdoing at Dewey, according to an internal Dewey
memo to partners that day. He has denied wrongdoing.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 