-- Dickey’s Knuckleball Becomes 57% Less Hittable for Mets-Yankees
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/dickey-s-knuckleball-becomes-57-less-hittable-for-mets-yankees.html
R.A. Dickey’s knuckleball was 57
percent less hittable than the average Major League Baseball
pitch as the  New York Mets ’ right-hander tossed the first back-
to-back one-hitters in almost a quarter-century.  Dickey, who hasn’t allowed an earned run in 42 2/3 innings,
had a whiff percentage -- how often batters swung and missed --
of 33 percent against his knuckleball in the one-hitters on June
18 against the  Baltimore Orioles  and June 13 against the  Tampa
Bay Rays , according to Bloomberg Sports data. The major-league
average this season is 21 percent.  With a baseball-best 11-1 record, Dickey makes his next
start June 24 at Citi Field as the Mets host the  New York
Yankees  and pitcher CC Sabathia. While Sabathia and the Mets’
Johan Santana each are  Cy Young  Award winners as the best
pitchers in their leagues over a season, Dickey has been the
best in baseball for the past two weeks.  “The thing that you don’t see from knuckleballers --
certainly not from me -- is the command,” said Charlie Hough,
who used the pitch and won 216 games over a 25-year major-league
career. “It’s crazy good. Too good.”  Dickey, 37, is the only active major-leaguer who throws a
knuckleball, typically a slow-moving pitch that doesn’t spin,
making the ball move erratically. It’s difficult for hitters to
predict where the ball will go.  He’s thrown the knuckler -- at an average 78 miles per hour
(125 kilometers per hour) -- on 83 percent of his pitches this
season. Sabathia, who is 9-3 with a 3.55 earned run average,
uses a slider, a faster pitch that often looks like a strike
before diving out of the strike zone, as his so-called strikeout
pitch. While his whiff percentage is 46 percent, he only uses
the slider 33 percent of the time. Sabathia won the Cy Young as
the best pitcher in the  American League  in 2007.  Pitching Accuracy  Dickey told reporters after his latest outing that he
couldn’t explain his success. His knuckleball whiff percentage
over his last five starts is 27 percent, and he has yet to throw
a wild pitch this season.  Dickey went 8-13 in 2011 with a 3.28 ERA. His knuckleball
whiff percentage was 20 percent, 8 percentage points below where
it is this season.  The Toronto Blue Jays’ Dave Stieb was the last previous
major-leaguer to throw consecutive one-hitters, in 1988. No  one
has every pitched three straight one-hitters, according to MLB.  Hough, a minor-league scout in the  Los Angeles Dodgers ’
organization, went 216-216 his career. He’s a member of the
knuckleballer fraternity that includes Hall of Fame members Phil Niekro and Hoyt Wilhelm and the recently retired  Tim Wakefield ,
who won 200 games. Niekro was probably best at throwing the
pitch, Hough said.  “I don’t know that Phil ever put together a 10-game
stretch this good,” Hough, 64, said in a telephone interview.
“I pitched a couple of one-hitters but they were years apart,
and I lost them both.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 