-- Billionaire Diniz Ceding Brazil Retailer as Shares Fall
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-06-22T21:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/diniz-ceding-pao-de-acucar-to-casino-as-shares-lag-peers.html
Billionaire Abilio Diniz is handing
control of Brazil’s biggest retailer to Casino Guichard-
Perrachon SA as the stock posts the  biggest losses  among peers
in Sao Paulo.  The ownership change is spurring concern that Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar’s new management
won’t be able to sustain sales growth at the Brazilian company,
where 2011 revenue rose more than twice as fast as that of
Saint-Etienne, France-based Casino, said Sandra Peres, an
analyst at Coinvalores Corretora de Valores.  “Pao de Acucar is coming from a very significant growth
period,” Peres, who has a hold rating on the stock, said in an
interview. “The shares have probably priced in Casino’s
entrance. Now, the second step is who they are going to keep in
management, how the operations will be going forward.”  Pao de Acucar  shares  are the worst performer in the MSCI
 Brazil  Consumer Staples Index in the past month, dropping 8.9
percent as the gauge fell 2 percent. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index is up 0.7 percent in that period. Pao de Acucar rose 2
percent to 75 reais today in Sao Paulo after Folha de S.Paulo
reported that Casino will move to list Pao de Acucar on the
Brazilian exchange’s Novo Mercado.  Casino became the sole controller of Pao de Acucar today
when the presidency of the holding company passed to Casino
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jean Charles Naouri. The
transfer stems from an agreement signed between the French
retailer and Diniz in 1999 and amended in 2005.  Board Members  Pao de Acucar shareholders approved three board members
appointed by Casino today at a meeting.  Pao de Acucar revenue rose 45 percent last year,  compared 
with an 18 percent gain for Casino, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Brazilian company’s sales may increase 13
percent this year, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, while Casino’s revenue is forecast to
grow 19 percent.  Investors are speculating that 75-year-old Diniz won’t take
to his diminished role as chairman and will decide to leave the
company that his father, a Portuguese immigrant, founded as a
bakery in 1948, said Daniella Maia, the chief analyst at Ativa
Corretora in Rio de Janeiro.  Management Style  “What will really impact the minority shareholders is if
Diniz leaves for good,” Maia said. “His management style and
ability to understand the retail sector added value.”  Diniz has the right to continue being Pao de Acucar’s
 chairman  “as long as the company delivers good results and he
is in good mental and physical health,” according to the
shareholders’ agreement.  Pao de Acucar gained 12 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, as Casino slumped 2.5 percent. The Brazilian retailer
has almost doubled in the past five years, as Casino fell 9.8
percent.  The shares were the best performer on the MSCI Consumer
Staples Index today after the Folha de S.Paulo report that
Casino plans to convert Pao de Acucar’s preferred shares to
common shares so it can list the stock on the  Novo Mercado 
section, which has stricter requirements on disclosure and
minority shareholders’ rights. Casino has no such plans at the
moment, according to a press officer who asked not to be
identified because of company policy.  Strategy Outlook  Some investors may also be betting that Pao de Acucar will
continue to grow under new management.  “The company’s business should continue to be carried out
in the same way, seeking to generate value for the
shareholder,” said Leonardo Zanfelicio, an analyst at brokerage
Concordia Corretora. “It looks like there won’t be any big
strategy change, which has been pretty successful, and the group
posted big growth in past years.”  Casino bought 24 percent of voting shares in Wilkes
Participacoes SA, the entity that controls Pao de Acucar, in
1999. Six years later, the French company increased its stake to
34 percent in an agreement that gave it the option to buy
control of the Brazilian company.  Last year, Diniz teamed up with billionaire banker  Andre
Esteves , the chief executive officer of Sao Paulo-based Banco
BTG Pactual SA, as part of a proposal to merge Pao de Acucar
with the Brazilian unit of  Carrefour SA. (CA)  The tie-up was to be
financed in part by Brazil’s development bank, BNDES.  ‘The Frenchman’  Casino described the proposal as hostile, filed a complaint
against its Brazilian partner and denounced the move as illegal
and in violation of the 2005 shareholders agreement. Casino
increased its stake in the retailer to more than 40 percent and
on May 15 announced its plan to exercise the option to become
the sole controlling shareholder.  Diniz, a Catholic who attends Mass every week, said earlier
that month that he was asking for God’s help to solve the
dispute, O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported at the time.  “Help me solve the problem with the Frenchman,” Diniz
said at an event in  Sao Paulo , according to the newspaper.  Diniz declined to comment. Press officials at Pao de Acucar
and Casino also declined to comment.  Dintz said today at the shareholders meeting that he will
ask the company’s new management to “not forget that this is a
family company.”  “My mission is the relentless defense of the group,” he
said. “I will do everything in order to have our principles and
values respected.”  Seven  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg rate the stock hold,
while 14 say buy and none recommend selling.  Casino is taking control of Brazil’s largest retailer as
economic growth in France stalls. While Brazil is forecast to
grow 2.3 percent this year, according to a central bank survey
of economists published June 18,  France ’s economy may expand
just 0.3 percent, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The French market “is very developed, without much space
for growth,” Maia said. “Competitors are well-established.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net 
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  