-- Dixons Sees Good Start to Year After Earnings Beat Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-21T08:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/dixons-sees-good-start-to-year-after-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the U.K.’s
largest consumer electronics retailer, said it has had a “good
start” to this fiscal year after reporting earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Underlying pretax profit fell 17 percent to 70.8 million
pounds ($111 million) in the 12 months through April 28 from
85.3 million pounds a year earlier, the  Hemel Hempstead ,
England-based company said today in a statement. That compares
with the median  estimate  of 68 million pounds. The company in
May forecast profit to be at the top end of estimates of 65
million pounds to 70 million pounds.  Dixons’ domestic business, which includes the Currys and PC
World chains, has benefited from the exit of competitors such as
Best Buy Inc. and a push toward a more service-led approach such
as its KnowHow program and expanded Web offering. Same-store
sales rose 5 percent in the fourth quarter and were down 3
percent in the full year.  “We have to be convinced that any improvement in trading
will convert into higher profitability and at current levels the
stock looks fairly valued,” said Freddie George, an analyst at
Seymour Pierce with a hold recommendation on the shares. He
noted that the stock had risen more than 20 percent since the
beginning of the week.  The shares fell 2.6 percent to 15.59 pence at 9:34 a.m. in
 London  trading. The stock has risen 59 percent this year.  Pixmania Division  Chief Executive Officer Sebastian James outlined a three-
point plan to drive growth via a multichannel offering,
exploiting scale across the group and building the company’s
share to become the market leader in  Turkey ,  Italy  and its
central  Europe  businesses.  A weaker performance in southern Europe and the online
Pixmania division offset gains in the U.K. and  Northern Ireland ,
Dixons said.  Pixmania, which posted an underlying operating loss of 19.8
million pounds, suffered from declines in  France , one of its
larger markets, and supply problems with cameras following
floods in  Thailand  and the Japanese tsunami. The CEO said he is
taking action at the business, citing a re-think on unprofitable
categories and removing costs by measures such as an exit from
its “glamorous Paris office.”  Internet Competition  James said he is tackling budget-priced Internet
competition by working with suppliers who like the company’s
multichannel approach, selling “complete solutions” such as
laptops with computer software, differentiating itself with
service and continuing to be more efficient.  Its price differential with  online  rivals has fallen from
22 percentage points three years ago to 6.5 percentage points
last week, James said.  “If you bought a 100-quid small-screen telly off us last
week you wouldn’t have found any competitor on average who would
have been  able to sell it to you for less than 104 quid,” he
said. “So there are lots of areas where we are aggressively
pricing.” Quid is slang for pounds.  In  Greece , where the company’s  Kotsovolos  chain is market
leader, it’s gaining market share “quite rapidly” while the
overall market has fallen 55 percent in the last three years.
“I think that market will come right,” James said. “That
business is a valuable business for us.”  Italy is an “easier market” but its strategic position is
smaller, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  