-- Dollar Set for Weekly Gain on Signs Global Growth Slowing
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-06-22T13:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/dollar-heads-for-weekly-gain-versus-peers-on-stock-losses.html
The dollar headed for its first
advance in three weeks versus the euro after a report showed
German business confidence dropped to the lowest in more than
two years, fueling demand for the safety of the U.S. currency.  The yen weakened against most of its 16 major peers as
Japanese lawmakers in the lower house prepared to vote on a bill
to double  sales tax . Higher-yielding currencies rebounded
against the dollar as equities advanced, led by financial shares
even as Moody’s Investor Service downgraded 15 global banks.
Canada’s dollar gained as stocks rose.  “You don’t have European flashpoints right now, but we
knew beforehand global growth was suffering and I think that
expecting any quick reversal is not in the cards,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at  Miller Tabak  in New
York. “Financials are rebounding quite strongly, so the market
may be set for a reprieve today, but it should be no surprise
the world is in the shape that it’s in, given the massive cloud
over the  euro zone .”  The dollar traded at $1.2551 per euro at 9:05 a.m. New York
time, from $1.2540 yesterday. It has added 0.7 percent this
week. The U.S. currency was at 80.36 yen, after appreciating to
80.52, the strongest level since May 16. It has gained 2.1
percent this week, the most since Feb. 24. The yen lost 0.2
percent to 100.85 per euro.  Market Forces  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500  rose 0.5 percent and
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials increased
0.4 percent.  The  business climate index  for  Germany , based on the Ifo
institute’s survey of 7,000 executives, slid to 105.3 from 106.9
in May. Economists predicted a decline to 105.6, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Data yesterday showed euro-area manufacturing shrank at the
fastest pace in three years, and a gauge of Chinese industrial
output indicated contraction. More Americans than forecast filed
claims for jobless benefits, manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region shrank and sales of existing homes fell, reports showed.  Canada’s dollar added 0.2 percent to C$1.0279 after
touching C$1.0300, its lowest in a week.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, little changed at 82.294, after touching
82.465, the strongest level since June 13.  The dollar climbed above 80 yen yesterday for the first
time in a month. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s  Democratic
Party  struggled to overcome internal resistance to his bill to
double Japan’s consumption tax before a lower-house vote that
may come as soon as today.  The dollar’s rise versus the yen may stall, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The greenback faces so-called
resistance at the 100-day moving average of 80.41 yen, and may
find support at 79.84, the 50-day moving average, the data show.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish leader
Mariano Rajoy will gather in Rome today. The  International
Monetary Fund  said nations must make a “strong commitment” to
the euro to stop a plunge in investor confidence.  Europe’s Leaders  They are due to join other European leaders in Brussels on
June 28-29, the 19th summit since Greece’s financial meltdown
rattled the euro. The gathering will try to resolve competing
visions over how to reshape the 17-nation economy, with Germany
and its fiscally disciplined neighbors unwilling to place
additional burdens on their taxpayers.  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24 and has depreciated about 6.6 percent in the past 12 months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that measure
10 developed-market currencies.  Trading in the euro “will become more volatile as we
approach the EU summit,” said  Geoff Kendrick , the head of
European currency strategy at Nomura International Plc in
London.  “There needs to be some positive outcome from the
summit and there are big risks around it.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered credit ratings on 15
banks yesterday. Credit Suisse Group AG’s ranking was reduced by
three levels and Morgan Stanley’s by two steps. The rating
changes reflect the lenders’ “significant exposure to the
volatility and risk of outsized losses inherent to capital-
markets activities,” Moody’s Global Banking Managing Director
Greg Bauer said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  