-- Dong Plansto Re-Export LNG From Netherlands Gate Terminal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2012-06-21T09:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/dong-plansto-re-export-lng-from-netherlands-gate-terminal.html
Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s largest
utility, plans to export previously imported liquefied natural
gas from the Gate terminal in Rotterdam, to take advantage of
the biggest price differential to  Asia  since 2009.  Gate, which began accepting cargoes in September, only
imports LNG from partners, including Dong, RWE Supply & Trading
GmbH, EconGas OMV, Eneco Holding NV and EON Ruhrgas AG. The
terminal doesn’t have technical capability to reload the fuel.  “In the future, we’ll look into opportunities to re-
export” LNG from Gate, Henrik Valgma, head of portfolio
management and trading, said in a June 14 interview in
Copenhagen. “Our trading is based around Europe. We don’t trade
the Pacific basin. We have an ambition to increase our presence
in LNG around the Atlantic basin.”  Price differentials between Asia and Europe are at their
widest in three years, encouraging the reloading of LNG carriers
from  storage tanks  in Europe. Asian LNG demand rose after the
Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011 led to the shutdown of
most of the country’s atomic reactors. Japan’s LNG imports rose
to a record 8.15 million metric tons in January, the nation’s
 Finance Ministry  said yesterday.  France, Spain, and Belgium have all loaded LNG ships from
storage tanks at import terminals for re-export to higher-priced
markets overseas. Sixteen cargoes have been re-exported from
Spain in the first five months of this year, almost double the
whole of 2011, according to data from  Enagas SA (ENG) , Spain’s gas-
network operator.  Dong has an agreement to take 1 billion cubic meters of LNG
a year from  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , Spain’s biggest electricity supplier,
Valgma said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  