-- The Global Poor Can Lead the Solar Revolution
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-06-21T22:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/the-global-poor-can-lead-the-solar-revolution.html
China  announced on March 20 that it
would raise retail gasoline prices to more than $5 a gallon. Two
days later, the government announced its intention to cap
consumption of coal at 3.9 billion tons a year, only 10 percent
above its current level.  Concern for the environment is not driving these moves.
Instead, they are a byproduct of economic fundamentals,
including the fact that importing oil at more than $100 a barrel
and  coal  at $125 a ton or more threatens China’s record trade
surpluses. Indeed, in the past three years, high prices for
imported oil and coal have contributed to three  trade deficits 
in China.  Alarmed by these trends, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called
in January for restructuring global oil markets,  saying  they had
“deviated, to a great extent, from the supply-and-demand
relations of the real economy.” The premier called on the Group
of 20 to establish “just, equitable and binding international
rules” to govern the oil trade (an appeal not wildly applauded
in the Persian Gulf region where he made it).  Energy politics are riling  India , as well. A recent  report 
charged that the government had shortchanged Indian taxpayers
$210 billion by awarding coal leases to domestic power
companies. Coal India, the domestic monopoly that is 90 percent
owned by the government, is supposed to guarantee power needs
without major price increases. But minority shareholders have
sued over the price restraint; meanwhile, dozens of power plants
hobble along with only a few days’ supply of fuel.  Setting Prices  Global coal and oil prices are largely a product of
producer cartels and government consumers. In  Asia , the main
coal producers are Indonesia and  Australia , with U.S. producers
eager to enter the market. The price-setting consumers are China
and India. For oil, the principal players are  Saudi Arabia ,
 Iran ,  Kuwait  and  Russia , with Venezuela and  Iraq  in the wings.
There are four potentially price-making consumers -- the U.S.,
the European Union,  Japan  and China. Unlike the producers, the
consumers lack coordination.  Because coal and oil prices are set by organized cartels
facing disorganized importers, they are volatile, subject to
relatively modest shifts in demand that produce significant
price swings. The volume and price of fossil fuels that power
carbon-importing economies plummet, or soar, in unison. Just a 7
percent change in oil demand can double or halve prices.  How can growing economies avoid being strangled by
 expensive carbon ? First, by recognizing that the world is locked
into fossil fuels not because they are cheap, but because they
are familiar.  The benefits of transitioning to renewable energy are
immense. Because marginal demand has a big impact on price,
increasing fossil-fuel efficiency, or supplanting oil or coal
with renewables, can lead to sizable decreases in demand. At the
off-peak hour of 2 a.m., electricity produced by an old coal-
power plant in India might cost only $0.10 a kilowatt-hour, even
delivered. Solar, which costs $0.15 a kilowatt-hour during the
daytime, has a hard time competing with that. But an afternoon
kilowatt-hour in the heart of downtown Bangalore, produced by a
generator powered by imported diesel, costs at least $0.50.
Subsidizing solar developers to replace that diesel is
comparable to winning a trifecta. India gets clean energy while
avoiding imported diesel. And the nation’s electric grid grows
more efficient and reliable because the solar electrons are
available when Bangalore most needs them -- on hot afternoons.  Solar Barriers  Similarly, using renewable power for a rural mobile-
communications tower in  Kenya  can supplant diesel generation,
which can cost $1 a kilowatt-hour or more. (In countries with
especially poor  energy security , where much power is lost, it
can cost $5 a kilowatt-hour.) At such energy choke-points, the
cost of solar panels is competitive with the price of fossil
fuels. Solar generation is not undermined by cost, but by
regulatory barriers, lack of distribution and a shortage of
credit.  Oil-importing nations in  Africa  need new transportation
infrastructure. Yet the  World Bank  and other development
agencies focus on building highways, which hook these countries
on oil they can’t afford, instead of on railroads, which can be
powered by abundant domestic solar electricity. Why do
development agencies keep providing loans for power plants
without regard to the huge waste that results when these plants
squeeze electrons through leaky and primitive grids? Why aren’t
we making sure that India, for example, can use every electron
it generates? Why isn’t a smart grid for Asia and Africa at the
top of the development agenda?  Misplaced priorities hinder energy development in myriad
ways. Although innovative energy entails high  capital costs , it
also leads to low operating costs; once you mount a solar panel
or wind turbine, the fuel is essentially free. Because interest
rates in developed economies are a fraction of those in emerging
ones, perhaps the simplest formula for meeting the world’s
energy needs is for nations in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and institutions such as the World
Bank to leverage their low borrowing costs to enable Africa,
China and India to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels while
accelerating global markets in renewables and raising the
efficiency of their energy sectors.  The terms of a global low-carbon deal are there for the
taking: Developed nations can help finance low-carbon projects
in emerging economies at U.S. or EU  interest rates . Thus the
World Bank can become a financier of clean innovation, not the
dirty status quo. Africa, China and India, in turn, can leverage
their development needs, focusing on producing energy where it
is most scarce and where the price of renewables is most
competitive.  We can create a virtuous cycle, in which energy innovation
for the benefit of those in greatest need reduces energy costs
for emerging economies while also improving the economics of
clean energy for developed nations -- and helping to stabilize
the climate in the process.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the  Sierra Club . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies  and on what a  shock-and-awe solution  to Europe’s
crisis would look like;  Jonathan Alter  on  Republican voter-
suppression efforts ; Stephen L. Carter on the  Supreme Court’s
legitimacy ; William Pesek on  Japan’s debt and nuclear power
plants ; Jonathan Weil on  JPMorgan gains  that offset its trading
loss; Christopher Swift on  defeating al-Qaeda in Yemen   To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@insidestraightstrategies.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 