-- East Coast’s Record-Breaking Heat Will Fade by Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-21T13:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/east-coast-s-record-breaking-heat-will-fade-by-next-week.html
The heat that may topple temperature
records in  New York City  and the East Coast for a second day
isn’t expected to last much longer.  An all-time high for the date of 98 degrees Fahrenheit (37
Celsius) may be set in Central Park today, breaking the old mark
of 97 set in 1953 and again in 1988, said Lauren Nash, a
 National Weather Service  meteorologist in Upton,  New York .  “We could tie and break a few records today,” Nash said.  Daily record highs were set in  Newark , New Jersey, at New
York’s LaGuardia Airport and in Hartford,  Connecticut , yesterday
and more may fall today. High heat warnings and  air quality 
alerts have been issued from Quebec to  Virginia  as hundreds lost
power and more were asked to conserve, according to utilities.  The weather on the first full day of calendar summer
probably won’t be a preview of how things will be for the rest
of the season.  “Today’s heat could rank as one of the summer’s hottest
for the East Coast cities,” said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . “I don’t
expect this to be a precursor to another summer like last
summer.”  Rogers said there may be a few more heat spikes later in
the season. He doesn’t expect weeks of above-average
temperatures across the region through the season because an El
Nino is forecast to develop in the Pacific Ocean later this
year.  El Nino  That weather pattern often means that heat increases that
drive electricity usage are balanced by more seasonal
temperatures, he said. The result is that natural gas prices
won’t get much support from the weather.  “In terms of the gas market, there is always another
cooling right around the corner,” Rogers said.  Nash said temperatures in New York are expected to be much
cooler by the start of next week. A high of 76 is forecast for
June 25, according to the Weather Service.  By next week, temperatures from Ontario and  Quebec  to the
U.S. mid-Atlantic states are expected to be 3 to 4 degrees below
normal, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather’s  6- to 10-day outlook
for June 26 to June 30.  The heat has already broken in  Chicago , where temperatures
reached 94 to 95 for the past three days. Today’s high is
expected to be 83, according to the Weather Service.  Heat Shift  Above-normal temperatures will shift to the southern U.S.
from New Mexico to Louisiana, according to MDA in Gaithersburg,
Maryland.  For today, New York will keep 455 cooling centers open,
according to a city statement.  In  Washington , the elderly and people with respiratory
problems were urged to stay inside, according to a city
statement. Residents were also cautioned to limit their exposure
to the sun “especially between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. when it is
strongest.”  The combination of high temperatures and humidity make the
air feel even hotter, which is called the heat index. Today’s
values in New York and northern  New Jersey  will range from 100
to 104, according to the Weather Service.  The high at LaGuardia and in Philadelphia is expected to be
100, according to the weather service. Boston and Richmond,
Virginia, may reach 98 and Washington, Baltimore and Trenton,
New Jersey, may see 99, the agency said.  The high in Toronto yesterday was 94 and is expected to
reach 91 today, according to  Environment Canada . In Montreal
yesterday’s high was 90.8 and it’s expected to reach 91 today,
according to the Canadian weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  