-- Lebedev Takes on Russian State TV Stations With Web Channel
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-06-21T11:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/lebedev-takes-on-russian-state-tv-stations-with-web-channel-1-.html
Russian billionaire  Alexander Lebedev  will add an online television station with an editorial
focus on uncovering corruption to his investigative newspaper
 Novaya Gazeta  to take on state broadcasters.  “My dream is actually to one day oust the Russian state-
controlled channels from ruling the minds of the Russians and
replacing them,” Lebedev said yesterday in an interview in
Bloomberg’s  London  offices.  Russian authorities have increased pressure on Lebedev’s
media operations as President  Vladimir Putin  tackles the biggest
protests of his 12-year rule. The channel may become operational
in October this year, costing between $6 million to $10 million,
and will use staff and offices from Novaya Gazeta, the newspaper
Lebedev co-owns with former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev .  “The content is sort of like what we’re already doing but
in a different way, and hopefully having more information and
more interesting people and making it a centerpiece of all of
this activity,” Lebedev said.  Tens of thousands of Russians protested June 12 in Moscow
against Putin’s return to the presidency after four years as
prime minister, rekindling the biggest demonstrations of the
past decade that prompted the government to crack down with
increased fines and searches of opposition leaders’ homes.  Russia ’s chief investigator  Alexander Bastrykin  threatened
the life of the deputy editor of Novaya Gazeta, according to an
open letter published by the newspaper on June 13. The head of
the Russian Investigative Committee made the threat in person
after ordering the deputy editor, Sergei Sokolov, to be taken to
a forest outside Moscow on June 4, according to the letter.  Massacre Investigation  In an interview published on June 14 in Moscow-based
newspaper  Izvestia , Bastrykin said he confronted the journalist
and had an “emotional conversation” even as he denied taking
him to a wood to threaten his life.  Novaya Gazeta  said Bastrykin
was responding to an article in the newspaper that criticized
him over the trial of suspects for a massacre of 12 people in
the southern Krasnodar region in 2010.  During the investigation of the mass murders committed in
Kushchevskaya, about 1,150 kilometers (719 miles) south of
Moscow, the government examined allegations that local officials
aided a group of criminals that terrorized the region since the
late 1990s.  Five reporters for Novaya Gazeta have been killed since
Putin came to power in 2000, including  Anna Politkovskaya , who
was shot in the head in her Moscow apartment building on Putin’s
birthday in 2006. Politkovskaya’s work alleged corruption under
the Russian leader and abuses by security forces in the mainly
Muslim region of Chechnya.  The new television station would need to reach more than 15
million people to be competitive with state-controlled channels
such NTV and Channel One and the operation could be further
expanded into an international platform for investigative
journalism to help combat corruption, Lebedev said. The
billionaire also owns the London Evening Standard newspaper and
the Independent in the U.K.  Lebedev is a former lawmaker in Russia’s lower house of
parliament and a KGB officer who worked at the Soviet Embassy in
London during the  Cold War . His holdings include a stake in
Russia’s flagship airline OAO Aeroflot and in banking,
construction, property, agriculture and media companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  