-- Einhorn Enters $1 Million Buy-In Poker Tournament for Charity
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/einhorn-will-play-1-million-buy-in-charity-poker-tournament.html
Greenlight Capital Inc. co-founder
 David Einhorn  entered next month’s $1 million buy-in tournament
at the  World Series  of Poker, donating any profits to the
charity  City Year .  Einhorn, who finished 18th in the World Series of Poker’s
main event in 2006, is among at least 42 entrants for the July
1-3 charity event in  Las Vegas , known as the Big One for One
Drop, Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Einhorn, said in a
telephone interview.  The champion at the Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino will win
at least $16.4 million, topping the $12 million Jamie Gold won
by claiming the World Series of Poker’s $10,000 buy-in Texas
Hold’em world championship, known as the main event, in 2006.
Gold’s win is the largest ever in a poker tournament.  City Year, based in  Boston , is partnering with public
schools to build more engaging and supportive environments so as
to reduce student dropout rates.  One Drop , which is the main beneficiary of the poker event,
fights poverty worldwide by supporting access to water.  Other confirmed entrants include poker professionals Daniel
Negreanu, Erik Seidel, Gus Hansen, 2010 main-event champion
Jonathan Duhamel, Patrik Antonius and Tom Dwan.  It’s the first year for the $1 million buy-in charity event
at the World Series, which is comprised of 61 different poker
tournaments. The annual series concludes with the main event.  Greenlight, the $7.8 billion hedge fund based in New York,
can bet on rising and falling prices. Einhorn is known for
shorting Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before it collapsed in
September 2008.  The 43-year-old Einhorn offered $200 million for a 33
percent stake in  Major League Baseball ’s  New York Mets  last year
before withdrawing the bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 