-- Telefonica Plans to Cut Mobile-Service Prices in Mexico
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-21T20:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/telefonica-plans-to-cut-mobile-service-prices-in-mexico.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  announced price cuts
on long-distance calls and nationwide roaming in  Mexico , to lure
customers away from  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)   Telefonica, Mexico’s second-largest wireless carrier, will
get rid of roaming charges throughout the country and offer a
plan that charges for calls rounded to the second, instead of
the minute, Mariano Moral, director of client service, said
today in Mexico City. The Madrid-based carrier also will charge
the same for calls to the U.S. and Canada as it does for long-
distance calls within Mexico.  America Movil, the largest mobile-phone carrier in the
Americas, faces a growing challenge from competitors in its home
country of Mexico. Telefonica said last week that it would share
its network infrastructure with Grupo Iusacell SA to improve
coverage in the country. Iusacell also sold a 50 percent stake
to broadcaster Grupo Televisa SAB, bringing a new investor into
the Mexican phone industry.  America Movil , based in Mexico City, has 70 percent of
Mexican wireless subscribers, compared with 20 percent for
Telefonica and about 6 percent for Mexico City-based Iusacell.  “We’re going to grow a lot,” Moral said today. He
declined to disclose the company’s market-share targets.  America Movil charges for roaming and has higher prices in
most cases for international long-distance calls than for
national long distance.  Telefonica also introduced a plan that allows users to
dispose of their land-line phones while keeping their home-phone
numbers, which will be forwarded to their wireless phones. With
the service, the company seeks to encourage consumers to end
their contracts with Telmex, America Movil’s land-line unit,
which offers no similar service.  Telefonica gained 0.2 percent to 9.96 euros in  Madrid .
America Movil fell 0.3 percent to 17.45 pesos at the close in
Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  