-- Temasek Expects Smaller Industry Returns Amid Tough Years
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-06-21T06:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/temasek-expects-smaller-returns-amid-difficult-years-curl-says.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, expects smaller returns for the
asset management industry on anticipation the outlook will be
difficult for years, said Gregory Curl, president and head of
the Americas.  Investment returns will be lower compared with historical
gains, Curl, 63, said at an industry conference in Hong Kong.
The U.S. represents considerable risks, he added. Temasek
managed S$193 billion ($152 billion) as of March 2011.  Temasek said June 11 the turmoil in Europe may result in a
market slump rivaling the 2008 global financial crisis, creating
opportunities for the company to make deals. The  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  tumbled 9 percent in May, its worst monthly performance in
two years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified, the U.S.
recovery showed signs of losing steam and  China ’s growth slowed.  “We’re interested in sustainable returns over what we
believe is going to be a very difficult and volatile environment
for a number of years globally,” Curl said. “Going forward, we
would expect that returns will be between one-half and two-
thirds of what they have been historically,” referring to the
returns for asset managers.  The company’s total shareholder return fell to 4 percent in
the year ended March 2011, compared with the average of 17
percent since its inception in 1974, it said on its  website .  No Position  Temasek, which sold its  Bank of America Corp.  shares at a
loss about three years ago, said it has “no position” in the
U.S. financial industry. Investments in the country are held
primarily in energy and agriculture, Curl said, adding that he
likes certain commodities such as copper and food stock.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is signaling the U.S. Federal
Reserve will probably add to its record stimulus should the
economy fail to make sufficient progress in creating jobs for
12.7 million unemployed Americans. The policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee yesterday extended its Operation Twist
program and will swap $267 billion in short-term securities with
longer-term debt through the end of 2012. Fed officials also
downgraded forecasts for growth and employment while noting
“significant downside risks” to the economy.  Temasek expects a protracted period of low economic growth
in Europe, Curl said, adding that its investments in the region
remain small.  Eight percent  of Temasek’s holdings as of March
are in Europe and the U.S., trailing assets in Singapore and
other parts of the Asia-Pacific region.  “We are still confident that the 70 percent of our
portfolio that’s in  Asia  will perform at a level in excess of
other geographies,” Curl said. Five years ago, the percentage
of investments would have been close to 80 percent, he said.  China Investments  Temasek, which holds stakes in China’s biggest banks, said
the nation has less policy ambiguities today than the U.S.,
citing policy and regulatory debates that have introduced
uncertainties over investments in the world’s biggest economy.
China’s banks remain useful and profitable proxies of economic
growth, he said.  The investment firm said last week it filed an application
to boost its quota for publicly traded securities on Chinese
exchanges to tap the nation’s long-term growth. Temasek spent
$2.3 billion investing in shares of Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. in April, and holds a 5.3 percent stake in the
Hong Kong-traded stock of the world’s biggest bank by market
value, according a statement on May 22.  Curl, once a candidate for CEO of Bank of America, is one
of four presidents at  Temasek . He joined the company in
September 2010 after retiring from the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank following a three-decade banking career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  