-- Emerging Stocks Drop Most in Three Weeks on China Data
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-21T21:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-2-weeks-on-china-data-fed.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped the
most in four weeks as data signaled China’s manufacturing in
June may contract for an eighth month and as  commodities 
slumped.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1.7 percent to
932.36 in  New York , the biggest decline since May 23. Brazil’s
 Bovespa (IBOV)  index sank 2.9 percent, led by  Brasil Foods  SA, the
world’s biggest poultry exporter, and  oil company  OGX Petroleo &
Gas Participacoes SA, as the S&P GSCI commodities gauge slid to
the lowest level since 2010. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank
to the lowest level since March 29. Indian shares gained as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded the nation’s equities.  A preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed China’s
manufacturing may shrink this month. Euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted for a fifth month in June,
suggesting the economy may fail to grow in the current quarter.
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s economic index signaled
the worst contraction in manufacturing in almost a year.  “This will be perceived as short-term negative for risky
assets, including global emerging markets,” Esther Law, a
London-based director of emerging-markets strategy at Societe
Generale SA, said in an e-mail. “Conditions of  China ’s
manufacturing sector, especially the small- and medium-sized
factories, continued to slip. The Fed just did the bare minimum
with simply an extension of the operation twist.”  China PMI  The 48.1 preliminary reading for Chinese PMI compares with
a final 48.4 for May. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. If
confirmed on July 2, it would equal the run of below-50 readings
from August 2008 to March 2009. A  composite index  based on a
survey of purchasing managers in both manufacturing and services
industries in the 17-nation euro area was stable at 46, the same
reading as in May, Markit said.  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index fell to minus
16.6 in June, the lowest level since August, from minus 5.8 the
previous month. Economists forecast the gauge would improve to
zero, the dividing line between growth and contraction,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  gauge has added 1.7 percent in
2012 and trades at a multiple of 10.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 11.9 for companies on the developed-nation index,
which has gained 2.1 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  All 10 industry groups on the MSCI gauge declined, with
energy and information technology leading the retreat. The S&P
GSCI commodities index sank 2.8 percent to the weakest since
October 2010.  Ruble Weakens  The ruble depreciated 1.3 percent versus the dollar as oil,
Russia’s biggest export earner, tumbled 4 percent to $78.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Oct. 4. The price is down 21 percent in 2012.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 1.8 percent in  Turkey ,
whose sovereign debt was upgraded to one level below investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday.  Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest listed lender, jumped 2.4
percent.  The country left its so-called interest rate corridor
unchanged as it seeks to support the lira and slow inflation.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  slid 1.6 percent, the steepest decline in
more than two weeks.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s second-
biggest maker of personal computers, tumbled 9.4 percent, the
most since February 2010, after China Times said the company
lowered its guidance for shipment growth this year.  Dongyue Group (189)  plunged 9.4 percent after the Chinese
chemical maker said its profit for the six months ending June 30
may decrease as the global economic slowdown cut demand for its
products.  Greek Review  Brasil Foods sank 5.9 percent as Brazil’s Bovespa retreated
the most in five weeks. OGX, the oil company controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , lost 5.6 percent to extend its decline
for June to 11 percent.  Shanghai’s Composite Index fell for a third day, losing 1.4
percent. The WIG20 Index dropped for a second day in Warsaw,
losing 0.7 percent.  South Korean’s Kospi Index and Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  fell
0.8 percent as the two nations failed to win an upgrade to
developed market status from MSCI Inc.  SK Innovation Co. (096770) , South
Korea’s largest crude oil refiner, dropped 3.3 percent as
 emerging-market energy stocks  fell the most in a month.  Greece ’s stock market was put under review for
reclassification to emerging markets by MSCI, a change that
would make the European Union nation the first advanced country
to be cut to developing status. Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates will keep their frontier classification, MSCI said in a
statement yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 383, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 