-- EMI Purchase Expands Music Distribution, Grainge Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-21T18:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/emi-purchase-expands-music-distribution-grainge-says.html
Universal Music Group ’s chief
executive officer said its bid for EMI Group’s recorded music
business would expand digital distribution of songs. Opponents
of the deal said the combination would lead to fewer consumer
choices.  Universal, owned by  Vivendi SA (VIV) , wants to boost EMI’s sales
by finding new methods of selling its music on the Internet,
said Lucian Grainge, Universal’s chairman and chief executive
officer, in a statement prepared for a Senate hearing today.  Universal is “embracing distribution via the broad range
of emerging technologies,” Grainge said in the statement. “I
look forward to reinvigorating EMI’s labels with Universal’s
resources, expertise and innovation.”  Music industry executives, including opponents of the deal,
are scheduled to answer questions today from the Senate
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee about the proposed acquisition.
The Federal Trade Commission is investigating the proposed
purchase of London-based EMI for antitrust violations, and
Congress plays no formal role in that decision.  Universal is seeking to buy EMI’s record labels, home to
Katy Perry and Coldplay, for 1.2 billion pounds ($1.88 billion).
The combined company would control 41 percent of the recorded
music market, according to  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based
consumer group that opposes the deal.  A combined Universal-EMI would have the power to negotiate
higher royalty rates from digital distributors, hurt
distributors by withholding music, and increase consumer prices,
said Edgar Bronfman Jr., director of Warner Music Group Corp.,
in a statement prepared for the hearing.  “Because of the way digital rights are negotiated, one
firm, Universal/EMI, would be in a position to pick winners and
losers among digital music services,” Bronfman said.  Universal said on June 19 it received an antitrust
complaint on the deal from European Union regulators. The
European regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on the
planned acquisition.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  