-- Lend Lease Signs Westpac, KPMG as First Barangaroo Tenants
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-22T06:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/lend-lease-signs-up-westpac-kpmg-as-first-tenants-at-barangaroo.html
Lend Lease  Group, Australia’s
biggest property developer, signed agreements with  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  KPMG  LLP to lease 71 percent of space in the
first two office towers at its Barangaroo South financial
precinct in Sydney.  Westpac, Australia’s second-biggest lender, has agreed to
take about 70 percent of the space in the first tower, Sydney-
based Lend Lease said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange. Accounting firm KPMG has signed a pact to lease area
in the second tower, conditional on funding, with Lend Lease
will also moving into the building, it said.  “This is the news everyone was waiting for in the
marketplace, and it’s great that they’ve made the commitment,”
said  John White , who helps oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based
managing director for Asia-Pacific public real estate securities
at investment firm Heitman International Securities Ltd. “The
capital partners would like to lock away as much of the risk as
possible. Now they’ve done that.”  Lend Lease began work on the A$6 billion ($6 billion)
redevelopment in Sydney’s center late last year, in its bid to
create a new financial hub for the city. The company, which will
invest 25 percent of the equity in the two towers, is now in
exclusive due diligence with potential capital partners on
funding the rest, it said today.  Lend Lease  shares  rose 0.3 percent to A$7.28 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trading in Sydney. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) 
lost 1 percent.  Largest Deals  The agreement will allow Westpac to consolidate its nine
sites across Sydney into two locations -- its existing head
office on Kent Street and the new building -- the bank said in a
separate statement. Lend Lease will buy two buildings from
Westpac in Sydney, it said.  The groups will move into the buildings between mid-2015
and early 2016, they said. They didn’t disclose terms of the
agreements.  Lend Lease’s focus on selling assets to fund new projects
should provide part of the required funding for the Barangaroo
development over the next two years, Moody’s Investors Service
senior vice president Maurice O’Connell said in a note today.  The pacts are “ Australia ’s largest ever commercial leasing
commitment for a single development,” Lend Lease Managing
Director Steve McCann said in the statement. “Our original
assessment required only one commercial tower to be delivered in
the first phase of the project, so we are very pleased to have
leased two towers concurrently.”  Empty Offices  Sydney’s central business district saw an increase in
vacancy rate to 9.6 percent in January from 9.3 percent in July
2011 as more than 80,000 square meters (861,113 square feet) of
new space was added to the market amid slower take-up, property
broker Colliers International said in a  report  on the industry’s
performance in the first half.  Lend Lease’s tenancy agreements could have negative
implications for groups including  Commonwealth Property Office
Fund (CPA)  and  Dexus Property Group (DXS) , which own the buildings KPMG,
Westpac and Lend Lease would vacate as they move into
Barangaroo, Heitman’s White said.  Commonwealth Property shares climbed 1 percent to A$1.01,
while Dexus was unchanged at 93 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  