-- Energy Bill to Boost U.S. Output Passes House, May Die in Senate
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-21T17:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/energy-bill-to-boost-u-s-output-passes-house-may-die-in-senate.html
The Republican-led U.S. House passed
legislation seeking to increase oil production and stall
Environmental Protection Agency rules, sending the measure to
the Senate where Democrats probably will let the bill die.  The measure, which passed today by 248-163 vote, would
require the U.S. to develop a plan to meet projected demand for
energy, establish a federal review board to examine costs of EPA
regulations and streamline the drilling permit process. It also
requires the president to allow more U.S. drilling if oil is
released from the strategic oil stockpile.  While the legislation is unlikely to win in the Senate led
by Democrats, the vote today fueled the debate over  energy
policy  and jobs that is an issue in the campaign between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney . Obama’s
advisers have recommended a veto of the bill, if it is passed.  “This nation can increase domestic energy supplies, lower
future prices at the pump, and create many more jobs,” by
passing the bill, Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, said yesterday during debate.  The Obama administration said the bill would “undermine
the nation’s energy security,” weaken environmental protections
and diminish the ability of the public to influence resource
decisions.  Obama’s advisers would encourage a veto should the measure
pass Congress, the administration said in a June 19 statement.  House, Senate  The two parties haven’t been able to agree on energy
legislation.  House Republicans have previously adopted measures designed
to boost oil production. Senate Democrats have instead sought to
repeal about $24 billion in tax breaks to the five largest  oil
companies  operating in the U.S.  “My belief is, have a debate,” Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of California, the third-ranking Republican in the
House, said yesterday at Washington forum. “If they don’t like
our idea, then what’s your idea?”  Democrats said the bill would endanger public health by
blocking anti-pollution regulations, and was a giveaway to oil
companies.  “This bill is the culmination of the Republican oil-above-
all agenda,” Massachusetts Representative  Edward Markey , the
top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, said
during debate yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  