-- EPA’s Jackson Starts New Waste to Water Site for Cities
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-21T12:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/epa-s-jackson-starts-new-waste-to-water-site-for-cities.html
City officials from around the world
will be able to share their waste, sewage and storm water
programs on a new website set up by the U.S. and Brazil, U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson  said.  The site www.epa.gov/jius is designed to link municipal
officials from Reno to Rio de Janeiro so that they can tell each
other what methods they’re using to bundle small municipal
projects into larger portfolios that generate interest from
investors, Jackson said in an interview in the Brazilian city.  “Most mayors are struggling already to try to finance
their public projects,” Jackson said. “One of the things we
found when we had people come from Reno to visit was there was
so much going on but so little opportunity for city leaders and
policymakers maybe just under the mayor’s level to really share
what works and what didn’t work.”  The intention is to make the site available to municipal
officials beyond just the U.S. and  Brazil  to help spark ideas in
towns and cities worldwide that can facilitate local projects,
Jackson said. She cited the example of Philadelphia, where
financial incentives were put in place to encourage people to
deal with storm water run-off.  “The challenge is to look at small projects which can have
an impact in the aggregate,” Jackson said. “Cities are places
where you can aggregate things quite easily. There are people,
there is critical mass, so how do you bundle those things? The
platform is designed to show cities which have figured out how
to do it.”  About 50,000 delegates from 190 countries, including 130
world leaders, are gathered in Rio for the Rio+20 United Nations
conference on sustainable development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  Rio de Janeiro  at  amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at  landberg@bloomberg.net . 