-- Merkel’s Next Step: Shock and Awe
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/merkel-s-next-step-shock-and-awe.html
Ahead of meetings of European Union
leaders in the coming week, investors are looking for any sign
of movement toward a bolder policy on the economic crisis.
Expectations are inching higher -- which is good, because
Europe’s leaders need pushing, and they know it would be risky
to disappoint the markets again.  This time, though, doing the minimum is not good enough.
For once, Europe needs to exceed expectations.  The question, of course, is whether Germany will go along.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  is hemmed in. She thinks more help for
the European Union’s distressed sovereign borrowers would put an
unfair burden on German taxpayers. She also has to follow strict
German rules regarding changes in the EU’s terms of membership.
The lower house of the German parliament has only just agreed to
the fiscal pact that EU leaders adopted weeks ago. With the
upper house still to have its say, Merkel faces demands from
abroad for new and more radical measures.  There are signs of movement nonetheless, and for this give
the Group of 20 -- often derided as a pointless talking-shop --
some credit. At their meeting this week in Los Cabos,  Mexico ,
leaders of the world’s biggest economies pressed Europe to act
more forcefully. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  subtly
increased the pressure on Germany. Europe is trying to make
sure, he said, that “countries undertaking the reforms, like
Spain and  Italy , can borrow at sustainable  interest rates .”
That’s exactly what they ought to be doing, but they still
disagree about goals and methods.  Bailout Funds  Speculation centers on a new proposal by Italy’s prime
minister,  Mario Monti . He wants the bailout vehicles -- the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility and its
permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism,
envisioned as a kind of European  International Monetary Fund  --
to start buying the bonds of Spain and Italy. Those countries’
financing difficulties have lately been most acute. Merkel hates
the idea, but this week stopped short of ruling it out. That’s
progress by EU standards.  The danger, though, is that Europe will again resort to
reluctant half-measures and fail to get on top of the problem.
As things stand, the combined EFSF and ESM aren’t up to what’s
being suggested. With some funds already committed and rules
controlling how much they can lend to whom and when, their
usable short-term capacity is less than the ESM’s nominal 500
billion euros.  This effort won’t be seen as serious, let alone adequate,
unless at least a trillion euros are on hand. Indeed, setting
any upper limit on the resources available risks neutralizing
the initiative. To stabilize  Europe ’s economies, the EU has to
surprise the markets with a newfound clarity of purpose. No more
half-measures. It’s time for shock and awe.  Yes, that’s a lot of money, but if the bailout fund is big
enough, it needn’t be used. By pooling their collective
firepower behind sovereigns and banks, Europe’s governments
would be giving investors the confidence to provide most of the
necessary loans and capital themselves, as happened in 2009 with
U.S. banks, when the government guaranteed their
recapitalization.  The most obvious way to achieve this would be to start
issuing jointly guaranteed euro bonds. We’ve long been in favor,
but this approach looks especially difficult politically. It’s
explicit “fiscal union,” which  Germany  has said can’t happen
without new moves toward political union -- something Europe
doesn’t want and might take months or years to negotiate anyway.  A faster approach would be to have the European Central
Bank stand behind an enlarged role for the ESM, which might
first need to be turned into a “bank” with the ability to borrow
from the ECB. In effect, this would commit unlimited euros to
the ESM’s operations. It also would make the ECB lender of last
resort to the EU’s sovereign borrowers, a step we have been
advocating for months.  Fiscal Union  In a way, that’s fiscal union, too, albeit lightly
disguised. Here’s the balance Europe has to strike: Find a line
of retreat for Merkel that does not amount to humiliating
defeat, and at the same time tells markets that the rules have
changed. An ECB-backed ESM could be the way.  If Merkel agrees to stronger measures, she will want to
assure Germany that the new approach is consistent with the old
one, nothing important has changed and no vital principle of
fiscal responsibility has been discarded. This kind of rhetoric,
signaling hesitation and lack of resolve, is self-defeating. Yet
some of it will be politically necessary and will have to be
endured.  Recognizing the danger not just to its own economic
prospects, but also to the rest of the world economy, the EU
needs to act boldly -- and have investors understand that’s what
it’s doing. Merkel has our sympathy. She faces an enormous
political challenge. For all our sakes she must rise to it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies ;  Jonathan Alter  on  Republican voter-suppression
efforts ; Stephen L. Carter on the  Supreme Court’s legitimacy ;
William Pesek on  Japan’s debt and nuclear power plants ;  Jonathan
Weil  on  JPMorgan gains  that offset its trading loss; Carl Pope
on bringing  clean energy innovation  to the global poor;
Christopher Swift on  defeating al-Qaeda in Yemen .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 