-- Erotic Nudes, Satyrs Frolic in Philadelphia Exhibit
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/erotic-nudes-satyrs-frolic-in-philadelphia-exhibit.html
The mythic Greek valley Arcadia, a
harmonic realm balancing dignity with desire, is an enduring
source for artists and the subject of a pleasurable exhibition,
“Gauguin, Cezanne, Matisse: Visions of Arcadia,” at the
 Philadelphia Museum of Art .  At the entrance to the show, which opened yesterday, is a
long, narrow, light-green hallway that functions like an
intimate, shaded glen.  An erotic reverie of poetry and flesh, the passageway is
rich with illustrated verse by Stephane Mallarme and Virgil as
well as a bounty of small works -- frolicking nudes, gods,
goddesses, bathers, nymphs and satyrs.  Here, lovers entwine and tussle, fauns eat grapes and
prance, and a Matisse woman’s dangling hair spreads like
tentacles. Narcissus listens to the laments of Echo in a 19th-
century bronze copy of an ancient Roman original.  In one shimmering painting, Cezanne’s female nudes -- arms
flown in abandon -- bathe at a waterfall with animalistic
fervor. Sculptor  Henry Moore , who once owned the picture,
referred to it as “small” yet “monumental” and likened one
woman’s strong, broad back to that of a gorilla.  This heated paradise is merely a springtime prelude that
opens as if into a heady, summer clearing.  Wild Colors  Hot, ruddy nudes by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, wild-colored
Fauvist works by Matisse and Andre Derain, and Seurat’s
twinkling bits of light all heighten awareness and excitement.  Maillol’s neoclassical, life-size, standing “Nymphs”
(1930-38) and plumb, bronze “Pomona” (1910) -- her rotund
breasts and curly locks like ripe apples -- beckon us onward.  During the 19th century, when Western religion and
mythology were waning as artistic sources, Corot mythologized
trees. His work was so closely linked to Arcadian themes that he
was said to have been “nursed on the laps of nymphs.”  His 8-foot-tall pastoral masterpiece “Silenus” (1838)
explores Virgil’s sixth “Eclogue” (the “Song of Silenus”).
Silenus was the tutor of the wine god, Dionysus. Appropriately
drunk, ecstatic and reclining, he is restrained with grapevines
by lusty nymphs.  Corot’s works are paired with the serenity and calm of
Pierre Puvis de Chavannes. His classical landscapes “Peace”
(1867) and “Summer” (1891), in bleached, marble creams and
misty blues and greens, look on the well-worn remnants of
Antiquity with a reverent eye that reawakens the past without
devolving into nostalgia.  Puvis de Chavannes’s tranquil settings and muted palette
influenced Picasso, whose Rose-period works are also on view.  Fleshy Tones  Poussin, who is represented by “Le Grand Bacchanal (The
Andrians)” (c. 1627), is the show’s cornerstone. He established
the neoclassical zenith for landscape and especially Arcadian
themes. His glistening blues, reds, oranges and greens, and the
various flesh and earth tones, convey a range of emotions.  “Le Grand Bacchanal,” at the heart of the exhibition,
shares the grand gallery with Gauguin’s large tropical paradise
“Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We Going?”
(1897-98), Cezanne’s monumental “The Large Bathers” (1900-06),
Matisse’s “Bathers by a River” (1909-17) and Henri Rousseau’s
fantastical “The Dream” (1910), a peaceable kingdom in which a
reclining nude cohabitates with lions.  Near these masterpieces is Robert Delaunay’s abstract
painting “The City of Paris” (1910-12). It combines Modernism
and Antiquity, the Eiffel Tower and the Three Graces, the City
of Light and the light of Arcadia. Everything is atomized,
merged -- equally present.  These great paintings approach the show’s theme sometimes
directly, sometimes loosely. Seeing them together and in
conversation is a once-in-a-lifetime event.  In “Visions of Arcadia,” where Modernism feeds on
Antiquity, we are reminded that our ancient mythologies continue
to be a vital source. Arcadia, as much a state of mind as a
subject for art, has never left us.  “Gauguin, Cezanne, Matisse: Visions of Arcadia” is at the
Philadelphia Museum of Art through Sept. 3. Information:
http:www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  tech  and  car  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 