-- LeRoy Neiman, Painter of Athletes and Celebrities, Dies at 91
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-06-21T02:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/leroy-neiman-painter-of-athletes-and-celebrities-dies-at-91.html
LeRoy Neiman, the flamboyantly
mustachioed painter whose vivid portraits of athletes and
celebrities made him one of the best-known and most commercially
successful American artists, has died. He was 91.  He died yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported, citing
his publicist, Gail Parenteau. No cause of death was reported.
The New York Post said in April 2010 that a vascular problem had
forced the amputation of Neiman’s right leg.  Though Neiman never won acclaim among experts and critics,
and entire books on 20th-century art don’t mention his name, his
post-impressionist figurative paintings, sold in quantity as
serigraphs, lithographs and posters, delivered art to a mass
audience.  For Neiman, the standard framed painting was just one of
many possible media. He made drawings and portraits for
sporting-event programs, Playboy magazine and Wheaties boxes, as
well as huge public  murals  such as the 56-foot (17 meters)
“Summertime Along Indiana Dunes” inside the Mercantile
National Bank in Hammond,  Indiana .  Among his lasting creations was the Femlin -- a combination
of the words female and gremlin -- that has appeared for decades
on Playboy’s joke page in long gloves, stockings, heels, and
nothing else.  Though interested in all types of leisure activities,
Neiman was drawn most intently to athletic events.  ‘Color and Movement’  Sports, he wrote in 1975, “is all color and movement, a
world of numbers, flags and geometric surfaces. It is a universe
of green, from the gaming tables to the gridiron.”  Neiman drew and painted at six Olympic Games, had cameo
roles in three “Rocky” movies and saw his works displayed in
the baseball, basketball, football, boxing and tennis halls of
fame.  His 1969 “ Le Mans ” -- a color-splashed take on the French
auto race -- drew $107,550 at a 2003 Christie’s auction, the top
price ever paid for one of his paintings, according to sale
tracker Artnet AG.  Neiman’s colorful, representational style and use of
celebrity subjects gave him broad appeal among Americans. He
combined the real-life subject matter of the Ashcan School with
the rapid brushwork of abstract expressionism. Like Jackson
Pollack, he used free-flowing enamel house paint to imbue his
paintings with a sense of motion.  Sinatra, Secretariat  His many subjects over the years included  Martin Luther
King Jr ., the Beatles,  Leonard Bernstein , Rudolf Nureyev,
 Muhammad Ali ,  Frank Sinatra ,  Arnold Palmer , Pele and the
racehorse Secretariat, plus strippers, stock traders and black-
tied waiters at work in their various places of business.  A globetrotting celebrity in his own right, Neiman was
often  photographed  at sporting events in a white suit with a
cigar in one hand, his handlebar mustache impeccably groomed. He
worked with television networks so that his sketching was seen
live, in progress, by viewers.  He said his mission in art was “to investigate life’s
social strata from the workman to the multimillionaire.” One
time he agreed to give a painting to a plumber as payment for
the installation of a sink: “Fair exchange, my art for his.”  Art critic  Robert Hughes , in a 1982 article in the New York
Review of Books, called Neiman the second-most famous artist in
the U.S., behind Andrew Wyeth and ahead of  Andy Warhol .  Struck Chord  That seeming compliment came with a barbed explanation:
“millions of people watch sports programs, read Playboy, and
will take any amount of glib abstract-expressionist slather as
long as it adorns a recognizable and pert pair of jugs.”  Neiman professed to be unconcerned about criticism. “I
struck a chord. History will rate me with Andy Warhol,  Norman
Rockwell  and  Walt Disney ,” he said in a 1995 interview with the
New York Times.  “I’ve got the public,” he told the Associated Press in
2007. “I don’t care about the critics.”  LeRoy Neiman was born on June 8, 1921, in  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, though he often put his year of birth as 1927. He
joked that he had four important prerequisites for an artist:
starting life in poverty, coming from a broken home, dropping
out of high school and having an undistinguished military
career.  He was a young boy when his father, Charles Runquist, a
laborer, left his mother, Lydia Serline. Neiman would
subsequently take the last name of one of his stepfathers. Art
and sports, particularly boxing, filled his boyhood days.  Grocer’s Window  He used pen and ink to tattoo the arms of his classmates.
At age 12, he began drawing pictures of turkeys, fruit and  beer
bottles , along with their prices, on the window of a local
grocery store. In high school he provided the artwork for
posters advertising football games and dances.  Neiman enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1942 and spent three
years in Europe. A cook, he used his spare time to paint murals
in mess halls. He then worked on sets and murals for American
Red Cross recreational facilities in Germany.  Back home in 1946, Neiman embarked on formal art training,
first at the St. Paul Art Center and then, thanks to the GI
Bill, at the Art Institute of Chicago, where he began teaching
figure drawing and fashion illustration. He provided drawings
for fashion ads that appeared in magazines such as Vogue,
Harpers Bazaar and Glamour.  Working as an illustrator at the Chicago department store
Carson Pirie Scott, Neiman made two acquaintances that would
shape his life. One was Janet Byrne, whom he would marry in
1957. He also became friends with an advertising copywriter
named  Hugh Hefner .  Role at Playboy  When Hefner started Playboy in 1954, he recruited Neiman to
illustrate a story. That kicked off a long and fruitful
affiliation. Beginning in 1958 Neiman wrote and illustrated the
Playboy feature “Man at His Leisure,” for which he journeyed
to sporting and social events around the world.  Neiman attended his first Olympics in 1960 at Squaw Valley,
California, spent two years in Paris starting in 1961, then
settled in New York.  The New York Jets football team made Neiman its artist-in-
residence from 1968 to 1970, and he roamed the locker room and
sidelines as  Joe Namath  led the underdog team to its 1969
championship. On scene at the  Super Bowl , Neiman painted
“Handoff -- Super Bowl III,” which  captured  running back Matt
Snell taking a handoff from Namath on the way to the game’s
first touchdown.  Ali-Frazier  Neiman created the poster and program for the 1971
heavyweight fight between Ali and  Joe Frazier  at  New York ’s
Madison Square Garden. Frazier won what was billed as “the
fight of the century,” though Ali would triumph in two
rematches.  A door to commercial success opened in the 1960s when
Armand Hammer, the wealthy oil magnate and art collector, began
dealing Neiman’s paintings through his Hammer Galleries in New
York. In 1975 the Hammer family created Knoedler Publishing to
market Neiman’s serigraphs, etchings, books and posters.  In 1981 Neiman painted actor  Sylvester Stallone  as Rocky
Balboa, the blue-collar underdog fighter introduced in the hit
movie “ Rocky ” (1976). The painting appeared in “ Rocky III ”
(1982), as did Neiman himself, as a ring announcer. He showed up
again in “Rocky IV” and “Rocky V.”  Donated Money  Beginning in the 1990s, Neiman took the matter of his
legacy into his own hands. He and his wife donated $6 million to
Columbia University’s School of the Arts in 1996 to create the
LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies, and $1 million in 1998 to
create the LeRoy Neiman Center for the Study of American Society
and Culture at the University of California-Los Angeles. In 2005
Neiman donated his papers to the Smithsonian Institution in
Washington.  An effort by civic leaders in St. Paul to create a LeRoy
Neiman Museum foundered in 1997 when fundraising fell short of
goals.  After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, Neiman made a
painting of a firefighter’s helmet. At auction, it raised
$24,000 for a charity run by the New York City Fire Department.  Neiman and his wife, who celebrated their 50th anniversary
in 2007, made their home for several decades at New York’s
landmark  Hotel des Artistes  building near Central Park. Neiman
also had his studio there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  