-- Manufacturing Slump Deepens From Euro Area to China
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-21T09:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/euro-area-manufacturing-services-output-contracted-in-june-1-.html
Euro-area manufacturing output
shrank at the fastest pace in three years in June and a Chinese
output gauge indicated contraction as  Europe ’s worsening fiscal
crisis clouded global economic-growth prospects.  A gauge of euro-region manufacturing fell to 44.8 from 45.1
in May, London-based Markit Economics said today in an initial
estimate. That’s the lowest in 36 months. The preliminary
reading was 48.1 for a Chinese purchasing managers’ index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The euro area’s turmoil is undermining global growth by
eroding confidence of investors and consumers as companies step
up job cuts. Manufacturing in the U.S. probably expanded at a
weaker pace in June, a Bloomberg News survey shows. While
Greece’s Antonis Samaras was sworn in as prime minister with a
coalition that will seek relief from austerity measures, Group
of 20 leaders this week pushed Europe to step up measures that
might contain the crisis.  “No significant recovery can be expected as long as the
future of the  euro zone  remains in doubt,” said Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Group in Brussels. “If anything,
today’s figure can serve as a wake-up call for European leaders
that decisive action is badly needed.”  The euro has declined 4 percent against the dollar over the
past two months as the worsening debt turmoil forced Spain to
seek external aid for its banks. The single currency traded at
$1.2679 at 11:47 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.2 percent on the day.  Below-50 Readings  A euro-area  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both the services and manufacturing industries held
at 46, the same reading as in May, Markit said today. Economists
had forecast a drop to 45.5, the median of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. The services gauge rose to 46.8
from 46.7.  In China, if confirmed on July 2, the gauge would be at the
lowest since November 2011 and equal the run of below-50
readings from August 2008 to March 2009.  Euro-region finance ministers are meeting in Luxembourg
today to discuss the latest developments in the debt crisis.
 Spain  may seek aid of as much as 100 billion euros ($127
billion) for its banking industry, making it the fourth euro-
area nation to ask for a bailout.  ‘Heightened Problems’  In Greece, Samaras is set to announce the members of his
government today after securing agreement from the country’s
political leaders on a coalition that will seek relief from
austerity measures tied to international loans.  With governments across Europe stepping up spending cuts to
plug budget gaps, the economic slump may deepen. European
 economic confidence  dropped for a second month in May and
unemployment held at 11 percent in April, a record high. German
investor sentiment fell the most in 14 years in June, suggesting
Europe’s largest economy is faltering.  The euro area “is having to cope with a serious tightening
of fiscal policy in many countries, markedly rising
unemployment, squeezed consumer purchasing power, tight credit
conditions and muted global growth that is limiting export
orders,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . “The heightened problems in  Greece 
and Spain are magnifying the problems by weighing on already
weak and fragile business and  consumer confidence .”  Job Cuts  A gauge of German manufacturing output dropped to 44.7 in
June from 45.2 in the previous month, Markit said today. The
French indicator rose to 45.3 from 44.7.  “With the exception of a marginal increase in January, the
survey has recorded continual contraction since last September,
with the rate of decline having gathered significant momentum in
the second quarter,” Markit said about the euro-area composite
index. “The second quarter has seen the steepest downturn for
three years.”  Danone SA (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt maker, earlier this
week cut its profitability forecast and said it faced “a swift
deterioration in consumption in southern Europe that has proven
steeper than anticipated, especially in Spain.”  Fiat Spa (F) ,
Italy’s largest manufacturer, said on June 14 that it plans to
cut investment in Europe by 500 million euros ($635 million).  A recovery in Europe “depends on many factors,” Fiat
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said on June 14.
“First Greece, then the way in which the euro currency will
continue and what Europe will do to sustain growth.”  ‘Darker Outlook’  Euro-region gross domestic product probably dropped 0.6
percent in the second quarter, according to  Chris Williamson ,
chief economist at Markit. In the year’s first three months, the
area’s economy stalled.  “The downturn is gathering pace and spreading across the
region, with  Germany  on course for a marginal fall in GDP in the
second quarter, though far steeper declines are likely
elsewhere,” Williamson wrote in the statement. “Firms are
preparing for conditions to worsen in the coming months, with
the darker outlook often attributed to uncertainty caused by the
region’s ongoing economic and political crises.”  China ’s data today added to concerns that growth in  Asia  is
in danger as the world grapples with the continuing debt crisis
in Europe.  Japan  yesterday reported its first trade deficit with
the EU since the  Finance Ministry  began tracking data in 1979.
 Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said that Europe poses
the biggest risk as his nation’s economy returns to the path of
“moderate recovery.”  ECB Stance  The U.S. Federal Reserve said late yesterday it will expand
its program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt by
$267 billion through the end of the year in a bid to reduce
unemployment and protect the world’s largest economy.  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers at
factories probably fell to 54.4 in June from 54 in the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey. Markit will release the
preliminary report at 2:58 p.m. Brussels time today.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  and three
other policy makers were overruled in a push to expand the
bank’s bond-purchase program as a majority said more stimulus
was likely to be needed as risks from the euro crisis mounted.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 that
policy makers discussed cutting borrowing costs to a new record
low as risks to the economic outlook increased.  The ECB has “got plenty of bullets they can fire still,”
 Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview in London on June 19. “I
suspect they’re hoping to get the summit out of the way at the
end of the month. It’s kind of like ‘guys, show us your vision,
we play our role.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  