-- European Stocks Decline; Invensys Shares Drop
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-21T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/european-stock-index-futures-decline-shell-tnt-may-move.html
European stocks fell from their
highest level in five weeks as the  Federal Reserve  cut its
growth forecast for the  U.S. economy  and a survey indicated
China’s manufacturing industry may shrink for an eighth month.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  retreated as
commodity prices decreased.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  plunged 14 percent, its
largest retreat in five months, after saying it’s no longer in
talks with third parties.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.5 percent to 248.4 at
the close, after earlier climbing as much as 0.3 percent and
dropping as much as 0.8 percent. The benchmark measure has
 fallen 8.8 percent  from its high on March 16 amid concern that
 Greece  will have to leave the euro currency union.  “The mood of market participants is still characterized by
great uncertainty about future developments in Europe and the
slowdown in China,” said Stefan Angele, head of  investment
management  at Swiss & Global Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich,
where he helps oversee about 80 billion Swiss francs ($84
billion). “On a positive note, with the current mood, all
stocks have been pulled to the basement, even those companies
that are profitable. There are some real bargains out there.”  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 10.4 times estimated earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of shares
changing hands in companies listed on the gauge was 15 percent
lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Forecasts  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee yesterday
extended its Operation Twist program, which aims to reduce
borrowing costs. The Fed will swap $267 billion of short-term
securities with longer-term debt through the end of 2012.  Fed officials predicted growth of 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent this year, down from an April forecast of 2.4 percent to
2.9 percent. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said progress in the labor
market has slowed. That signaled the Fed may add to its stimulus
if the economy fails to create more jobs for 12.7 million
unemployed Americans.  A Labor Department report showed that initial  jobless
claims  decreased by 2,000 to 387,000 last week. That was more
than the  383,000 forecast by economists  surveyed by Bloomberg.  A release from the National Association of Realtors showed
that sales of previously owned houses in the U.S. fell in May.
Purchases dropped 1.5 percent to a 4.55 million annual rate last
month. That missed the  median forecast  of 74 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News for a 4.57 million pace.  Chinese Manufacturing  In  China , a purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics gave a preliminary reading of 48.1 for
June, indicating that manufacturing in the world’s second-
largest economy will shrink for an eighth month. Readings above
50 mean the industry expanded.  Greece’s new Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, named
Vassilios Rapanos, the chairman of the country’s biggest bank as
finance minister today. Samaras was sworn in as prime minister
yesterday, the country’s fourth premier since November, after
his New Democracy party won a June 17 election with almost 30
percent of the vote.  Index provider MSCI Inc. put Greece’s stock market under
 review  for reclassification as an emerging market yesterday.
That may make the country the first developed market in the
world to lose its status.  Luxembourg Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers meet in Luxembourg today to
discuss the currency zone’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a fifth month in June, suggesting the economy may fail to grow
in the current quarter.  A composite index  based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries in the 17-nation euro
area held at 46, the same reading as in May, London-based Markit
Economics said today. Economists had predicted a decline to
45.5, according to the  median of 15 estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Spain  sold more debt than planned just three days after the
country’s 10-year bond yields hit a euro-era record. The nation
sold 2.2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) of two-, three- and five-
year securities today, compared with a maximum target of 2
billion euros set for the auction.  National benchmark indexes dropped in 16 of the 18 western-
 European (SXXP)  markets.  France ’s CAC 40 decreased 0.4 percent.
 Germany ’s DAX sank 0.8 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 1
percent.  Miners Retreat  A gauge of European mining companies dropped for the first
time in a week as a global commodity benchmark declined to its
lowest level since 2010.  BHP Billiton , the  world’s biggest
mining company , fell 3 percent to 1,819 pence. Anglo American
lost 5.2 percent to 2,101 pence.  Invensys slumped 14 percent to 220 pence, its biggest
decline since Jan. 13, after the British software and meters
maker said it’s no longer in talks with Emerson Electric Co. or
other potential suitors.  BP Plc (BP/)  dropped 3.2 percent to 412.1 pence.  Europe’s second-
largest oil producer  bid the most for 43 leases to drill in the
 Gulf of Mexico  where two years ago its Macondo well exploded,
causing the world’s largest accidental crude spill.  Royal KPN NV slid 5.3 percent to 7.48 euros after
abandoning talks over a combination of its German business with
a rival, increasing the likelihood that  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil  SAB will succeed with an unsolicited 2.6 billion-euro bid
for a stake in the Dutch phone operator. America Movil held 8.7
percent of KPN as of yesterday.  Air France  Air France-KLM Group rallied 5.5 percent to 3.63 euros, its
highest price in more than a month, after announcing a plan to
eliminate more than 5,000 jobs, equivalent to 10 percent of
posts at the Air France unit.  Ashtead Group Plc (AHT) , a U.K. equipment-rental company with
most of its business in the U.S., rose 1.8 percent to 254.8
pence after the company said profit this year will probably
exceed its previous forecast.  Sorin SpA (SRN)  rallied 11 percent to 1.69 euros. Charterhouse
Capital Partners LLP approached the company’s shareholders about
buying the Italian maker of cardiovascular devices in a deal
that would value Sorin at about 960 million euros, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  