-- Euro Chiefs Spar on Greek, Spanish Aid
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-22T09:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/euro-chiefs-spar-on-greek-spanish-aid-in-summit-clash-preview.html
European finance ministers battled
over the strategy to contain the debt crisis, with creditor
countries resisting leniency for Greece and playing down market
concerns about the bailout of Spanish banks.  Lenders of 240 billion euros ($301 billion) to Greece
offered no sign of granting extra time for the newly installed
 Athens  government to meet deficit-cut targets. With  Spain  set to
request as much as 100 billion euros to rescue its teetering
banks, the officials quarreled over how to design a
recapitalization program that doesn’t scare investors away from
Spanish  government bonds .  “We still need progress on this issue,” French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told reporters late yesterday after a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers in  Luxembourg . The setup
of the Spanish package is so politically sensitive that it will
be decided by government leaders at a June 28-29 summit.  That summit, the 19th since Greece’s financial meltdown
rattled the euro, will try to resolve competing visions over how
to reshape the 17-nation economy, with  Germany  and its fiscally
disciplined neighbors unwilling to foist additional burdens on
their taxpayers.  Rome Meeting  A foretaste of that confrontation will come later today,
when German Chancellor Angela Merkel travels to  Rome  for crisis
talks with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and French President  Francois Hollande .
The configuration reflects the shifting alliances that have left
Merkel fighting increasingly on her own as concerns about
 Europe ’s economic health migrate from small countries on the
periphery to larger ones in the core.  A failure next week to craft a blueprint for a tighter
fiscal and banking union would trigger “progressively greater
speculative attacks” on Europe’s “weaker” economies, Monti
said in a joint interview with newspapers including Spain’s El
Pais and France’s Le Monde.  The risks for Germany, the fastest-growing of the bloc’s
larger economies, were conveyed by a report that business
confidence fell to the lowest level in more than two years in
June. A separate report put Italy’s  consumer confidence  at the
lowest since at least 1996.  Pressuring Merkel  Divisions over the debt-crisis response and the weaker-
than-forecast economic readouts weighed on European markets. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.7 percent at 9:05 a.m. in  London .  Monti, Hollande and Rajoy, custodians of 49 percent of the
9.8 trillion-euro single-currency-region economy, have
criticized Merkel’s emphasis on budget cutting and coolness
toward proposals to pool European  government borrowing  or bank-
 deposit insurance .  Moody’s yesterday downgraded Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse
Group AG and 13 other international banks, citing “risk of
outsized losses inherent to capital market activities.”  Spain is on the front lines after the government released
auditors’ estimates yesterday that its banks, reeling from the
aftereffects of the real-estate bubble, would need as much as 62
billion euros to withstand a worst-case economic scenario.  With a formal aid request due by June 25, a Spanish bid for
a higher sum may run into opposition from creditor countries,
since the extra money would amount to backdoor financing for the
government itself, an official involved in the talks said.  Bank Capital  No one expects an “instantaneous process” to sort Spain’s
banking needs, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
reporters as all 27 EU finance chiefs prepared to meet today.
“We have to establish a road map and the capital needs will be
analyzed in the coming days.”  Euro governments on June 9 budgeted as much as 100 billion
euros for a Spanish bank rescue, seeking to impress markets that
have doubted the piecemeal crisis-fighting approach. Spanish
bonds fell anyway amid investor concern that they would be
outranked by official loans in the event of default. Ten-year
Spanish yields have risen 45 basis points to 6.67 percent since
then.  The question of who has the right to be paid back first --
the  International Monetary Fund , European governments or private
bondholders -- has provoked controversy throughout the crisis. A
year ago, euro leaders ditched original plans to grant the
permanent bailout fund seniority on any loans to Greece, Ireland
and Portugal, the three countries then drawing on official aid.  Shift to ESM  Loans to Spain will start from the temporary rescue fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility, before being
“transferred” to the permanent fund once it is set up,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said. EFSF loans
have not enjoyed seniority.  Spain’s package will be finalized on July 9, the same date
that the permanent fund, the European Stability Mechanism, is
scheduled to go into operation. Its bond-seniority clause is
open to interpretation, based on a declaration by euro leaders
“that the ESM loans will enjoy preferred creditor status”
without a binding rule.  “This is not as important a question as it may seem,”
Juncker said. The temporary fund’s manager, Klaus Regling, said
the loans would increase Spain’s debt by only 10 percent of
gross domestic product, making the question of preferred status
“not quite as important as one gets the idea reading it every
day.”  The ministers’ message to  Greece ’s freshly minted
government was equally ambiguous. Juncker, the meeting’s
chairman, summed up the discussions without repeating the
indications of extended deadlines that he gave on the way in.  Respecting Targets  “There was no such message approved within the euro group,
that there should be any relaxing, rather that the present
targets should stay,” Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi
said.  Greece went seven months without a fully empowered
government, enduring two elections and dodging threats of euro
expulsion or departure until Antonis Samaras was sworn in as
prime minister on June 20. Yesterday’s cabinet appointments came
too late for new Finance Minister Vassilios Rapanos to fly to
the Luxembourg meeting. A caretaker minister, Giorgios Zanias,
attended instead.  Reforms stalled and the Greek privatization program was put
on hold. As a result, the country needs to make up for lost time,
and it would be “delusional” to bind Greece to the current
conditions, a European official told reporters in Brussels this
week.  The next step is for the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and IMF to review the terms with the Greek
government. Representatives of that “troika” will return to
Athens on June 25.  Greece’s three-party coalition will seek to roll back plans
to cut 150,000 public sector workers and reduce the  minimum wage 
by 22 percent, an official from one of the parties, the
Democratic Left, said yesterday in Athens.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Luxembourg  jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Luxembourg at  halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  