-- Evergrande Slumps on Short-Seller Report: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-21T08:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/evergrande-slumps-on-short-seller-report-hong-kong-mover.html
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
 China ’s second-biggest developer by sales, fell by the most
since September in Hong Kong trading after it was targeted in a
newsletter by short-seller Citron Research. Evergrande said
claims in the report were untrue.  The stock pared a record loss to end 11 percent lower at
HK$3.97 at the close. Directors of Evergrande noted a report
claiming the company “has used accounting tricks and bribes to
hide the fact that it is truly insolvent,” and said the
allegations are false, according to a statement sent during the
midday trading break.  The developer, one of the 114 companies that the government
inspected last year, provided inaccurate information on 6.4
billion yuan ($1 billion) of assets in its 2009 financial report,
overstated costs and underpaid taxes, the ministry of finance
said in a statement in October. The developer said the
irregularities came from its Guangzhou unit and they were
rectified in the 2010 statement.  Evergrande said its  cash flow  is sufficient and denied
Citron’s allegations that it has acquired land illegally, the
 Securities Times  reported today, citing Chairman Hui Ka Yan as
saying on an investor call. The company’s directors will consult
with lawyers, the report said, quoting Hui.  The Guangzhou, southern China-based developer bid 32,967
yuan per square meter (10.76 square feet) at an auction for land
in the city’s new financial district Zhujiang Xincheng this week,
said an Evergrande official, who asked not to be named because
of company policy. The price, based on the site’s buildable area,
was a record high for China’s southern business hub, the
official Xinhua news agency reported on June 19.  Yields Surge  The company will make a further clarification announcement
in due course, it said in the statement. Chief Financial Officer
Parry Tse couldn’t be reached on his office number, and the
company’s investor relations office didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail and eight phone calls seeking comment.  Yields on Evergrande’s 13 percent bonds due January 2015
surged as much as 548 basis points, or 5.48 percentage points,
to 19 percent in  Hong Kong , according to prices from Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc. The bonds were trading at 17.3 percent at
4:23 p.m., the data show.  Wagers betting on declines in shares of Evergrande soared
to the highest level on record before the Citron report today
triggered a 20 percent slump in the stock, the most since the
shares started trading in 2009. Short interest as a percentage
of shares outstanding rose to 6.74 on June 19, according to the
most recent data compiled by  Data Explorers . Short sellers
borrow securities with a view to sell them, expecting to be able
to buy them back more cheaply in the future.  Cash Shortage  Cash-strapped Chinese developers have been reluctant to buy
land after government curbs introduced since 2010 to prevent a
property bubble tightened credit, draining liquidity. The cash
ratio, a measure of liquidity for developers, fell to the lowest
since 2008 as of December, according to data on 146 listed
builders in China and Hong Kong compiled by Bloomberg.  Evergrande posted contracted sales of 10.4 billion  yuan  in
May, a record single month for the developer, it said in an e-
mailed statement on June 11.  The report was posted on Citron’s website yesterday. The
research firm gives its address as a post office box in  Beverly
Hills ,  California . They didn’t provide a phone number on the
website. There was no immediate reply to a message left via the
website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  