-- Ex-Engineer’s China Technology Transfer Conviction Upheld
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-06-21T18:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/ex-engineer-s-china-technology-transfer-conviction-upheld.html
The conviction of Chi Mak, an ex-
senior engineer at an  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  unit, for
trying to give U.S. defense technology to  China  was upheld by a
federal appeals court.  Mak, convicted of violating the Arms Export Control Act,
was sentenced to 24 years in prison. Prosecutors said he tried
to slip naval technology to China including encrypted documents
on making submarines quieter and handling shipboard power
disruptions.  Mak’s lawyers claimed the data were widely available and
Mak didn’t knowingly break the law. They asked the appeals court
to reverse his conviction, saying the trial judge kept jurors
from deciding on their own whether the material was in the
public domain and therefore legal to export without a license.  A three-judge appeals panel in  San Francisco  said today
that Mak was free to argue that the evidence didn’t support
prosecutors’ claim that he knew he was trying to export
technical data related to submarine technology.  “Even if Mak’s right to present a meaningful defense was
compromised, he could not show the requisite prejudice because
there was overwhelming evidence that he knew his actions were
illegal,” the judges concluded.  Kurt Mayer, Mak’s attorney, didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  Investigators found the material in 2005 encrypted on a
computer disk behind other, innocuous files in a jacket of
learn-English disks in family luggage. Relatives were trying to
board a flight from  Los Angeles  to China.  The case is U.S. v. Mak, 08-50148,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 