-- Exxon, Total, Melrose Vie for Black Sea Drilling in Bulgaria
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-06-21T14:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/exxon-total-melrose-vie-for-black-sea-drilling-in-bulgaria-2-.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Total SA (FP) , and
 Melrose Resources Plc (MRS)  are competing for a permit to explore for
natural gas in the deep waters of the  Black Sea (BKSA)  off the
Bulgarian coast as the country seeks to boost local output to
one third of consumption.  The winner of the tender will be selected at the end of
July and the contract will be signed in September, allowing the
company to start work by the end of the year, Energy, Economy
and Tourism Minister Delyan Dobrev told reporters in the
Bulgarian capital Sofia today. The exploration permit for the
Khan Asparuh block near the northern border with  Romania , is for
five years, including the initial drilling, he said.  “We have high hopes to discover significant volumes of
natural gas in the  Black Sea ,” Dobrev said. Preliminary
estimates show there may be natural gas deposits of 40 billion
cubic meters to 80 billion cubic meters, which would cover
Bulgaria’s consumption for the next 15 years to 20 years, he
said.  The Black Sea, which for 40 years divided the Soviet bloc
from U.S. ally Turkey, is now a frontier region, attracting
explorers from as far away as Brazil and Texas. The end of the
 Cold War , combined with record-high energy prices and
technological advances, has led  oil companies  to reconsider its
deep, unexplored waters.  Imports, Ban  Bulgaria now imports most of its gas from Russia. It’s
seeking to diversify its supply sources after a price dispute
between Ukraine and Russia caused an interruption in shipments
for two weeks in 2009.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s natural-gas export
monopoly, pumps 17.8 billion cubic meters a year to Turkey,
Greece and Macedonia via Bulgaria. About 3.5 billion cubic
meters of that is consumed by Bulgaria.  The cost of locally produced natural gas is 40 percent
cheaper than Russian imports, Dobrev said. Edinburgh-based
Melrose Resources started in 2010 producing gas at three blocks
in Bulgaria’s Black Sea shelf near the Kaliakra cape that
contain an estimated 3 billion cubic meters of gas, which covers
20 percent of the country’s consumption over six years.  Last year Melrose Resources produced 443 million cubic
meters of gas or 15 percent of consumption, he said.  Direct Petroleum  Direct Petroleum Exploration Inc., a Denver-based oil
producer, found a natural-gas deposit in Bulgaria estimated at 3
billion cubic meters, near the village of Deventsi close to the
northern city of Pleven, which will also provide about 15
percent of domestic consumption, Dobrev said.  Bulgaria banned hydraulic fracturing and imposed a 100
million-lev ($65 million) fine for offenders, thwarting  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ’s plans to explore for natural-gas deposits in the Balkan
country, which limits the country’s options to diversify
sources.  Work on an interconnecting pipeline with the natural-gas
grids of neighboring Romania will start in August, Dobrev said
and the link with Greece’s natural gas grid will be ready in
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  