-- F-1’s Ecclestone Says Gribkowsky Confession Won’t Wreck IPO
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-21T17:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/f-1-s-ecclestone-says-gribkowsky-confession-won-t-wreck-ipo.html
Formula One Chief Executive Officer
 Bernie Ecclestone  said he doesn’t expect to be charged in a
bribery case involving a $44 million payment to a former banker,
and the dispute won’t affect the sport’s planned initial public
offering.  Former Bayerische Landesbank Chief Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky yesterday confessed in a Munich court to charges he
took bribes from Ecclestone during the 2005 sale of the lender’s
stake in the series to CVC Capital Partners Ltd. Gribkowsky was
also charged with breach of trust and  tax evasion .  “I don’t know what they would charge me for,” Ecclestone
said in a phone interview today. “It’s not the bribing, it’s
the duty to the bank and tax evasion” that are the most
important issues, Ecclestone said.  He said he was “not at all” concerned the case would
disrupt Formula One’s planned IPO in  Singapore . Ecclestone said
June 1 he was confident that the share sale by CVC and other
shareholders would go ahead later this year when “the markets
have settled down.”  “If they were going to charge me they would have done it
at the same time” as Gribkowsky, Ecclestone said.  Gribkowsky, who clashed with Ecclestone over governance,
told the court Ecclestone wanted BayernLB out of the sport as
quickly as the bank wanted to exit.  ‘With Hindsight’  “With hindsight, I know now that I should have said no to
his demands,” Gribkowsky told the court.  Ecclestone, 81, testified in November that he was caught up
in a sophisticated shakedown and bribed Gribkowsky because he
feared the banker might tell U.K. tax authorities that he was
interfering with a family trust controlled by his then wife,
Slavica.  “The reason I paid him was that he was going to say
something that wasn’t true: I was a bit stupid,” Ecclestone
said.  Gribkowsky will probably get a prison term of no more than
9 years after his confession, Presiding Judge Peter Noll said at
the Munich Regional court yesterday. Previously, Gribkowsky had
denied the claims.  “He was offered a deal, he took the deal,” Ecclestone
said. “I don’t blame him for trying to do a deal to get his
sentence reduced. He could have got 12 to 14 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  