-- FAA Nominee Grilled by Senators on Whistle-Blowers, Rule Delays
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-21T15:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/faa-nominee-grilled-by-senators-on-whistle-blowers-rule-delays.html
The nominee to lead the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration was peppered with questions today about
delayed safety rules and why the FAA has more valid whistle-
blower complaints than other U.S. agencies.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, chastised Michael Huerta, the acting FAA administrator, at a confirmation hearing
for his answers on what the agency is doing to speed airline-
pilot training regulations.  “This is not an answer at all,” Rockefeller said of
Huerta’s vow to do everything possible to speed rules for new
simulator training.  Congress required that the rule be completed last year. The
FAA doesn’t expect it can finish until Oct. 21, 2013, according
to an agency website posting.  Rockefeller and other Senate Democrats said they support
Huerta’s nomination. Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington
Democrat and chairman of the committee’s aviation subcommittee,
said the FAA needs a permanent administrator.  “Not having an administrator sends the wrong message to
the  airline industry ,” Cantwell said.  Unlike most U.S. administration positions, which last only
as long as a president serves, the FAA administrator has a five-
year term. If Huerta wins Senate approval, he could serve
through the four-year term of whoever is elected in November.  Obama, Romney  Four years ago, senators blocked the nomination of another
acting FAA administrator, Bobby Sturgell. Sturgell, a
Republican, was opposed by Democrats.  Huerta, 56, has worked for both major presidential
candidates. He was managing director of the Salt Lake Olympic
Organizing Committee led by  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican nominee, before being named deputy FAA administrator
in June 2010.  He became acting administrator Dec. 5, 2011, after  Randy Babbitt ’s resignation following his arrest on drunk-driving
charges. Babbitt was later acquitted at trial.  While serving as deputy administrator, Huerta oversaw the
development of the agency’s NextGen air-traffic system, which
will replace radars with satellite navigation for tracking
aircraft. The agency estimates it will cost $42 billion and take
decades to complete.  Employee Complaints  The hearing comes about a month after the U.S. Office of
Special Counsel wrote to the White House and Congress raising
concerns about the number of whistle-blower complaints at the
agency.  The FAA has the highest rate of substantiated whistle-
blower complaints of any federal agency, according to data from
the special counsel office, which protects employees who raise
concerns about government wrongdoing.  In response to questions from Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson, a Texas Republican, Huerta said the agency had set
up an office devoted to handling whistle-blower complaints  “That has done a lot to create an environment and a quick
response,” Huerta said.  Delayed Rule  Family members of the victims in a 2009 crash near Buffalo
of a  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) ’s Colgan Air flight before the
hearing urged that senators ask Huerta why safety rules mandated
in the wake of the accident have been delayed, according to an
e-mailed statement. The crash killed 50 people.  The Flight 3407 Families want to see pilot training
standards revamped.  Huerta said that the agency received an unusually large
number of comments on its proposed changes. Analyzing those
comments led to the delay, Huerta said.  “Don’t talk to me about lots and lots of comments,”
Rockefeller said in response. “Everything is like that in
Washington.”  The committee hasn’t scheduled a vote on Huerta’s
nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  