-- Facebook’s 22% Rally Helps Stock Avoid Worst IPO Return in U.S.
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/facebook-s-22-rally-helps-stock-avoid-worst-ipo-return-in-u-s-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s 22 percent rally in
two weeks has helped the social-network operator avoid posting
the biggest slump among the largest U.S. initial public
offerings since the start of 2011.  Facebook, which set a record for technology companies by
raising $16 billion last month, has unveiled new products and
services after the shares tumbled to a low of $25.87 on June 5.
 PetroLogistics LP (PDH)  dropped 20.4 percent in its  first month  of
trading, or 3.1 percentage points more than Facebook, giving the
propylene maker the worst return among the 30 largest IPOs since
the beginning of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Concern Facebook was overvalued and that the company will
struggle to increase revenue fast enough pushed the stock down
as much as 32 percent from its IPO price of $38 on May 17. Since
the shares bottomed earlier this month, Facebook introduced a
real-time bidding platform to better target ads to consumers and
ComScore Inc. released research that showed marketing on the
social network is effective.  “Investors are starting to come around to see the
significant opportunity of the Facebook platform,” Victor Anthony, a New York-based analyst at Topeka Capital Markets
Inc., said in a telephone interview. He has a buy rating on the
stock. “It was a botched IPO process but ultimately, the
underwriters did their job. If the stock increasingly marches
up, all the concerns will be tapered down.”  Bigger Offering  Facebook fell 1 percent to $31.60 in  New York  yesterday,
near the $31.50 midpoint of the initial proposed price range.
The world’s biggest social-networking company and Morgan Stanley
faced criticism for increasing the number of shares to sell by
25 percent days before the offering and pushing the asking price
to a range of $34 to $38 from $28 to $35.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company’s initial trading
day was marred by delays, cancellations and mishandled orders.
 Robert Greifeld , the chief executive officer of New York-based
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., said “poor design” in software driving
IPO auctions caused the mishaps.  The IPO coincided with a retreat that erased almost $1
trillion from U.S. equities in May. Stocks in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 9.9 percent from April 2 through June 1
amid concern global growth will slow and  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen. The  benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks  has since risen
6.1 percent.  Facebook along with Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other underwriters were sued
after the IPO last month by investors who said they didn’t
publicly disclose lower revenue estimates before the share sale.
In April, Facebook reported first-quarter profit fell 12 percent
as sales growth slowed and marketing costs more than doubled.  ‘Exercise Caution’  “We’ll continue to exercise caution,”  Richard Greenfield ,
an analyst at BTIG LLC who has a neutral rating on the stock,
said in a phone interview. “The path to mobile monetization is
unclear. Brands are still learning to use the Facebook
platform.”  Facebook makes more than 80 percent of its  revenue from
advertising  targeted to members who access the site on
computers. In a filing ahead of its IPO, the company said
advertising sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with user growth as
more people access the site from mobile devices. Facebook didn’t
introduce a mobile ad service until this year.  The stock may get an additional boost in the next week as
the underwriters release their first  public reports  on the
company, according to  Martin Pyykkonen , a  Greenwood Village ,
Colorado-based analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. The probable
addition of Facebook’s shares to indexes run by Russell
Investments may also propel gains, he said.  Russell 1000  Facebook will join the  Russell 1000  Index, according to
BlackRock Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Investment Technology
Group Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. The addition will probably
prompt the purchase of 11.7 million shares by investors tracking
the gauge, Macquarie said on June 11. Seattle-based Russell will
post its final membership list for the measure of the biggest
U.S. companies on June 25.  Other Internet companies including  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Groupon
Inc. (GRPN)  declined after their IPOs. Zynga fell 7.8 percent in its
first month of trading, the fifth-biggest drop among the 30
largest U.S. IPOs since the start of 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Groupon, the Chicago-based daily coupon website,
dropped 4.8 percent.  “These companies are fairly new and investors are trying
to understand where the valuation should be,” said  Tom Taulli ,
who analyzes offerings for IPOPlaybook.com in  Newport Beach ,
 California . “Facebook has had a wake-up call. It realized it
needed to show to  Wall Street  it has a path to monetization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  