-- Facebook, Users Seek ‘Sponsored Story’ Lawsuit Accord Approval
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-21T19:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/facebook-users-seek-sponsored-story-lawsuit-accord-approval.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  and users of its
social-networking site asked a judge to approve a settlement of
a group lawsuit challenging a program that links subscribers’
likenesses to certain types of advertisements.  Facebook agreed to pay $10 million to be shared among
advocacy groups for children, consumers and electronic privacy,
according to the request for preliminary approval of the accord
filed yesterday in federal court in San Jose,  California .  The company also consented to revising its terms of usage
so users can more easily see when they’re being shown as
endorsers of products and games for which they clicked a
“like” button and so they can limit the display of their
content and interactions alongside what Facebook calls
“sponsored stories.”  The goal is “to provide Facebook members with the ability
to give informed consent to the use of their names and
likenesses in friend-endorsed advertising, so they can limit
being in such advertising if they so choose,” plaintiffs’
lawyer Robert Arns told the court in a companion filing.  Right of Publicity  An economist specializing in the right of publicity has
valued those protections at $103.2 million, Arns said.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for the  Menlo Park , California-
based company, declined to comment on the accord.  The site changes are to be made within six months of final
settlement approval and remain enforceable for two years,
according to court papers.  Facebook allegedly appropriated names, photographs and
identities of users to advertise products without their
permission, according to the users’ complaint. Its “sponsored
stories” were a “misleading advertising scheme” using
material posted by Facebook members on their profile pages, the
users claimed.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh has final say on the
accord. The proposed settlement class includes anyone in the
U.S. with a Facebook account whose name or likeness has been
displayed with a sponsored story.  Within five days of Koh’s final approval, the company is
required to pay Arns and the other plaintiffs’ lawyers fees and
costs not to exceed $10.3 million. The three class
representatives would each receive $12,500.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  