-- FCC TV Indecency Crackdown Limited by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-21T17:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/fcc-s-tv-indecency-policy-limited-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled that
Fox and ABC television stations can’t be punished for airing
profanity and nudity a decade ago, while it dodged broader
questions about the constitutionality of a federal crackdown on
broadcast indecency.  The justices unanimously  said  the Federal Communications
Commission didn’t give “fair notice” before it took action
against Fox Television Stations Inc. for allowing expletives on
awards shows in 2002 and 2003 and against ABC-affiliated
stations for showing a scene with a naked woman on the drama
“NYPD Blue” in 2003.  Today’s ruling nonetheless falls short of what the
broadcast industry sought. Broadcasters asked the court to
invalidate the FCC’s policy as being unconstitutionally vague
and to overturn decades-old rulings that subject over-the-air
programming to stricter rules than cable or satellite shows.  “The Supreme Court decided to punt on the opportunity to
issue a broad ruling on the constitutionality of the FCC
indecency policy,” said  Paul Smith , a Washington lawyer who
represented the  National Association of Broadcasters  in the
case. “The issue will be raised again as broadcasters will
continue to try to grapple with the FCC’s vague and inconsistent
enforcement regime.”  No New Cases  The FCC now must decide how vigorously to enforce its
rules, knowing that they may face new court challenges.
Broadcast indecency hasn’t been a priority for the commission
under Chairman  Julius Genachowski . The FCC hasn’t brought new
broadcast indecency cases since the Democrats took office in
2009, following two Republican chairmen.  Today’s ruling may affect the agency’s effort to levy a
$550,000 fine against  CBS Corp. (CBS)  for the split-second exposure of
singer  Janet Jackson ’s breast during the 2004 Super Bowl
halftime show.  The high court case concerned incidents at the Billboard
Music Awards, shown on Fox. At the 2002 show, Cher referred to
critics of her work by saying, “F--- ‘em. I still have a job
and they don’t.” A year later,  Nicole Richie  said, “Have you
ever tried to get cow s---out of a Prada purse? It’s not so f---
ing simple.”  The FCC concluded that the broadcasts violated its
indecency regulations, though the agency stopped short of
imposing fines.  $1.2 Million  In the “NYPD Blue” case, the FCC would have imposed
penalties totaling $1.2 million on more than 40 ABC-affiliated
stations. The disputed 2003 episode shows actress  Charlotte 
Ross’s buttocks as she disrobes for a shower and later a frontal
view, with her hands covering her breasts and pubic area, after
a young boy inadvertently walks in.  The FCC said in 2004 that it would begin punishing
broadcasters for fleeting expletives -- one-time utterances on
live shows. In his opinion for the court, Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said the 2004 policy couldn’t be applied to the Fox and
ABC shows because they were aired before the fleeting-expletive
rule was announced.  “The commission failed to give Fox or ABC fair notice
prior to the broadcasts in question that fleeting expletives and
momentary nudity could be found actionably indecent,” Kennedy
wrote. He said the court’s narrow reasoning meant it didn’t need
to “address the constitutionality of the current indecency
policy.”  Ginsburg, Sotomayor  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said she would have gone
further and overturned the 1978 ruling that let the FCC punish
broadcasters for violating decency standards. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  didn’t take part in the case.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and Walt Disney Co.’s ABC said they were
pleased by the ruling.  “The court recognized that the case has significant First
Amendment implications that require notice to be clearer,” Dan
Berger, a spokesman for Fox, said in an e-mailed statement.  The ruling shifts the focus back to the FCC, which now must
decide whether it wants to make televised indecency a priority.  “We are reviewing today’s decision, which appears to be
narrowly limited to procedural issues related to actions taken a
number of years ago,” Genachowski, the FCC chairman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Consistent with vital First Amendment
principles, the FCC will carry out Congress’s directive to
protect young TV viewers.”  Complaint Backlog  Robert McDowell, a Republican member of the Democrat-
dominated commission, said the agency should “get back to work
so that we can process the backlog of pending indecency
complaints -- which currently stands at just under 1.5 million
involving about 9,700 TV broadcasts.”  Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for the National Association of
Broadcasters, said in an e-mailed statement that “we don’t
believe that broadcast programming will change as a result of
today’s decision, given the expectation from viewers, listeners
and advertisers.”  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and CBS Corp.’s CBS joined ABC and Fox
in opposing the FCC indecency crackdown.  Federal law lets the FCC levy a $325,000 fine on each
station that airs indecent material between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m.  The FCC’s indecency policy was before the justices for the
second time in three years. In 2009 the court said on a 5-4 vote
that the agency had given a sufficient explanation to comply
with a law governing administrative agencies.  The case is FCC v. Fox Television Stations, 10-1293.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  