-- Fed’s Re-Twist May Lift Treasury Repurchase Agreement Rates
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-22T13:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/fed-s-re-twist-may-lift-treasury-repurchase-agreement-rates.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s plan to extend
its Operation Twist program through the end of the year may
drive rates for borrowing and lending Treasuries above the top
of the central bank’s target range.  Rates in the repurchase-agreement market have risen since
the Fed last year began swapping short-term debt for longer-term
Treasuries on its balance sheet to extend the average maturity
of its holdings and buoy economic growth by keeping long-term
borrowing cost low. ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker, projects that so-called general collateral overnight
Treasury  repo rates  will trade above 0.2 percent for all of
July, reaching as high as 0.27 percent at month-end. The rate
opened at 0.29 percent today.  The need for Treasury dealers to finance a  record  amount of
short-term Treasury debt on their balance sheets, amid purchases
of debt sold by the Fed, has created a glut of Treasuries in
repo, driving rates upward. This trend will continue as the Fed
sells and redeems $267 billion in debt with maturities of 3.25
years or less through year-end, according to primary dealers
ranging from Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc to Jefferies Group
Inc. Dealers use repos to finance holdings and boost leverage.  “If dealers continue to add to their already record
holdings of Treasuries, as the Fed continues Twist, GC repo
rates should grind higher,” said Jim Lee, head of U.S.
derivative strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The rise in repo rates is
clearly not a good thing as it increases dealers’ financing
costs.”  Dealer Holdings  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day through repos climbed to an over 10-month high of 0.275
percent on June 15, up from minus 0.001 percent on Dec. 30, a
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. general collateral finance
repo index shows. The measure rose to 0.203 percent yesterday.  As of June 13, the 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed  held  a record $73.3 billion of Treasury coupon
securities due in three years or less, up from $1.8 billion on
Oct. 5, Fed data show.  A repo typically involves the sale of U.S. government
securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held as
collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender.
Treasuries that can be borrowed at interest rates close to the
Fed’s target rate are called general collateral. Those in
highest demand have lower rates and are called “special.”  General Collateral  The DTCC index is a  weighted average  of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  The central bank said it would prolong the program,
originally scheduled to end this month, through the end of the
year to further reduce borrowing costs and lift growth,
according to a June 20 statement following a two-day meeting of
the  Federal Open Market Committee  in  Washington .  “There should be continued upward pressure on repo rates,
with possible periods of temporary increases above 25 basis
points” the top of the Fed’s target range, said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Nomura
Holdings Inc., a primary dealer. “This should catch market
attention and reduce investors doing carry trades in cash
Treasury products. If the money-market frictions become
permanent, it could start to push up the London interbank
offered rate.”  Carry Costs  Higher repo rates increase the so-called carry costs for
buyers of the debt. The 0.30 percent yield on the benchmark two-
year Treasury note was 14 basis points more than the overnight
general collateral repo rate. About a year ago, the two-year
yielded 47 basis points more. Carry costs, the rate of interest
earned from debt purchased less the cost of the funds borrowed
to buy them, rise as the gap narrows. The rate on a one-year
Treasury bill was 0.17 percent, about matching GC repo.  In the Twist through year-end, the Fed will purchase $267
in outright Treasuries and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, known as TIPS, with maturities of six to 30 years,
 according to  the Federal Reserve Bank of New York website. The
central bank will finance those purchases, which will leave the
size of its balance sheet unchanged, by redeeming or selling an
equivalent amount of short-term debt.  “Additional Fed Twist does pose a threat to causing repo
rates to move higher, but it’s not a given,” saidIra Jersey,
an  interest-rate  strategist at primary dealer Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York. “Dealer positions longer than three
years, which are beyond the scope of Twist, have increased $25
billion since early February, while holdings of coupon
securities shorter than three years have increased only $5
billion.”  Fed Funds  The FOMC has kept the main  interest rate  in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The three-month London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, which represents the rate at
which banks say it would cost to borrow from another, was  at 
0.46160 percent today, down from 0.46760 yesterday, according to
the British Bankers’ Association.  The rise in overnight repo rates has caused the federal
funds rate to drift higher, even as the central bank has
extended their commitment to keep rates near zero.  The  Fed Fund effective rate , a volume-weighted average on
trades by major brokers published daily by the  New York  Fed, was
at 0.17 percent on June 21, up from 0.04 percent at the end of
last year.  On Hold  Fed Policy makers in the statement repeated their view that
economic conditions will probably warrant keeping interest rates
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  The fed effective rate has also drifted higher as trading
in overnight cash dwindles. Daily bank demand for fed funds,
which historically helped keep the effective rate near the
target, has slid as reserves at the central bank surged after
asset purchases to spur growth. Banks’  excess reserves  at the
Fed were $1.49 trillion as of June 13, versus $2.2 billion in
2007.  The  average  overnight Treasury general collateral repo rate
averaged 0.19 percent yesterday through 10 a.m. New York time
trading, when most trading takes place, according to ICAP. The
morning average rate was 0.17 percent the day before.  “The rise in dealer positions in Treasuries has basically
moved in a straight line up to a record since the Fed began
Twist last year,” said Thomas Simons, an economist in New York
at Jefferies Group. “The continuation of Twist will have an
incremental effect on dealer holdings and the amount of
collateral that gets pushed into the repo market. That would
lead to slightly higher repo rates going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  