-- Financial-Services Firms Add Risk Management Jobs, IIF Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-06-21T11:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/financial-services-firms-add-risk-management-jobs-iif-says-1-.html
More than half of financial-services
companies increased the number of employees focused on risk
management in the past 12 months, a survey by the  Institute of
International Finance  said.  About 57 percent of the 75 financial companies surveyed
across 38 countries added risk positions and 36 percent said
they expect to hire people this year, according to a report by
the lobby group for international banks published today with
accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP.  “Boards of directors and senior management teams recognize
that core issues of corporate culture are crucial to sound risk
management,”  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief Executive Officer Rick Waugh, who is also vice chairman of the IIF board, said in a
statement today.  Banks are employing more people to manage risk as
regulators push them to hold more capital to avoid a repeat of
the financial crisis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s decision to change
how it measures trading risk aggravated a $2 billion trading
loss on  credit derivatives , Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
told Congress on June 19.  The IIF report said 26 percent of companies had made “good
progress” in implementing a plan to gage the level and nature
of risk they should take.  Risk Appetite  “There is still much to be done to change and fully
integrate new methodologies and processes,” Ernst & Young’s
 Patricia Jackson , who directed the report, said in the
statement. “Embedding risk appetite across all levels remains a
key challenge for many firms.”  In addition, about 40 percent of banks said Basel III
regulations would lead to an increase in loan charges for
corporate customers of 50 basis points to 100 basis points.
About 13 percent indicated they are considering leaving a
country because of the latest rules by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , the survey said.  “The changes will have a significant effect on the costs
of doing business,” the IIF said. “Margins will have to go
up.”  The survey was conducted from December through March, the
company said.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  