-- Canada’s Flaherty Tightens Mortgage Rules to Avert Bubble
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-21T20:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/flaherty-to-tighten-canada-mortgage-rules-to-avert-bubble-1-.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he will tighten mortgage terms as the Group of
Seven country with the soundest government finances tries to
avert a household debt crisis.  The government will shorten the maximum amortization period
on mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years,
and lower the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes to 80 percent from 85 percent, Flaherty
said in a  statement  delivered in Ottawa.  Flaherty has been relying on regulatory steps to rein in
mortgage borrowing, as concerns about a deepening debt crisis in
Europe handicaps Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney ’s ability
to raise historically low  interest rates  at home. The government
has already reduced amortization limits twice since 2008,
cutting them from 40 years.  “This will further reduce the total interest payments
Canadian families make on their mortgages, helping them build up
value in their homes more quickly and pay off their mortgage
debt sooner,” Flaherty told reporters today in Ottawa.
Government measures to reduce amortizations since 2008 will save
a typical Canadian family with a C$350,000 ($342,064) mortgage
about C$150,000 in debt costs, he said.  Canada will also cap debt payments at 39 percent of income
and limit government mortgage insurance to homes worth less than
C$1 million, Flaherty said.  The changes take effect July 9.  Rules Reversal  The move extends a reversal for the Conservative government
of Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , which came to power in 2006
and initially lengthened mortgage terms to make it easier for
Canadians to buy homes. Harper said today that the government
may take additional action to cool the housing market if needed.  Homeowners have taken advantage of the longer-term
mortgages to lower their monthly payments. The share of new
mortgages with amortizations of more than 25 years was 41
percent last year, compared with 8 percent between 2000 and
2005, according to a survey by the Toronto-based Canadian
Association of Accredited Mortgage Professionals.  Carney, who has warned that monetary policy should be used
to address rising levels of  household debt  only as a “last line
of defense,” had been involved in the discussions on the matter
and encouraged Flaherty to tighten regulations, a government
official said, speaking on condition they not be identified
because they aren’t authorized to discuss details of the talks.  Welcomed Measures  Carney told reporters in Halifax,  Nova Scotia  that he
welcomed the measures and was consulted by the government.  “Yes we’re involved in these discussions but that’s normal
course,” Carney said. “There’s a broad consultation and we
meet regularly, as you’d expect us to.”  The move may give Carney more scope to extend a pause in
interest rate increases, said economists including  Derek Holt  of
 Scotia Capital  and  Mark Chandler  of  Royal Bank of Canada.  The
central bank has kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 1 percent
since September 2010.  “At the margin it does give them more room for patience,”
said Chandler, Toronto-based head of fixed-income and currency
strategy at Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets.  Holt, vice president of economics at Scotia, said in an
interview that “there’s no way they’re moving for a good long
time yet.”  Swap Rates  Canada’s 12-month overnight index swap rate, which is tied
to forecasts for the Bank of Canada’s policy rate, fell to
0.9391 percent today at 4:23 p.m. in Toronto trading, from
0.9842 percent yesterday.  Those swap trades suggest investors are placing bets that
Carney may cut borrowing costs this year, with the odds of at
least one rate cut by December at about 28 percent, according to
Bloomberg News calculations.  Carney has said a surge in household debt has become the
economy’s biggest domestic risk, with levels relative to income
surpassing those in the U.S. and the U.K. Like other countries
such as Australia that largely escaped the global financial
crisis, Canadian banks continued to expand lending at a time
when record low borrowing costs fueled demand.  The risk to Canada’s economy is that a growing number of
Canadians taking on too much debt at low interest rates today
may not be able to afford their payments when borrowing costs
rise, Carney has said.  Debt Levels  In a  speech  in  Vancouver  last year, Carney said the
increase in debt over the past decade has been driven by
households with the highest debt levels and the proportion of
Canadian homes that would be vulnerable to an adverse economic
shock is at the highest level in nine years.  The measures will “slow down demand and make sure that the
quality of loans are going to be better,” said Sadiq Adatia,
chief investment officer at Sun Life Global Investments in
Toronto. “It makes it a much better situation.” The unit of
 Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  oversees about C$4.4 billion for
clients.  The monthly payment on a C$350,000 mortgage with an
interest rate of 3.29 percent would rise to C$1,713.01 under a
25-year amortization period from C$1,530.92 over 30 years,
Bloomberg calculations show.  Flaherty has also acted recently to reduce taxpayer
exposure to the market. In April, he introduced legislation that
prevents lenders from using government-insured mortgages as
collateral for covered bonds.  Insurance Cap  The government doesn’t plan to raise the mortgage insurance
limit of the Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., which had C$570
billion of insurance in force at the end of March, Flaherty said
today. He said the government plans to instead raise the limit
for private mortgage insurers such as  Genworth MI Canada Inc. (MIC)  to
C$300 billion, from C$250 billion. “The government doesn’t
necessarily need to be, at the end of the day, in the mortgage
insurance business,” Flaherty said.  The federal housing agency has already begun rationing bulk
insurance for financial institutions. Canadians who make a down
payment of less than 20 percent of the home’s value are required
to insure their mortgages.  Some banks have already sought to cut the exposure to long-
term mortgages, and said they welcomed today’s announcement.  In separate statements today, the  Bank of Montreal  said it
“strongly endorsed” the changes, while Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
 Tim Hockey , who heads that lender’s consumer banking division,
said the changes “should  have a substantial moderating effect
on the growth of Canadians’ debt levels.”  Smaller Downpayments  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Chief Executive Officer William Downe said
in March the trend toward smaller down payments and longer term
mortgages coupled with low interest rates on mortgages had put
more borrowers at risk.  Canada’s fourth-biggest bank is seeking to make 25-year
amortizations more attractive by offering lower interest rates
on such loans. That’s helping the Toronto-based lender increase
the current share of new mortgages it issues with amortizations
of 25 years or less to about 70 percent, from 40 percent last
June, Downe said.  “We took a long, hard look at the Canadian housing market
and concluded, on the one hand, there was a legitimate concern
that  house prices  - particularly in the largest cities - had
been rising at a rate that was simply unsustainable,” Downe
said in a speech at the bank’s annual general meeting in
Halifax, Nova Scotia on March 20. “With growing concerns over
household debt, a soft landing in housing is in the best
interests of our customers and the national economy.”  Mortgage Origination  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , meanwhile, said
yesterday it plans to shutter its mortgage-origination business
next month after failing to sell the unit.  Toronto-based CIBC, the No. 5 bank, said in March it was
reviewing options for the FirstLine mortgage brand, including a
potential sale, and would retain the division’s loan portfolio.  The average sale price of a home in Canada has risen 98
percent over the past decade, and 35 percent since January 2009,
according to data from the  Canadian Real Estate Association .
Canada’s household debt relative to disposable income rose to a
record 154.3 percent in the first quarter.  Vancouver, where  home prices  had almost tripled in the
decade through last year, and Toronto are the country’s most
expensive markets.  Housing Recovery  Flaherty’s move comes as he tries to avert a bubble in
overheated areas without triggering a widespread drop in house
prices that could undermine the recovery at a time of weak
global demand. At a March 22 press conference, Flaherty said the
housing market is a source of jobs in the economy and that it’s
up to the lenders to tighten their own lending practices.  “I do find it a bit much when some of the bank executives
turn to the government, the minister of finance, and say ‘You
ought to change the rules and make it tighter,’” Flaherty said
at the time, adding bank executives have been calling on the
government to tighten mortgage insurance rules.  The share of gross domestic product in the world’s 10th-
largest economy linked to housing -- including construction,
renovation and ownership cost -- was 20.1 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, up from 19.2 percent in the third quarter
of 2008. In the U.S., a similar measure peaked at 18 percent in
2005.  Construction Jobs  The share of construction jobs in total employment is at a
record of 7.4 percent of total employment. Construction
employment makes up 4.2 percent of total jobs in the U.S.  Policy makers are wary of being blamed for choking off what
may be a smooth expansion of the housing market, said former
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Economist Don Drummond.  “As we saw in Spain and the United States, it’s pretty
hard to determine if it’s going to go and when it’s going to
go,” Drummond said.  Canada has relied on households to drive its recovery, in
contrast to its three previous recessions, where rising exports
led growth. The domestic strength has helped the government
increase its revenue and implement a fiscal plan that projects a
return to balance by 2015. Canadian government net debt, at
about 33 percent in 2011, is the lowest in the G-7 and less than
half the level in the U.S.  “This means the consumer will not be a major factor
supporting activity, and the housing market until now an engine
of economic growth will be a lot softer,” said Benjamin Tal,
deputy chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto. “But
it also means the quality of mortgages in Canada will improve
and you’re preventing the risk of a bubble.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  