-- Former Fed Chief Greenspan Says Economy ‘Very Sluggish’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-21T15:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/former-fed-chief-greenspan-says-economy-very-sluggish-.html
Alan Greenspan , the former Federal
Reserve chairman, said today the  U.S. economy  “looks very
sluggish.”  Greenspan, in a television interview on Bloomberg
Surveillance with Tom Keene, also said he sees “global slack”
in the economy.  The Fed yesterday extended its Operation Twist program,
which will swap $267 billion in short-term securities with
longer-term debt through the end of 2012. Fed officials also
downgraded their forecasts for growth and employment while
noting “significant downside risks” to the economy remain.  “It looks very sluggish to me,” Greenspan said when asked
about the U.S. expansion. “We have a two-stage economy in this
country.”  Referring to his recent writings, Greenspan said a little
over 90 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product comes from
producing assets with a life expectancy of less than 20 years.
That part of the economy is “doing reasonably well.” He said
the other approximately 8 percent, mainly the output of
structures including single-family residences, is “down 50
percent.”  Greenspan, when he was asked about issues surrounding the
$2 billion trading loss that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  announced May 10, said that banks
are supposed to take risks.  Banker Risks  “Bankers take risks” and “there are going to be
failures” as a result, Greenspan said. “You want that type of
culture whereby people take risks because unless they take risks
you get very little in the way of innovation.”  “Creative destruction is what basically moves a market
economy forward,” Greenspan said. “People may not like the
destruction part but if you don’t have the destruction part
eliminating the obsolescent capital you can’t have the growth.”  Greenspan, who led the U.S. central bank from 1987 to 2006,
said he would favor maintaining large banks, if they don’t
become “wards of the state.”  In  Europe , Greenspan said one of the central issues is that
rather than working toward solutions to close the fiscal
deficit, world leaders are working on funding it.  “Until we shut off the deficits themselves, debt by
definition continues to rise,” he said. “The general focus of
policy” is “taking the easy way out with very long-term
negative consequences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  