-- Forstmann’s Manhattan Penthouse Sells for $40 Million
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-06-21T21:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/forstmann-s-manhattan-penthouse-sells-for-40-million.html
The Manhattan penthouse owned by  Ted Forstmann , the private-equity billionaire who died in November,
sold for $40 million, 11 percent more than the asking price.  The buyer of the co-op apartment at 2 E. 70th St. was Laure Sudreau-Rippe, according to  New York  City property records filed
today. She has been a minority holder in Amsterdam-based Louis
Dreyfus Holding BV, one of the world’s largest agricultural and
trading companies.  The 4,000-square-foot (372-square-meter) duplex overlooking
Central Park was originally marketed for $36 million, according
to  Meredyth Smith , a broker with Sotheby’s International Realty
Inc., who represented Forstmann’s estate along with Serena Boardman. The apartment, with a wrap-around balcony on the top
floor, got multiple bids, Smith said.  “The buyers in the upper-upper end of the market continue
to demonstrate a very strong appetite for these types of trophy
properties, so we were not surprised to see a penthouse of this
caliber soar over its asking price,” she said in an interview.  “It would be considered one of the most beautiful
apartments in New York, and that’s not overstating the case,”
Smith said.  Sudreau-Rippe, 41, a lawyer living in Westport,
 Connecticut , declined to comment on the deal.  Forstmann, who died Nov. 20 of  brain cancer  at age 71, was
a founding partner of private-equity firm Forstmann Little & Co.
In 2004, he bought IMG Worldwide Inc., a New York-based sports-
and fashion-marketing company, and became its chairman and chief
executive officer.  The 14-story co-op building, also known as 884 Fifth Ave.,
was completed in 1928 and designed by Rosario Candela, according
to property-listings website  StreetEasy.com . Many of its 16
units range from six to 10 rooms and have fireplaces and floor-
to-ceiling windows, according to StreetEasy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  