-- Gasoline in New York Gains to Nine-Month High on Plant Shutdowns
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-06-21T19:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/gasoline-in-new-york-gains-to-nine-month-high-on-plant-shutdowns.html
New York gasoline’s premium to
futures rose to a nine-month high as the shutdown of refineries
supplying the region strained inventories at the peak of the
U.S. demand season.  The fuel made to East Coast specifications gained for a
third straight day. Hovensa LLC’s St. Croix refinery in the  U.S.
Virgin Islands  and the Trainer refinery in Pennsylvania, now
owned by a subsidiary of Delta Air Lines Inc., both shut before
the start of the driving season.  There are “tight supplies, as it is difficult to make,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston, wrote in an electronic message. “The market is seeing
the effect of Trainer and Hovensa shutdowns.”  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline, or RBOB,
in New York Harbor increased 3 cents to 16.5 cents a gallon
versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
3:17 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread
was the widest since Sept. 8. Prompt delivery fell 1.01 cents to
$2.7151 a gallon.  PetroEcuador said production at its Esmeraldas refinery,
 Ecuador ’s biggest, was halted today after a  power failure .  State-owned PetroEcuador is investigating the damage at the
refinery, which has an output capacity of 110,000 barrels a day,
and doesn’t know when it will restart production, Paulina Arias,
a company spokeswoman, said today by telephone from Quito.  The premium for ultra-low-sulfur diesel versus Nymex
heating oil futures in the  Gulf Coast  gained 0.88 cent to 6.88
cents, the highest level for the fuel since April 17.  The U.S. exported about 34,000 barrels of distillate a day
to Ecuador in March, according to Energy Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 