-- Gazprom Biggest Loser as Shale Gas Upends World Markets
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-06-22T15:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/gazprom-biggest-loser-as-shale-gas-upends-world-markets.html
The natural-gas boom reshaping
America is rocking  Russia , where state producer  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  is
slow to react and at risk of becoming the world’s biggest loser
from the new technology to drill shale rock.  The U.S. no longer needs Russia’s gas, leaving President
 Vladimir Putin  fighting to salvage Gazprom’s $20 billion
Shtokman project in the Arctic.  China , the biggest energy
consumer, is exploring its own shale reserves and hesitating to
accept a pipeline from Russia. Gazprom’s shipments fell about 14
percent so far in 2012, and the stock has lost 9.6 percent.  Russia, with about $13 trillion of gas deposits, has the
most at stake in the energy revolution that’s blasting shale
from Pennsylvania to China in rocks impossible to drill just a
decade ago. While Gazprom remains the gas biggest producer, the
export monopoly is set for its toughest market since the Soviet
Union’s fall in 1991 after letting rivals like  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
take the lead in a technology that’s eroding its sales.  “Gazprom is taking what seems to be a ‘head in the sands’
position on shale gas,” said  Andy Flower , a former  BP Plc (BP/) 
executive who’s now a consultant on the global gas market based
in Surrey,  England .  Putin in April urged Russia’s energy companies to “rise to
the challenge” of shale. Afterward he coaxed partners in the
Arctic Shtokman project to move forward, in comments before the
start of this week’s St. Petersburg Forum of global executives.
Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller yesterday held
talks there with chiefs of France’s  Total SA (FP)  and  Statoil ASA (STL)  of
Norway as the partners in the Shtokman project aim to reach a
new shareholder accord and decide on its fate by month end.
Total and Statoil hold 49 percent of the project.  Hits Growth  Gazprom “will take some pain to adjust” to the shale-gas
revolution, said Ben Montalbano, a senior research analyst at
the Energy Policy Research Foundation in  Washington . “It hits
production growth prospects, pricing power and revenues.”  The Moscow-based company’s earnings per share will drop 10
percent in 2012 to 56.9 rubles, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That contrasts with a 6.3 percent median
gain among 63 oil and gas producers on the Bloomberg World Oil &
Gas index. Gazprom shares have fallen 57 percent since reaching
a record high in 2008, while the index lost 41 percent.  The stock dropped 0.7 percent today to close at 154.94
rubles in Moscow.  Gazprom downplays the threat from shale on global gas
markets, saying European demand will hold up and the collapse in
U.S. prices caused by a glut is temporary.  Shale Gift  “Shale gas is a gift for the entire gas industry, because
it effectively removed a question of potential depletion of
reserves,” Sergei Komlev, head of pricing at Gazprom’s export
unit, said in an e-mail. “But a common view that shale gas is
cheap is wrong.”  Should Gazprom founder, Russia could follow. With most of
its contract prices pegged to oil, which has fallen about 15
percent this year, its profit outlook weakened.  Last year, Russia’s largest company boosted  sales  29
percent to a record 4.6 trillion rubles ($141 billion), as
benchmark Brent  oil prices  climbed 13 percent. It led oil and
gas companies in providing about half of state revenue. This
year, sales are forecast to climb 6 percent.  Forged from the Soviet Union’s gas ministry after the
collapse of the communist regime in 1991, Gazprom has been
accused of carrying out government policy in using its supplies
to assert Russian power. Shipments to neighboring Ukraine were
repeatedly halted since 2006 in disputes over energy prices.
Russia holds the world’s biggest reserves, equal to 21 percent
of all known deposits.  Overtake Russia  Shale production allowed the U.S. to overtake Russia as the
largest gas-producing nation in 2009 after explorers began
employing hydraulic fracturing, a technique using pressurized
water with chemicals and sand to open cracks in rock for freeing
gas.  The subsequent collapse in prices, which touched a 10-year
low in  New York  in April, killed the U.S. as an export market
for Shtokman and other liquefied natural gas projects. The U.S.
will even become a gas exporter as early as 2015.  Gazprom can’t look to  Europe  for relief. It supplies about
25 percent of gas demand by pipeline, though the market is
shrinking as the economic crisis undermines demand. Shipments
are down 14 percent this year.  Nations dependent on Russian gas, such as Ukraine and
Poland, are starting to assess their own shale gas potential.  “There is always the possibility that the shale gas
revolution may, in the long run, produce less gas than some are
now forecasting, but I think the probability is very low,”
Flower said.  Strategic Challenges  Shale gas output in China and the U.S., and to a lesser
extent Europe, “creates strategic challenges for existing gas
exporters,” the  International Energy Agency  said in a report on
May 29. The share of Russian and Middle Eastern producers in the
international gas trade may decline to 35 percent in 2035 from
about 45 percent in 2010, the IEA said in a report on
unconventional gas.  Gazprom’s weakening position undermines its ability to link
gas-export prices to oil, a device that’s kept prices in Europe
above U.S. levels. Under pressure, the company agreed to offer
discounts to some customers, such as  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and Eni SpA,
while pursuing arbitration and talks with EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) ’s
units and Poland’s PGNiG earlier this year.  “It will take several years before we know the full
potential of European and Chinese shale, but if either one even
partially pans out, it will significantly reduce demand for
Gazprom gas, particularly at oil-linked prices,” Montalbano
said.  More Sanguine  The company still expects volumes to Europe to remain
unchanged this year and revenue supported by higher oil prices.
Gazprom estimates export revenue from sales to Europe will rise
this year to $61 billion from $57 billion last year, approaching
the record $64 billion in 2008, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Alexander Medvedev  said on June 20.  Still, the transformation of the global gas market has
already pushed Gazprom to delay the Shtokman project in the
Arctic, which was expected to ship 90 percent of fuel to the
U.S. Meanwhile, rival exporters Qatar and Australia have
expanded capacity to allow them to ship fuel to Asia, which has
the highest gas prices in the world.  While Russia is expected to maintain its role as the
“ Saudi Arabia  of gas,” the country will increasingly have to
compete with the U.S., according to Maria van der Hoeven,
executive director of the IEA.  “It’s not only shale gas itself, but shale gas
technology,” she said yesterday. “Several countries that are
import-dependent have recognized their unconventional gas
potential and promising developments are taking place in China
and Poland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  