-- German Ifo Business Confidence May Drop to Two-Year Low
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/german-ifo-business-confidence-may-drop-to-two-year-low.html
German business confidence probably
fell to the lowest in more than two years in June as the
worsening sovereign debt crisis clouded the economic outlook.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 105.6 from 106.9 in
May, according to the median forecast of 39 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the lowest reading since
March 2010. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  While Germany’s economy expanded 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, latest data suggest growth is weakening as austerity
measures across  Europe  curb demand for German goods. Exports,
factory orders and industrial production all dropped in April
and a survey of  purchasing managers  published yesterday shows
manufacturing is contracting at the fastest pace in three years.  “Germany is not an island of the blessed,” said Jens- Oliver Niklasch, an economist at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart. “As long as the economic outlook doesn’t get
better for the euro area as a whole, and especially for the
southern countries,  Germany  will take a hit as well.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may have slipped to
112 from 113.3 and a measure of executives’ expectations
probably declined to 99.8 from 100.9, the survey of economists
shows. Investor confidence plunged in June and the benchmark  DAX
share index  has lost 11 percent in the last three months.  Growth Forecast  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
bolstering domestic spending, while demand from outside the 17-
nation currency area has helped to prop up exports. The
Bundesbank on June 8 revised up its 2012 growth forecast for
Germany to 1 percent from 0.6 percent.  Still,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s biggest
maker of  luxury vehicles , predicted on June 1 that Germany’s car
market won’t grow in 2012 as the debt crisis weighs on  consumer
spending . The European Commission predicts the euro-area economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year. At least eight  member states 
are in recession.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged above 7 percent this
month on investor concern about the health of the country’s
banks, increasing pressure on governments to find a solution to
the debt crisis.  “Germany has entered the second quarter with some
momentum, but the intensifying euro crisis will leave its mark
on growth in the third quarter,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an
economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “With so much uncertainty
about the currency union’s fate, companies are hesitating to
undertake investments for the future that drive growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  