-- German Opposition to Back Fiscal Pact as Merkel Agrees Share Tax
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-21T12:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/german-opposition-to-back-fiscal-pact-as-merkel-agrees-share-tax.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  bowed to
opposition demands to speed up efforts to introduce a tax on
share and bond transactions, overcoming a hurdle that’s held up
German ratification of the euro-area’s new budget rules and
sealing the country’s contribution to a new rescue fund.  With the timeframe narrowing for the government to pass the
Fiscal Pact and bills setting up the European Stability
Mechanism before parliament’s summer recess, Merkel agreed to
ignore the lack of broad support in  Europe  for a financial-
transaction tax and press ahead to find backers, said Frank- Walter Steinmeier, the opposition  Social Democratic Party  floor-
leader.  “Merkel agreed that if we cannot get 27 states to back the
tax then at least a coalition of the willing that comprises a
minimum of nine states,” Steinmeier told reporters today after
a three-hour meeting with Merkel in Berlin, attended by his SPD
and opposition Green party leaders.  As parliament nears its last scheduled session on June 29,
the SPD and Greens narrowed a list of demands for Merkel as
conditions for backing the fiscal pact. Merkel says the tax,
dubbed the FTT, needs as broad an implementation as possible to
ensure that member state adopting it aren’t placed at a
competitive disadvantage.  “Failing to get the support needed for the fiscal pact and
the ESM would have sent a fatal signal to markets,”  Rainer Bruederle , floor leader of Merkel’s Free Democratic Party ally,
told reporters after the talks. Euro-area leaders agreed in
March to operate the ESM starting next month.  Opposition Votes  Merkel needs a two-thirds majority in both houses of
parliament to secure passage of the pact that has the legal
status of a treaty, forcing her to rely on opposition support.
The main opposition parties have signaled that they’ll back four
bills linked to the ESM, which will also be put to a vote on
June 29 and require only simple majorities.  The government is still at loggerheads with  Germany ’s 16
states, represented in the upper chamber in Berlin, the
Bundesrat, and must address their demands before the June 29
vote. The states, while signaling readiness to support the bill,
are worried that its ratification would require them to balance
their budgets from 2014 in contrast to a 2020 target set by the
constitution.  Steinmeier said Merkel agreed to implement the European
Commission’s FTT proposals for a 0.1 percent tax on share and
bond trades and a 0.01 percent levy on derivative transactions.  The commission, in a October 2011 paper, estimated that the
tax would generate 55 billion euros ($69.8 billion) in annual
revenue if implemented by all 27 European Union states. The levy
would also cut about 70 percent of the bloc’s derivative trade,
the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  