-- Globalive-Telus Clash Raises Foreign-Cap Issue: Corporate Canada
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-21T15:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/globalive-telus-clash-raises-foreign-cap-issue-corporate-canada.html
Canadian telecommunications
companies are keeping a close eye on the foreign ownership
levels of their competitors as they look to raise capital for
the faster networks that consumers demand.  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier, may
have violated the country’s restrictions on foreign
shareholdings of phone companies, a competitor backed by
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  said in a filing yesterday with the Canadian
Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.  About 48 percent of the holders of Telus’s voting shares
reside outside Canada, Globalive Wireless Management Corp. said
in the filing, which was obtained by Bloomberg News. Foreigners
can hold no more than 33.3 percent of companies that own telecom
carriers under Canadian law.  Shawn Hall , a spokesman for Telus,
said the company is “fully compliant” with the restrictions
and that Globalive’s methodology is faulty.  Canadian carriers such as Telus,  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  are vying with Globalive and other upstart
competitors to build networks that can handle data-hungry
smartphones and tablets. Foreign money can help fund those
projects, and companies are lobbying for more leeway in seeking
international investors. Telus Chief Financial Officer Robert McFarlane urged the federal government earlier this month to
lift foreign-ownership restrictions on large phone companies, as
it has done for smaller carriers.  Presents Dilemma  Globalive -- funded by a foreign investor itself,
Amsterdam-based VimpelCom -- offers wireless services in  Canada 
under the WIND Mobile brand. It has asked the CRTC, a commission
that regulates phone companies and broadcasters, to review
whether Telus complies with the ownership rules.  “If Globalive has its facts correct, it presents an
interesting view as well as a dilemma for both Telus and the
Industry Minister, given restrictions surrounding telecom
ownership in Canada,” Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas
Investment Research Corp. in Toronto, said in an e-mail.  Telus’s “complicated and rarely used” methods for
controlling its foreign ownership levels, as well as a proposal
to eliminate its dual-class share structure, raise “complex and
novel issues that have not been dealt with by the CRTC to
date,” Simon Lockie, chief regulatory officer for Globalive,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “There’s an obvious benefit to the entire industry to
understand how it all works,” Lockie said a telephone interview
today, referring to Telus’s share structure. “It’s an
opportunity for the commission to enforce its act.”  Globalive, based in Toronto, says it based its estimate of
Telus’s foreign ownership on an analysis of the location of
owners who hold shares through Canadian brokers, dealers and
other financial intermediaries.  Counting Residency  Telus’s Hall took issue with Globalive’s approach. The
report that supports Globalive’s allegation relies on postal
codes rather than actual residency, and it covers shares that
are “materially different” than those used in Telus’s share
register, he said.  “Telus has been and continues to be fully compliant with
foreign-ownership restrictions, and have our own control
processes in place to ensure we remain compliant,” Hall said in
an e-mail.  Telus, based in  Vancouver , proposed in February to scrap
its dual-share structure by converting all nonvoting shares into
voting stock on a one-to-one basis. Telus wanted to boost the
appeal of its stock as the carrier competes for a bigger share
of Canada’s wireless market.  ‘Event-Driven’ Funds  The company said in March that “approved and pending”
applications to buy its common voting shares may push foreign
ownership beyond the 33.3 percent limit. Telus blamed the surge
on “event-driven” foreign investment funds seeking to profit
from changes in the prices of the two classes of shares expected
under the company’s proposal.  Telus dropped the proposal on May 9, saying it had become
apparent that it wouldn’t survive a shareholder vote. Hedge fund
Mason Capital Management LLC, which accumulated 19 percent of
the common shares, had opposed the change.  Chief Executive Officer Darren Entwistle said after
withdrawing the proposal that he remains committed to a one-for-
one share conversion and plans to introduce a new proposal “in
due course.”  McFarlane said on June 5 that Canada should allow foreign
investment for all companies in the telecommunications industry.
In March, Industry Minister Christian Paradis said the federal
government would allow companies with less than 10 percent
market share to be fully owned by foreign investors.  Larger Companies  Other large carriers, such as Rogers, want the rule change
to apply to them as well. Rob Bruce, an executive at the
Toronto-based carrier, said on June 4 that the company is
disappointed with the government’s decision to only lift
ownership caps for smaller operators.  Globalive has faced its own criticism over foreign
holdings. Telus asked the CRTC to review Globalive’s ownership
structure in 2009. While the commission initially ruled that
Globalive violated the foreign-ownership rules, Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s cabinet reversed the ruling.  In April of this year, the  Supreme Court  dismissed a
challenge to the government’s decision.  “It’s a soap opera,”  Dvai Ghose , an analyst with
Canaccord Genuity Corp. in Toronto, said in a phone interview.
“They are going tit for tat.”  Denis Carmel, a CRTC spokesman, confirmed that the
commission had received Globalive’s filing. The public typically
has 30 days to respond to the application, after which Globalive
will have 10 days to reply to any submissions, although the
deadlines could be extended, he said.  The CRTC isn’t equipped to monitor the shareholder data of
a widely traded company such as Telus, a role that should
probably fall to securities regulators, said Lawrence Surtees, a
communications analyst with IDC Canada Ltd. in Toronto.  “Do we want the CRTC sitting there counting stock? I don’t
think so,” Surtees said in a phone interview. “They have
enough problems doing what they do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  