-- Loans-for-Gold Stumble as RBI Risk Aversion Kills Growth
-- B y   A m e y a   K a r v e
-- 2012-06-22T11:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/gold-financiers-growth-stalls-as-rules-tighten-corporate-india.html
India ’s biggest lenders that use
gold jewelry as collateral say earnings may stall this year as
central bank regulation aimed at reducing risk in the banking
system chokes off growth.  Net income  at  Muthoot (MUTH)  Finance Ltd. may rise 10 percent in
the year that started April 1 after surging an average 86
percent in the past five years, according to Managing Director
George Alexander Muthoot. Profit at smaller rival  Manappuram
Finance Ltd. (MGFL)  may be little changed, said I. Unnikrishnan,
managing director at the Thrissur, India-based company.  “Our loan disbursements have come down” due to the
regulatory changes, Unnikrishnan said in an interview yesterday.
“We see flat asset growth this year.”  Muthoot and Manappuram are losing clients to money lenders
after the Reserve Bank of India tightened rules to curb
expansion at the finance companies and reduce risk at their
creditors, mainly commercial banks. Manappuram, endorsed by
Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar, will add no branches on a net
basis this year while Muthoot will cut office openings by 75
percent. Manappuram has plunged 47 percent this year making it
the worst performing stock in the BSE200 Index.  The  Reserve Bank of India  ordered gold financiers to raise
Tier-1 capital to 12 percent by 2014 and cap loans at 60 percent
of the value of the gold used as collateral, according to a
statement from the regulator on March 21.  Bullion futures in India reached a record on June 19, while
global spot prices for gold were down 15 percent from a peak.
The metal, which surged 70 percent from the end of December 2008
to June 2011, is heading for its longest slump in a month.  Gold Stash  Business growth at these finance companies will decline
“significantly” in the short-term, Crisil Ltd., the Indian
unit of  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report on June 15. Sales
growth may stabilize at a “sustainable” level of about 20
percent in the medium term, the rating company said.  Indians, the world’s largest buyers of bullion, have
stashed 18,000 metric tons of gold in jewelry, coins and other
forms, according to data on Manappuram’s website. That compares
with 1,281.62 metric tons of gold held by the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) ,
the world’s biggest exchange-traded product backed by bullion.  Gold financiers including Manappuram, which started as a
pawn broker in 1949, expanded as Indians started to unlock the
value of their gold to benefit from growth in  Asia ’s third-
largest economy and rising prices of the bullion. Finance
companies in the organized sector hold 1,000 tons of gold,
according to Muthoot.  ‘New Concept’  Gold loans grew as it “was a new concept to Indians, who
are known to sell gold only as a last resort,” Shashank Khade,
senior vice president at Mumbai-based Kotak Portfolio
Management, said on the phone. Demand for gold loans was also
triggered by investors who used these loans to invest back in
gold as it fetched them higher returns, he said.  The  Reserve Bank  set up a panel headed by K.U.B. Rao to
analyze the implication of gold imports for financial stability,
price trends and the role of non-bank finance companies in
influencing rates. The panel is expected to submit its report by
the end of July, the central bank said.  “All the uncertainty and speculations on whether there
will be more regulations will be over in the next two months
after the RBI comes out with its report on gold,” Manappuram’s
Unnikrishnan said. Muthoot expects a “partial” relaxation of
the rules within a year after the central bank “studies” the
gold-loan business, he said.  Shares Drop  Manappuram surged 6.7 percent to 24.55 rupees, the highest
since May 7 in Mumbai, while Muthoot, which has dropped 37
percent from its Aug. 11 record, rose 0.5 percent to 123.8
rupees. The  BSE200 index (BSE200)  has gained 13 percent this year
outperforming the decline in both the companies.  Profit growth at Muthoot may slow to a 4 percent gain in
the year ending March 31, according to a median  survey  of 7
analysts compiled by Bloomberg, while Manappuram’s net income
may drop 3.9 percent to 5.68 billion rupees, according to a
survey of 13 analysts.  “The assets are likely to fall in the first and second
quarters,” Himanshu Kuriyal, an analyst at Mumbai-based Marwadi
Share & Finance Ltd., said by phone. “Sequential growth may
return from the third quarter as uncertainty over the
regulations will subside.”  Muthoot, set up in 1939 in India’s Kerala state, charges as
much as 24 percent for lending against bullion for 24 months,
according to the company’s website.  State Bank  of India’s base
rate is 10 percent.  The company, which is the main sponsor for the Indian
Premier League’s Delhi Daredevils cricket team, plans to raise
15 billion rupees selling bonds this year to boost lending,
Muthoot said. The firm may also sell shares when valuations
become attractive, he said.  “There’s nothing wrong in the business model,” Muthoot
said. “If I had money, I would have invested in the company
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ameya Karve in Mumbai at 
 akarve@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Grant Clark at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net  