-- Google Sued by Texas for Documents in Antitrust Probe
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-21T19:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/google-sued-by-texas-for-documents-in-antitrust-probe.html
Google Inc. was sued by Texas for
failing to turn over documents sought by its attorney general in
an antitrust probe of the operator of the world’s largest search
engine.  Texas sued Google in state court in Austin in an effort to
force the  Mountain View , California-based company to turn over
documents sought by Attorney General  Greg Abbott  in two so-
called civil investigative demands, which are similar to
subpoenas.  “While Google has produced a significant volume of
documents” in response to Texas’s information demands, it “has
withheld a large volume of documents based on assertion of the
attorney-client privilege and has claimed that certain documents
that were produced are, in fact, privileged, and should be
destroyed or returned to Google,” Texas said in a court filing.  Google is already the subject of antitrust probes by the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European Union. Texas said
it’s seeking a court order compelling Google to turn over all
documents that aren’t subject to attorney-client privilege.  The company disclosed on Sept. 3, 2010, that Abbott was
probing whether it has violated antitrust laws.  “The Attorney General’s Office is investigating whether
Google has used its monopoly power in general Internet search to
foreclose competition from rival ‘vertical search’ websites that
specialize in areas such as shopping, local businesses and
travel,”  Texas  said in its June 12 filing.  ‘Preferential Placement’  The conduct under investigation includes alleged
“preferential placement of Google vertical search services,
demotion of rivals in Google’s search results rankings and the
unauthorized use of user reviews, star ratings and other content
that Google scrapes from competing vertical search sites,”
Texas said in the filing.  Texas said it “may bring an enforcement action against
Google” for violating state and federal antitrust laws and in
order to finish its investigation it needs to have the documents
it has asked for.  FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said June 6 that he expects to
wrap up his agency’s investigation of Google before the end of
the year.  The case is Texas v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , D-1-GV-12-000887,
District Court of Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  