-- Green Mountain Coffee Prices Lowered: SymphonyIRI Group
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-21T20:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/green-mountain-lowering-coffee-prices-symphonyiri-group.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters
Inc. (GMCR) ’s prices were recently lowered in some grocery stores,
according to data released today from SymphonyIRI Group.  Green Mountain single-cup coffee was 1.1 percent less
expensive in the four weeks ended June 10 at food, drug and mass
retailers excluding  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , compared with a year
earlier, data from the Chicago-based researcher show. Packaged
coffee prices for the overall category were up 4.9 percent in
the four-week period.  The company is facing increased competition from private-
label brands entering the single-cup coffee category as the main
patents for its K-Cups expire in September.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the
biggest U.S. grocery chain, said earlier this month that it’s
planning to sell its own version of the pods used in  Green
Mountain ’s Keurig brewers.  “Green Mountain is still a premium-priced product,”
Kenneth Shea, senior consumer products analyst with Bloomberg
Industries, said in an interview. “They have to keep pricing
level or down if they’re going to fight this private-label
threat.”  The shares  fell  8 percent to $19.76 at the close in  New
York . Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain has tumbled 56
percent this year.  Safeway Offerings  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the second-largest U.S. grocer, makes
cappuccino and hot cocoa capsules under its private-label
Safeway Select brand that fit into Keurig machines. The
Pleasanton, California-based supermarket recently said it is
introducing five new single-serving coffee flavors at all its
U.S. stores.  Green Mountain single-cup coffee cost $7.89 a unit, on
average, whereas private-label brands were $5.43 and all coffee
was $6.86 during the four-week period, the data show.  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  ground-coffee prices, at $8.97 a unit, were also lower at
food, drug and mass retailers compared with last year.  “Single-cup continues to be a growth driver of the coffee
category,” Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. K-Cup prices may increase or decrease by about 3
percent and have been in a “pretty tight range” for the past
10 four-week periods, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  