-- Guinness Plans Third U.K. Clean Power, Efficiency Fund in July
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-21T10:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/guinness-plans-third-u-k-clean-power-efficiency-fund-in-july.html
Guinness Asset Management Ltd. plans
to start its third fund to invest in renewable power and energy
efficiency in July, targeting 10 million pounds ($16 million).  The investor is raising the same amount for its second fund
which is set to close by the end of the month, Shane Gallwey, a
 fund manager , said in an e-mail. It plans to start a follow-on
fund in July that will close on Dec. 31.  Guinness’s funds operate under the enterprise investment
program, a U.K. government-backed system offering tax breaks to
investors in “higher-risk” companies. It plans to support
three to four businesses with its third fund.  For its second fund, Guinness is talking to developers of
anaerobic digestion plants, said Gallwey. Anaerobic digestion
breaks down organic material, such as  food waste , in the absence
of oxygen to produce a biogas that can be used to generate
power. It’s also in discussions with solar-power companies and
energy-efficiency businesses.  The U.K. is aiming for 15 percent of its energy to come
from renewable sources such as wind, solar, hydropower and
biomass by 2020. At present, about 3.3 percent of the country’s
energy comes from clean sources.  “We have partnered with two large energy service companies
to assist their clients with installing energy-efficiency
equipment to reduce their heat and electricity costs,” said
Gallwey. “There is a very extensive pipeline of projects from
these sources and we will look to make investments into at least
two investee companies focused on these opportunities.”  Guinness’s third fund will focus on similar industries and
companies to the second, said Gallwey. It only invests in
businesses that use proven technology with an established
operating history, he said, and it looks for returns of 10
percent to 15 percent.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  