-- Libya Seeks U.S. Investment in Areas From Oil to Tourism
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/libya-seeks-u-s-investment-in-areas-from-oil-to-tourism.html
Libya is seeking to boost its oil
production by a third to 2 million barrels a day by year-end,
surpassing last year’s pre-conflict level, Libyan ambassador to
Washington Ali Aujali said.  How fast Libya returns to pre-war levels or surpasses them
“depends also on the oil companies, how fast they are
returning” to restart or expand operations, Aujali said,
speaking at a Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington
yesterday.  Beyond oil, Libya is eager for American investment in
tourism, health care and education, he said. The nation, whose
governance is still in flux, plans to hold the first election
for the national assembly next month after four decades of rule
by dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  “The environment is great” for U.S. companies, in large
part because the Obama administration is credited by Libyans
with pressing for NATO military action that helped topple
Qaddafi last year, Aujali said.  “They appreciate what the Americans did,” he said, and
American flags are often flown alongside Libyan ones around the
country.  Libya’s governor for OPEC, Samir Kamal, set expectations
lower than Aujali did, telling reporters last week in Vienna
that the government hopes to reach 1.6 million barrels a day by
year-end.  Aujali said the North African nation has restored crude oil
production to more than 1.5 million barrels a day, or 90 percent
of official production figures before Qaddafi was ousted in a
violent uprising. The months-long conflict sent production
levels plummeting to 45,000 barrels a day in August, according
to a monthly Bloomberg  survey  of  oil companies , producers and
analysts.  Rising Output  Libyan production was restored to 1.45 million to 1.55
million barrels daily by the end of May, according to figures
from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Oil Minister Abdul-Rahman Ben Yezza said last week that
Libya plans to spend about $10 billion to develop long-term oil
and natural gas projects and increase its crude production
capacity. He said the country also has a five-year plan to
increase production to about 2.2 million barrels a day.  Aujali said “we need more investment” to develop the oil
industry and fulfill a longer-term goal of restoring Libya’s
crude production capacity to its historical high. The U.S.
Department of Energy estimates it exceeded 3 million barrels a
day in the 1960s.  Aujali cited  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  as among U.S.-based multinational
energy giants that have returned to Libya, and urged other U.S.
companies to invest in all sectors of Libya’s economy.  American Opportunities  American companies need to “be more involved, to be more
aggressive to visit Libya to see where they can make business,”
he said, so they don’t lose opportunities to other countries
such as  Italy , which has been proactive in seeking business
prospects.  Aujali cited health care, infrastructure, education and
tourism as sectors in which the Libyan government is seeking
foreign investment. He said tourism remains one of the least-
developed industries, citing Libya’s 2,000 kilometers (1,243
miles) of beaches and its cultural attractions, including  Leptis
Magna , one of the best-preserved Roman ruins in the
Mediterranean,  Aujali said Libya is seeking American universities and
hospitals interested in assisting with training and technology
and setting up branches or partnerships, as many have done in
the Persian Gulf and North Africa.  Unfrozen Assets  Libya is looking to the U.S. and NATO countries to help
rebuild after a bloody conflict that cost the nation billions of
dollars in lost trade and revenue, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The revolution killed 30,000 people
and wounded 50,000 others, according to the Libyan government.  “You supported this revolution at a critical time,” he
said. Still, “the new road is not built,” so the U.S. needs to
stay involved to ensure the democratic transition is completed.  The Obama administration has done everything possible to
assist Libya’s government, including making available $31
billion in Libyan government assets under U.S. jurisdiction that
was frozen as a penalty on Qaddafi’s government, Aujali said.  The only Libyan assets that remain frozen by the U.S. are
about $3 billion belonging to the  Libyan Investment Authority ,
the government-managed sovereign wealth fund and holding company
based in Tripoli, he said. The authority needs to be reorganized
under a dependable board of directors before “we feel safe”
asking for the funds to be released, he said.  Election Plans  Libya  has scheduled elections for July 7. Aujali said 145
political parties have formed, with 3,000 candidates vying for
200 legislative posts. About 80 percent of eligible voters have
registered, underscoring excitement about the democratic
transition, he said.  Still, the situation remains volatile, Mustafa Abdul Jalil,
chairman of the National Transitional Council, said in an
interview with state-run Qatar News Agency June 17.  Libya risks
descending into civil war if the current unstable security
situation persists, he was quoted as saying.  Aujali said his country has studied other nations’ models
for reconciliation and justice following long dictatorships
during which many were persecuted. Libya is “not starting from
zero. There are many with experience in the history and we learn
from them.”  ‘No Revenge’  While some members of the old regime are under arrest,
“there is no revenge at the time being against the Qaddafi
regime,” he said. “Reconciliation is important. But in the
first place, justice has to be made.”  Aujali said he expects a speedy resolution of the
“misunderstandings” in the case of a team from the
 International Criminal Court  in the Hague that was detained June
7 by Libyan authorities. Libya accused Australian defense lawyer
Melinda Taylor of trying to smuggle documents to Qaddafi’s son
Saif al-Islam Qaddafi in a Libyan prison. The Libyan government
accuses Qaddafi’s son of directing the killing of thousands
during his father’s regime and during the rebellion.  “The Libyan people, they have the right before anybody
else to try Saif al-Islam in Libya,” Aujali said of the effort
to try him in the international court in the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  