-- Micro Focus Advances on $320 Million Investor Payout Hope
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-06-21T16:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/micro-focus-advances-on-320-million-investor-payout-hope-1-.html
Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  rose
to the highest price in more than four months after Chairman
Kevin Loosemore said he’s “not uncomfortable” with an estimate
that the U.K. software provider may return as much as $320
million to investors over the next two years.  Micro Focus  may return money through share buybacks and
one-time distributions, the Newbury, England-based company said
in a statement today. It will be financed by increasing debt
relative to earnings, Micro Focus said.  Shareholders may get $320 million, or 120 pence a share,
 David Toms , an analyst at Numis, said in a note today. They may
receive a further 47 pence a share over the next two years in
dividends after Micro Focus said it would now pay out 50 percent
of pre-exceptional net income instead of 40 percent, said Toms,
who maintained his  buy recommendation  on the stock.  “I am not uncomfortable with that estimate,” Loosemore
said in a telephone interview.  Micro Focus share have risen 60 percent in London trading
since it said 10 months ago it had ended takeover talks with
potential bidders and was resuming a share buyback program. In
January it returned 45 pence a share to shareholders.  The company, which does about half of its business in the
U.S., will let net debt rise to a ratio of 1.5 times adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
from last year’s level of 0.6 times, it said in a statement
today.  Micro Focus rose 5.7 percent to 477.7 pence, the highest
close since Feb. 2. It was the fourth-biggest gainer in the FTSE
All-Share Index, which fell 1 percent.  Net income before currency gains rose 25 percent to $120.6
million in the year ended April 30, Micro Focus said in the
statement. That beat the  average estimate  of $116.8 million of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 