-- Microsoft May Be Planning Own Phone, Nomura’s Sherlund Says
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-21T20:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/microsoft-may-be-working-on-own-phone-nomura-s-sherlund-says.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may be developing
its own Windows Phone handsets, departing from its current
practice of working only with partners like Nokia Oyj, according
to Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The company may be collaborating with a contract
manufacturer to build a phone, Sherlund wrote in a note today,
citing industry sources. Sherlund, who recommends buying the
shares, said he wasn’t sure if the device would be a reference
design for other companies to use as an example for Windows
Phone products, or a Microsoft-branded phone for consumers.  Microsoft, the largest software maker, said yesterday that
smartphones with the new Windows Phone 8 program will go on sale
in the fall from Nokia, Huawei Technologies Co., HTC Corp. and
Samsung Electronics Co. The company didn’t mention plans for its
own phone. Microsoft needs to boost its share of the phone-
software market, which was 2.2 percent in the first quarter,
according to  IDC , lagging behind Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  “We would not be surprised if MSFT were to decide to bring
their own handset to market next year given that MSFT has
decided to bring to market their own Windows 8 tablet/PC
products,” Sherlund wrote, using Microsoft’s stock ticker.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft fell 2.6 percent to
$30.14 at the close in  New York . The shares have gained 22
percent in the past year.  “We are big believers in our hardware partners and
together we’re focused on bringing Windows Phone 8 to the market
with them this year,” said Stacy Drake, a director in the
Windows Phone group, in an e-mailed statement.  Surface Tablet  Google’s Android was the smartphone market leader in the
first quarter, with a 59 percent share, and Apple followed with
23 percent, IDC said.  On June 18, Microsoft said it will sell its own branded
tablet computer, called Surface, reversing its long-standing
strategy of relying exclusively on hardware partners in the
computer market.  Microsoft last released a handset, the Kin, in 2010. The
device, targeted at teens and social-media enthusiasts, sold so
poorly that Microsoft ceased work on it after less than two
months in Verizon Wireless stores.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jillian Ward at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net  