-- Microsoft’s Surface Tablet Said to Be Wi-Fi Only At First
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-22T13:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/microsoft-s-surface-tablet-said-to-be-wi-fi-only-in-first-models.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Surface tablet
computer, unveiled this week to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad,
will initially go on sale without a connection to mobile-phone
networks, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Microsoft is equipping the device with a Wi-Fi short-range
connection, said the people, who declined to be named because
the full specifications of the new product have yet to be made
public.  Apple, the market leader in tablets, began selling a new
iPad in March with the fastest cellular connection, known as
long-term evolution, or LTE. Since it first went on sale in
2010, the iPad has had the option of a mobile-phone chip, which
lets users access the Internet almost anywhere there is network
coverage. Apple also sells a Wi-Fi-only iPad model.  Wi-Fi-only models are the larger part of the market right
now and Microsoft’s decision may enable it to keep costs down,
said Ben Bajarin, an analyst at technology consulting firm
Creative Strategies. Still, it could curtail the company’s
efforts to promote Surface as a device you can use anywhere and
in any way, Bajarin said.  “The way that Microsoft is positioning this product --that
it’s highly mobile but also has the functionality of a notebook
-- that customer might be more interested in working from any
location and not being bound by Wi-Fi,” said Bajarin.  Home Use  Most tablet customers are still using the devices mainly in
the home, where they have Wi-Fi, and are avoiding mobile-phone
connections on concerns about the cost of monthly data plans,
said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at researcher Gartner Inc. in
a telephone interview.  “Wi-Fi-only is not a limitation for Surface,” Milanesi
said.  Microsoft said earlier this week that it will begin selling
the Surface later this year, altering the company’s long-
standing practice of focusing on computer software and leaving
the hardware to its partners.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft has contracted with
 Pegatron Corp. (4938) , a Taiwanese company that assembles Apple’s
iPhones, to manufacture the Surface, two people familiar with
the matter said.  Catherine Brooker, a spokeswoman for Microsoft, declined to
comment.  The shares fell 0.1 percent to $30.11 at 9:43 a.m. in  New
York . The stock had increased 16 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  