-- IMF Sees Euro Crisis at Critical Stage, Sees Bank Stress
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-21T21:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/imf-sees-euro-crisis-at-critical-stage-sees-bank-stress.html
The euro area crisis has reached a
“critical stage” and member nations must make a “strong
commitment” to the shared currency to stop the plunge in
investor confidence, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
 report  that recommended issuing common debt as one solution.  “Despite extraordinary policy actions, bank and sovereign
markets in many parts of the euro area remain under acute
stress, raising questions about the viability of the monetary
union itself,” the Washington-based organization said in a
report today. “The financial and economic environment continues
to deteriorate. Investors are withholding funding from  member
states  most in need, moving capital to safe havens and driving
risk premiums to new records.”  Europe’s monetary system needs a closer union of its banks
and more fiscal integration to “arrest the decline in
confidence engulfing the region,” the IMF said. A “strong
commitment” to the monetary union would restore faith in the
shared currency, the organization said.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.5 percent to 248.4 at
the close, after earlier climbing as much as 0.3 percent and
dropping as much as 0.8 percent. The benchmark measure has
fallen 8.8 percent from its high on March 16 amid concern that
 Greece  will have to leave the euro currency union.  Immediate Priority  “The immediate priority is concrete action toward a
banking union for the euro area,” the IMF report said. “The
proposed EU framework for harmonized national bank resolution
processes is a necessary first step. But it needs to go further.
A deposit guarantee scheme needs to be established at the
regional level to help break the links between domestic banks
and their sovereigns, and support depositor confidence.”  Spanish bond yields jumped at an auction in  Madrid  today
with the government paying 4.706 percent to borrow for two
years, compared with 2.069 percent at a similar auction in
March.  Spain ’s 10-year yields reached a euro-era record of 7.285
percent on June 18 while Italy’s benchmark yields surged to
6.342 percent on June 14, the most in about five months.  “Introduction of a limited form of common debt, with
appropriate governance safeguards, can provide an intermediate
step towards fiscal integration and risk-sharing,” according to
the IMF.  While monetary policy doesn’t offer a “lasting solution,”
falling inflation gives the European Central Bank room to ease
policy rates and signal a “commitment to a more accommodative
stance for a prolonged period,” the report said. The ECB also
must ensure that its monetary support is effective across the
region, and it should keep providing “ample liquidity support
to banks” under flexible conditions.  If necessary, unconventional policy measures should be
used, the IMF said, and the central bank should consider non-
standard measures such “some form of quantitative easing” or
re-activating the Securities Markets Program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  