-- Index of U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Rises 0.3%
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-21T14:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/index-of-u-s-leading-economic-indicators-rose-0-3-in-may.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators rose more than forecast in May, propelled by a jump
in home-building permits.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.3 percent after a 0.1 percent
drop in April, the New York-based group said today. Economists
projected the gauge would rise by 0.1 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A labor market that’s lost momentum and more cautious
spending among businesses are keeping economic growth from
gaining speed. The  Federal Reserve  pledged yesterday to
undertake further action to lower interest rates as a means of
spurring growth.  “Everything is just growing at a really, really slow pace
as decision makers in the U.S. keep a watchful eye on
developments in  Europe ,” Tim Quinlan, an economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said before
the report. “When you look at various drivers of our forecast,
there’s not one component that’s a major boost or a major
drag.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,349.87 at 10:09 a.m. after the report was released. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.61 percent from 1.66
percent late yesterday.  Estimates from 47 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a decrease of 0.3 percent to an increase of 0.4 percent.  Home-Building Permits  Seven of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by a pickup in home-building permits, which
contributed 0.21 percentage point to the gain, and the spread
between the Treasury 10-year note and the federal funds rate.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent for a
second month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.3 percent
following a 0.6 percent advance in April.  Economic growth that’s cooling globally alongside fears the
European financial crisis could worsen have sent stock prices
lower. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 6.3 in May, the
worst monthly decline in six months.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.9 percent pace in the
first quarter of 2012, down from 3 percent in the prior three
months, Commerce Department data show. In a sign of business
caution, non-residential investment  contributed  0.2 percentage
point to growth, less than half the amount the prior quarter.  Labor Market  A labor market that’s lost steam may also make it harder
for growth to accelerate. Payrolls expanded by 69,000 in May,
the smallest gain in a year, Labor Department data show.  Fed policy makers said yesterday they would expand the
central bank’s program to replace short-term bonds with longer-
term debt to lower  interest rates  and spur economic growth. They
also said the bank is “prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery and sustain
improvement in labor market conditions in a context of  price
stability ,” according to a statement from the  Federal Open
Market Committee .  Forecasters, nonetheless, are optimistic consumers can
weather the slowdown and keep the economy growing. Gross
domestic product will probably expand slightly faster, by 2.1
percent, from April to June, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from June 1 to June 5.  “I think most people would say that the economy is a
little bit better, that it’s not robust, job growth’s not where
it needs to be, but things generally speaking are just a little
bit better,” Michael Schlotman, chief financial officer of
 Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery-store chain, said during a
June 20 investor conference.  One bright spot comes from the homebuilding market.
Building permits, a proxy for future construction,  climbed  in
May to the highest level since September 2008, showing the
combination of lower prices and record-low  mortgage rates  is
underpinning demand and encouraging new projects, Commerce
Department data showed June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  