-- Indonesia Sentences Umar Patek to 20 Years for Bali Bombing Role
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-06-22T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/indonesia-sentences-umar-patek-to-20-years-for-bali-bombing-role.html
Indonesian militant Umar Patek was
convicted of murder and sentenced to 20 years in prison for his
role in making the explosives used in the October 2002 bombings
on the resort island of Bali that killed 202 people.  Judge Encep Yuliadi, chairman of the panel that presided
over the trial in Jakarta, said Patek’s fleeing Indonesia after
the Bali attack was a factor in the sentencing decision.
Prosecutors had sought life in prison.  “We are very disappointed,” Patek’s lawyer Asludin Adjani
said after the verdict was read late yesterday. “The defendant
admited his crimes, but it was under psychological pressure from
people closest to him and his seniors. He didn’t have the
ability to stop those things, even though he tried to.” Patek
may appeal the sentencing, Adjani said.  The U.S. had offered  a reward  of $1 million for Patek, who
was arrested last year in the Pakistani town of Abbottabad,
where U.S. commandos killed  Osama bin Laden .  Indonesia, a secular state with the world’s biggest
population of Muslims, has stepped up raids against terror
suspects since bombings in 2009 at Jakarta’s  JW Marriott (MAR)  and
Ritz-Carlton hotels killed nine people, including the two
attackers. They were the first terrorist attacks in the country
by Islamic militants in almost four years.  Patek’s trial started in February, one year after that of
Indonesian cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, who also faced terrorism
charges for his role in the Bali attacks. Like Bashir, Patek is
thought to be a member of the al-Qaeda-linked Jemaah Islamiyah,
according to a profile on the U.S. National Counterterrorism
Center website.  Murder Charge  Patek was charged with premeditated murder for his role in
making the bombs used in the Bali attacks, as well as conspiracy
to commit terrorism and aid terrorists, according to a copy of
the indictment. He used 11 aliases in addition to his birth name,
Hisyam Bin Alizein, the indictment said.  Patek first used his bombmaking skills in 2000, when Bali
bombing mastermind Imam Samudra asked him to make explosives to
attack churches on Christmas Eve, according to the indictment.
Samudra, who was executed in 2008 for his role in the bombings,
later asked Patek to help kill foreigners in Bali by making the
explosive devices, it said.  Patek and a friend he met in  Pakistan  in the early 1990s
took three weeks to blend the explosive mixture of potassium
chlorate, sulfur and aluminum powder used in the Bali attack,
the indictment said.  After the Bali attacks, Patek spent seven years in the
southern  Philippines  working with militant group  Abu Sayyaf ,
according to the indictment. The group helped fund his move to
Pakistan, where he stopped before a planned move to  Afghanistan 
to fight U.S. troops, it said.  Funding Terrorism  Bashir, whose trial began Feb. 10 last year, was convicted
of funding terrorism and sentenced to 15 years in prison in June.
An Indonesian court later reduced the term to nine years, the
 Associated Press  reported.  In September 2009, police killed militant leader Noordin Mohammad Top, who was suspected of involvement in every major
anti-Western attack in Indonesia since 2002. In March of the
same year they killed terrorist leader and suspected Bali bomber
Dulmatin and two others.  In March this year,  Indonesia ’s Detachment-88 anti-
terrorism squad killed five suspected terrorists on Bali. The
men had jihad literature, weapons and ammunition in their
possession and were planning robberies to fund attacks, police
said.  Authorities have data that links the men to  Jamaah Ansharut
Tauhid , known as JAT, a group founded by Bashir, Ansyaad Mbai,
head Indonesia’s National Counterterrorism Agency, said at the
time.  Bashir Conviction  Bashir was found guilty of funding terrorism and sentenced
on June 16, 2011, five years after his acquittal for links to
the Bali bombings. The October 2002 attacks on a Bali nightclub
are blamed on Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda linked group.  The conviction was the first for Bashir, 73, on terrorism
charges, though he has served two jail terms since 2003. He was
arrested in 2010 and charged with contributing funds to an
Islamic militant training camp in Aceh province.  The camps were financed in part by JAT, which Bashir
established in 2008. The group advocates the full application of
Islamic law in Indonesia, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group . The U.S. in February designated JAT
as a foreign terrorist organization.  The country’s anti-terrorist unit killed the five men
during gun battles March 18 in Sanur and Denpasar, Saud Usman Nasution, a spokesman for the National Police, said at the time.
The districts, on Bali’s southeast coast, are popular among
tourists.  Robberies  The men were planning to rob jewelry stores, money changers
and cafes to provide cash for future attacks, Nasution said.  In July 2011, Indonesia’s anti-terrorism agency asked local
authorities for help to identify extremist activity after a bomb
exploded inside an Islamic boarding school in West Nusa Tenggara
and weapons were discovered at the site.  Potential “pockets of terrorism,” exist in Bali, Java,
Aceh, Sumatra, East Kalimantan and West Nusa Tenggara, Mbai said
July 25. “The terrorists are not stopping their action,” and
the government wants to stop them before they can carry out
attacks.”  At 153 kilometers (95 miles) by 112 kilometers, Bali is a
little larger than  Rhode Island  and attracts more than a third
of all visitors to Indonesia with a mix of nightlife and surfing
in the southern beach resorts near the airport, and rice
terraces, temples and local culture around Ubud in the volcanic,
mountainous center.  Foreign tourists who came to Bali rose to 2.8 million
people in 2011 from 2.5 million people a year earlier, according
to the Ministry of Tourism and Creative Economy’s  website .
Tourist numbers from  Australia  to Denpasar, the Balinese capital,
were 770,867 last year, the biggest among other countries,
followed by  China ,  Japan  and  Malaysia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  