-- Insurers to Pay Rebates to 12.8 Million Under Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-21T13:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/insurers-to-pay-rebates-to-12-8-million-under-health-law.html
About 12.8 million Americans will
get rebates averaging $151 from their health insurers, the U.S.
government  said  today in its latest announcement touting the
2010 health-care law.  The law, which is being weighed by the Supreme Court this
month, limits to 20 percent the proportion of revenue from
premiums that insurers can keep for profits and administrative
expenses. Any excess has to be refunded to customers.  The rule “helps ensure consumers get fair value for their
health care dollar,” Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  said in a  statement .  Companies including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP)  will pay a total of $1.1 billion in rebates on 2011
policies, the government said.  Earlier this week, Sebelius touted an expansion of
insurance to people under age 26, who were able to stay on their
parents’ policies because of the law. About  3.1 million  young
adults who would otherwise be uninsured gained coverage because
of the provision, HHS said.  She also announced  new grants  yesterday to community health
centers, government-funded clinics intended to provide care in
areas with few health resources. The health law provided $11
billion for the centers, which HHS said have hired 25,300 people
since President  Barack Obama  took office.  Twenty-six states and a small business group, the National
Federation of Independent Business, have challenged the law in
court over its requirement that most Americans carry insurance.
The  Supreme Court  is deciding whether the requirement is
unconstitutional, and if so, whether the entire law will be
struck down. A decision is expected by the end of the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  