-- IGT, Bally Win Nevada’s First Online Casino Licenses
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-06-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/international-game-bally-win-nevada-online-casino-licenses.html
The Nevada Gaming Commission issued
its first two licenses for online betting, bringing the U.S. 
state with the most casino revenue a step closer to real 
wagering on poker from home.  International Game Technology (IGT) , based in Reno, Nevada, and
Las Vegas-based  Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI)  received approvals
yesterday, according to Michael Lawton, a senior research
analyst with the Nevada Gaming Control Board.   The approvals pave the way for the U.S. casino industry to
expand into online gambling, a market that may reach $13.4
billion in five years, the estimate of researcher H2 Gambling
Capital. Nevada last year was the first state to pass a statute
authorizing  Internet gambling . Two dozen companies have sought
licenses, including  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , the largest operators of U.S. casinos.  Online poker betting may start late this year or early in
2013, Gaming Control Board ChairmanMark Lipparellisaid in a 
telephone interview.   IGT and Bally must get their technology vetted by a 
state-approved testing lab, Lipparelli said. Then they can start 
to offer service to casinos, which also must win approval.  ``The dominos are starting to fall,'' Lipparelli said.  Online gambling accounted for $32.8 billion in revenue
worldwide last year, the largest contributors being Japan, the
U.K. and Germany, according to Simon Holliday, an H2 Gambling
director.  The U.S.  Justice Department  issued an opinion last year
clearing the way for online gambling within state borders, and
10 states have authorized or are considering some form of
interactive betting, according to a report from the investment
firm  Macquarie Capital .  Casino Partners  Bally and IGT, both slot-machine manufacturers, said they
intend to offer online gambling technology to other licensed 
operators and not compete directly with casinos for customers.   ``We look forward to Bally expanding its leadership role in
this exciting new arena of online gaming,'' Chief Executive
Officer Richard Haddrill said in a statement.  ``This license, backed by our decade of interactive 
experience, will allow us to enable our casino partners with a 
way to provide wager-based online poker to their players,'' said
Robert Melendres, vice president of emerging businesses at IGT.  Bally lost 2.2 percent to $46.44 in  New York  yesterday and
has added 17 percent this year. IGT dipped 0.1 percent to $14.92
and has declined 13 pecent so far in 2012.  Separately, London-based  William Hill Plc (WMH) , which takes bets
online and in betting parlors in the U.K., got a traditional
license in Nevada today after purchasing three businesses that
collect sports bets there in the past year.  The company is seeking an online license, CEO Ralph Topping
said in a telephone interview.  “Our view was, you’re better off having a presence in
Nevada,” Topping said. “Most people say it’s the platinum
process you have to go through. You’re ready for anything that
happens elsewhere in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  