-- Liquidnet Says SEC Investigating Dark-Pool Disclosures
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-22T21:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/liquidnet-says-sec-investigating-dark-pool-disclosures.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating Liquidnet Holdings Inc. for
shortcomings in how the dark-pool owner guarded private
information about firms using its platform.  SEC staff requested information about Liquidnet’s equity
capital markets business, the operator of two stock venues said
yesterday in an e-mail to clients obtained by Bloomberg News.
Liquidnet said it corrected the issues identified by the SEC and
no longer provides “descriptive characteristics” about member
firms to corporations using its services.  Federal regulators have stepped up scrutiny of stock
trading practices that gained dominance in the past decade amid
a shift to automation, Daniel Hawke, head of the market-abuse
unit in the agency’s enforcement division, said in February.
Dark pools, broker-operated private venues that don’t display
quotes publicly, rose to prominence as a way for institutions to
buy and sell without moving share prices. More than 40 such
pools now exist to trade U.S. equities.  “If we screw up, we have to tell people we screwed up,”
Liquidnet Chief Executive Officer Seth Merrin said in a phone
interview today. “It’s very important for us to maintain
credibility. These were oversights. They were errors of
omission, not commission. Still, they’re issues we had to
correct and we corrected them.”  Trader Information  One of the key features of dark pools is that they don’t
identify the firms that buy and sell on their systems and give
out no information about their block orders. The platforms are
designed to eliminate the market impact of trading requests by
keeping them out of public view until the moment a transaction
is completed.  In Liquidnet’s case, the SEC found the company may not have
gone far enough in safeguarding private information about the
orders on its platform. While Liquidnet isn’t accused of
revealing the identities of institutions buying and selling,
according to Merrin’s letter, it may not have lived up to its
responsibilities to its users by providing potential customers
with “descriptive characteristics” of the institutions’ orders.  Any information about supply and demand or the types of
firms operating in a marketplace could be valuable to company
that is considering buying or selling shares. For example, if a
seller knows a large mutual fund is purchasing stock, he might
be more confident that his own actions wouldn’t drive the price
down.  ‘Bad Process’  “It doesn’t sound like a systematic abuse of trust,” Sang Lee, managing partner at research firm Aite Group LLC in  Boston ,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “It sounds like internally
they had a bad process in place. But it’s not clear if it was
intentional or accidental and my guess is Seth is going to have
to spend a lot of time talking to their membership, especially
in light of what happened to Pipeline.”  Pipeline Financial Group Inc. settled government
allegations in October that it failed to provide the liquidity
and confidentiality it advertised to customers of its dark pool.
The New York-based company agreed to pay $1 million to resolve
U.S. claims it misled clients by deploying a trading entity,
Milstream Strategy Group LLC, to buy and sell shares on its
venue while telling customers their orders were being matched
with other clients. The firm’s founder and CEO resigned and its
chairman retired the next month.  Liquidnet’s law firm is conducting a review of the equity
capital markets unit, which seeks business from corporate
issuers, Merrin said.  SEC Inspection  While the SEC’s inspection “revealed some shortcomings
with this business, we do not believe that any member was ever
disadvantaged in any trade,” Merrin wrote in the e-mail to
asset managers yesterday. “Nevertheless, we take these issues
very seriously and have taken steps to address them.”  Melissa Kanter, a Liquidnet spokeswoman, confirmed that
Merrin sent the message to clients yesterday. The SEC also
received a copy of the letter, she said. Liquidnet, which began
trading U.S. stocks in 2001 and now operates in 39 countries,
has about 700 asset-management clients, including  hedge funds 
and pensions, according to Kanter. About 400 are in the U.S.  Liquidnet  discovered the problems involving the use of
customer information during an SEC audit and is cooperating with
the investigation, Merrin said in the interview. He started
speaking to some of Liquidnet’s member firms about the
disclosure of information last week and will continue talking to
them to explain what the company did and what remedies have been
put in place.  ‘Very Supportive’  “This is the first type of this call I’ve had to make in
12 years,” Merrin said. “Most of the calls were very
supportive and very positive. There were some obviously who were
disappointed.”  Liquidnet traded 23 million U.S. shares a day on average
through its two dark pools in April, according to data compiled
by Rosenblatt Securities Inc. The data count completed
transactions the way exchanges tally their volume, instead of
recording buy and sell sides separately, which is how dark pools
calculate their figures.  The company’s main venue had an average trade size of more
than 43,000 shares, Rosenblatt’s data show. Investment
Technology Group Inc.’s Posit Alert system, which lets asset
managers trade with similar firms, had an average size of 33,000
shares in the first quarter, according to the data. Unlike block
venues, dark pools run by most large brokers including Credit
Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trade less than 300
shares on average, comparable to what occurs on exchanges, the
Rosenblatt data show.  Market Secrecy  At Liquidnet, the SEC is focused on a unit started three
years ago in which the company allows mutual funds and other
money managers to trade blocks directly with companies that are
buying back or issuing their own shares. As part of the
business, Liquidnet provides data on aggregated institutional
buying and selling demand for shares within the dark pool to
executives such as chief financial officers and treasurers.  One of the issues identified by the SEC involves a feature
that lets buyers and sellers have their data excluded from the
service, known as InfraRed. Nineteen firms asked Liquidnet not
to include their information in the offering to issuers. At four
of those firms, requests from subsidiaries weren’t heeded.
Liquidnet said only one firm had “significant” U.S. volume.  Opting Out  “We have since opted out these affiliates and have added
steps to our opt-out process to ensure that firm’s affiliates
are opted out at the same time as the firm,” Liquidnet said in
the e-mail. Asset managers must allow their information to be
included in the InfraRed product to trade with issuers using
Liquidnet to buy or sell shares, Merrin said today.  The other focus of the SEC inspection was a tool created by
Liquidnet in February 2011 for its staff to use when
communicating with companies issuing or buying their own stock.
The tool displayed “aggregate and member-level liquidity and
execution information,” according to Merrin’s e-mail.  “The ECM team used this tool to present issuers with
opportunities to interact with member liquidity,” including
providing data on the depth of the market and guidance on when
to submit orders, Liquidnet said. “In some instances, the ECM
team provided descriptive characteristics to members involved in
that issuer’s stock,” it said.  Member Characteristics  Merrin told asset managers in his letter that Liquidnet has
ceased giving “any type of member characteristics to issuers.”
This was done in late 2011, he said in the interview. The
company also altered the internal tool so employees can no
longer see that data. The system now shows them only the ratio
of buy and sell demand available on  InfraRed , Merrin said in the
e-mail. That change was made a few weeks ago, he said today.  Liquidnet filed to go public in 2008. It shelved the plan
during the financial crisis following the collapse of Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Liquidnet has to make sure their member firms are
comfortable staying in the network,” Lee said. “It’s not a
positive thing for Liquidnet or dark pools. There’s already a
lot of public scrutiny over what’s going on in those markets.”  News of the SEC’s investigation came a day after the U.S.
House Committee on Financial Services heard testimony from
executives at exchanges and brokers about market structure
changes over the past decade and a half. NYSE Euronext CEO
 Duncan Niederauer  urged legislators to change rules to help it
compete more with dark pools and other venues that execute
trades away from  stock exchanges  without offering benefits such
as larger transaction sizes.  Trading Speed  The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission have
examined the practices and advantages of high-frequency trading
firms as the speed of trading has increased in recent years.
These firms have recently drawn scrutiny from U.S. regulators
seeking evidence that they may be distorting market prices by
conducting transactions with themselves, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  So-called wash trades, in which a party buys a contract
from itself, could be executed inadvertently by firms with
multiple algorithms, or trading strategies, that are active in
the same stock or derivative, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the review isn’t public. Such trades, which
can alter the price of shares if they are executed above or
below market rates, would be illegal if deemed intentional
efforts to manipulate stocks.  Merrin said he’d be surprised if Liquidnet is the only firm
with problems uncovered during an SEC audit of its trading
business. To maintain trust and credibility among clients using
the block trading platform, Liquidnet wanted to tell them about
the issues turned up in the SEC review itself, instead of
waiting for the investigation to be completed, Merrin said.  “What  Wall Street  needs to do to establish some trust is
to be upfront, be transparent, be honest about what people are
doing,” Merrin said in the interview. “I hope we’d set an
example for other firms to do the same thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  