-- Turkey Bond Yields at 8-Month Low After Bank Signals Easing Bias
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-21T15:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/lira-falls-first-time-in-eight-days-benchmark-bond-yields-slide.html
Turkish bond yields fell to the
lowest level in more than eight months after the central bank
signaled it was more comfortable about inflation and boosted
lira liquidity by allowing banks to keep more reserves in
dollars and gold.  The yield on benchmark  two-year government debt  declined 7
basis points, 0.07 percentage point, to 8.94 percent at the
close in Istanbul, the least since October. Yields on the 10-
year slid five basis points to 8.72 percent, the lowest since
January last year, according to a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index.
The lira weakened 0.4 percent to 1.8003 per dollar, depreciating
for the first time in eight days.  Turkey ’s central bank replaced a reference of having a
“tight” stance against inflation with the word “cautious”
when publishing a decision to leave the benchmark rate of 5.75
percent unchanged today, matching the estimate of all 11
economists in a Bloomberg survey. It also stated that global
uncertainties and demand will support a slowdown in price rises.  “In terms of inflation and overall monetary policy we feel
that the bank is more comfortable nowadays because petroleum
prices continue to decline, the lira is relatively stable and
annual consumer price inflation came down,”  Ozgur Altug , chief
economist at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed
report to clients today.  Lira Reserve  The central bank also increased the proportion of lira
reserves banks may hold in foreign currency to 50 percent from
45 percent and the proportion of  gold reserves  to 25 percent
from 20 percent. The measure will provide as much as 5.6 billion
liras ($3.1 billion) of lira liquidity to the market, the
central bank said in an e-mailed statement accompanying today’s
rates decision.  Basci is easing policy by lending more often at his
benchmark 5.75 percent rate after  inflation  slowed to 8.3
percent in May from 11.1 percent in April, the highest in more
than three years. The country’s current-account deficit
retreated in April for a sixth consecutive month.  The central bank lent 2 billion liras to banks today at
5.75 percent. It has provided liquidity at the minimum funding
rate for a 13th consecutive day, the longest period since March.
The bank lent 3 billion liras at the same rate yesterday.  The 5.75 percent rate forms the bottom end of an interest
rate corridor Governor Erdem Basci set up in October to support
the lira and control inflation. The upper end of the corridor is
11.5 percent.  The central bank varies its daily funding rate between
these two levels, depending on Basci’s view of whether the
currency and economic developments need a tight or loose policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  