-- IRS Says It Will Improve Whistle-Blower Program Amid Outcry
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2012-06-21T15:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/irs-says-it-will-improve-whistle-blower-program-amid-outcry.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  will
review its tax whistle-blower program to improve its backlog and
working practices, after the program came under fire from
politicians and lawyers.  The IRS will work with “internal and external
stakeholders” on a “comprehensive review” of the agency’s
guidelines and procedures for handling whistle-blower
complaints, Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement
Steven T. Miller said in a  two-page memo  to senior IRS officials
posted on the agency’s website yesterday.  Miller also set 90-day deadlines for the agency to review
whistle-blower claims, which can take at least seven years to
resolve.  The IRS whistle-blower program was created by Congress in
2006 to boost tax revenue by rewarding tipsters for information.
Instead, it’s become the place where allegations of  tax
avoidance  go to die, Bloomberg reported on June 19.  Over the past five years, more than 1,300 claims have been
filed regarding almost 10,000 companies and individuals,
alleging tax underpayments of at least $2 million apiece. Just
three awards have been paid. Taxpayers annually owe $385 billion
more than the IRS is able to collect, the agency has said.  “Whistle-blowers can provide valuable leads and often
offer unique insights into taxpayer activity,” Miller wrote. He
said timely action is essential and debriefing of whistle-
blowers will “be the rule, not the exception.”  ‘One-Bite Rule’  Under existing guidelines, IRS agents typically speak to
whistle-blowers only once because of concern about divulging
confidential information to informers, a procedure the IRS
refers to as the “one-bite rule.”  The whistle-blower office and the field agents and criminal
investigators to whom it refers cases will each have 90 days to
complete initial reviews of cases brought by whistle-blowers,
the memo says. When taxes and penalties are collected, tipsters
are to be notified within 90 days, so they can claim their
rewards.  Internal performance reviews for IRS agents and offices
involved in whistle-blower cases will now include information on
whether the deadlines were adhered to.  “The IRS does not have a problem attracting whistle-
blowers,” Senator  Charles Grassley , the Iowa Republican who
sponsored the whistle-blower law, wrote to Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  in April. “The IRS’s current problem is
processing and compensating whistle-blowers in a timely manner.
I am now concerned that whistle-blowers will stop coming
forward.”  While advocacy groups applaud the changes, they’re calling
for IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  to voice more support for
the whistle-blower office.  “Those are pretty big moves,” said  Patrick Burns , a
spokesman for  Taxpayers Against Fraud , a Washington interest
group that promotes IRS reform and encourages whistle-blowers.
“The question is when will Commissioner Shulman stand up and
speak out in support of the whistle-blower program. Silence
speaks very loudly at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  