-- J&J, Bayer Fail to Win Expanded U.S. Backing for Xarelto
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-22T20:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/j-j-bayer-fail-to-win-expanded-u-s-backing-for-xarelto.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) 
failed to gain U.S. approval to expand the use of their blood
thinner Xarelto to prevent heart attacks and strokes in patients
with serious chest pain or a previous heart attack.  The  Food and Drug Administration  declined to clear the
treatment for acute coronary syndrome in a complete response
letter,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J said yesterday in a
statement. FDA advisers voted to recommend against approval May
23 because of missing data from 1,000 patients who withdrew from
a late-stage trial of the drug.  The FDA decision may benefit New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , who expect approval June 28 for their
rival drug Eliquis for a common heart arrhythmia known as  atrial
fibrillation , said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann
& Co. in Boston. The availability of  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Effient
and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta for acute coronary syndromes may
delay further FDA action on Xarelto, he said.  “The FDA may not be motivated to urgently approve Xarelto
for acute coronary syndrome without greater clarity,” he wrote
in a note to clients today. “Commercially, we question whether
the FDA’s recommended label for Xarelto in ACS would have any
advantages over Effient or Brilinta. Given each drug’s slow
launch, we question Xarelto’s commercial prospects as a third-
to-market option.”  J&J is confident of the drug’s benefits for patients with
acute coronary syndrome, Paul Burton, of the company’s Janssen
Research & Development unit, said in the statement. “We will
continue to work with the FDA to fully address their questions
as quickly as possible,” he said.  $1 Billion Market  Acute coronary syndrome causes 1.2 million hospitalizations
a year. The market for drugs to treat the condition may total
more than $1 billion, according to Fernandez, who said Xarelto
may eventually win approval. The delay could be as long as a
year, he said.  J&J owns U.S. rights to the medicine while Leverkusen,
Germany-based Bayer sells the drug in  Europe .  Bayer fell 2.5 percent to 52.87 euros in Frankfurt. The
shares have fallen 6 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday. J&J gained less than a percent to $66.63 at 4:02 p.m.
in  New York  trading.  Xarelto has been on the U.S. market since July, 2011 to
prevent blood clots in patients undergoing knee and hip
surgeries. In November, the FDA approved the medicine to prevent
strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation. The missing
information in the clinical trial made it hard to interpret the
data for Xarelto’s use for the wider group of heart patients,
panel members said.  Study Drop Outs  Almost 1,300 patients dropped out early of a 15,526-
subject, final-phase study and withdrew consent for access to
their health information. Researchers were able to follow up
with 177 patients, confirming they were alive.  Xarelto is one of the medicines attempting to replace
warfarin, a more than 50-year-old drug that requires constant
monitoring and dose adjustments to keep blood from getting too
thin and putting patients at risk of severe bleeding. Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH, a closely held company based in Ingelheim,
 Germany , won U.S. approval in 2010 to sell Pradaxa, its blood
thinner to replace warfarin, for those with irregular
heartbeats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  