-- Japanese Stock Futures Decline on U.S. Data, Commodities
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-21T23:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/japanese-stock-futures-decline-on-u-s-data-commodities.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell as commodities entered a  bear market  and
disappointing housing and labor market data in the U.S. added to
signs the global economy is slowing.  American Depositary Receipts  of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, fell 2.4 percent. ADRs of
Komatsu Ltd., a Japanese construction machinery maker, slid 1.5
percent. Those of  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest
brokerage, retreated 3.3 percent.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,740 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,820
in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,750 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index declined 1.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
retreated 0.3 percent in Wellington.  “The data shows a continuation of a trend of deteriorating
data out of the U.S.,” said Peter Esho, chief market strategist
at City Index Ltd., a provider of equities, bonds and  currency
trading  in Sydney. “Traders and investors need to conserve
capital. I wouldn’t be buying equities at the moment. You have
to be cautious. The market’s now caught in a rip current and I
don’t recommend trying to fight it.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.3
percent today after bank credit downgrades announced by Moody’s
Investors Service matched expectations. The gauge fell 2.2
percent yesterday after the release of reports on housing,
manufacturing and employment.  Jobless Claims  More Americans than forecast filed claims for jobless
benefits, manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank and
sales of existing homes fell. The releases came a day after the
 Federal Reserve  cut its U.S. growth forecast and a survey showed
manufacturing in  China  may shrink for an eighth month.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 10 percent through
yesterday from this year’s highest level in February amid signs
global economic growth was slowing as Europe struggled to
contain its debt crisis.  HSBC Holdings Plc may be active in Hong Kong trading after
it was among banks named by Moody’s Investors Service that have
stronger buffers than many of their peers in the form of
earnings from other, generally more stable businesses.  Spain, the largest euro-zone nation to seek a bailout, will
have to seek funds of as much as 100 billion euros ($125
billion) by July 25, according to Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs a group of euro region finance
ministers. The loans will be paid for from the euro-region’s
temporary aid fund if the permanent rescue mechanism, due to
come into effect on July 9, isn’t ready, he said.  Commodities Slump  Declines in stocks left the Asian  benchmark gauge  trading
at 1.2 times book value through yesterday, compared with 2.1
times for the S&P 500 and 1.4 times for the Stoxx 600, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number below one means
companies can be bought for less than value of their assets.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
retreated 2.1 percent yesterday. The S&P GSCI commodities gauge
slid to the lowest level since 2010 and is down 22 percent from
a February peak. Oil fell below $80 a barrel for the first time
in eight months.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York dropped 3.5 percent to 89.90
yesterday, the steepest slump since Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  