-- Japanese Stocks Advance on Yen Prospects, New BOJ Members
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-06-21T06:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/japanese-stocks-advance-as-fed-expands-operation-twist.html
     June 21 (Bloomberg) --　 Japan   stocks  rose a second day on
speculation the yen’s gains will slow after the U.S. Federal
Reserve refrained from adding stimulus. Shares also advanced as
lawmakers confirmed two economists seen to support loose
monetary policy for the Bank of Japan’s board.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that gets 27 percent of its
revenue in the Americas, rose 1.4 percent after the yen fell
against the dollar yesterday in response to the Fed announcement.
 Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a maker of automation controls used in Chinese
factories, fell 0.9 percent after a report China’s manufacturing
may contract for an eighth month in June.  Renesas Electronics
Corp. (6723)  gained 3.1 percent on a report private equity firms KKR &
Co. and  Silver Lake  may invest in the chipmaker.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.8 percent to 8,824.07
at the 3 p.m. trading close in Tokyo. The broader Topix Index
advanced 0.9 percent to 753.96, with about four stocks gaining
for each that dropped. Shares also rose on a government report
foreign investors were net buyers of Japanese stocks last week
for the first time in nine weeks. Japan was the only major
market in  Asia  to rise today.  “We are seeing a sense of relief after a risk-off
period,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a Tokyo-based senior strategist
at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
bank by market value. “The BOJ board is turning a bit more pro-
monetary easing, even though things won’t change much as long as
the governor remains the same.”  Both houses of parliament approved Prime Minister Yoshihiko
Noda’s appointees to the Bank of Japan’s board, confirming
Takahide Kiuchi of Nomura Securities Co. and Takehiro Sato of
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., two economists who are seen
by some analysts as favoring loose monetary policy.  Topix Valuation  The Topix fell 14 percent from this year’s peak on March 27
amid concern policy measures won’t be enough to support a global
economy hindered by  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s slowdown.
Shares on the index are valued at 0.89 times book value. A
number below one means a company can be bought for less than the
value of its assets.  Foreign investors made 58.8 billion ($738 million) in net
purchases of Japanese shares last week, based on reports from
designated major investors released today by the Ministry of
Finance in Tokyo.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent
today. The gauge retreated 0.2 percent yesterday after the Fed
lowered its U.S. growth forecast to between 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent from an April projection of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent.  Stopping short of adding to total asset purchases, the U.S.
central bank said it will extend its Operation Twist to replace
$267 billion of short-term bonds with longer-term debt through
year-end. The program had been due to end this month.  Canon added 1.4 percent to 3,275 yen after Japan’s currency
fell to 79.70 per dollar yesterday, the weakest since June 13.
 Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s second-largest carmaker by market value,
rose 3.5 percent to 2,665 yen. A weaker yen boosts the value of
exporters’ earnings when repatriated.  Mixed Blessing  More asset buying, or quantitative easing, from the Fed
would be a mixed blessing for Japanese stocks because it
improves the U.S. growth outlook while weakening the dollar
against the yen, said Seiichiro Iwamoto at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. A weaker yen boosts the value of
exporters’ earnings when repatriated.  “Investors are disappointed without QE3, but people in the
Japanese market don’t feel that way because the yen won’t be
strengthening,” said Iwamoto, who helps oversee about $34
billion.  Japanese stocks pared gains after the HSBC Holdings and
Markit Economic purchasing index fell to 48.1 this month from
48.4 in May, signaling China’s manufacturing may shrink for an
eighth month. The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.3 percent.  ‘Investor Sentiment’  “Declines in the manufacturing reading and China’s stocks
are weighing on investor sentiment,” said Hiroaki Hiwada, a
strategist at Tokyo-based Toyo Securities Co. “That’s prompting
profit-taking this afternoon after Japan’s stocks rose more than
market participants had expected in the morning.”  Fanuc lost 0.9 percent to 12,840 yen.  Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co. (6305)  , a machinery maker that relies on China for 17
percent of its sales, slid 0.7 percent 1,513 yen.  Renesas gained 3.1 percent to 334 yen after the Yomiuri
newspaper reported KKR and Silver Lake are in talks to invest
“several tens of billions of yen” in the chipmaker, which is
seeking support after at least five straight quarterly losses.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  added 1.9 percent to 762 yen as the
carmaker plans to cut its domestic output by 14 percent to
improve efficiency and counter the strong yen cutting into
overseas earnings.  The  Nikkei 225 Volatility Index (VNKY)  slid 7 percent to 20.92, a
fourth day of decline, indicating traders expect a swing of
about 6 percent on the benchmark gauge over the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 