-- JPMorgan Among Banks That May Face Global Swap Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/jpmorgan-among-banks-that-may-face-global-swap-rules.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other U.S. banks would be subject to Dodd-Frank
Act swaps rules in their overseas offices under guidance that
may be proposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The proposal for so-called interpretive guidance, scheduled
for a vote today at a CFTC meeting in Washington, has been
criticized by U.S. bankers who say it could put them at a
disadvantage to overseas competitors. The international reach of
clearing and trading regulations gained urgency after JPMorgan
disclosed at least $2 billion in losses on trades by the bank’s
chief investment office in  London .  “I think if we were to leave the London branches of the
U.S. banks or even the guaranteed affiliates out, it would be,
so to speak, another loophole and a retreat from reform, where
risk would come crashing back to our taxpayers and our  Federal
Reserve ,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  testified to the House
Financial Services Committee lawmakers during a June 19 hearing
on the JPMorgan loss.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
2010, was intended to reduce risk and increase transparency in
the $648 trillion over-the counter swaps market after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. It
required swaps to be guaranteed by central clearinghouses that
stand between buyers and sellers, traded on public exchanges and
reported to swap-data repositories.  ‘Big Blowouts’  “As Gensler points out: In all these big blowouts, you
have a global dimension,” James Angel, a finance professor at
 Georgetown University ’s business school in Washington, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “You can’t really blame a regulator
faced with this kind of mess wanting to have all the information
readily available.”  JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other U.S.
banks have argued that applying Dodd-Frank to their overseas
operations would hurt their ability to compete with foreign-
based rivals that may face other requirements.  “If JPMorgan overseas operates under different rules than
our foreign competitors, we can no longer provide the best
products and services to our U.S. clients or our foreign
clients,” JPMorgan’s Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
at the financial-services panel hearing on the losses. “The
rules at the transaction level about margin reporting, all those
requirements may enable Deutsche Bank to make the better deal.”  U.S.-based banks may be allowed to comply with the rules on
a timetable that’s similar to one facing their overseas rivals,
two people with knowledge of the guidance said yesterday.  New Timetable  The timetable under consideration by the CFTC would drop
earlier plans to give foreign-based banks more time to comply
with some regulations than overseas operations of U.S. banks,
the people said on condition of anonymity because the guidance
hasn’t yet been proposed.  The compliance schedule was the subject of negotiations
yesterday before the agency’s vote today.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC
spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment
outside of normal business hours.  The guidance, which has been the subject of internal debate
and disagreement at the agency during the last month, would be
open to public comment before it is completed. U.S.
Representatives  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, and
 Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican, sent Gensler a letter
yesterday urging the CFTC to adopt a form rule that includes an
analysis of the costs and benefits of the regulation instead of
informal guidance.  “We respectfully request that you do not move forward with
the non-binding ‘guidance’ and instead proceed through a formal
rule-making process and conduct the appropriate cost-benefit
analysis that the law requires,” the lawmakers wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  