-- JPMorgan Finds a Good Mate for Its Trading Loss
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-06-21T22:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/jpmorgan-s-profit-is-scarier-than-its-loss.html
Enough about the trading losses at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Check out all of those offsetting gains.  Last month when JPMorgan first acknowledged that some of
its chief investment office’s derivatives trades had gone
haywire, it tried to soften the blow by pointing to a big chunk
of freshly realized investment profits that reduced the unit’s
overall loss.  The trading loss so far for the second quarter was about $2
billion, before taxes, the company  said  May 10. However, the
same office had also realized a $1 billion pretax gain from
sales of securities this quarter, which JPMorgan said it hadn’t
factored into its previously issued earnings forecasts. The
obvious impression JPMorgan left was that it had sold securities
and booked gains as a way to mitigate the loss.  There’s nothing wrong with that under the accounting rules.
The problem is with the rules themselves, which create needless
complexity for investors, along with ample opportunities for
companies to manipulate the timing and size of their earnings.  The trading loss came from derivatives that had to be
marked at their fair market values each quarter, with changes
hitting earnings immediately. By comparison, the securities that
JPMorgan sold were classified as “available for sale.” Such
investments are marked to market on the balance sheet each
period. Generally speaking, however, quarterly fluctuations in
their value don’t get included in net income or regulatory
capital.  Holding Tank  Instead, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale
securities go into a holding tank on the balance sheet called
accumulated other comprehensive income, where they may sit for
years before being released into net income. Had JPMorgan
labeled these same securities as “trading” assets instead, any
changes would have counted in earnings and regulatory capital
already, before JPMorgan sold them.  So, by classifying the securities as available-for-sale,
JPMorgan in effect had created a reservoir of earnings on its
books that it could tap at its discretion for financial-
reporting and regulatory purposes. This wouldn’t be possible if
the rules required full fair-value accounting for all
securities.  JPMorgan said it had $8.4 billion of paper gains in its
$381.7 billion portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of
March 31, almost all of which were bonds of some sort.
JPMorgan’s  income statement  would have better reflected the
company’s actual economic activity, had its earnings included
all of those changes in value as they happened.  As they stand, the accounting standards encourage actions
that may run contrary to companies’ economic interests.  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s chief executive officer, made a similar point
during the company’s May 10 conference call. Dimon said the
company could take more gains to offset the trading loss if it
wanted to. “But usually it’s tax-inefficient, so we’re very
careful about taking gains,” he said.  Another problem for investors: Often it’s hard to tell if a
company has sold its best investments to make earnings look
better, while holding onto its losers. Cherry picking, or
“gains trading,” was a big problem during the 1980s savings
and loan crisis. At least with JPMorgan, which classifies only
$11 million of its bonds as held-to-maturity, almost all of the
changes in the values of its securities must be recorded on the
company’s balance sheet each quarter.  New Rules  The U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board for decades
has used accumulated other comprehensive income as a dumping
ground for gains and losses that it has deemed too volatile to
include in earnings. Other examples include changes in the
values of corporate pension plans and foreign currencies.  Recently the FASB passed new rules to require that such
gains and losses be disclosed more prominently. Yet it still
lets companies keep them out of net income.  General Electric
Co. (GE) , for instance, showed an accumulated other comprehensive
loss of $22.1 billion as of March 31, mainly due to pension
plans. GE’s net income last quarter was about $3 billion.  Historically, the  Federal Reserve  and other  banking
regulators  had been advocates of using accumulated other
comprehensive income as an earnings-smoothing mechanism -- and a
backdoor way of limiting volatility in the regulators’ standard
capital metrics. (The term “capital” refers to the financial
cushion companies have on hand to absorb future losses.) Yet
even the regulators have done an about-face of sorts.  This month, U.S. banking regulators  proposed  rules under
which most of the items in accumulated other comprehensive
income would start being counted in banks’ regulatory  capital ,
including unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale
securities. Had those rules been in full effect already, there
would have been less incentive for JPMorgan to sell winners to
offset its trading losses.  The policy shift had been a few years in the making, after
a wave of collapses by financial companies that showed seemingly
robust regulatory capital. If even the banking regulators can
now agree that such gains and losses should be included in
capital, there’s no good reason for the accounting-rule makers
to keep excluding them from companies’ earnings. Volatility is
just another word for reality. A change is overdue.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies  and on what a  shock-and-awe solution  to  Europe ’s
crisis would look like;  Jonathan Alter  on  Republican voter-
suppression efforts ; Stephen L. Carter on the  Supreme Court’s
legitimacy ; William Pesek on  Japan’s debt and nuclear power
plants ; Carl Pope on bringing  clean energy innovation  to the
global poor; Christopher Swift on  defeating al-Qaeda in Yemen .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 