-- Julie Walters, Silly ‘Billy,’ Boring Brandt: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-06-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/julie-walters-silly-billy-boring-brandt-london-stage.html
Grandmother Judy Haussman is a
noisy, vulgar, pill-popping old hippie.  In real life, she’d be the neighbor from hell. On stage,
she’s a blast.  Julie Walters (“ Billy Elliot ,” “Calendar Girls”) is a
vibrant, funny and infuriating Judy in “The Last of the
Haussmans,” a new play by Stephen Beresford at the  National
Theatre  in  London .  When Judy has a minor operation to remove a small cancerous
growth, her two children come to visit in her decrepit Art Deco
seaside house.  Daughter Libby (Helen McCrory) is an uptight control freak
who wants to secure the potentially valuable property for
herself and her brother. Son Nick (Rory Kinnear) is a self-
loathing gay  drug addict  who can’t face conflict.  Beresford provides some juicy comic battles early in his
first play, and shows he’s not afraid to tackle big themes:
death, inheritance, family duty, love. An actor himself, he also
knows how to gift a good line to a great performer.  Judy, her straggly gray hair frizzing over her shoulders,
lights the stage. She struggles to remain true to her 1960s
ashram values as the world changes around her.  “The residents’ association? They’re worse than the
Stasi,” she cries, flashing her private parts like a naughty
child.  Endless Battles  After the interval, Beresford’s authorial inexperience
shows. The battles become repetitive and rambling. The
inheritance plot sputters. Judy churns out the same sort of
speeches over and over. The 2-hour-and-45-minute running time
slows to the speed of a snail race.  Could director  Howard Davies  not have loaned a pair of
scissors to the author?  Designer Vicki Mortimer creates an impressively dilapidated
two-story house. It’s a colorful mess of old rugs, Indian bric-
a-brac and cheap furniture.  It looks great, Walters is in top form, and there’s fine
subtle support from McCrory as a harsh-voiced Libby.  Rating: ***.  Handsome Billy  In Britten’s masterpiece, the 1951 “Billy Budd,” the
morally twisted John Claggart destroys the beautiful new recruit
Billy Budd on board a British man-of-war.  It’s ripe stuff, with arias full of tormented passion,
timber-shaking sailors’ choruses and glittering orchestration.  A new production at  English National Opera  has many musical
merits.  Matthew Rose  is a subtle and seductive Claggart, and his
huge ringing voice gives promise of an exciting Wotan in the
future. Tenor Kim Begley has gravitas as the compromised Captain
Vere, and the chorus sounds explosively good.  Conductor Edward Gardner cooks up a storm in the pit when
needed and Benedict Nelson sings Billy attractively, even if he
lacks theatrical vibrancy.  David Alden’s production is yet another of the soul-sapping
stagings in which ENO specializes.  The players in the drama seem to be gulag prisoners and
Soviet-era soldiers, a confusing choice for a naval drama. The
large rusty metal panels of Paul Steinberg’s set are neither
claustrophobic enough for the intimate scenes nor open enough
for the exciting sea chase in Act 2. Rating: **.  Theatrical Espionage  Michael Frayn’s 2003 play “Democracy,” now at the  Old
Vic , deals with the West German chancellorship (1969-74) of
left-wing Willy Brandt. He was brought down by the revelation
that his close aide, Gunter Guillaume, was an East German spy.  The relationship between the charismatic, depressive Brandt
(Patrick Drury) and the adoring Guillaume (who refers to himself
as Brandt’s “Sancho Panza”) is well handled, and the ironies
of their odd friendship explored with precision.  It’s not enough to make a gripping piece. Frayn also
includes stodgy reams of exposition about the complicated
coalition politics of the time.  Guillaume (the excellent Aidan McArdle in a terrible
wrinkly wig) frequently steps out of character to address the
audience or to talk to his spymaster at the side of the stage.
It’s an alienating dramatic technique that makes an already dry,
information-heavy piece feel even drier. Rating: **.  “The Last of the Haussmans” is in repertoire at the
National Theatre. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk 
or +44-20-7452-3000; “Billy Budd” is in repertoire at ENO,
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300; “Democracy” is at the
Old Vic,  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater,
 Lewis Lapham  on history and  Zinta Lundborg’s  New York weekend.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 