-- Knicks’ Guard Jeremy Lin Switches Agents to Williams & Connolly
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-21T13:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/knicks-guard-jeremy-lin-switches-agents-to-williams-connolly.html
New York Knicks guard Jeremy Lin
retained agent Jim Tanner of the Washington law firm  Williams &
Connolly LLP , joining the group that represents fellow National
Basketball Association players  Tim Duncan  and  Grant Hill .  The firm will handle Lin’s next NBA contract, marketing
matters, licensing, personal appearances and other business
opportunities, and collaborate with Lin’s former agent,  Roger
Montgomery , on free agency and other basketball-related matters,
Williams & Connolly said in a statement.  “With the quality and character of their firm and clients,
their extensive basketball experience and tremendous success in
athlete representation, I am confident that Williams & Connolly
will provide me with the guidance I need to continue to develop
personally and professionally,” Lin said in a statement. “I am
excited to have them work with Roger Montgomery and my current
team.”  An e-mail sent to Montgomery yesterday seeking comment
about Lin’s decision wasn’t returned.  Tanner’s clients include Duncan, the San Antonio Spurs’
forward, and Hill of the  Phoenix Suns , whose president of
basketball operations, Lon Babby, was a Williams & Connolly
attorney and player agent prior to joining the NBA team. The
Miami Heat’s  Shane Battier  and the Boston Celtics’  Ray Allen 
also are clients.  Lin’s emergence this season could lead to increased
endorsements. The 23-year-old is a restricted free agent, meaning 
the Knicks have the opportunity to match any offer he receives.  A Harvard University graduate who was the first Chinese- or
Taiwanese-American to play in the NBA, Lin was cut by two NBA
teams before turning himself from a bench-warmer to a starter
for the Knicks in February. The team won six straight games
after he entered the starting lineup, and worldwide interest in
Lin spawned a craze that became known as Linsanity. He had the
term trademarked in May.  Lin went on to average 14.6 points and 6.2 assists per game
as the Knicks made the playoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 