-- Korea Home Price Slide Persists With Property Anxiety
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-06-22T10:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/korea-home-price-slide-persists-with-property-anxiety-mortgages.html
Yook Jeong Soo last month renewed a
two-year lease on his three-bedroom home on the outskirts of
Seoul, preferring to pay the 30 percent rent increase his
landlord demanded rather than buy in the city’s housing market.  “The rent rise was huge, I know, but why should I bother
buying a house now with borrowed money when I’m not so confident
the price will go up?” said the 49-year-old office worker.
“The heyday is over for the housing market.”  Home prices  in Seoul and surrounding areas have stalled
after a 66 percent climb in the decade to February 2008 raised
household debt to record levels and triggered government
measures to cool the market. While that’s helped South  Korea ,
 Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy, avoid the three-year surge in
prices in places like  Hong Kong  and  China  that’s raised concerns
that bubbles were forming, it’s also soured many Koreans on home
buying.  The Korean government’s decision on May 10 to ease mortgage
lending limits for three of the capital’s most affluent areas
won’t prevent further declines, said Kim Hyeon Wook, an
economist at  SK Research Institute .  “Throwing money into homes is now considered a bad bet and
this sentiment is just too strong to be curbed by the
government’s deregulation,” said Kim. “People don’t expect
prices to go higher.”  Home  prices  dropped 0.7 percent this year, gained 0.3
percent in 2011, and contracted 1.2 percent in 2010, according
to an index compiled by Kookmin Bank, the nation’s biggest
lender.  Falling Transactions  Residential property transactions in greater  Seoul  fell 38
percent in the January-April period from a year earlier,
according to data from the  Ministry of Land, Transport and
Maritime Affairs.  Seoul’s metropolitan area, with a population
of about 24 million, is home to 48 percent of the nation’s
households, according to the  Statistics Korea  website.  Home prices in Hong Kong have soared more than 80 percent
since the beginning of 2009, while in China they rose 32 percent
before the government started imposing curbs in 2010.  South Koreans are avoiding real estate even as the  economy 
expands. Gross domestic product grew 2.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, rising for 11 quarters in a row,
the Bank of Korea said on June 7.  “Residential property prices in  South Korea  will be
sluggish or see a very slight increase,” said Young Il Choi, a
vice president and senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors
Service in Hong Kong.  Debt Burden  Efforts to spur a stagnant property market are failing so
far as households burdened with record debt prefer the nation’s
archaic rental system, where deposits are paid to landlords who
repay tenants years later without interest. The previous
government attempted to stem access to cheap credit that fueled
a building boom from 2004 to 2007 and led to a surge in
household debt as speculators swooped.  Household debt in the first quarter was 911.4 trillion won
($791 billion), just shy of the record 911.9 trillion won in the
previous three months, the  Bank of Korea  said on May 24. Average
monthly income at households gained 6.9 percent to 4.1 million
won in the first quarter from a year earlier, Statistics Korea
said May 18.  The  delinquency ratio  for mortgage loans at South Korean
banks stood at 0.79 percent as of the end of April, rising from
0.51 percent of total outstanding credit from a year earlier,
the  Financial Supervisory Service  said on May 24 in a statement.
The household debt delinquency rate, which includes mortgages
and other credit, in April increased to 0.89 percent, the
highest level since February 2007, according to the statement.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said June 15 that the
growing number of people who can’t afford to make payments on
their home loans is a worry as policy makers brace for a
slowdown amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. The delinquency rate among
group loans for home buyers rose to 1.84 percent in April from
1.8 percent in March as price declines sparked transaction
disputes, the FSS said. Group loans are arranged by developers
and banks, and pool borrowing by buyers in large home and
apartment projects.  Mortgage Delinquencies  Moody’s in April cited rising household debt and public-
sector borrowing as “risk factors” for South Korea’s economy
that could drag on private consumption.  “I expect the quality and delinquency of  mortgage loans  at
Korean banks to be gradually deteriorating in the short- to
medium-term,” said Moody’s Choi. Banks will see slower growth
in their mortgage lending and lower profit from that segment, he
added.  The 392 trillion won in total mortgage loans at the end of
April was a record high and 46 percent more than the balance at
the end of 2007.  Buyers in affluent parts of Seoul can borrow as much as 50
percent of a property’s value, up from 40 percent, to unwind
“excessive regulations” on property markets introduced during
the market boom in the mid-2000s, the  finance ministry  said in
the statement on May 10.  “It’s a vicious cycle: Prolonged price declines are
sapping demand, resulting in the deferral of settlements into
new homes,” said Yang Hae Keun, a Seoul-based real estate
market analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. “I expect
even fewer deals to take place this year than last. The impact
from the government’s latest steps will be negligible.”  Market Support  The government of President  Lee Myung Bak  last year cut
home sales taxes, lowered  interest rates  on loans for first-home
buyers and encouraged banks to cut lending in floating-rate
loans to reduce households’ vulnerability to swings in interest
rates as part of measures to support the housing market and curb
rising rent prices. It maintained a 50 percent debt-to-income
rule, under which a borrower’s principal and interest repayments
on a loan can’t exceed 50 percent of annual income, for some
parts of Seoul.  The rate of household debt to disposable income in South
Korea was 135.5 percent in 2011, the highest level since the
Bank of Korea began tracking the data in 2003.  Floating Rate  Floating-rate mortgages account for 95 percent of home
loans in South Korea, compared with 10 percent in the U.S.,
according to 2009 data, the latest available, from the  Financial
Services Commission .  “Until recently, policy makers and banks didn’t have a
sophisticated approach in managing the mortgage market,” said
Jasper Kim, a professor at the Graduate School of International
Studies at Ewha Woman University in Seoul and among the first to
publicly predict that the housing sector would decline in 2009.
“Banks wanted their money back relatively quickly, while
offering short-term, floating-rate loans, which were less risky
for lenders. Borrowers didn’t have much choice but to take them
during the past decade.”  The central bank’s benchmark rate has been at 3.25 percent
since June 2011.  Longer Mortgages  The  Korea Housing Finance Corp ., the state-run residential
funding provider, was the first to offer a 30-year fixed-rate
mortgage in 2004 when the company was established, after years
of the government encouraging  banks to provide capital to
companies to help the nation’s industrialization rather than to
extend loans to individuals.  Kookmin Bank and Woori Bank, two of the nation’s top three
mortgage lenders, are among banks now offering mortgages with
maturities as long as 35 years. Banks’ average  mortgage rate  was
5.14 percent as of April, while the rate for new mortgages was
4.94 percent, according to Bank of Korea data.  As government efforts to revive the housing market have met
with little success, rents are rising as more people like Yook
forego buying homes. Rents have gained 0.7 percent so far this
year, according to Kookmin Bank.  Under Jeonse, a form of long-term rental deposits favored
by South Korean landlords, first introduced in the 1870s, a
renter pays the owner a lump-sum, typically about half the value
of the house, instead of a monthly rent. At the end of the two-
year contract, the holder of the lease returns the deposit back
to the renter without paying interest.  Property buyers widely used Jeonse as a financing tool in
the 1980s and early 2000s when mortgage loans were scarce.  “I don’t believe in the mythology of undefeated housing
prices I used to see back in the 1980s and 2000s any longer,”
said Yook, who’s planning to move into smaller public housing
once his 20-year-old son and 22-year-old daughter get jobs and
move out. “I don’t see any merit owning a house.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  