-- Naples Fascinates With Garbage, Mafia, Ruined Glory
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-06-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/naples-fascinates-with-garbage-mafia-ruined-glory-interview.html
After a brief visit to Naples
decades ago, I spent a week recovering on the Lipari Islands.  What a stressful city this is: Vesuvius looming in the
distance, disappearing garbage collectors, crumbling monuments
and a hydra-headed mafia.  Once a must-see city on the Grand Tour of the cultivated
gentleman, Naples could use a few more friends these days.  “ Naples Declared: A Walk Around the Bay ,” an engaging
travel history by  Benjamin Taylor , brings out the darkness and
light of a death-defying city glinting under the grime. I was
happy to visit vicariously.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters a few days
before he was off to  France  to start a new book on Marcel
Proust.  Hoelterhoff: Say I want to go back to Naples. What’s your
favorite hotel?  Taylor: I often stayed at  Grand Hotel Parker’s , which was
the headquarters of the German high command.  A more famous hotel on the water is the  Excelsior , which
is in many movies like “ Dodsworth .” You can see the smoking
volcano in the background as he drives along the via Partenope.  Berlin Orders  Hoelterhoff: What about the Nazis?  Taylor: They decided not to fight for Naples but to leave.
A specific order came from Berlin to destroy the medieval
archives and the Germans sent a detachment to burn these
documents in the last days.  As so often in the  Third Reich , there was a passionate
attention to symbols.  Hoelterhoff: It reminds me of Hitler’s order to burn Paris
-- the vindictive obsession to eradicate the past if you can’t
own the future. Yet Naples was badly destroyed.  Taylor: Yes, by the Allies, though I never heard any local
utter a bitter word.  Hoelterhoff: What’s your first memory of Naples?  Taylor: Like so many, I came to go elsewhere: to see
Pompeii and Capri. Then I met the author  Shirley Hazzard , who
said: “What’s the most interesting is what is hidden here.”
That intrigued me.  Hoelterhoff: And what was that?  Taylor: These are a people for whom the tragic nature of
history is simply a given. Events are not favorable to you. In a
sense, it’s the opposite of what it feels to be a fortunate
American. I was impressed by the deep civilization inherent in
ordinary people.  What Happened?  Hoelterhoff: Yet for a long time, Naples was considered
one of the great cities of  Europe .  Taylor: The second city of Europe after Paris. The Grand
Tour culminated here. Then with the unification of  Italy , the
standard of living doesn’t change in the south. But the north
has a different trajectory.  Hoelterhoff: I liked the cameos, whether of the repulsive
Tiberius or the strangely chic opera lover, who turned out to be
a cross-dresser.  Taylor: She was treated as if she were mentally ill. The
south is more conservative in our sense.  Hoelterhoff: La Camorra. Is it visible?  Taylor: Invisible but everywhere. The shops, the hotels,
all are paying protection. The Camorra controls the political
economy. I think the Camorra accounts for one third of the
southern GDP.  It’s sophisticated and internationally ambitious. They take
their ill-gotten gains and put them into legitimate companies.  Hoelterhoff: So they are behind those periodic garbage
strikes?  The Garbage  Taylor: They are not exactly strikes, but a demonstration
of power. It is announced that “the receptacles for garbage are
full.” They are not.  The Camorra is misunderstood as a family like the Gambinos.
It’s a network of several hundred families with spheres of
autonomy and interest and occasional turf wars. It’s involved in
all forms of trafficking including bodily organs.  You see the young members in the restaurants. They’re
profoundly influenced by the “Scarface” movie and love to go
tanning and wear their pants high. They’re repulsive.  Hoelterhoff: Were you ever scared?  Taylor: Not for a minute. But I wasn’t writing about crime
in Naples. I was there to sing the song of praise to its immense
antiquity.  “Naples Declared” is published by Marion Wood/Putnam (205
pages, $26.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis
Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer of this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 