-- Nasdaq to Start London Interest-Rate Derivatives Platform
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-06-21T13:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/nasdaq-to-start-london-interest-rate-derivatives-platform.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. equity-exchange operator, plans to start an
interest-rate derivatives trading platform in London, competing
directly with  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   The New York-based company, which operates seven Nordic and
Baltic exchanges, will start London-based NLX in the first
quarter of 2013. The venue will be registered as a  multilateral
trading facility  and offer a range of short-term and long-term
interest-rate derivatives, Charlotte Crosswell, chief executive
officer of the new system, said in an interview today.  Regulators globally are pushing for more over-the-counter
derivatives to be processed by clearinghouses or traded on
exchanges to reduce systemic risk.  NYSE Euronext’s London-based Liffe dominates the  market  for
short-term interest-rate products and Frankfurt-based Eurex,
 Europe ’s largest futures exchange, handles long-term products.  “We can create lookalike contracts,” Crosswell said
today. “Customers will be able to trade both the long end and
the short end of the curve on one platform now. We will be
competitive on price.”  Combination Blocked  The European Commission blocked a proposed combination
between Eurex and Liffe in February, saying their coming
together would stifle competition in derivatives.  Deutsche
Boerse , which owns Eurex, had agreed to buy the operator of the
New York Stock Exchange in a deal valued at $9.53 billion when
it was announced in February 2011.  Nasdaq’s NLX will use LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the largest
clearinghouse for interest-rate swaps, for clearing and
settlement services. Clients will be offered cross-margining,
Crosswell said today.  “We should continue to expect new entrants into the
European  derivatives market , but gaining traction from the
incumbents will be difficult,” Peter Lenardos, an exchange
analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said at the Federation of
European Securities Exchange’s annual convention in Istanbul
today. “It will be difficult to judge the success of this
project this year or next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Mumbai at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  