-- Navistar Turns Target After Poison Pill Adopted: Real M&A
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-06-21T21:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/navistar-turns-target-after-poison-pill-adopted-real-m-a.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  is
turning into the cheapest takeover target in the world among
commercial truckmakers as billionaire  Carl Icahn  and his former
protege push the company to boost its valuation.  Icahn increased his stake to 11.9 percent this month and
hedge fund manager  Mark Rachesky  disclosed he had taken an even
bigger position as Navistar slumped to a three-year low,
prompting the company to adopt a poison pill to help fend off
hostile bids. Even after rebounding 9.7 percent, the $1.81
billion company trades at an 87 percent discount to its sales,
the least expensive among commercial truckmakers with market
values higher than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rachesky’s MHR Fund Management LLC, which controls a 13.6
percent Navistar stake, said it may seek talks with management
after the company  lost money  for a second straight quarter,
slashed its forecast and shuffled top executives as it struggles
to meet federal emission standards for a new truck engine. While
analysts  project  Lisle, Illinois-based Navistar will post its
first annual loss in five years, Barrington Research Associates
Inc. said it could attract suitors such as Fiat Industrial SpA
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  as they seek to expand in  North America .  “There are a lot of companies around the world who want a
global presence,”  David Leiker , a Milwaukee-based analyst with
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a telephone interview. “And the
only way you can do it is Navistar. You have a company that’s
gone down a path that’s proving more challenging than expected
that’s having a significant impact on their shareholders.”  Icahn Stake  Dan Ustian, Navistar’s chairman and chief executive
officer, declined to say whether the company has been approached
by suitors or would consider a sale, said Karen Denning, a
spokeswoman for Navistar.  Navistar, which traces its  roots  to the invention of the
first mechanical reaper in 1831, makes commercial and military
trucks as well as buses, engines and parts. The company had
 revenue  of $14.2 billion in the 12 months through April, with
the majority coming from truck sales in the U.S. and  Canada ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn first disclosed a position in Navistar in October.
The stock had dropped more than 50 percent in less than six
months when the trucking industry failed to rebound as much as
analysts had projected. Icahn said he bought the stock because
it was undervalued, and that he had talked with management,
according to a filing at the time.  Since then, Navistar reported a second-quarter loss on June
7 and lowered its profit forecast for the fiscal year ending in
October because of costs for a new engine with emission-
reduction technology that has yet to gain certification from
regulators. Icahn increased his stake as the results reduced the
company’s shares to $24.11, the lowest since March 2009.  Poison Pill  Rachesky, Icahn’s former chief investment officer,
disclosed last week that he also had taken a stake in Navistar
and “may seek to engage in discussions with management,”
according to a filing. Rachesky was on the opposite side of
Icahn when his mentor unsuccessfully sought control of Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. two years ago.  A telephone message for Icahn wasn’t returned. Joele Frank,
a spokeswoman for Rachesky, said he declined to comment.  The investors’ disclosures spurred an 18 percent rebound in
the shares and led Navistar’s board yesterday to adopt a poison
pill to prevent “coercive takeover tactics.”  “The board recognizes that they’ve got some activist
shareholders in the stock and they may be forced to put the
company up for sale,” Walter Liptak, an analyst for Chicago-
based Barrington Research, said in a telephone interview. “They
want to make sure that they’re going to have some control over
valuation.”  ‘Value There’  Navistar  closed  at $26.45, valuing the company at 0.13
times sales, lower than the any other commercial truck and
vehicle maker with a market capitalization exceeding $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median multiple for
the group was 0.71 times, the data show.  “There is value there” that could appeal to a potential
buyer, Patrick Nolan, a Stuart, Florida-based analyst for Penn
Capital Management Co., said in a telephone interview. Penn
Capital oversees $6.5 billion and no longer owns Navistar.
“It’s a high-quality company with a management issue.”  The decision to lower emissions using a different
technology from the rest of the industry puts the blame on
Ustian, Nolan said.  Today, the shares fell 6.8 percent at the close in New
York.  Market Share  Navistar could attract  Fiat Industrial (FI) , the truck and
tractor manufacturer that carmaker Fiat SpA spun off in 2011, or
Volkswagen as they seek to gain a larger share of the North
American truck market, Barrington’s Liptak wrote in a June 12
note. The company could fetch a price of $50 to $60 a share in a
takeover, according to the note.  Navistar, which has seen its market share for class 8
trucks in the U.S. and Canada fall by 29 percent since 2009,
still sells one of every six heavy trucks in the U.S. and
Canada, according to Polk, a research company based in
Southfield, Michigan.  The company also has the top market share for severe
service trucks, which include military vehicles, medium-duty
trucks and school buses in the U.S. and Canada, Navistar said in
a June 7 investor presentation.  “One of the more striking surprises is that Navistar has
held the market share it has,” Brian Sponheimer, an analyst at
Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York , said in a phone interview. “It
speaks to the quality of the truck they make and the price
point, which is below a lot of the competition. It’s a value
brand and it appeals to fleet buyers.”  Taking Time  Gabelli is a unit of Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees
about $35 billion including 4.3 million shares of Navistar.  While Navistar is a logical takeover target for Volkswagen
or Fiat Industrial, a transaction probably won’t happen until
the company wins  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
certification for its 13-liter engine and the potential buyers
integrate other recent acquisitions, said Sponheimer and Baird’s
Leiker. Once those issues are resolved, which Sponheimer
estimated may take a year, Navistar could fetch as much as $64 a
share, he said.  Volkswagen raised its stake in MAN SE June 5, taking a step
toward acquiring greater control of the German truckmaker.
Volkswagen, which acquired a controlling stake in Scania AB last
year, wants to forge an alliance between Scania, MAN and its own
commercial-vehicles unit.  Marco Dalan, a Volkswagen spokesman in Wolfsburg,  Germany ,
declined to comment on whether the company is interested in
Navistar.  Fiat Plans  Fiat Industrial wants to expand its truck business in the
U.S., potentially by acquisition, Chairman  Sergio Marchionne 
told reporters June 8. He didn’t say which companies he was
considering targeting. Fiat Industrial’s commercial-vehicle
brands include Iveco, Case and New Holland.  A Fiat Industrial official, who asked not to be named
citing company policy, declined to comment beyond Marchionne’s
comments.  A potential buyer may hold off on approaching Navistar
until the company either receives EPA certification for its
engine or lays out another strategy for meeting the emission
standards, Penn Capital’s Nolan said. An acquisition is further
complicated by Navistar’s $3.2 billion in pension and retiree
health-care obligations, he said.  U.S. authorities may block a takeover of Navistar by a
foreign buyer unless the company’s defense unit is split off
first, a further impediment to a sale, Nolan said.  Bearish Bets  The unit, which sells vehicles to the U.S. Defense
Department as well as militaries in Iraq, Afghanistan and
 Singapore , generated 13 percent of revenue last year.  Short sellers  have become increasingly bearish, indicating
they don’t foresee a takeover. In a short sale, traders sell
borrowed stock on the assumption the price will drop, enabling
them to profit by buying it back at a lower price.  About 8.7 percent of Navistar’s outstanding shares were
sold short as of June 15, the highest on record for the company,
according to New York-based research firm  Data Explorers .  Given the potential roadblocks to a sale, Icahn and
Rachesky may decide to focus their efforts on improving the
company’s management and operations as a standalone company
rather than seek a buyer for Navistar as way of boosting the
shares, said Kristine Kubacki, a St. Louis-based analyst at
Avondale Partners LLC.  Available Options  “From a takeover-target perspective, I don’t know how much
the activists can do,” Kubacki said in a phone interview. “I
don’t think it’s as clear cut as other acquisitions we have seen
in the space. The best path they could go after is turning the
franchise around and harvesting the individual opportunity that
the business offers.”  Still, any changes that may help improve Navistar’s
strategy and performance could eventually make the company
attractive to a buyer, said  Andrew Davis , an analyst for
Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  “Generally, when activists get involved with companies
like these, they’ll look at pretty much every available
option,” Davis said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 