-- Navistar Fined by EPA Over Technology Built With Agency
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-06-21T20:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/navistar-fined-by-epa-over-technology-built-with-agency.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency is fining diesel-engine maker  Navistar International
Corp. (NAV)  for shortcomings in pollution-control technology the
agency helped it develop.  “EPA is entangled in a blatant conflict in regulating a
business partner,” Jeff Ruch, executive director of Public
Employees for Environmental Responsibility, said in an e-mail.
Ruch’s group, a Washington-based  watchdog  of state and federal
environmental agencies, uncovered the Navistar-EPA business
connections in documents it obtained through the Freedom of
Information Act and shared with Bloomberg News.  Navistar, the third-biggest U.S. and Canadian maker of
truck engines, signed a deal in 2004 to take technology EPA
scientists invented and incorporate it into its engines to meet
future pollution rules, according to  documents  published on the
agency’s website. The EPA’s technologies, for which the company
paid royalties, remain a part of the company’s engine designs,
said Patrick Charbonneau, Navistar’s vice president for
government relations.  EPA officials  said  after the deal was signed that the
technology would help companies such as Navistar meet the
agency’s rules without expensive catalytic-reduction devices.
Navistar, unlike competitors such as  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , took just
that approach. It is now being fined by the EPA because its
heavy-duty engines release too much smog-causing emissions.  Volvo, Cummins  Volvo Group North America LLC and Cummins, which met the
rules using different technology, argued in regulatory filings
that the agency was going too easy on Navistar by charging fines
that aren’t high enough.  The Navistar-EPA connection stems from a rule enacted by
the agency in 2001 that required a 95 percent reduction in
emissions of nitrous oxide from heavy-duty  diesel engines . It
gave the industry until 2010 to comply.  EPA employees at the National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions
Laboratory in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , were working at the time on
something called  Clean Diesel Combustion . The technology relies
on high pressure and low engine temperature to reduce the amount
of nitrous oxide created during engine combustion, Charbonneau
said in an interview.  EPA inventors  patented  the technology and met with the
largest engine makers about adopting it.  V6 Engines  Navistar announced on May 13, 2004, a partnership with the
EPA to develop the technology for commercial purposes. The
partnership, which ended in 2008, focused on helping the company
with its V6 engine for light-duty vehicles, the EPA said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Navistar at the time said the partnership would also help
it with the bigger engines that are at issue now.  “This new partnership with the EPA enhances our
opportunity to deliver a low-cost diesel solution that will meet
2007 light-duty standards and 2010 heavy-duty standards,”
Navistar Chief Executive Officer Daniel Ustian said in a
 statement  then.  In fact, the basics of that technology are still used
“across our engine family,” Charbonneau said. He called the
partnership a success, because it helped the company develop a
low-polluting engine.  “It did the types of things that one would have
envisioned,” he said.  Royalties Paid  The EPA’s model contract for cooperative arrangements such
as the one with Navistar includes a provision for a company to
pay the agency royalties, without stating an amount. The agency
declined Ruch’s request to disclose the amounts paid.  Any royalties Navistar paid are “confidential business
information,” Cathy Milbourn, an agency spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  Relations between the company and the EPA haven’t been
smooth in recent years. The EPA ruled the company hadn’t met the
2010 standards. Last year Navistar sued the agency for approving
its competitors’ engines, arguing in court that selective
catalytic reduction failed in practical tests.  The EPA in January allowed Navistar to sell the non-
compliant engines if it paid penalties of as much as $2,000
apiece. That brought protests from Navistar’s competitors that
the fines were too low to compensate for their costs of
controlling the pollution. The EPA is reviewing those penalty
amounts.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  on June 12 threw
out an EPA interim rule that let Navistar pay those fines.  The arguments are far from over: Last month Navistar
resubmitted an engine design to the EPA for approval.  The case is Mack Trucks Inc. v. Environmental Protection
Agency, 12-1077, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia
Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  