-- NBAD’s Swiss Unit Targets 10 Billion Francs Client Assets
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-06-21T14:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/nbad-s-swiss-unit-targets-10-billion-francs-client-assets.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC 
plans to increase the size of its Swiss wealth unit to 10
billion Swiss francs ($10.6 billion) under management over five
years, according to Chief Executive Officer Michael Tomalin.  The United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank’s Geneva-
based unit oversees about 2 billion francs after it started in
2007 to provide  wealth-management  services for international
clients with at least 10 million francs of investable assets,
Tomalin told reporters in Geneva.  “I’m very happy with the progress so far,” Abu Dhabi-
based Tomalin said. “Traditionally banks from our part of the
world haven’t really been in the business” of private banking,
he said.  The world’s 20 largest wealth managers are all based in
 North America  or  Europe , according to a ranking compiled by
London-based Scorpio Partnership. Increasingly, the stability
and balance-sheet strength of Middle East-owned banks will
attract rich private clients concerned about protecting their
assets in “difficult times,” Tomalin said.  NBAD ’s Swiss subsidiary has individual clients of more than
50 nationalities and also oversees about 500 million francs for
two institutional customers, head of Switzerland Khaled Suleiman
said. The firm, which reported profit in excess of 3 million
francs in 2011, controls about 15 percent of client funds
through discretionary mandates, he said.  Discretionary mandates give managers more autonomy to act
on their clients’ behalf without checking each  investment
decision .  Tomalin, who oversaw global private banking at  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
before joining NBAD in 1999, will step down from his position,
the company reported in March. The search for a replacement is
ongoing and he’ll stay in the position for “as long as it takes
to find the right successor,” Tomalin said.  NBAD doesn’t disclose the total assets under management for
wealth-management customers worldwide.  “As private banking and wealth management continues to
grow strongly within the NBAD group, these will become key
performance indicator figures for future years and externally
published,” said Ehab Khairi, an Abu Dhabi-based spokesman for
the bank. “Global wealth is a small part of the NBAD group but
a fast-growing segment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  