-- NEC, Hitachi Plan to Support Japanese Chipmaker Renesas
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-06-21T01:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/nec-hitachi-plan-to-support-japanese-chipmaker-renesas-1-.html
NEC Corp. (6701)  and Hitachi Ltd. said they
plan to support  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the world’s largest
maker of microcontrollers for cars, as it seeks financial aid
following at least five straight  quarterly losses .  The details of that support hasn’t been decided, Takehiko Kato, a spokesman for NEC, and Atsushi Konno, a spokesman for
Hitachi, said separately yesterday. The two companies, which
hold their annual shareholder meetings tomorrow, and  Mitsubishi
Electric Corp. (6503)  own a combined 91 percent of Renesas.  Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas asked for assistance after
posting losses amid a slowdown in demand for chips used inside
TVs and computers. Banks and major  shareholders  reached “broad
agreement” to provide 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in support
to Renesas, and the company may cut more than 12,000  jobs , the
Asahi newspaper reported June 19.  “Renesas must be saved,” said Edwin Merner, president of
Tokyo-based Atlantis Investment Research, which manages $300
million. “But it must consolidate operations and must be better
managed.”  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Silver Lake , two U.S. private equity funds,
are in talks to invest “several tens of billions of yen” in
Renesas, the Yomiuri newspaper reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  “Nothing has been decided,” Yoichi Kobayashi, a spokesman
for Renesas, said by phone.  Silver Lake and KKR declined to comment in separate e-
mailed responses to questions from Bloomberg News.  Mitsubishi Electric  Renesas  rose  as much as 7.4 percent to 348 yen and traded
at 338 yen as of 10:14 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1 percent.  Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric will provide a combined 34
billion yen in  loans , the Asahi reported. NEC,  Japan ’s biggest
maker of telecommunications equipment, proposed extending
payment deadlines, the report said.  The major shareholders of Renesas may consider taking
“some kind of action” to support the chipmaker if asked,
Kenichiro Yamanishi, president of Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
Electric, said May 21.  Renesas posted a net loss of 62.6 billion yen in the year
ended March 31 as orders for system chips used in consumer
electronics and personal computers fell. The strengthened yen
also eroded earnings from overseas, while last year’s record
earthquake in Japan and subsequent flooding in  Thailand 
disrupted production.  Sales of system chips plunged 36 percent in the year ended
March 31, compared with a 12 percent drop in sales of
microcontrollers, Renesas said May 9.  Sony, Samsung  “The decline of Japanese consumer electronics in the
global market is the major reason” for the slump in orders,
Shinichi Iwamoto, a senior vice president at Renesas, said in a
June 19 interview in Tokyo.  The company’s customers include consumer-electronics makers
Sony Corp., Panasonic Corp. and  Sharp Corp. (6753) , which posted a
combined 1.6 trillion yen in losses last fiscal year amid
declining TV demand and competition from South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and LG Electronics Inc.  The company said it supplied 42 percent of car
microcontrollers, which run systems including airbags and
brakes, last year. Renesas makes between 60 and 70 percent of
chips used in cars built by Japanese automakers including Toyota
Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co., according to Kunihiko Onuma,
head of Hitachi’s automotive systems unit.  ‘Indispensable’  The microcontrollers are customized and difficult to
replace, said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. Japanese
automakers were forced to suspend output after the March 2011
earthquake and tsunami partly because Renesas’s main factory was
damaged.  “For Japanese automakers, it’s indispensable,” Akino
said.  About 50 microcontrollers are used in a typical car for
power windows, doors and navigation systems, according to
Renesas.  Microcontrollers offer an operating profit margin of about
10 percent, according to estimates by Yukihiko Shimada, a senior
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in  Tokyo .  Renesas got 43 percent of its semiconductor sales of 786
billion yen from microcontroller chips last fiscal year,
according to the  company . System chips accounted for 26 percent.  Previous Support  As part of restructuring, the company sold its high-power
amplifier business to Murata Manufacturing Co. in March. Fuji
Electric Co. agreed to buy Renesas’s factory in northern Japan
on July 1, it said March 28.  Renesas, which operates 19 factories in Japan and six
plants overseas, is also increasing outsourcing of production to
companies including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  The Japanese company plans to raise its share of the
microcontroller market to 35 percent in five years by targeting
customers in  emerging markets , while the alliance with TSMC will
help cut fixed costs and raise profit margins, Iwamoto said June
19.  Renesas, formed in 2010 after mergers of two unprofitable
chipmakers, previously got 206.3 billion yen from NEC,  Hitachi (6501) 
and Mitsubishi Electric. The company targeted a profit last
fiscal year with plans to cut jobs and focus on its main
microcontrollers business. The three shareholders told Renesas
that the aid was the last they would give at that time.  Renesas failed to meet its profit goal as it company was
“too slow” in making changes, said Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund
manager  at Tokyo-based Bayview Asset Management Co., which
manages $2 billion.  Getting loans for restructuring this time “will help erase
immediate concerns about the company’s survival,” Takamatsu
said. The money still wouldn’t be enough on its own to turn
around Renesas’s business, he said.  Renesas must make its growth strategy clear, and its
revival plan must be carried out quickly, Akino said.  “The company should just focus on microcontrollers for
autos,” Akino said. “Speed will be important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  