-- New York Times Adds Tech-Savvy Directors to Its Board
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-21T23:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/new-york-times-adds-tech-savvy-directors-to-its-board.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , adding
technology experience to its board to help with its shift to the
Internet, named the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s
Joichi Ito and venture capitalist Brian McAndrews as directors.  Ito, director of the media lab at MIT, and McAndrews, a
partner with Madrona Venture Group, brings the board to 13
members, the New York-based company said today in a statement.  Times Co. has been attempting to transform itself into a
digital publisher as the print industry continues to lose ad
revenue to the Web. The company also is searching for a chief
executive officer to replace Janet Robinson, who was fired in
December. The stock has declined 12 percent since Robinson left.  “Joi Ito and Brian McAndrews bring deep digital experience
to the board of the Times Company, which will be invaluable as
we continue our digital transformation,” Arthur Sulzberger Jr.,
the company’s chairman and publisher, said in a statement.  Ito, 46, an early investor in many technology companies,
including Flickr, Kickstarter and Twitter Inc., has had a long
career in digital media. As the director of the MIT Media Lab,
he has cemented his reputation as one of the leading thinkers on
technology and has advocated for free sharing of creative works
through the nonprofit group Creative Commons.  Ito started an “underground newspaper” in high school
using the school’s mimeograph machine.  “Re-reading it recently, I noticed we spent way too much
time criticizing the official school newspaper and stressing the
unimportance of grammar and other rules,” he wrote on his  blog .  McAndrews, 53, is a former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive and
previously ran AQuantive Inc., a digital  marketing company  that
was sold to Microsoft for  $6 billion  in 2007. McAndrews worked
at ABC Inc. from 1990 to 1999, where he eventually rose to lead
ABC Sports. A graduate of  Harvard University  with an MBA from
 Stanford University , McAndrews also sits on the boards of
Clearwire Corp., Blue Nile Inc. and Fisher Communications Inc.  Times Co. fell 1.6 percent to $6.84 at the close in  New
York .  The shares  have declined 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  