-- Nissan Says Ghosn May Step Down Before Next Business Plan
-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-06-21T23:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/nissan-says-ghosn-may-step-down-before-next-business-plan.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s second-
largest carmaker, said Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  is
considering stepping down before the company’s next mid-term
business plan begins in about five years.  Ghosn, 58, doesn’t plan to commit to Nissan’s next  mid-term
plan  and investor-relations officials at the company have been
telling investors and analysts this year that there is a
 succession plan  in place, spokesman Koji Okuda said.  “Ghosn has said this is the last mid-term plan he’ll
commit to, meaning he may not stay here for the next mid-term
period,” Okuda said. “We need to prepare for his possible
departure within a five-year period.”  His successor would follow in the footsteps of an executive
credited with one of the biggest turnarounds in modern
automotive history. Ghosn, the second-longest serving CEO of a
major carmaker, joined near-bankrupt Nissan and turned it into a
carmaker leading the industry in profitability, with its market
value reaching as high as 5.73 trillion yen ($71 billion) in
2006.  “Top resignations in Japan tend to have less impact than
those abroad because Japanese companies are run collegially, but
Nissan is clearly different,” said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst
at Advanced Research Japan. “Ghosn’s retirement would mean the
loss of a strong decision maker for the time being.”  Power 88  The current business plan, which began last year and lasts
through March 2017, is Ghosn’s fifth multiyear campaign at
Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan since his arrival 13 years ago. The
current Power 88 plan calls for Nissan to generate operating
profit margins of 8 percent and grab market share of 8 percent
globally, including 10 percent in  China . It also calls for
Nissan to churn out a new model every six weeks and reduce costs
5 percent each year.  Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Operation Officer  Carlos Tavares , formerly
head of Nissan’s operations in the Americas, and Renault Chief
Financial Officer Dominique Thormann, may be considered
candidates to replace Ghosn, according to a Nissan executive who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  Asked about Nissan’s leadership plans during an earnings
conference call with analysts in May, Ghosn said investors
should expect to hear more about the matter in shareholders’
meetings. Nissan’s next annual general meeting of shareholders
is on June 26.  Ghosn’s 12 years as president of Nissan makes him second
only to  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  CEO Osamu Suzuki in terms of tenure
running a major carmaker, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pôrto Velho  Okuda said he spoke in reference to past comments Ghosn has
made. Ferdinand Yamaguchi, a freelance columnist, wrote in a
book entitled “Eigo Dake Dewa Dame Nanoyo” published last year
that Ghosn told him that this would be the last midterm plan he
would commit to and that it’s unlikely he would remain CEO in
2017.  Carlos Ghosn was born March 9, 1954 in the Brazilian city
of Pôrto Velho, where his father, Jorge, grew up as a boy and
later ran a small airline. His mother, Rose, was born in  Nigeria 
as a French citizen and met Ghosn’s father in Lebanon. Rose
returned to Lebanon with 6-year-old Carlos in 1960, enrolling
him in a grade school and then a high school run by Jesuit
priests.  He attended college in Paris at Ecole Polytechnique,
France’s most prestigious engineering university. After
receiving an engineering degree from Polytechnique in 1974, he
earned advanced degrees in engineering from Ecole des Mines de
Paris and in economics from the Universitie Paris X-Nanterre. He
said in an interview in 2005 that he especially loved the time
he spent in the Latin Quarter of Paris, as well as a summer as
an exchange student in  Colorado Springs , Colorado.  Renault Overture  After finishing school, Ghosn spent 18 years at  Michelin &
Cie (ML) ,  Europe ’s largest maker of tires. He survived hyperinflation
to make Michelin’s Brazilian unit the company’s most profitable
in 1989, and steered the North American unit through a recession
and the acquisition of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. in 1990.  Six years later, headhunters came calling from Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based Renault and Ghosn accepted a job as an
executive vice president. In the next three years, he wrung 3
billion euros in savings out of its operations, earning him the
nickname “Le Cost Killer.”  In 1999, Renault bought a controlling stake in Nissan and
put Ghosn in charge -- first as chief operating officer, then
president and CEO. At the time, Nissan’s  net debt  totaled 2.6
trillion yen -- more than double  shareholders’ equity  -- its
factories were standing half empty and its market share inside
Japan had been dropping for 27 years.  ‘Dumping Cash’  Robert Lutz, the former vice chairman of GM and chairman at
Exide Corp., said then that Renault would have been better off
dumping cash into the ocean.  Then Ghosn began cutting Nissan’s costs, including the
elimination of 21,000 jobs -- one in seven -- and closed three
of Nissan’s seven Japanese assembly plants.  It worked. He turned a record 684 billion yen loss in the
year ended March 2000 into a 331 billion yen profit -- then a
record -- a year later. Each of the ensuing five years resulted
in a record profit, peaking at 518 billion yen in the 12 months
ended March 2006. None of the world’s biggest automakers could
match Nissan’s operating profit margins at the time.  As Nissan’s profits grew, so did Ghosn’s popularity.
Shoppers would line up for photos and autographs when catching
him buying groceries in his  Tokyo  neighborhood. He’d be greeted
to thunderous applause upon arrival local soccer stadiums and he
even became the subject of a comic-book biography that reached
300,000 Japanese readers in monthly installments in 2001.  Rock Star  When Le Journal de l’Automobile named him Man of the Year
at an awards ceremony in Paris in 2002, hundreds gathered in a
receiving line.  His popularity also grew in the corporate world. He twice
turned down overtures from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to join as a top
executive, people familiar with the matter said in 2005, the
same year Ghosn also became CEO of Renault.  In 2009, President  Barack Obama ’s administration invited
him to run  General Motors Co. (GM) , a job Ghosn said he declined with
“no hesitation.”  In 2010, he began staking Nissan’s future on electric
vehicles, and has since said that 1 out of 10 cars sold in 2020
will be electric vehicles. He pledged to spend $6 billion on EV
technology from 2007 to 2011 -- an amount equal to the combined
annual research and development budgets at Nissan and Renault.  As of May, Nissan had sold 32,000 Leaf electric vehicles
since the first one rolled out in December of 2010.  Wrongful Accusation  Not everything Ghosn did succeeded. Talks to form a three-
way alliance between GM, Nissan and Renault collapsed in 2006.
In 2000, Nissan spent $1.4 billion to build a factory that years
later would build the Armada sport-utility vehicle, ranked six
years later by Consumer Reports magazine as the least reliable
vehicle in the U.S.  In 2011, Ghosn accused and fired three Renault executives
of spying, only to have the allegations discredited by a police
investigation. Ghosn apologized publicly and his deputy at the
time,  Patrick Pelata , stepped down for his role in the
dismissals of the accused executives.  Still, Ghosn’s overall track record has earned him the
confidence of investors, according to Koichi Sugimoto, an
analyst at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in Tokyo.  “If it happened suddenly, the stock would plunge, but we
are expecting a smooth transition,” Sugimoto said. “Ghosn has
been a strong leader, but at the same time, Nissan has been
sending out the message that it’s structurally sound thanks to
its human resources cultivation system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  