-- DPJ Frays Over Japan Sales Tax Legislation as Voting Looms
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-06-21T09:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/noda-s-dpj-frays-over-japan-sales-tax-legislation-as-vote-looms.html
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
 Democratic Party  of Japan struggled to overcome internal
resistance to his bill to double the  consumption tax  ahead of a
lower house vote that may come as soon as tomorrow.  Former DPJ leader  Ichiro Ozawa  said he will vote against
the bill to raise the five percent tax, risking possible
expulsion from the party. As head of the party’s largest
faction, Ozawa could take dozens of legislators with him.  “I have no concrete plans to leave and form a new party,”
Ozawa told reporters in  Tokyo , in remarks carried on NHK
Television. “After the vote, I will consult with my group and
want to select the best possible path.”  The DPJ reached a deal last week with the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party  and a smaller group to double the tax
by 2015, a move Noda says is necessary to control record debt
and ballooning welfare costs. Should more than 50 Democrats vote
against the bill and be expelled, the ruling party could lose
its majority in the lower house.  While LDP official Nobuteru Ishihara told reporters that
the parties agreed to aim for a lower house vote tomorrow, DPJ
legislator Koichi Takemasa later said a vote is unlikely until
June 26 at the earliest.  Parliament voted this afternoon to extend the current
session, scheduled to end today, until Sept. 8.  The bill would raise the tax to 8 percent in April 2014 and
to 10 percent in October 2015. The DPJ needs the cooperation of
the LDP to get legislation through the opposition-controlled
upper house.  Political Career  Noda, who has vowed to stake his political career on the
legislation, shelved many of his party’s pledges on social
security to gain opposition backing. Opponents of the plan,
which is unpopular with the public, say it is a breach of the
platform on which the Democrats swept to power in 2009, and
could fail in its aim of boosting  tax revenue  if it discourages
consumption.  “Now is not the time to raise the  sales tax . The Japanese
people do not want this,” DPJ lawmaker Hirosato Nakatsugawa
told a party gathering yesterday after Noda called for unity.  A poll published in the Asahi newspaper on June 6 showed 56
percent of respondents opposed the sales tax bill, up from 51
percent a month earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  