-- Trial Ends in Oslo for Mass Killer as Judges Must Rule on Sanity
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-06-22T14:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/norway-killer-s-sanity-scrutinized-as-judges-begin-deliberations.html
The trial of Anders Behring Breivik
ended in Oslo as the judges now must decide whether the man
responsible for the worst peace-time massacre in Norwegian
history is sane enough for prison.  Breivik, who killed 77 people in twin attacks on July 22,
was unapologetic to the end, as victims and family cried in the
downtown court room on the last day of the 10-week proceedings.  The attacks “were a pre-emptive strike,” the 33-year-old
said in a final statement. “I acted on the principle of
necessity on behalf of my culture, my people and my country. I
ask to be acquitted of the charges.”  The Oslo native has been subjected to two mental
evaluations, the first of which found him insane and unfit for
prison, and a second which deemed him to be fit. Breivik, who’s
fighting to be found sane in order to further his political
arguments, has said the murders were “gruesome but necessary”
to fight multiculturalism and the spread of Islam.  In the trial’s great paradox, the prosecution yesterday
recommended that the confessed murderer be given compulsory care
as reasonable doubt existed over whether he could be held
accountable. If found sane, Breivik may be sentenced to 21 years
in jail with five-year extensions for as long as he’s deemed a
danger. An insanity ruling could place him in a secure mental
hospital indefinitely.  Unlimited Sentence  Judges Wenche Elizabeth Arntzen and Arne Lyng and the lay
judges will consider the evidence before delivering the sentence
on Aug. 24, they said today.  “If you accept my plea of cultural and political necessity
you will send a shockwave around  Europe ,” Breivik told the
judges. “History will tell whether they sentenced a person that
tried to stop the evil of the times.”  Prosecutors Svein Holden and Inga Bejer Engh yesterday
stuck to their initial recommendation that Breivik be found
criminally insane, saying that either way he would have an
“unlimited” sentence imposed on him.  “In our opinion, it’s worse that a person who’s psychotic
is sent to preventative detention than a person who’s not
psychotic is sent to mental health care,” Holden said.  Geir Lippestad, Breivik’s attorney, in his closing argument
today rebutted the prosecution, saying his client was driven by
“extremism” and not by a need to commit violence. It’s just as
bad to place a sane person in treatment, he said.  ‘Pure Evil’  Three out of four Norwegians said Breivik is sane enough to
be sent to a normal prison, NRK reported yesterday. Only one in
10 of the 1,000 surveyed by Norstat said Breivik is so ill that
he should be sentenced to compulsory psychiatric care, the
state-owned broadcaster said.  Breivik, who’s said he won’t appeal if he’s found sane, is
a “very extreme, odd and malfunctioning person,” Cathrine
Groendahl, a lawyer representing 10 of his victims, said in an
interview last week. “It’s more likely he’s narcissistic with
an antisocial personality disorder than psychotic.”  Breivik last July killed 69 people -- some as young as 14 -
-- at a Labor Party youth camp on the island of Utoeya, having
earlier detonated a car bomb by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s office in Oslo, taking eight lives.  “It’s important he’s seen in the context of the right wing
movements that inspire him,” said Groendahl. “Pure evil and
extreme, political motivation should not be defined as
psychosis.”  ‘Violent Revolution’  The killer has been indicted on two terror charges as well
as murder. He has said his actions were necessary to prevent war
in Europe and called his victims “traitors” to  Norway .  Lara Rashid, who fled from  Iraq  in 1994 and was on Utoeya
when her younger sister Bano was shot and killed, told the court
today that Breivik had failed.  “Bano did not die in vain,” she told crying friends and
relatives today. “She fought for a multicultural Norway and at
her funeral she showed that an Imam and a priest can stand
together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo at 
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  