-- Nowotny Says He Didn’t Link 1930s Austerity With Today’s
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-06-21T14:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/nowotny-says-he-didn-t-link-1930s-austerity-with-today-s-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny rejected being portrayed as
opposing  Germany ’s push for austerity after comments he made
about the rise of the Nazis in the 1930s hit German mass media.  Nowotny, who is also governor of  Austria ’s central bank,
had told an academic conference in Vienna on June 18 that a
“single-minded” focus on austerity in Germany in the 1930s had
helped bring the Nazis to power. He also said it had been on the
mind of “every central banker” when the financial crisis
started that the mistakes of the 1930s had to be avoided.  Germany’s most-read daily newspaper Bild  yesterday reported 
Nowotny as having said that the strict austerity programs in
 Europe ’s periphery, being pushed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , are a mistake. Bild headlined its story saying Nowotny
had “shocked” with his Nazi comparison.  Nowotny “hasn’t linked the current fiscal policies in
Europe with the economic policy after 1929,” the Austrian
central bank said in an e-mailed statement today. “The governor
especially objects to being put in contradiction to the position
of the Federal Republic of Germany and German Chancellor Angela Merkel,” according to the statement.  ‘Misleading Theories’  “In some countries, this crisis could be overcome in a
democratic context,” Nowotny had said at the conference about
the Great Depression of the 1930s. “In other countries, like
Germany, like Austria, due to I would say misleading theories, a
single-minded concentration on austerity policy led to mass
unemployment, a breakdown of democratic systems and in the end
to the catastrophe of Nazism.”  He went on to say: “I truly can say that when we had the
big crisis of 2007 and 2008, it was back in the mind of
everybody, all of us, every central banker, that we must avoid
the mistakes of the 1930s. This is something where we really
have to be aware that this is an underlying theme.”  The Nazi Party doubled its vote in the 1932 election after
two years of austerity policies under Chancellor Heinrich
Bruening. Bruening had raised taxes, cut welfare benefits and
encouraged wage cuts, largely bypassing the parliament with the
help of presidential decrees, to increase exports and help
Germany meet reparation payments to the victors of World War I.  Former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt said late last year
that he was worried about Germany’s push for strict budget
discipline across the euro area. He likened the policy to
“disastrous” austerity measures applied by Bruening in the
closing years of the  Weimar Republic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  