-- To Defeat Al-Qaeda, Win in Yemen
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S w i f t
-- 2012-06-21T22:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/to-defeat-al-qaeda-win-in-yemen.html
Yemen, we are told, is the next
Afghanistan. Yet with some relatively minor and inexpensive
initiatives, the U.S. may be able to keep it from becoming al-
Qaeda’s next haven.  From the bombing of the U.S. Navy destroyer Cole in 2000 to
the failed Christmas Day attack on an airliner over  Detroit  in
2009, al-Qaeda has used the arid, mountainous country as a
sanctuary and staging ground for attacks against the West. Even
the 2009 shootings at Fort Hood,  Texas , track back to Yemen and
the American-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki inciting jihad over the
Internet.  As drone strikes have debilitated al-Qaeda’s leadership in
 Pakistan , its Yemeni affiliate -- al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula -- has emerged as the next vanguard of global jihad.
But the group has a second, more tangible objective: Yemen
itself.  Emboldened by political turmoil and eager to hijack the
Arab Spring, AQAP began a Taliban-style insurgency in the spring
of 2011. Operating under the name Ansar al-Sharia (“Supporters
of Islamic Law”) and reinforced by foreign fighters from
Jordan,  Saudi Arabia , and Somalia, the movement seized two
provinces and infiltrated 10 more.  Typical Attack  Not surprisingly, a suicide bombing May 21 in Yemen’s
capital, Sanaa, bore all the hallmarks of an al-Qaeda operation.
Clad in a Yemeni army uniform, the perpetrator infiltrated long
columns of marching soldiers and set off an explosion tearing
through their ranks like fire through a stand of birch trees. As
soldiers lay dying in Sanaa’s Sabeen Square, a second assailant
rushed forward to attack Yemeni officials on a reviewing stand
with a rocket-propelled grenade. More than 90 troops were
killed. (Another suicide attack this week killed the Army’s top
commander.)  I recently returned from a week of fieldwork in Yemen
examining the insurgency from a local perspective. My goal was
to evaluate AQAP’s attempts to recruit, indoctrinate and control
the Yemeni population. I hoped to identify instances where
tribal and religious leaders successfully resisted al-Qaeda’s
advance. After 40 lengthy interviews with Islamists, Salafists
and tribal leaders from 14 of Yemen’s 21 provinces, I
distinguished three troubling trends.  Although Western analysts typically describe AQAP’s
influence in religious terms, I found that Yemenis
overwhelmingly emphasize economic factors. Tribal leaders from
Abyan, al-Jawf, Hadramout, Lahj and Marib provinces all
described how insurgents lure idle young men with the promise of
a rifle, a car and a salary of $400 a month --- a veritable
fortune in a country where nearly half the population lives on
less than $2 a day. Although tribal elders in some drought-
stricken districts help AQAP recruit in exchange for new wells
and food, the terrorists typically target disaffected
individuals rather than tribes as a whole.  Tribal and religious leaders also describe how AQAP
establishes territorial control: bolstering weak sheiks by
providing the manpower, money and weapons necessary to reassert
their tribal authority. AQAP also governs some areas, using
armed militias and Shariah courts to prosecute criminals,
protect private property and establish a brutal yet orderly
society. In doing so, the movement exhibits a pragmatic approach
that has more in common with the Taliban’s operations in
 Afghanistan  than it does with Osama bin Laden’s globalized,
decentralized jihad.  Most significant, AQAP deftly manipulates tribal customs to
divide the indigenous population. Fighters recruited from one
tribe are frequently dispatched to another tribe’s territory. If
these forces are attacked, then their entire tribe is likely to
retaliate. This approach discourages the sort of local uprisings
against al-Qaeda witnessed in Iraq’s so-called Sunni Awakening.
It also separates recruits from their own tribal authorities,
thus strengthening AQAP’s control.  Local Advantage  Each of these trends cements AQAP’s home-field advantage.
Unlike in Afghanistan, Pakistan and other locations on Islam’s
geographic periphery, AQAP’s fighters speak the local language,
understand the local culture and are grounded in the local
society. Even the movement’s Saudi members are marrying the
daughters of sympathetic tribesmen, in a manner recalling the
bonds bin Laden forged with his Taliban hosts. The group is the
first al-Qaeda franchise to successfully blend the ideological
dictates of global jihad with the practical requirements of
local insurgency.  This adaptation presents challenges that cannot be resolved
by drone attacks or military force alone. The U.S. and its
Yemeni allies must erode AQAP’s influence from the ground up,
rather than striking from the top down. This means engaging the
tribes in a manner that isolates AQAP’s supporters, attracts
neutral sheiks, and establishes a functional equilibrium between
Yemen’s tribes and the transitional government that has been in
power since President Ali Abdullah Saleh stepped down in
February.  This strategy would involve three essential steps. First,
the U.S. should finance Yemeni efforts to mediate tribal
disputes through local religious and nongovernmental
organizations. Mediation would limit al-Qaeda’s ability to
exploit local grievances while reducing the prospect of inter-
tribal conflict. It could also encourage sheiks to deny
customary protections for tribesmen who join AQAP, allowing
other tribes to attack and expel them without fear of
retaliation.  Second, the U.S. and the Yemen government should embrace
the tribal and community-based militias that have recently
gained strength in several southern provinces. For example, in
Lahj’s Radfan district tribal leaders are rallying forces and
expelling AQAP fighters. Such partnerships provide a hedge
against AQAP’s efforts to infiltrate the Yemeni security
services because tribal leaders are intimately familiar with
their communities and can identify and purge hostile outsiders.  Military Aid  Finally, we need to give local decision makers a stake in
Yemen’s political transition. For diplomats, this means
facilitating dialogue between the national unity government and
Islamists, secessionists and tribal leaders. Development
specialists should work through tribal leaders to address
hunger, water and infrastructure challenges. On the military
side, the Yemeni armed forces need help establishing better
communications with local militias.  None of these steps requires the prolonged deployments or
huge investments made in  Iraq  and Afghanistan. To the contrary,
the U.S. will ultimately accomplish more in Yemen by adopting a
light footprint, empowering local allies and allowing Yemenis to
take credit for U.S.-backed initiatives. If Washington can
approach these challenges with nuance and local insight, Yemen’s
struggle against terrorism may offer a unique opportunity to
defeat al-Qaeda while laying a stronger foundation for national
reconciliation.  (Christopher Swift is a fellow at the University of
Virginia’s Center for National Security Law and author of the
forthcoming “The Fighting Vanguard: Local Insurgencies in the
Global Jihad.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies  and on what a  shock-and-awe solution  to  Europe ’s
crisis would look like;  Jonathan Alter  on  Republican voter-
suppression efforts ; Stephen L. Carter on the  Supreme Court’s
legitimacy ; William Pesek on  Japan’s debt and nuclear power
plants ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan gains  that offset its trading
loss; Carl Pope on bringing  clean energy innovation  to the
global poor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Christopher Swift at  christopher.m.swift@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 