-- Obama Stimulus Aids WorldCom Felon With Health Care Loan
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/obama-stimulus-aids-worldcom-felon-with-health-care-loan.html
David Myers was at the epicenter of
one of the biggest corporate frauds in U.S. history. Now the
former  WorldCom  Inc. controller is rebuilding his life a decade
later with the help of the federal government.  Ways LLC, a company formed by Myers and Peter Koury, a
health-care executive, received one of the 515 loan guarantees
made by a U.S. Department of Agriculture rural development
program under the 2009 federal economic-stimulus bill. The USDA
 guaranteed  a $7.45 million loan from a Louisiana bank, allowing
Myers and his partner to finance the purchase of a home health
agency that provides care to 650 people in the Mississippi
Delta, one of the poorest regions in the U.S.  Myers, 54, served nine months in prison for helping to
falsify the telecommunications company’s books to meet earnings
targets. The $11 billion accounting fraud wiped out more than
17,000 jobs and $184.6 billion in market value from WorldCom’s
high on June 1999. Myers’s cooperation with prosecutors led to
the guilty plea of Scott Sullivan, WorldCom’s former chief
financial officer, who became the star government witness in the
trial of Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ebbers. Ebbers was
convicted in 2005.  “I understand what the costs of my actions were to me
personally, to my family, to the people that invested in
WorldCom,” Myers said in a June 5 interview at his office in
Jackson,  Mississippi . “I can never allow something like that to
ever happen again.”  Ex-Employee Outraged  A former WorldCom data analyst who lost most of her savings
in the fraud is outraged that the government would trust Myers
with a loan guarantee. The lead prosecutor in the WorldCom case
disagrees and says Myers accepted responsibility for his
actions, cooperated fully against Ebbers, learned his lesson and
is no bigger risk than anyone else.  While no federal rule or law barred a loan guarantee to
Myers and he wasn’t obligated to disclose his conviction, he
wrote a three-page letter to the USDA describing his
participation in the fraud and all the steps he has taken,
including speeches to college audiences and corporate ethics
programs, to encourage others to avoid his mistakes.  The Obama administration’s $760 billion  stimulus program ,
which provided loans, guarantees and direct grants to support
businesses during the longest recession since the 1930s, has
emerged as an issue in the presidential campaign.  $1.6 Billion Loaned  The USDA’s guaranteed-loan program, which got extra funding
in the stimulus package, backed ventures as diverse as a
 gasoline station  in upstate New York and a fiber-optic cable
project linking  American Samoa  and  Hawaii  as part of $1.6
billion loaned out. Three loans totaling about $1 million have
defaulted, Courtney Rowe, a department spokeswoman, said by e-
mail -- a rate lower than 0.1 percent.  Other lending programs under the stimulus have been
controversial. Solyndra LLC, a solar-energy equipment maker
based in Fremont,  California , collapsed last year after winning
a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, and Republicans including
 Mitt Romney  say that the administration provided the taxpayer
backing as a reward for political support. A foundation run by
 George Kaiser , an Oklahoma billionaire and Obama fundraiser, was
a leading investor in Solyndra.  Neither Myers nor Koury contributed to Obama, Federal
Election Commission records indicate.  Myers pleaded guilty to fraud, conspiracy and false filings
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in September
2002. Federal law prohibits the USDA from making a grant or
providing a loan or loan guarantee to corporations or executives
who have been convicted of a felony within the preceding two
years.  Taxpayer Dollars  It’s wrong for the federal government to use taxpayer
dollars to back loans for people convicted of crimes, said Margo
Mayberry, a former WorldCom data analyst, in a telephone
interview from her home near Columbus,  Ohio .  “I don’t think criminals should be given federal stimulus
money,” said Mayberry. “Obviously he doesn’t know how to
handle money honestly to begin with, or he wouldn’t have been
involved with the fraud at WorldCom.”  Loan guarantees provide lenders assurance they will be
repaid and can leave the government on the hook if a borrower
defaults.  Ways LLC met all eligibility requirements for funding under
the UDSA’s  Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan Program, 
according to Jay Fletcher, a spokesman for the department.  Weighs Factors  “When considering loan applications, USDA weighs a variety
of factors to determine if a project will further the program’s
mission to improve economic conditions in rural communities,”
Fletcher said by e-mail. “The borrower demonstrated strong
repayment ability, sufficient security for the loan and the loan
saved jobs and helped meet the tremendous need for health care
in rural Mississippi.”  The USDA doesn’t know whether other felons have received
guarantees under its loan programs, Fletcher said.  “USDA issues loan guarantees only to financial
institutions that carefully screen borrowers to ensure they meet
all regulatory and legal requirements and demonstrate an ability
to repay the loan as part of our fiduciary responsibility to the
U.S. taxpayer,” he said.  Mayberry, 68, a single mother of two, had just built a new
home and was putting her children and herself through college
when she lost her WorldCom job as the company collapsed amid the
accounting fraud in 2002. She estimates she lost $5,000 to
$10,000, most of her savings.  ‘Grossly Wrong’  “I’m basically a forgiving Christian person, but what they
did was grossly wrong, to their own human kind they did that,”
Mayberry said.  Since Myers and Koury completed the purchase of  Sunflower
Home Health  from the North Sunflower Medical Center, a county-
run hospital, in July 2010, their company has added 16 jobs, a
25 percent increase, Myers said. The health-care provider serves
an 11-county area where  unemployment  ranged from 8.2 percent to
14.9 percent in May.  The average full-time nurse’s salary is $22 to $30 an hour,
or $45,800 to $62,400 a year, Myers said. Mississippi’s median
household  income  is $36,851 in 2010 according to the  U.S. Census
Bureau .  Sunflower employs nurses and physical therapists who visit
patients in their homes, some infested with mice or rats and
which don’t have air conditioning, Koury said. Many clients have
diabetes. Almost all are covered by Medicare, the government’s
health-insurance program for people 65 or older. About 1 percent
of patients are on Medicaid, the federal-state health insurance
program for the poor, he said.  ‘Sickest’ Patients  “I can’t think of a better place for government money to
be spent than serving the sickest of the sick and the poorest of
the poor,” Koury said in an interview at Ways LLC’s office,
decorated with photos of Delta scenes and a cutting of a cotton
plant with its  bolls  open.  In his three-page letter to the USDA in January 2010, Myers
disclosed his crimes.  “I fully realize that by disclosing these facts I run the
risk of being asked to remove myself from the proposed
transaction. I am willing to accept that risk as I can never
again do something that I know to be morally, ethically or
legally wrong,” Myers wrote in the letter, obtained from the
USDA under a Freedom of Information Act request. “While signing
the loan application without mentioning anything is fully in my
rights, it is clearly wrong.”  The letter that Myers wasn’t legally required to write
nonetheless set off a warning signal at the department’s  rural
development  office in Jackson.  Bettye Oliver, a program director, asked an attorney with
the USDA’s office of general counsel in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas ,
who was reviewing Ways LLC’s application, whether Myers should
be removed from the transaction.  ‘Multiple Felony’  “While David Myers has not been debarred from doing
business with the federal government, this multiple-felony
conviction does raise a red flag as to the financial influence
that David Myers may have concerning this loan,” wrote Laurie
Peterson, a lawyer with the general counsel’s office in a March
23, 2010, letter. “As this is a guaranteed loan, Rural
Development has little control over the disbursement and
application loan proceeds.”  Koury, a 52-year-old former executive vice president of
finance for a 535-bed hospital in Jackson, owns 49.6 percent,
while Myers owns 4.99 percent and individual investors who
loaned the two $1.6 million so they could meet a 10 percent
equity requirement for the USDA program, own the rest, Myers
said. Myers and Koury declined to name the individual investors.  Honors Student  Myers, a soft-spoken man who drives a black Nissan Titan
pickup truck, was born in Oxford, Mississippi, the home of Nobel
Prize-winning author William Faulkner. Myers said he moved to
Jackson, the state capital, before he was a year old and grew up
there, attending a Baptist Academy, where he was an honors
student.  Myers went to the  University of Mississippi , or “Ole
Miss” in Oxford, graduating with a degree in marketing in 1979
and in accounting in 1982, according to a court transcript.  After college he went to work for Ernst & Young LLP in
Jackson and Houston and became treasurer and chief accounting
officer of Lamar Life Insurance Co., according to Myers’s letter
to the USDA.  In 1995 he joined WorldCom, which had grown from a small
telephone company to become the second-largest long-distance
service provider in the U.S. under Ebbers, a former milkman and
barroom bouncer. Myers became controller in 1997.  As the bubble in Internet and telecommunications share
prices burst, WorldCom’s revenue plummeted. To meet stock
analysts’ expectations, WorldCom’s chief financial officer,
Scott Sullivan, asked Myers to book entries that reduced the
company’s costs and increased earnings.  ‘Crunch Time’  “When crunch time came and somebody asked me to do
something improper, instead of me walking away from it, I let
their morals and ethics override my own,” Myers said in the
interview. “You can’t ever do that.”  From the end of the first quarter through the second
quarter of 2002, Myers told his staff to transfer $3.85 billion
from line cost expense accounts to capital expenditure accounts.  After a tip to WorldCom’s internal-audit department about
accounting improprieties, Cynthia Cooper, the head of the
department, started an investigation. When Cooper asked Myers
for documents that would support the capital expenditure
entries, he confessed there were none and agreed to help with
the probe.  In September 2002, Myers pleaded guilty and began helping
the government in cases it was building against Sullivan and
Ebbers.  Most Cooperation  At Myers’s sentencing in 2005, David Anders, the federal
lawyer who led the WorldCom prosecution, said Myers provided the
most cooperation of five former WorldCom employees in its case
against Bernie Ebbers.  “Myers never wavered in his decision to accept
responsibility for his actions and to acknowledge wrongdoing,”
Anders wrote in a sentencing letter.  Now a partner at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz in  New
York , Anders said taxpayers shouldn’t consider Myers a bigger
risk than anyone else.  “He both paid his debt to society and, I think, learned a
lot from it,” Anders said in a telephone interview. “I would
hope that people like that can go on to do productive things.”  While in a minimum-security federal prison in Yazoo City,
Mississippi, Myers taught high school equivalency classes to
other inmates, he said. He helped those with an entrepreneurial
bent develop business plans so that they didn’t return to jail.  Private Equity  After he was released from custody in August 2006, Myers
worked on some  private equity  deals and started a consulting
business offering audit and accounting services to small
companies.  It was soon after Myers had given a speech in  London  to an
Ernst & Young conference that Koury gave him a call. Koury and
Myers had a large number of mutual friends. Myers’ wife, an
interior designer, had helped Koury’s wife decorate their new
home.  Koury had been working as a consultant for the  North
Sunflower Medical Center , a small county-owned hospital in
Ruleville, Mississippi, about 120 miles (193 kilometers)
northwest of Jackson, managing its home health care company and
medical-equipment business. The Delta hospital wanted to sell
the operation so it could build a surgical center and focus on
its core service area of Sunflower County. Koury asked the
hospital’s chief executive if he would sell it to him.  With credit tight because of the recession, Koury was
having trouble financing the deal.  ’Shut Down’  “We went to bank after bank after bank,” Koury said.
“Nobody wanted to do anything. Banks were shut down. You
couldn’t even get a car loan at the time.”  In September 2009, Koury got in touch with Union Bank,
based in Marksville,  Louisiana , which had a portfolio of USDA
loans. Union agreed to finance the acquisition on condition that
Koury obtain a USDA loan guarantee because the business was in
Mississippi, said Greg Prudhomme, a vice president at the bank
who handled Ways LLC’s loan.  Around the time that the bank agreed to finance the deal,
Koury had a falling out with his first financial adviser. It was
then that he called Myers.  As the loan guarantee application wound its way through the
process, G. Gary Jones, a program director in the USDA rural
development program’s Jackson office, said that for years there
had been very little loan activity in the state. Jones didn’t
provide specific figures.  Accelerated Process  In a May 3, 2010, e-mail, Ken Hennings, a branch chief with
USDA’s Rural Business-Cooperative Service in  Washington , told
Mike Ladner in the Jackson office handling the Ways LLC
application that the company didn’t need to do a feasibility
study because it was buying an existing business. Hennings told
Ladner to speed up the process.  “Figure out how to make this work,” Hennings wrote.  Since buying Sunflower Home Health, Koury and Myers have
converted to electronic patient records from paper and opened up
two more offices.  Myers serves as a consultant to Koury and is responsible
for financial reporting.  Ways LLC is current on its loan to Union Bank, Myers and
Koury said.  “If we do things right, the finances will take care of
themselves,” Myers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  