-- Obama Lead Over Romney Narrows in Pew Poll of U.S. Voters
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-21T20:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/obama-holds-narrowing-lead-over-romney-in-pew-poll.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  has closed in
on President  Barack Obama  as Americans are more confident in the
former Massachusetts governor’s ability to improve the economy,
a Pew Research Center poll shows.  While Obama still leads Romney 50 percent to 46 percent
among registered voters in the Pew poll released today, the
margin narrowed from the seven percentage point advantage Obama
had in the organization’s May survey.  Romney led Obama, 49 percent to 41 percent, when voters
were asked who would do the best job on the economy. The survey
also found more pessimism about the country’s economic future as
34 percent of respondents said they expect the economy to
improve over the next year -- down 10 points from a March poll.  The Pew survey found declining enthusiasm for Obama among
younger voters compared with 2008, and more engagement in the
race among Republicans than Democrats. Still, Democrats reported
more enthusiasm for Obama than Republicans did for Romney,
according to Pew.  “Overall, it’s a tight race and Romney’s big advantage at
this point is his lead on improving economic conditions,” said
Carroll Doherty, associate director of the Pew poll.  Personal Qualities  Obama leads Romney on measures of personal qualities, with
50 percent of voters holding a favorable view of the president
and 48 percent unfavorable. Voters gave Romney a more
unfavorable than favorable view, 47 percent to 41 percent. No
candidate in the past two decades has been viewed more
unfavorably than favorably at this point in the election cycle,
according to Pew’s surveys.  Fifty-nine percent of those surveyed said Obama “connects
with ordinary Americans,” compared with 28 percent who said
that about Romney. Half of Americans said Obama has “good
judgment in a crisis,” while 37 percent said that of Romney.  For Romney, “this is something that’s a real challenge for
him going forward -- judgment in a crisis, ability to connect
well,” Doherty said. “Even his own supporters are dubious
about his abilities on some of these traits.”  One advantage for Romney may be that Republicans say they
are paying closer attention to the election, according to Pew,
with 73 percent reporting they are giving “quite a lot of
thought” to the vote, compared with 66 percent of Democrats. In
2008, Democrats led on that measure.  The Pew survey of 2,013 adults, including 1,563 registered
voters, was conducted June 7-17. The poll has a margin of error
of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points for the total sample and
2.9 percentage points for the sample of registered voters.  Recent polls indicate a close and still unsettled
presidential race less than five months before the election. The
average of nine recent national polls by the Real Clear Politics
website shows Obama leading Romney by 2.1 percentage points,
with results ranging from a 13-point Obama lead in a June 15-18
Bloomberg National Poll to a four-point Romney lead in a
 Rasmussen Reports  daily tracking poll released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  