-- Oil Drops Below $80 to 8-Month Low on U.S. Supply, Europe
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-21T12:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/oil-drops-below-80-to-8-month-low-on-u-s-supply-europe-crisis.html
Oil tumbled below $80 a barrel for
the first time in eight months in  New York  as U.S. inventories
surged amid concern that the  European debt crisis  will drag down
the global economy, reducing fuel demand.  Futures dropped as much as 1.9 percent in New York to
$79.92 a barrel, the lowest intraday level since Oct. 6. Prices
have slumped 27 percent from this year’s settlement high as U.S.
 stockpiles  rose to the most in almost 22 years and growth slowed
in the U.S.,  Europe  and China. Federal Reserve policy makers
lowered the outlook for U.S. economic growth and employment,
while a preliminary reading of Chinese manufacturing by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics pointed to a contraction for
an eighth month.  “There’s negative momentum in the market, which is being
accelerated by the inventory data, bad economic sentiment and a
stronger dollar,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG, who correctly forecast prices would
fall after this week’s Fed meeting. “I see markets bottoming in
late summer, until then further slippage is likely.”  Crude futures for August delivery fell 78 cents, or 1
percent, to $80.67 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  as of 12:59 p.m. London time. Prices
peaked at a settlement high of $109.77 on Feb. 24.  Brent oil for August settlement decreased 87 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $91.82 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
 premium  to West Texas Intermediate of $11.20 after closing at
$11.24 yesterday, the lowest level since January.  Rising Supply  Inventories increased  2.9 million barrels  to 387.3 million
barrels in the week ended June 15, the highest level since July
1990, as  crude production  climbed to 6.35 million barrels a day,
the most since February 1999, the Energy Department reported
yesterday. Inventories of distillate fuel and gasoline also
increased.  Crude supplies from the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries  rose in May to the highest level since October 2008, a
Bloomberg survey showed earlier this month, adding pressure to
global prices.  Saudi Arabia  pumped crude at the fastest pace in
at least 23 years. The country’s oil minister,  Ali al-Naimi ,
said on June 15, a day after OPEC members met, that Saudi Arabia
will continue to prevent any shortages.  “There is no catalyst here to spike the price,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “We know that demand is still going to be
relatively weak and we know that we have plenty of supply.”  Growth Slows  Oil demand in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer, will
drop for a second year in 2012, the Energy Department said in
its  Short-Term Energy Outlook  June 12.  Federal Reserve officials yesterday cut their estimates for
2012 growth after last month’s slowdown in hiring and see little
progress on unemployment during the rest of the year. The
central bank lowered its central tendency estimate for U.S. 2012
gross domestic product growth to 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent from
2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April.  China , the second-biggest user of oil after the U.S., cut
borrowing costs this month for the first time since 2008 to
combat a deepening slowdown.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a fifth month in June, suggesting Europe’s economy may fail to
grow in the current quarter, London-based Markit Economics said
today, citing an initial estimate of 46 for its composite index.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Europe’s Debt Crisis  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in Greece and
then moved to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and  Spain  has reduced
economic growth and fuel consumption.  Antonis Samaras, head of Greece’s New Democracy party, was
sworn in as prime minister yesterday after Greek political
leaders agreed on a coalition that will seek relief from
austerity measures tied to international loans.  European officials have held out the prospect of
flexibility over fiscal austerity for  Greece  after the country’s
election amounted to a referendum on remaining in the 17-nation
euro currency union.  “The European debt crisis is still not over and any kind
of strength you get could prove transitory if they can’t
successfully implement what they said they are going to do,”
said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an
Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.  Oil consumption in Europe will fall both this year and
next, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  