-- Oil Near Nine-Month Low on Economy; Heads for Weekly Drop
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-06-22T07:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/oil-trades-near-nine-month-low-amid-signs-growth-slowing-.html
Oil fell for a third day to the
lowest level in almost nine months and headed for a second
weekly decline amid signs of a global economic slowdown that may
curb fuel demand.  Futures slid as much as 0.8 percent after decreasing 4
percent yesterday, the biggest drop this year. The Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s economic index signaled the
biggest contraction in manufacturing in almost a year, adding to
data that showed factory output shrinking in Europe and  China .
Prices rebounded as much as 1 percent earlier after a storm
started to form in the  Gulf of Mexico  and prices approached a
technical support level.  “I expected the oil market to be supported at $80, but it
easily broke down,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative
sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo  who forecasts New York
crude will trade between $75 and $82 a barrel through the end of
this month. “The rebound is just because of buying on dips
after the sharp decline in yesterday’s session.”  Oil for August delivery fell as much as 64 cents to $77.56
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $77.88 at 3:25 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday tumbled $3.25 to $78.20, the lowest close
since Oct. 4. Prices are down 7.3 percent this week and 21
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for August settlement slid 59 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $88.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $10.76 after closing at $11.03 yesterday,
the narrowest gap since January.  Technical Support  Oil in  New York  has technical support along its lower
Bollinger Band on the 30-day chart, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Futures yesterday halted their decline near the indicator,
which is at about $77.37 a barrel today. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Prices may fall next week on signals that global economic
growth is slowing, a Bloomberg survey showed. Fourteen of 27
analysts, or 52 percent, forecast crude will decline through
June 29. Nine respondents, or 33 percent, predicted that futures
will be little changed and four said there will be an increase.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory index
dropped to minus 16.6 in June, the lowest reading since August.
A gauge of euro-region manufacturing fell to 44.8, the weakest
in three years, London-based Markit Economics said yesterday in
an initial estimate. The preliminary reading for a Chinese
purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit was
48.1, signaling an eighth month of contraction.  OPEC Shipments  Brent settled below $90 a barrel yesterday for the first
time since December 2010 and has dropped 30 percent since its
high for the year on March 1. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries agreed June 14 to keep its output quota
unchanged at 30 million barrels a day amid calls from some
members including  Iran  to cut supply to avoid further price
declines.  The group will trim exports in the four weeks to July 7 as
Gulf producers led by  Saudi Arabia  pare a surge in output,
according to Oil Movements, a tanker tracker. OPEC, responsible
for about 40 percent of global supplies, will reduce shipments
by 20,000 barrels a day to 23.92 million a day, the researcher
said yesterday in a report. The data exclude Angola and  Ecuador .  “If Brent is below $90 a barrel, some action from OPEC
might be expected,” said Hasegawa, who forecasts the European
marker grade will trade between $86 a barrel and $93 in the
short term. “We have to keep an eye out for comments from OPEC.
The economy will not be happy if suddenly there is some supply
cut” that boosts prices, he said.  Storm Building  A swath of rain and thunderstorms across the Caribbean from
 Mexico  to southern  Florida  has a 70 percent chance of becoming a
tropical storm in 48 hours, according to the National Hurricane
Center in Miami.  The weather system may move into the Gulf, threatening
disruptions to oil and gas operations in the region. Rain and
flooding is possible from southern Florida to Mexico’s Yucatan
Peninsula for the next two days, the hurricane center said in an
 advisory  at 2 a.m. New York time. The Gulf is home to 6.5
percent of U.S. natural-gas output, 29 percent of oil production
and 40 percent of refining capacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  