-- Oil Futures Drop Below $80 for First Time in Eight Months
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-21T20:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/oil-futures-drop-below-80-for-first-time-in-eight-months.html
Oil in New York tumbled below $80 a
barrel and  Brent crude  fell under $90 as reports signaling a
global economic slowdown added to concern that demand will slow
amid rising supplies.  Futures dropped 4 percent, the most this year, as
manufacturing slumped in the U.S.,  China  and Europe,
 applications  for U.S. unemployment benefits exceeded estimates
and sales of existing homes were lower than expected. Oil
 stockpiles  rose last week to the most since 1990, the Energy
Department reported yesterday.  “The oil market is finally starting to catch up with the
weak fundamentals,” said  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI
Energy LLC in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “The U.S. and Chinese
economies are looking weaker, which is raising concerns about
demand during the second half of the year.”  Crude futures for August delivery fell $3.25 to $78.20 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Oct. 4. The price is down 21 percent in 2012.  Brent oil for August decreased $3.46, or 3.7 percent, to
$89.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange,
the lowest settlement since December 2010. The European
benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate settled at
$11.03, the lowest level since January.  “Fears about the economy are making people very leery,”
said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic
Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “The jobless claims, the
manufacturing data and all the economic data are coming together
to push almost everything down.”  Manufacturing Shrinks  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank in June,
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  showed. Analysts predicted no change. Factory output also
declined in  Europe  and China as Europe’s worsening fiscal
situation clouded global economic-growth prospects.  U.S. crude inventories increased  2.86 million barrels  to
387.3 million barrels last week, the highest level since July
1990, the Energy Department reported yesterday. Stockpiles of
distillate fuel and gasoline also increased.  “People are just killing everything on global economic
concern,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in Chicago. “Supply is just overwhelming right
now. There’s not a lot of reasons to be aggressive on the long
side.”  Jobless Claims  U.S. jobless claims decreased by 2,000 to 387,000 in the
week ended June 16, the Labor Department said. The  median 
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 383,000.
The  four-week  average, a less volatile measure, climbed to the
highest level of the year.  The National Association of Realtors said purchases of
existing U.S. properties dropped and the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index showed the fewest Americans in five months said
the economy was improving in June.  “It doesn’t look like the economy is taking off anytime
soon and oil demand is pretty poor,” said  Kyle Cooper , director
of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “That’s
hurting  oil prices . There is certainly a huge build overall
across the oil complex.”  Prices also dropped as the euro weakened against the dollar
and as U.S. stocks slipped. The European currency slipped as
much as 1.4 percent. A declining euro reduces oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  ‘Broad Decline’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 2.2 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 2.8 percent.  “Oil is participating in the broad decline of equities and
commodities,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and
founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “We broke an extremely key
level for oil, the previous monthly low around $81.”  The relative strength index, or RSI, of front-month oil
futures fell to 22.22. The RSI, which identifies possible
turning points in markets, dropped to 16.3 on June 1, the lowest
level since February 1986.  Crude has dropped 6.9 percent this week as economic data
have missed expectations. Yesterday, Federal Reserve officials
cut their estimates for 2012 growth after last month’s slowdown
in hiring and said they expect little progress on unemployment
during the rest of the year.  “The oil market is taking the Fed statement as a bearish
sign,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions
LLC in  New York . “Commodities are overly sensitive to the
Fed.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 660,771
contracts as of 3:23 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 798,769
contracts yesterday, 44 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.41 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  