-- Home Loan Modifications Cut Credit Risk, TransUnion Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/home-loan-modifications-cut-credit-risk-transunion-says.html
Delinquent U.S. homeowners who
received a loan modification have a better record of repaying
auto and credit-card debt than troubled borrowers who received
no mortgage help,  TransUnion Corp. (TRUN)  said.  Homeowners whose payments were reduced had a 6.1 percent
delinquency rate on auto loans compared with an 11 percent rate
for borrowers who didn’t get a mortgage modification, according
to a study by the Chicago-based credit-rating company. The
delinquency rate on credit-card payments was 14 percent for
homeowners with a modification, compared with 17 percent for
those who didn’t get assistance.  The difference shows how modifications, while failing to
prevent a majority of seriously delinquent borrowers from
defaulting again, can help consumers become better risks for
other lenders, said Charlie Wise, TransUnion’s director of
research and consulting.  “Very clearly, it’s a driver of improved performance,”
Wise said during an interview in Beverly Hills, California.
“This is what allows you to turn the credit spigot back on.”  About 3.9 million delinquent homeowners received loan
modifications from January 2009 through April of this year,
according to a June 6 report by the U.S. Treasury and Housing
and Urban Development departments. That includes 1 million
permanent payment reductions under President  Barack Obama ’s Home
Affordable Modification Program and 2.9 million modifications
started by private lenders.  Redefault Rates  The government’s plan, known as HAMP, cuts mortgage
payments to 31 percent of income, while the bank programs range
from reducing loan principal to increasing monthly payments for
borrowers to catch up on past-due debt.  The TransUnion study looked at 559,000 homeowners who
received a modification from January 2008 to July 2011 after
they missed at least four monthly payments. About 42 percent of
the modified loans redefaulted within 12 months and 59 percent
redefaulted after 18 months.  States with the highest redefault rates were Delaware,
 Rhode Island , Maine, Florida and Texas, according to TransUnion.
Wyoming, Montana, the  District of Columbia ,  New Mexico  and
Michigan had the lowest redefault rates.  As many as 6 million borrowers will lose their homes to
foreclosure in the next five years because of inability to pay
their mortgages, according to  Scott Simon , head of mortgage
bonds at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  