-- London Bus Strike Is On Despite Judge’s Order, Union Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-21T23:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/london-bus-strike-is-on-despite-judge-s-order-union-says.html
London  bus drivers will go on strike
today despite a judge’s order that forbade the labor action at
three companies, the union for the workers said.  Bus workers in more than 70 garages will walk out
“bringing buses across London to a halt causing travel chaos,”
the union, United, said in a statement posted on its website.
The union said it would appeal the court order, which it said
was an “affront to democracy.”  “Bus workers across the vast majority of London’s bus
network will be on strike,” London regional secretary Peter
Kavanagh said in the union’s statement. “This comes despite an
injunction which was given without any proper explanation.”  The three companies, Arriva The Shires Ltd., Metroline
Travel Ltd. and London General Transport Services Ltd., had
argued that Unite didn’t properly conduct the strike vote. Judge
Alan Supperstone yesterday issued an injunction and said he
would give the reasons for his ruling next week.  “By calling its members on strike, Unite is inducing those
members to break their contracts of employment,” the companies
had said in written arguments in court.  Unite, Britain’s largest union with some 1.5 million
members according to its website, seeks to stage the strike to
gain extra payments for drivers working during the London
Olympics starting next month.  “We have been ambushed and we are not in a position to
defend ourselves today,” John Hendy, a lawyer for Unite, said
in court yesterday.  Strikes will go ahead at London United, London Sovereign,
Stagecoach East, Stagecoach Rainham, Stagecoach Selkent, Arriva
North, Arriva South, First Capital, First Centre West, London
Central, Abellio West, Abellio South, Metrobus, Docklands, Blue
Triangle, CT Plus and Arriva Southern Counties, according to
Unite’s statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  