-- Mongolia Riches See Voters Seeking Handouts as Investors Groan
-- B y   D e x t e r   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-06-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/mongolia-riches-see-voters-seeking-handouts-as-investors-groan.html
On a sunny afternoon in  Mongolia ’s
capital Ulan Bator, vans festooned with the flags of political
parties careen down potholed streets, loudspeakers touting their
candidates’ virtues ahead of June 28 parliamentary elections.
Students march through the city center wearing t-shirts bearing
the images of some of those vying for the 76 legislative seats.
Unemployed plumber Dorjsuren can’t get into the spirit.  Dorjsuren, who like many Mongolians uses only one name,
says he hasn’t benefited from  economic growth  that hit 17.3
percent and foreign direct investment of $5.3 billion -- more
than half the national gross domestic product -- in 2011.  “Right now Mongolia is rushing to give away its land and
resources to foreigners, and it makes me deeply angry,”
Dorjsuren says from his wooden shack in an Ulan Bator slum,
where most live in round felt tents called gers. “Our
government does nothing for the people while the rich just get
richer.”  Dorjsuren’s dissatisfaction reflects growing anger among
Mongolia’s 2.8 million people about the way politicians are
handling of the country’s mineral resources, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its June 25 edition. Incoming
parliamentary leaders will need both to respond to that pressure
and to anxiety among businesses that tighter limits of foreign
miners’ investments and runaway inflation are making Mongolia
less attractive.  Mineral Wealth  Mongolia has gold,  iron ore , copper and coal, and its 10
biggest mineral deposits are worth more than $1.3 trillion,
according to estimates by Quam Asset Management. Seeking greater
returns on those resources, lawmakers approved a foreign
investment law in May that requires parliament to approve deals
in which overseas investors hold more than 49 percent of the
equity and for transactions of more than $75 million in
strategic sectors -- including mining.  The legislation was sparked in part by an attempt by the
Aluminum Corporation of  China  to purchase some mining assets.
Politicians have also proposed rewriting tax treaties that have
allowed many foreign mining companies to limit their effective
 tax rate  to close to zero.  “We don’t want people to come in and clown around and
escape with whatever hot profits they make, without contributing
to the well-being of Mongolians,” Vice Finance Minister
Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt says during a break between campaign
stops.  Deals Reopened  Companies are expressing concern over calls to renegotiate
existing deals, including a $6 billion copper-and-gold mine that
is managed and part-owned by  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)  Some lawmakers want
to boost the Mongolian government’s share in the mine, called
Oyu Tolgoi, or Turquoise Hill.  “We have these possibly time-consuming hurdles that have
to be crossed that could hurt the prospect of deals getting
done,” says Jim Dwyer, executive director of the  Business
Council of Mongolia , an advocacy group for some 200
international and Mongolian businesses.  Mining amounts to one-fifth of the economy and supplies a
third of government revenue in a country with gross domestic
product of $8.2 billion. Last year’s economic growth was driven
by a 56 percent surge in  government spending , including cash
handouts. That’s  stoked inflation : Food prices jumped 31 percent
in April over the same month last year.  Nearly 60 percent of Mongolians indicated that “earnings
were insufficient to meet their basic needs,” up from 39
percent in January, according to a World Bank survey released in
June.  `Resource Nationalism'  “Mongolia needs foreign expertise and foreign capital to
help develop its resources, despite talk of resource
nationalism,” says Cameron McRae, chief executive of Oyu
Tolgoi. “The next step for Mongolia should be an informed,
national-level conversation about how to use the profits from
mining for the long-term benefit of the country.”  Business executives also don’t like the inflation. They
include Graeme Hancock, chief operating officer at state-owned
coal miner Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC. Hancock says 2008 campaign
promises to give every Mongolian citizen a 1.5 million tugrik
($1,125) handout will add to inflation pressures.  “The reality is if they did pay all of this out, it would
be enormously inflationary,” making it more costly to do
business in the country, Hancock says.  One obstacle to a more equitable distribution of the
proceeds from Mongolia’s mining boom is corruption.  Transparency
International , an organization focused on graft, ranks Mongolia
120th out of the 183 nations it surveys.  Former Leader  In April, former President Nambaryn Enkhbayar was arrested
on charges of enriching himself while in office and barred from
participating in the upcoming election. Enkhbayar and his family
see the move as an attempt by the current administration to
sideline a rival.  “What we are seeing now in Mongolia is not a real rule of
law, but instead something that is common in many post-Soviet
republics,” says Enkhbayar, who is free on bail. “The ruling
party is trying to use the law and law enforcement agencies to
get rid of its political opponents.”  The election pits the Mongolian People’s Party against the
 Democratic Party , now ruling together in a coalition. The DP
describes itself as a party that aims to foster a middle class
with lower taxes. The MPP is the successor of the Communist
Party, which ruled Mongolia for most of the 20th century.  About 60 percent of Mongolians believe government policy is
characterized by either “support for the rich” or “lack of
concern for society at large,” according to a survey released
on June 17 by the local Sant Maral Foundation.  Even as the boom has spurred new jobs, with unemployment
falling to 9 percent last year from 13 percent in 2010, almost
one-third of the country’s people live in poverty.  “The biggest issue really is how to invest the mining
revenues strategically, but also in way that is equitable, so it
also gives economic opportunities to everybody, not just to the
rich and well-connected,” World Bank country director Coralie
Gevers says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cristina Lindblad at 
 mlindblad1@bloomberg.net  