-- Moody’s Said to Be Poised to Announce Bank Downgrades Today
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-06-21T18:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/moody-s-said-to-be-poised-to-announce-bank-downgrades-today.html
Moody’s Investors Service has told
banks it may later today announce downgrades of the credit
ratings of as many as 17 lenders and securities firms with
global capital markets operations, according to two people with
knowledge of the plans.  The announcement may come after the close of trading in  New
York  today, said one of the people, who asked to not be
identified because the information is private.  “As a policy we don’t comment on the timing of potential
future rating actions,” Abbas Qasim, a New York-based spokesman
for Moody’s, said in a telephone interview today.  The company said in February it may lower the ratings of
firms including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
as part of a review of how  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis was
hurting more than 100 lenders. Any downgrades could raise
borrowing costs and force banks to increase collateral.  The 43-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index fell 0.5 percent to 73.92.  UBS, Credit Suisse and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s credit ratings may
be cut by as many as three levels, Moody’s said in February.
Barclays,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  may be lowered by
two, Moody’s said.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  may be lowered by one grade, it said.  ‘Earnings Challenges’  Macquarie Group Ltd., another of the banks put on review in
February, had its  credit rating  cut one level to A3 by Moody’s
on March 15, citing “ongoing earnings challenges” for
Australia’s largest investment bank.  The same day, the ratings firm cut the debt rating of
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , one of the 17, to the lowest investment
grade, saying global competition raises questions over the
profitability of Japan’s biggest securities firm. The one-step
reduction brought Nomura’s long-term debt rating to Baa3, one
level above junk.  Moody’s reduced the credit ratings of Italian banks
including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA in May, citing a
weakened earnings and a subdued economic outlook. The ratings
company then downgraded 16 Spanish lenders including  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  on May 18 before cutting seven German and three
Austrian lenders on June 6.  Spain’s banks would need as much as 62 billion euros ($78
billion) in capital to withstand a worst-case economic scenario,
two consulting firms hired by the government to conduct stress
tests on the lenders said today. The government hired the two
firms last month to estimate the capital shortfall at the
nation’s banks as investors questioned the health of lenders
pummeled by a five-year real estate slump.  Sky News  reported the timing of the announcement earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  