-- Oracle CEO Ellison to Buy Most of Hawaiian Island Lanai
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-21T05:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/oracle-ceo-ellison-bought-most-of-hawaiian-island-lana-i.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Ellison  has agreed to buy 98 percent of the Hawaiian
island of Lanai, according to the current landowner and the
state’s governor.  “It is my understanding that Mr. Ellison has had a long-
standing interest in Lanai,” Governor Neil Abercrombie said in
a  statement . “His passion for nature, particularly the ocean, is
well known specifically in the realm of America’s Cup sailing.”  Lanai, Hawaii’s sixth-largest island with an area of 141
square miles (365 square kilometers), is owned and developed by
billionaire David Murdock’s Castle & Cooke Inc. since 1985.
Ellison’s software industry rival  Bill Gates  married his wife
Melinda on the island in 1994.  The sale includes two resort hotels, two championship golf
courses and club houses, more than 88,000 acres of land
including a 600-acre residential development, a solar farm,
parks and utilities, according to an application filed by Castle
& Cooke with  Hawaii ’s Public Utilities Commission requesting
interim approval for the sale by June 26 so it can close the
transaction the following day.  No price was disclosed. The transaction is valued in the
“hundreds of millions of dollars,” according to the
application to the commission. In a statement, Murdock, 89, said
he would keep his home on the island and retain rights to
develop a wind energy farm there.  ’Fresh Perspective’  “I believe that Larry Ellison will bring a new and fresh
perspective to the island and its people,” Murdock said. “As a
property owner on Lanai, I will continue to be a member of the
community and will be looking forward to its future.”  Ellison is the world’s sixth-richest man, with an estimated
net worth of $36.4 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Gates is the second-richest man with a
fortune of $62 billion.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The island has 47 miles of coastline and is accessible from
neighboring islands by helicopter and small planes. It has no
stoplights and 93 percent of the 430 miles of roads are unpaved.
More than 3,200 residents live there and about 26,000 tourists
visited the island in the first quarter of this year, according
to the state.  The sale creates “an extraordinary opportunity for the
people and Island of Lanai to bring in new investment to the
island of Lanai that should result in the creation of new jobs,
provide local economic stimulus and reinvigorate the local
 tourism industry ,” the application said.  Three Utilities  The state Public Utilities Commission must approve the
transfer of three utilities that are part of the sale, said Sean
Mikell, a researcher for the commission.  The transfer requires consent from two of the three
commissioners. The panel will look at “whether the transfer is
reasonable and consistent with the public interest,” Mikell
said. Two of the three commissioners were appointed by
Abercrombie, while the term of the third expires at the end of
June and will be replaced by an Abercrombie appointee.  A vote for interim authority is expected before June 26,
and a final vote hasn’t been scheduled, Mikell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  