-- U.S. Firings Stay Elevated and Factories Retrench: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-21T20:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/more-americans-than-forecast-file-claims-for-jobless-benefits.html
More Americans than forecast filed
 claims  for jobless benefits and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region shrank, adding to evidence the U.S. economic
expansion is weakening.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments fell by
2,000 to 387,000 in the week ended June 16, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The  median  forecast of 45
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 383,000. The
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory  index  dropped to
minus 16.6 in June, the lowest level since August.  Stocks and bond yields fell as the data reinforced concerns
the recovery is faltering after Fed policy makers yesterday cut
their growth forecasts and extended a program to keep long-term
interest rates low. Another report today showed sales of
existing homes fell in May, indicating that tight credit and the
weakest employment gains in a year are holding back residential
real estate.  “The labor-market recovery appears to be stalling,” said
 Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in
 New York . “We are likely to see further moderation in consumer
spending, which suggests weakness in manufacturing. This
provides confirmation of the Fed’s stance.”  Stocks tumbled, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a second day, on concern about the global economy. The
 S&P 500  retreated 2.2 percent to 1,325.51 at the close in New
York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note declined to 1.62
percent from 1.66 percent late yesterday.  Global Manufacturing  Elsewhere, euro-area manufacturing shrank in June at the
fastest pace in three years and a gauge for  China  showed output
contracted as  Europe ’s worsening fiscal crisis clouded global
economic-growth prospects.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes declined 1.5 percent
in May to a 4.55 million annual rate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed in Washington. Nonetheless, the
pace of purchases surpassed the 4.26 million houses sold in
2011, showing the market is stabilizing.  “It’s a bumpy trajectory,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior
U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York. “It’s
going to be a gradual recovery.”  The claims report showed the  four-week  average, a less
volatile measure, climbed to 386,250, the highest since the week
ended Dec. 3, from 382,750.  Survey Week  Last week included the 12th of the month, which coincides
with the period the Labor Department uses in its survey of
employers to calculate monthly payroll growth. The four-week
average for the May survey week was about 10,000 lower,
indicating little progress this month. The employment report for
June will be released on July 6.  Payrolls in May expanded by 69,000 workers, the slowest
pace in a year, and have cooled each month since January. The
jobless rate, which climbed to 8.2 percent in May, has been
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  “Momentum is slowing,” said  Ryan Wang , at HSBC Securities
USA Inc. in New York, the only economist in the Bloomberg survey
to correctly forecast the level of claims. “Companies have
curtailed demand for labor. This means less income growth.
That’s a restraint on consumer spending.”  Estimates for claims in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
371,000 to 390,000. The Labor Department revised the previous
week’s figure up to 389,000 from an initially reported 386,000.  Five Months  Another report today showed the fewest Americans in five
months said the economy was improving in June, signaling the
slowdown in employment is seeping into consumer psychology.  The share of households viewing the economy as heading in
the right direction fell to 22 percent this month, the lowest
since January, pushing the Bloomberg monthly expectations gauge
to minus 11 from minus 1 in May. The weekly Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index was minus 37.9 in the period ended June 17, down
from a four-week high of minus 36.4.  “The steady drip of dreary economic data and a
deteriorating labor market is reshaping public expectations,”
said Bloomberg LP senior economist  Joseph Brusuelas  in New York.
The decline “will likely result in slower spending, which in
turn will likely have an adverse impact on business
confidence.”  The Philadelphia Fed’s report provided evidence of such a
drop. The central bank’s data showed orders and sales contracted
this month.  Getting Worse  “The economy is going to get worse before it gets
better,” James Craigie, chairman and chief executive officer of
Church & Dwight Co., which makes Arm & Hammer baking soda, said
during a June 19 investor conference. “We see continued weak
 consumer spending , continued volatility in commodities,
continued competitive pressures out there.”  Not all the news on manufacturing today was as dire.
Figures from London-based Markit Economics showed U.S. factories
continued to expand this month, albeit at a slower pace.  “Businesses are nervous, but they’re not panicking, and
that gives the recovery a fighting chance,” said  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania , who projected the Philadelphia index would drop.
“We’re in a soft patch,” he said. “July’s going to be very,
very important. If this weakness lingers into July, there’s
serious cause for concern.”  Also today, the index of U.S. leading economic indicators
rose in May, propelled by a jump in home-building permits,
signaling the expansion will be sustained. The Conference
Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to six months
increased 0.3 percent after a 0.1 percent drop in April, the New
York-based group said.  Fed officials yesterday said they’ll expand Operation
Twist, a program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term
debt, by $267 billion through the end of 2012. They left
unchanged their view that economic conditions will probably
warrant keeping  interest rates  “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014, and said they are “prepared to take further
action as appropriate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  