-- Morgan Stanley Spreads to Narrow After Moody’s, Sterne Agee Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-21T13:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/morgan-stanley-spreads-to-narrow-after-moody-s-sterne-agee-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  credit spreads may
narrow after a brief widening once Moody’s Investors Service
announces its downgrades for the largest banks, said Donald Jones, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst.  The most likely outcome expected by bond investors is a
three-grade rating cut for New York-based Morgan Stanley, Jones
wrote in a June 19 note. Moody’s is likely to announce ratings
decisions for the largest global banks today, according to two
people with knowledge of the plans who asked not to be named
because the information is private. Moody’s officials in  London 
declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley faces the largest potential downgrade among
U.S. banks as Moody’s reviews ratings of 15 companies with
global capital-markets businesses. Jones, who said in May that a
two-level downgrade was the most likely result, said JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss and the recent turmoil in
 Europe  will prompt Moody’s to be more severe in its cuts.  “We think there will be short-term pressure on MS spreads
upon Moody’s release, but that will be followed by a steady
rally in spreads,” Jones wrote, referring to Morgan Stanley’s
stock ticker.  Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Moody’s decision.  Mike Mayo, an equity analyst at CLSA Ltd., wrote in a note
yesterday that the banks’ stock prices already reflect
expectation of the downgrades. The shares of the five U.S. banks
included in the Moody’s review have fallen an average of 9.3
percent since Feb. 15, the day Moody’s announced its review, led
by a 25 percent decline for Morgan Stanley.  The cost to insure five-year senior Morgan Stanley debt has
fallen 18 percent since June 4, dropping to 372.62 basis points
as of yesterday. Still, that’s 15 percent higher than Feb. 15.  The downgrades will probably have little impact on banks’
borrowing costs, Mayo said. The bigger effect may be a reduction
of trading business for lower-rated banks, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  