-- Morgan Stanley Credit-Default Swaps Drop on Moody’s Downgrade
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-06-21T22:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/morgan-stanley-credit-default-swaps-drop-on-moody-s-downgrade.html
The cost to protect against losses
on  Morgan Stanley (MS)  debt fell after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded the owner of the world’s largest brokerage two levels
rather than the three that the ratings company previously said
were possible.  Credit-default swaps tied to Morgan Stanley dropped 20
basis points after the announcement to a mid-price of 370 basis
points, according to market participants familiar with the
trades. The contracts, which decline as investor confidence
improves, reversed an earlier increase to as high as 400 basis
points, according to prices compiled by data provider CMA.  Bonds issued by Morgan Stanley had already dropped to
prices implying junk ratings, according to a separate Moody’s
unit that analyzes market data. Moody’s had said it might reduce
the rating on the New York-based firm by as many as three levels
in its industrywide review. Morgan Stanley can manage through
any potential cut, Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
June 12 at an investor conference in New York.  Credit-default swaps tied to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
declined 20 basis points to a mid-price of 280 basis points,
market participants said. Moody’s lowered the fifth-biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets to A3 from A1, with a negative outlook.  Contracts tied to debt of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  lowered 
one level to Baa2 with a negative outlook, fell 10 basis points
to a mid-price of 275, the data show.  ‘Significant Exposure’  “All of the banks affected by today’s actions have
significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to capital markets activities,” Moody’s Global
Banking Managing Director Greg Bauer said in a statement.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 2.9 basis points to a mid-price of 117
basis points 5:34 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group
Ltd. That’s down from as high as 118 basis points before the
Moody’s announcement.  The downgrades may force banks to post additional
collateral to trading partners in derivatives deals while
boosting the companies’ borrowing costs. Moody’s said when it
announced the review that it was seeking to reflect the banks’
reliance on fragile confidence in funding markets and increased
pressures from regulation and a difficult market environment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  