-- Morgan Stanley’s Mitsubishi UFJ Link Limited Cut, Moody’s Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-06-21T22:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/morgan-stanley-s-mitsubishi-ufj-link-limited-cut-moody-s-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  avoided the biggest
potential downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service because of
possible support from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., one
of the ratings company’s analysts said.  There’s a “moderate probability” that Mitsubishi UFJ,
 Japan ’s biggest lender and Morgan Stanley’s biggest shareholder,
would support the New York-based investment bank in a crisis,
Bob Young, Moody’s managing director of North American banking,
said in a telephone interview.  Moody’s downgraded 15 banks today after U.S. stock
exchanges closed as part of a review of global banks with
capital-markets operations that was announced in February.
Morgan Stanley, which the firm warned might be cut three levels,
was downgraded by two after lobbying by Chief Executive Officer
 James Gorman . Credit Suisse Group AG was lowered three grades.  “Management teams will always present as strong a case as
they can,” Young said. “We undertake a very thorough, very
thoughtful, very deliberate analysis of each individual
institution.”  Morgan Stanley’s long-term deposit rating was reduced to A3
from A1 with a stable outlook, and its short-term rating was cut
to P-2 from P-1, Moody’s said in a statement.  Moody’s said when it announced the review that it was
seeking to reflect the banks’ reliance on fragile confidence in
funding markets and increased pressures from regulation and a
difficult market environment.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s more than
$2 billion trading loss demonstrated the difficulty of  managing
risk  for banks that depend on trading, Young said.  “That exemplified some of the issues,” Young said.  Young also said that Moody’s would lower some banks’
ratings were the probability of U.S. government bailouts to
decline.  Mitsubishi UFJ acquired its Morgan Stanley stake when it
invested $9 billion in the company in October 2008, as the New
York-based firm’s stock price tumbled in the wake of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  