-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Fall With 30-Year at a Record-Low 3.66%
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-06-21T15:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-fall-with-30-year-at-a-record-low-3-66-.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  for 30-year
fixed loans declined to a record low, reducing borrowing costs
amid an uneven recovery in the housing market.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.66
percent in the week ended today from 3.71 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement. It was the lowest in the McLean, Virginia-
based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to 1971. The
average 15-year rate dropped to 2.95 percent from 2.98 percent.  Low borrowing costs have helped to support the real estate
market as  house prices  stabilize. Demand for homes remains
choppy, with sales of previously owned houses falling 1.5
percent in May from the previous month, according to a report
today from the National Association of Realtors.  “This may be a little bit of a setback, but the underlying
picture is still one of improvement,”  Paul Diggle , property
economist for Capital Economics Ltd., said today in a telephone
interview from London.  U.S. house prices  rose  in April for a third straight month,
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  reported today. Prices
climbed 0.8 percent from March and 3 percent from a year
earlier.  Housing Starts  Construction of  single-family  houses increased for a third
straight month in May, and building permits rose to the highest
level since September 2008, Commerce Department data show.  Mortgage rates have been low in part because of a Federal
Reserve program designed to bring down long-term  interest rates 
by replacing short-term bonds with longer-term debt. The Fed
said yesterday it would expand the program, called Operation
Twist, through the end of the year.  A measure of  refinancing  applications rose 1 percent in the
week ended June 15 to the highest level since April 2009, the
Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association said yesterday.
The group’s  purchasing  index dropped 8.5 percent after jumping
almost 13 percent the previous week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in  New York  at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  