-- Asian Currencies Decline as Europe Crisis Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-21T08:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/most-asian-currencies-fall-as-europe-crisis-damps-export-outlook.html
Asian currencies fell, led by the
Philippine peso and Thailand’s baht, on concern  Europe ’s
financial crisis is hurting demand for the region’s goods.  Taiwan’s central bank will keep its benchmark  interest rate 
at 1.875 percent today, all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicted, after data yesterday showed export orders
contracted for a third month. Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti
Akhtar Aziz said yesterday that there is no clarity on the
European debt crisis. Borrowing costs in Spain rose to more than
 7 percent  this week, compared with 5.11 percent at the start of
the year, after the country joined Greece, Ireland and Portugal
in seeking a bailout.  “Investors are still very worried about the situation in
Spain and that negatively impacts Asian currencies,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK)  “We
are also waiting to see what conclusions the European Union will
come up with later this month.”  The peso weakened 0.7 percent to 42.423 per dollar in
 Manila , according to prices from Tullett Prebon Plc. The baht
depreciated 0.7 percent to 31.74 and Malaysia’s ringgit slid 0.6
percent to 3.1785.  The Bank of Thailand cut its 2012 export-growth forecast to
about 8 percent from 9 percent due to the crisis in Europe,
Songtham Pinto, director of the central bank’s office of
macroeconomics, said June 19. The baht touched 31.75 per dollar,
its weakest level since June 11.  China Manufacturing  Government data due next week may show overseas shipments
from  Thailand  gained 0.65 percent in May after a decline of 3.67
percent in April, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in
June, a preliminary reading for a purchasing managers’ index
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed today.
The PMI dropped to 48.1, compared with a final 48.4 for May. A
level above 50 indicates expansion.  The  Federal Reserve  lowered forecasts for U.S. economic
growth and raised predictions for unemployment yesterday as it
expanded the Operation Twist program. It plans to sell $267
billion of short-term debt and purchase the same amount of
longer-maturity bonds in a bid to reduce borrowing costs.  “The market is disappointed as they expected a new round
of quantitative easing, which would have been positive for
riskier assets,” said Klara Pramesti, a research analyst in the
treasury division at PT Bank Negara Indonesia in Jakarta. The
rupiah fell as much as 0.7 percent before trading 0.1 percent
higher on the day at 9,434 per dollar.  Malaysia Growth  Malaysia’s services sector, which accounts for about 48
percent of the country’s gross domestic product, may expand 5.1
percent this year after increasing 6.8 percent in 2011 because
of the weaker global outlook, the trade ministry said in an
annual report released yesterday.  “The risk for Malaysia’s economy is both on the external
front, which is from Europe, and domestically it’s the speed of
 government spending ,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-
based senior currency analyst at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  “We have
a strong-dollar call at least until the end of the year.”  Elsewhere, South Korea’s won was little changed at 1,151.59
per dollar, while Taiwan’s currency fell 0.1 percent to
NT$29.902. China’s  yuan  weakened 0.07 percent to 6.3642.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  