-- Total ‘Happy’ With Shtokman Stake, Sees Accord by Month-End
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-06-21T15:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/total-happy-with-shtokman-stake-sees-accord-in-june-correct-.html
Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie said France’s largest oil company is
happy with its 25 percent holding in Russia’s Shtokman project.  The partners, led by Russian gas export monopoly OAO
Gazprom, will probably complete talks on the project’s future by
the end of the month, De Margerie told reporters today at the
St. Petersburg Economic Forum in Russia. Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  is
the third partner in the project.  Gazprom has said it’s looking at bringing in a new foreign
partner to help develop the repeatedly delayed project as it
seeks to produce liquefied natural gas from the Arctic Shtokman
field and export the fuel by tanker to North America, Asia and
Europe. The Shtokman shareholders’ agreement runs out July 1,
almost five years after Gazprom selected the partners.  “We had a good meeting with Gazprom,”  de Margerie  said.
“We have made progress.”  Total has no knowledge of talks with potential new partner
for the project, he said.  No agreements on the project will be signed at the St.
Petersburg forum, Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller said today after
meeting with de Margerie and Statoil CEO Helge Lund. Miller also
met with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  CEO Peter Voser to discuss their
Sakhalin-2 oil and LNG project and expanding cooperation.  Gazprom may add new partners to Shtokman and has experience
working with Shell on LNG, Miller said on May 25, after the
Kommersant newspaper reported Shell may replace Statoil. He
declined to elaborate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in  St. Petersburg  at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in St. Petersburg at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  