-- House Republicans Set Holder Contempt Vote for Next Week
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-21T13:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/house-republicans-set-holder-contempt-vote-for-next-week.html
House Republican leaders set a vote
next week to hold U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt
of Congress on the recommendation of a panel that condemned
President  Barack Obama ’s last-minute assertion of executive
privilege to shield documents from lawmakers.  House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
announced the vote yesterday after the Oversight and Government
Reform Committee made Holder the first Cabinet official held in
contempt by a congressional panel in 14 years.  The commmittee’s party-line contempt resolution is the
latest escalation in a standoff that began last year over
documents related to the Fast and Furious gun operation, which
allowed illegally purchased firearms from the U.S. to wind up in
Mexico.  “While we had hoped it would not come to this, unless the
attorney general reevaluates his choice and supplies the
promised documents, the House will vote to hold him in contempt
next week,” Boehner, of  Ohio , and Cantor, of Virginia, said in
a statement. “If, however, Attorney General Holder produces
these documents prior to the scheduled vote, we will give the
Oversight Committee an opportunity to review in hopes of
resolving this issue.”  The committee, led by Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , is seeking documents describing internal
Justice Department discussions about a February 2011 letter to
lawmakers that Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect
information.  The Justice Department says it already has provided more
than 7,600 pages of documents in the case. In a statement,
Holder yesterday called the panel’s action “an election-year
tactic intended to distract attention.”  ‘Unnecessary’ Action  “The action that the committee took was unwarranted,
unnecessary and unprecedented,” Holder said today at a news
conference in Copenhagen, where he is meeting with Morten Boedskov, the justice minister of  Denmark , which holds the
rotating presidency of the European Union.  “We put before the committee a proposal that would have
allowed for a resolution of that matter, consistent with the way
in which these have been resolved in the past, through
negotiation,” Holder said. “The possibility still exists that
it can happen in that way.”  The House vote won’t take place before June 26, giving
Holder time to deliver the documents sought by Issa’s panel,
according to a Republican congressional aide who asked to not be
named.  Reaching Accommodation  By failing to resolve the dispute with Issa’s committee,
Holder may have decided that it would be easier to reach an
accommodation with Boehner, said  Carl Tobias , a law professor at
the  University of Richmond  in Richmond,  Virginia .  “Holder has made the calculus, let’s see if we can’t find
somebody who is more reasonable with whom we can deal” and
“who has broader institutional concerns” than “the committee
or committee members,” Tobias said in an interview.  A contempt vote also plays into the Democratic narrative of
Republican obstructionism. Republicans controlled the House the
last time a committee held a Cabinet member in contempt --
during the administration of President  Bill Clinton , another
Democrat.  In 1998,  House Republicans  decided against a floor vote on
contempt after the oversight panel cited Attorney General Janet Reno for withholding documents related to a campaign finance
investigation.  If Boehner starts a contempt fight, voters will blame
Congress for taking its focus off jobs, said Representative
Robert Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat. If he doesn’t, he risks
angering conservatives for “wimping out of confrontation” with
Obama, Andrews said.  ‘Effective Oversight’  “The House remains focused on the American people’s top
priority: jobs,” said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner.
“We also have a constitutional responsibility to conduct
effective oversight.”  Yesterday marked the first time Obama has invoked executive
privilege, according to the White House. Executive privilege is
a principle that says the executive branch can’t be forced by
the legislative branch to disclose confidential communications
when they would harm operations.  Documents responsive to the House panel’s subpoena relate
to “sensitive law enforcement activities, including ongoing
criminal investigations and prosecutions,” Deputy Attorney
General  James Cole  said in a letter yesterday to Issa before the
committee vote.  ‘Inhibit’ Candor  In a letter to the president released by the White House,
Holder argued that giving up the documents sought by the panel
“would inhibit the candor” of deliberations within the
executive branch. He said documents “were generated in the
course of the deliberative process” and as a result “the need
to maintain their confidentiality is heightened.”  Guns in Fast and Furious ended up “lost” and will turn up
at crime scenes on both sides of the U.S.- Mexico  border for
years, Holder told lawmakers last year.  Two of about 2,000 guns that the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives allowed to be carried away were
found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border
Patrol agent Brian Terry in Arizona, according to a
congressional report.  Holder has said that he didn’t learn of the tactics in the
operation until after it was the subject of news reports. Since
then, he has banned the use of similar law enforcement methods.  Holder last year told a Senate hearing that he regretted a
Feb. 4, 2011, letter the Justice Department sent lawmakers that
indicated ATF hadn’t “knowingly allowed” the tactics in the
law enforcement operation to be employed. Information in the
letter turned out to be inaccurate, he said.  Republicans: Resign  Dozens of Republican lawmakers have called on Holder to
resign over his handling of probes into the gun operation and
leaks of classified national security information. Republicans
have also criticized how the  Justice Department  under Holder has
prosecuted terrorism suspects and challenged state immigration
and voting laws.  Republican lawmakers said that Obama’s assertion of
executive privilege raised questions about the extent of what he
knew about Fast and Furious.  “How can the president assert executive privilege if there
was no White House involvement?”  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the
top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a
statement. “How can the president exert executive privilege
over documents he’s supposedly never seen? Is something very big
being hidden to go to this extreme?”  Then-President  George W. Bush  asserted executive privilege
to block release of documents and testimony by his White House
counsel, Harriet Miers, and other top aides. Lawmakers wanted to
question them on the administration’s firing in 2006 of nine
federal prosecutors. Under a deal later brokered by the Obama
administration, the aides gave testimony in private.  Unless the Obama administration hands over the documents,
“this could drag out a while,” Issa said of the current
tussle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  