-- Riley Looms Large Over LeBron James Heat as NBA Title Nears
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-21T16:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/pat-riley-looms-large-over-lebron-james-s-heat-as-title-nears.html
Miami Heat President  Pat Riley  has
said he knew what would appeal to  LeBron James , the free agent.
It was championships, especially for a player who had
accomplished everything except his stated goal of winning it
all.  “Pat understands what it takes,” James, a three-time Most
Valuable Player, has said. “He understands the DNA of a
championship team.”  In 2010, when Riley was trying to convince James to join
his team, he took a bag from the drawer and dropped it on his
office desk. Inside were Riley’s championship rings, four of
which came during his tenure as coach of Magic Johnson’s
“Showtime”  Los Angeles Lakers . The most recent one came
courtesy of the Heat, who, coached by Riley, won the 2005-06
title.  “Pat would make an unbelievable CEO because he understands
how to win; he understands how to work with people and find the
right people,” Johnson, chairman of  Magic Johnson  Enterprises
and a member of the group that bought baseball’s  Los Angeles
Dodgers  for a record $2.1 billion, said on a conference call
today. “Pat Riley has his handprint all over this team.”  Riley’s greatest asset, his former players say, is his
understanding of what motivates them, including the great ones
like three-time Most Valuable Player Johnson and James, who with
a win over the Oklahoma City Thunder tonight in Miami would
secure the first championship of his nine-year-old National
Basketball Association career.  ‘Sense of Stability’  “Riley gives the Heat a sense of stability as president of
the company, so to speak,” John Starks, who played for Riley
with the  New York Knicks , said in a telephone interview. “He
reads players. That’s what you’re supposed to do.”  Riley, 67, played basketball and football at the  University
of Kentucky . He reached the NBA, where he played nine seasons,
and was picked by the  Dallas Cowboys  in the 11th round of the
1967 National Football League draft.  “Being a former player, he understands what players go
through this time of year,” said Starks.  Back in 2006, when the Shaquille O’Neal and Dwyane Wade-led
Heat defeated the  Dallas Mavericks  for the title, Riley had a
pit erected in the middle of the Miami locker room that was
covered with a black cloth. No one was allowed to sneak a peek
underneath.  The pit, which also made its way to road games, was
unveiled after Miami won the title. It contained playing cards
with the championship trophy on one side and the words “15
Strong” on the other.  Style Sense  Riley also has a sense of style. With his slicked-backed
hair and Armani suits, he became as much a face of the Lakers
franchise as his players.  Riley has demonstrated his acumen for business as well as
basketball. He led the Lakers to titles in 1982, ‘85, ‘87 and
’88. After the last title, Riley said former player  Byron Scott 
came up with a catchy phrase for what the team was trying to
accomplish the following season.  In November of 1988, Riles & Co. filed for a trademark of
“three-peat,” which was registered the following year. In 1994
Riley applied for additional three-peat trademarks, including
collector plates and mugs. His subsequent applications coincided
with the dominance of the Michael Jordan-led  Chicago Bulls , who
twice won three consecutive titles. Riley had a licensing
agreement with the NBA,  Major League Baseball  and Modell’s
Sporting Goods Inc.  “As CEOs we want to win now, but also we look for
growth,” Johnson said. “He built this team to win not just now
but also into the future.”  Riley left the Lakers after the 1989-90 NBA season for the
Knicks, and led New York to the Finals in 1993-94. It was the
first time the Knicks made it to the championship round of the
playoffs since they won the title in 1972-73.  “Players listen because he has all the credentials,”
Starks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  