-- Penguins’ Malkin Is Hockey’s MVP, Rangers’ Lundqvist Top Goalie
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-21T04:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/penguins-malkin-is-hockey-s-mvp-rangers-lundqvist-top-goalie.html
Evgeni Malkin was named the Most
Valuable Player in the  National Hockey League  after scoring a
career-high 50 goals last season for the Pittsburgh Penguins.  The Russian won the Hart Trophy for the first time at the
NHL Awards last night at the Wynn Las Vegas casino. Malkin also
collected the Art Ross Trophy as the league’s top point scorer,
with 109, and the Ted Lindsay Award for being voted the league’s
best player by NHLPA members.  “It’s the best day of my life,” Malkin said. “It’s very
exciting.”  Malkin, 25, is the fourth Penguin to win the Hart Trophy
after Mario Lemieux, Jaromir Jagr and  Sidney Crosby .  New York  Rangers’ Henrik Lundqvist, 30, won the Vezina
Trophy that goes to the league’s top goaltender. Lundqvist went
39-18-5 in 62 appearances for a career high in wins and became
the first goaltender with at least 30 wins in each of his first
seven seasons.  The Norris Trophy for the top defenseman went to Erik Karlsson of the  Ottawa Senators , who led all defensemen in
scoring with 78 points.  Blues Take Four  Florida Panthers defenseman Brian Campbell received the
Lady Byng Trophy for skill and sportsmanship. He led the league
in total ice time, yet had only six penalty points.  The  St. Louis Blues  had four recipients. Doug Armstrong was
named General Manager of the Year, Ken Hitchcock won top coach
in voting by the NHL Broadcasters’ Association, and Brian Elliott and Jaroslav Halak received the William M. Jennings
Trophy as goaltenders on the club that allowed the fewest
regular-season goals.  The league’s top scorer award went to Tampa Bay Lightning
center  Steven Stamkos , who scored 60 goals.  The Calder Trophy for outstanding rookie went to  Colorado
Avalanche  left wing Gabriel Landeskog, who had 22 goals and 30
assists for 52 points in 82 games.  Boston Bruins center Patrice Bergeron was named the top
defensive forward.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  