-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Region Shrinks at Faster Pace
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-21T14:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/philadelphia-fed-manufacturing-index-fell-to-16-6-in-june.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region shrank in June at the fastest pace in almost a year,
showing the global economic slowdown is holding factories back.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  fell to minus 16.6 in June, the lowest level since August,
from minus 5.8 the previous month. Economists forecast the gauge
would improve to zero, the dividing line between growth and
contraction, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. The report covers eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Manufacturing may keep ebbing as  consumer spending ,
business investment and exports cool, reflecting the slowdown in
global growth caused, in part, by the European fiscal crisis.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  announced yesterday it would
extend its efforts to keep long-term interest rates low in an
effort to protect the expansion.  “It just reflects the sort of broader slowing we’re
seeing,”  Peter Newland , a New York-based U.S. economist for
Barclays Plc, said before the report.  Stocks dropped following the report. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,350.46 at 10:19 a.m. in New
York.  Estimates from 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 10 to minus 8.  Less Growth  Another report today showed manufacturing in the U.S. grew
at a slower pace. The Markit Economics index fell to 52.9 in
June from 53.9, the London-based group said in its preliminary
estimate today. A reading above 50 in the purchasing managers’
measure indicates expansion.  Other data today showed more Americans than forecast filed
claims for jobless benefits last week and sales of existing
homes dropped in May.  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure slumped to minus
18.8, also the lowest since August, from minus 1.2 in May. A
gauge of employment improved to 1.8 in June from minus 1.3.  A measure of shipments gauge dropped to minus 16.6, the
lowest since September, from 3.5. The index of the average
workweek plunged to minus 19.1, the weakest in three years, from
minus 5.4 in May.  The Philadelphia Fed’s report also showed inflation ebbed.
The bank’s gauge of prices paid fell to minus 2.8. The measure
of prices received declined to minus 6.9.  Sentiment Index  Individual measures in the index don’t contribute to the
headline reading, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  The region’s manufacturers grew more optimistic about the
future. The index of the outlook for six months from now
improved to 19.5 from 15 in May.  The Philadelphia Fed’s index was in synch with other
regional data. Manufacturing in the  New York  area expanded in
June at the slowest pace in seven months, a report last week
from the New York Fed showed. The bank’s general economic
measure, the so-called Empire State index, dropped to 2.3 from
May’s 17.1.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and New York Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The ISM will release its next
report July 2.  The Federal Open Market Committee announced yesterday that
it would extend its program to replace short-term bonds with
longer-term debt by $267 billion through the end of the year in
an attempt to protect expansion.  The FOMC cited sustained high unemployment and slow growth
in household spending.  The continuation of Operation Twist “should put downward
pressure on longer-term  interest rates  and help to make broader
financial conditions more accommodative,” the FOMC said in a
statement at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  