-- Philippine Peso, Bonds Decline on Slower U.S. Growth Outlook
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-06-21T08:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/philippine-peso-bonds-decline-on-slower-u-s-growth-outlook.html
The Philippine peso dropped by the
most in a month on speculation a worsening outlook for the  U.S.
economy  will hurt the Southeast Asian nation’s exports and
remittances.  Government bonds  declined.  The Federal Reserve cut is 2012 growth forecast to a range
of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, from an April estimate of 2.4
percent to 2.9 percent, at the end of a two-day policy meeting
yesterday. It expanded existing stimulus operations, while
holding off from broader monetary easing that may have spurred
demand for emerging-market assets. The U.S. is the Philippines’
biggest source of remittances and second-largest export market.  “The risk-off sentiment was triggered by concern on slower
U.S. growth and disappointment that the Fed didn’t roll out
further quantitative easing,” said Joric Nazario, treasurer at
Philippine Veterans Bank in  Manila .  The peso fell 0.7 percent, the most since May 18, to close
at 42.423 per dollar in Manila, data from Tullett Prebon Plc
showed. One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-
rate swings used to price options, declined 65 basis points to
5.95 percent.  The yield on the 7.375 percent notes due March 2021 rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.38 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  The central bank will remain watchful of global
developments, particularly in  Europe  and the U.S., and “respond
as appropriate to ensure there is no excessive volatility in
domestic markets,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  wrote in an e-mail
today. Authorities will ensure growth is sustained while
inflation targets are met, he wrote.  Cash sent  home by Filipinos living overseas increased 5.3
percent in April from a year earlier, compared with a 5 percent
gain in March, the central bank reported on June 15. Exports
rose 7.6 percent in April following a 1.2 percent drop, official
data show. Overseas sales and remittances account for more than
30 percent of the $200 billion economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  