-- Philip Morris to Introduce Lower-Risk Cigarettes by 2017
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2012-06-21T13:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/philip-morris-to-introduce-next-generation-cigarette-by-2017.html
Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,
the world’s largest tobacco company, said it plans to sell a new
type of cigarette that poses lower health risks by 2017.  The company is developing three products that would be sold
under existing brands such as Marlboro, and the most advanced is
a cigarette that heats tobacco rather than burning it, Chief
Operating Officer Andre Calantzopoulos said in a  speech  prepared
for a meeting today with investors in Lausanne,  Switzerland .  “We are on the eve of what we all believe could be a
paradigm shift for our industry,” Chief Executive Officer Louis Camilleri said in a  speech . The new products have “the very
real potential to not only be a game-changer, but also be the
key to unlock several hitherto virgin territories, most notably
the huge Chinese market.”  Tobacco companies  have spent decades trying to develop a
safer alternative to smoking, including a 1988 test of Premier,
a heated-tobacco smokeless cigarette that its maker, now called
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , dropped in about a year.  “PMI are far more advanced than I had expected,” said
 Erik Bloomquist , a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank.  ‘Most Promising’  The “most promising” lower-risk products would heat
tobacco or generate aerosol that consumers inhale, New York-
based Philip Morris said. The heated-tobacco device is ready for
clinical testing, and manufacturing of lower-risk cigarettes
would start in three to four years, Calantzopoulos said.  A second product under development would be lit with a
normal lighter, while a third uses a chemical reaction to make
an aerosol that contains nicotine.  “We have to remain, however, alert to the fact that there
may be bumps in the road, given the many complexities of this
undertaking,” Calantzopoulos said.  Philip Morris  said today that it’s cutting its full-year
earnings  forecast  to $5.10 to $5.20 a share, from a prediction
in April of $5.20 to $5.30, because of the strength of the
dollar against other currencies.  Philip Morris fell 1.3 percent to $87.38 at 9:45 a.m. in
 New York . The shares advanced 13 percent this year through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  