-- Polish Rate Setters Wanted Data Before Move, Minutes Show
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-06-21T13:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/polish-rate-setters-wanted-data-before-move-minutes-show-1-.html
Poland ’s central bank left borrowing
costs unchanged in June to see whether last month’s interest-
rate increase is enough to contain inflation amid an economic
slowdown.  Most members of the Monetary Policy Council wanted to wait
for more economic data and new inflation forecasts in July
before deciding whether rates should rise again, according to
the minutes of the June 6 meeting, published today by the
Warsaw-based bank. Some “believed another interest-rate
adjustment may be justified in the coming period, should the
expected economic slowdown prove moderate.”  As central banks from  Turkey  to  Brazil  ease monetary policy
to offset  Europe ’s debt crisis, the Narodowy Bank Polski raised
its benchmark seven-day rate to 4.75 percent in May to combat
inflation, which has topped its target range for 15 months.
Investor confidence in  Germany , Poland’s main trading partner,
fell the most in 14 years in June.  “The minutes show a more divided MPC with less certainty
over the future direction,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-
based economist at Nomura International Plc, said today by e-
mail. “This makes the overall tone more dovish but I wouldn’t
say there are any great surprises -- the key is they agree to
wait and see on the new data and forecasts.”  Zloty, Bonds  The zloty traded at 4.2478 per euro at 3 p.m. in Warsaw,
unchanged from yesterday. The yield on the government’s two-year
bond was also unchanged at 4.7 percent.  Since the rate meeting two weeks ago, data showed inflation
unexpectedly decelerated to 3.6 percent in May, the slowest in
15 months, while industrial-output growth quickened to 4.6
percent from 2.9 percent in April. Poland’s economy will grow
2.7 percent this year, the fastest pace in the European Union,
according to the bloc’s executive arm.  “Some policy members pointed out that the slowdown in
major emerging economies, which are important recipients of
German exports, may translate through trade links between Poland
and Germany into further weakening of Polish exports,” the bank
said in the minutes.  May’s rate increase was the first such move in Poland since
last June and the first in the EU this year. The council will
hold its next rate meeting July 3-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  