-- Portugal Ousts Czech Republic on Ronaldo’s Late Goal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-06-22T08:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/portugal-beats-czech-republic-1-0-in-euro-2012-quarterfinal.html
A late header from Cristiano Ronaldo
lifted Portugal past the  Czech Republic  1-0 and into the
semifinals of the European soccer championship.  Ronaldo’s goal in the 79th minute last night in Warsaw sent
Portugal through to the last four for the third time in the past
four Euro tournaments. It next plays world champion Spain or
 France , who meet tomorrow.  “We don’t mind who we play,” Portugal coach Paulo Bento
said at a news conference. “It was a lot of work to get to the
semifinals, so we’ll try to recover the best we can to get out
on the pitch in the best condition.”  Germany , the bookmakers’ favorite to lift the trophy for a
record-extending fourth time, meets 2004 champion  Greece  in
tonight’s quarterfinal in Gdansk,  Poland . The winner faces
England or Italy, who play in two days.  Portugal had 57 percent of possession last night and a 20-2
shot advantage, 15 of those coming in the second half when the
Czechs hardly challenged. Ronaldo, who had nine shots, finally
beat Czech goalkeeper  Petr Cech  after twice hitting the post at
the National Stadium.  “We had a lot of chances while the Czechs didn’t have a
single one,” Ronaldo, who was jeered by the pro-Czech crowd,
told reporters. “We had great unity on the pitch and that’s why
we’ve reached our goal.”  Slow Start  The game’s opening 25 minutes produced little offensively
with Portugal’s Joao Moutinho having the only shot on target,
which Cech easily caught. Ronaldo was wide with an overhead kick
and sent a free kick past the right post.  Portugal striker Helder Postiga was forced out in the 40th
minute with a hamstring injury and was replaced by  Hugo Almeida .  The Portuguese continued to control play and almost went in
front in stoppage time at the end of the first half. Ronaldo
took  Raul Meireles ’s pass over the defense off his chest, took a
touch, turned and fired a shot off the post.  Almeida headed over the goal from six yards (5.5 meters)
out 20 seconds into the second half. Ronaldo then clipped the
outside of the far post with a free kick and didn’t make full
contact as he shot wide after being played through by Meireles.  Nani forced Cech into a diving save after the Czechs gave
the ball away in their area. Almeida was then ruled to be
offside as he headed Nani’s cross past Cech in the 59th minute.  The Czech Republic made a rare run into the Portugal end a
minute later as winger Vaclav Pilar carried the ball into the
area before having his cross cleared away. Cech tipped
Moutinho’s shot over the bar, Almeida put a header wide and
Michal Kadlec then deflected Nani’s shot out for a corner after
the winger was free in the area.  Ronaldo Scores  Portugal’s persistence paid off with 11 minutes left as
Moutinho sent a cross from the right that Ronaldo headed past
Cech. It was the Real Madrid striker’s third goal of Euro 2012,
tying Germany’s  Mario Gomez ,  Russia ’s Alan Dzagoev and Croatia’s
Mario Madzukic for the tournament lead.  The Czech Republic qualified for the quarterfinals by
becoming the first team to win their group with a negative goal
difference. They were trying to reach the semifinals for the
second time since 2004.  “It was like we were waiting for the opponent to score,”
Czech coach Michal Bilek told reporters. “We knew we really
weren’t on their level of play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 