-- Putin Fails Davos With No Dissent Among CEOs
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y
-- 2012-06-22T15:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/putin-fails-davos-with-no-dissenter-among-ceos-in-st-petersburg.html
Dissent is far from the microphones
as  Vladimir Putin  tries to show the world Russia is still open
for business even as $10 billion flees his nation each month.  As the Russian leader welcomed executives such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Lloyd Blankfein  to the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum in his hometown, none of the
keynote speakers at the annual jamboree of businesspeople and
politicians directly addressed the wave of political protest
that’s gripped the country since December.  That’s hobbling his efforts to turn the event into a
showcase to match the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland. While Putin pledged to tackle corruption and
ease an energy reliance that’s left the budget needing an
average oil price of $117 a barrel to balance, he’s raised fines
for anti-government demonstrators and searched the homes of
protest leaders, shaking confidence in Russia’s stability.  “Putin’s trying to make it into a Davos for Russia,” said
forum attendee  Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at
Moscow-based Verno Capital, which manages $200 million in
Russian equities. “A big part of it is PR. One of the problems
is the negative image of Russia, and there’s a lot of truth to
this negative image.”  In what Nash called “a stamp of approval for Russia,”
Goldman,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Templeton Asset Management Ltd.
signed an agreement with a Kremlin-backed private-equity fund to
invest in Russian companies preparing to sell shares through
initial public offerings.  ‘Right Direction’  Elsewhere, delegates joined Putin in focusing on the
positives.  Russia is “moving in the right direction,” according to
 BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley, who was hounded out
of the country over visa issues in 2008 as his company scrapped
with its local billionaire partners in the TNK-BP venture.  The  St. Petersburg  forum “brings together leaders in the
 energy industry  from all over the world. Even Davos doesn’t
always do that,” he said yesterday in an interview. “It’s
quite extraordinary for me. It’s a great opportunity to talk
with colleagues around global industry.”  Dudley, Total SA Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie and executives from other energy companies including
E.ON AG and GDF Suez SA had to wait as much as four hours
yesterday to start a scheduled meeting with Putin.  Davos Clashes  The lack of dissent in St. Petersburg contrasts with the
often heated exchanges at Davos. In the run-up to the global
financial crisis,  Nouriel Roubini  used Davos as a platform to
challenge the mainstream view as risks built up inside the
financial system. In 2009, Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  stormed out of a debate with Israel’s then-President
 Shimon Peres . And last year  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon
and France’s then-President Nicolas Sarkozy clashed over
financial regulation.  Financial markets signal sentiment toward Russia has
soured. The ruble-denominated Micex index is down 3.9 percent in
2012, the worst performance among the BRICS group of the world’s
biggest  emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, China, India
and  South Africa . The dollar-based RTS has declined 7.1 percent,
while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is little changed for the
year.  The ruble has lost 3.4 percent this year against the
dollar.  Brent crude , the grade that underpins prices for
Russia’s Urals export blend, has tumbled about 16 percent as
Europe’s debt crisis worsened and the U.S. and Chinese economies
slowed. Energy exports account for about half of budget revenue.  Fund Outflows  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for a
ninth week, registering a net outflow of $20 million in the week
ended June 20, according to VTB Group, which cited EPFR Global
data. Russia has endured $340 billion in net private capital
outflows since 2007.  There weren’t more U.S. investors at the forum because
“people are afraid of Russian risk. And in bad times you don’t
look for extra risk,” according to  David Bonderman , a founding
partner from TPG Capital.  Putin, 59, returned to the presidency after four years as
prime minister, effectively swapping jobs with his protégé
 Dmitry Medvedev . Protests at his 12-year rule that began after
disputed parliamentary elections in December haven’t fizzled
out, with at least 18,000 people gathering June 12 to march
through central Moscow.  Protesters Detained  That demonstration was amplified by police searches of
opposition leaders’ homes the previous day. Investigators
summoned protest figureheads including anti-corruption blogger
Alexei Navalny and TV personality Ksenia Sobchak for questioning
the day of the event. Sergei Udaltsov, another of the
organizers, defied the request to address the crowds.  The risks for demonstrators have intensified since Putin’s
re-election. The president signed into law this month a bill
that increases the maximum fine for those attending unsanctioned
protests to 300,000 rubles ($9,037) from 2,000 rubles and to as
much as 600,000 rubles for organizers.  A presidential human rights commission asked Putin to
reject the measure, saying it violates the constitution. Putin
has said the legislation is in line with European practice.  “Anyone who considers himself a politician is obliged to
express his position exclusively within the confines of the
law,” he told the forum yesterday. “The thirst for change is
undoubtedly an engine of progress but it can become
counterproductive and even dangerous if it leads to the
destruction of civil peace and the state itself.”  Rule of Law  During a 45-minute address to delegates after a four-year
hiatus from the St. Petersburg forum, Putin reiterated plans to
bolster the business climate and improve Russia’s graft rating,
the worst among the BRICS nations in Transparency
International’s annual corruption-perceptions survey.  The rule of law was questioned last week after the
independent Novaya Gazeta newspaper alleged Russia’s chief
investigator threatened the life of its deputy editor, Sergei
Sokolov, over an article he wrote.   Alexander Bastrykin , head of
Russia’s Investigative Committee, later admitted having an
“emotional conversation” with the reporter.  Implementing major changes like the ones Putin has proposed
isn’t possible without overhauling how Russia is run, according
to billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who challenged the president
at March’s election.  “The thing about slogans, ideals and intentions is
everything looks very good,” Prokhorov said yesterday in an
interview in St. Petersburg. “But in order to reach them we
need to change our political structure: we need to fight against
monopolies, because we have monopolies not only in gas, but in
politics, public life, everything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in St. Petersburg at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  