-- Putin Pushes International Oil CEOs for Access to Assets
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-06-22T14:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/putin-pushes-international-oil-ceos-for-access-to-assets.html
President  Vladimir Putin  asked the
chief executives of U.S. and European energy producers to grant
Russian companies access to international assets, holding out
some of the world’s biggest untapped resources as a prize.  Putin is hosting the heads of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
ConocoPhillips,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  at the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum, using the three-day event to say
 Russia  is one of the most welcoming countries for energy
investments.  “Far from all countries allow such a broad involvement by
foreign companies in the energy sector,” Putin said in a speech
yesterday, pointing to Mexico and Norway as countries where
state-owned companies dominate the energy industry.  State-controlled OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, has formed alliances with Exxon Mobil Corp., Eni and
Statoil this year that grant access to potentially billions of
barrels of offshore and hard-to-recover resources in exchange
for stakes in projects abroad.  “There is a natural tendency when you have a strong
domestic industry to want to grow it internationally,”  Daniel Yergin , an energy analyst and Pulitzer Prize-winning author of
books chronicling development of the global energy industry,
said in an interview. “Putin wants strong Russian international
majors.”  Shell Expansion  Putin singled out The Hague-based Shell, which has been in
talks with OAO Gazprom about international deals, praising the
company on its joint ventures within Russia and saying he
supports their expansion.  “The government may help with administrative support if
needed,” while discussions about further domestic cooperation
will be held at the corporate level, he said.  Statoil has asked Gazprom to bring Shell in as a partner in
the Shtokman natural-gas project, RIA Novosti reported, citing
an unidentified person familiar with the matter who spoke at the
forum.  Rosneft signed agreements with Eni and Statoil yesterday,
adding to accords reached in April and May. They grant Rosneft
potential access to refining and North African assets held by
the Italian company and Norwegian offshore projects in exchange
for Russian exploration rights.  “Integration is high on the agenda,” Deputy Energy
Minister Pavel Fedorov said in an interview. “It is the only
way to transfer technology, knowledge and capital needed to make
Russia competitive in the long-term.”  Russian Resources  International  oil companies  are seeking ways to access
Russia’s hydrocarbon resources to bolster reserves.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  is interested in unconventional resources and
other opportunities in Russia, while Russian companies stand to
gain knowledge and technology as if they enter projects abroad,
company official David Farthing said in an interview.  Russia’s openness to foreign capital is a reversal from
policies that favored state-owned companies last decade. State-
owned companies were given the exclusive right to develop
offshore deposits in 2008. Shell was forced in 2006 to cede
Gazprom the control of its Sakhalin-2 oil and gas project, amid
threats by regulators to revoke the permits on environmental
grounds.  Russia has also promised tax incentives for offshore and
hard-to-recover resources to spur investment as it seeks to
preserve output at over 10 million barrels a day for the next
decade. The government, which got half of its  tax revenue  from
oil and gas in 2011, is considering further reduction of its
crude export taxes next year, after cutting them last October,
Fedorov said.  “Clearly taxes for upstream are excessive,” Fedorov said.
“People understand the tax system needs to change.”  Big Risks  “The  energy industry  takes very big risks and needs to
work with partners, and that’s not only in Russia but outside of
Russia,” BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said at the
forum.  BP, which owns half of Russia’s third-largest oil producer,
is seeking a buyer for the stake amid tensions with its
billionaire partners in nine-year-old TNK-BP. The venture, the
biggest foreign energy investment in Russia, accounts for about
a quarter of London-based BP’s output.  BP also holds a stake in Rosneft, having bought $1 billion
of shares in that company’s 2006 initial public offering.  Putin touted OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil
producer, as another example of a company with foreign
participation. Lukoil’s billionaire CEO Vagit Alekperov told
Putin the company is 50 percent foreign-owned.  “Putin emphasized reciprocity and, given that technology
flows are so critical in this industry, it could make sense,”
Yergin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in  St. Petersburg  at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in St. Petersburg at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  