-- Quinn Emanuel, Cooley, WilmerHale: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/quinn-emanuel-cooley-wilmerhale-business-of-law.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , owner of the largest
U.S. Web portal, is in talks to resolve a patent-infringement
dispute with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , according to a court filing.  Lawyers for Yahoo asked U.S. District Judge Jeffrey S. White in San Francisco on June 19 for a two-week extension on
deadlines to file replies in the lawsuit while the companies
hold discussions. The lawyers also asked for a two-week delay in
a motion hearing now set for Aug. 10, according to the filing.  “The parties are currently engaged in settlement
negotiations to resolve this dispute,”  Kevin Smith , a Yahoo
lawyer, said in the filing. “The parties believe that a further
extension will facilitate settlement.” Smith is a partner in
the San Francisco office of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan
LLP.  Yahoo sued Facebook in March, alleging that the social-
networking provider infringes patents covering such functions as
Internet privacy, advertising and information sharing. Facebook
countersued in April, accusing Yahoo of infringing 10 of its
patents. Facebook is represented by Cooley LLP and Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP.  Scott Thompson , who was Yahoo’s chief executive officer at
the time, has since resigned after failing to correct
misstatements in his academic record.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment on the proposed delay. Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook ,
also declined to comment.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Lawyer Investigating Chesapeake CEO’s Loans Stays Under Radar  The lawyer  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s  audit committee  hired
to investigate possible conflicts of interest in its chief
executive officer’s loans has a record of managing probes with
minimum publicity about himself or his client.  Craig Weinstock, a Houston-based attorney with Locke Lord
LLP has handled more than a dozen internal investigations of
alleged corporate malfeasance since 2002, including one for a
company run by Chesapeake’s lead director Merrill A. “Pete” Miller Jr., a member of the audit committee, a person familiar
with Weinstock’s work said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began an
investigation after the company disclosed more than $800 million
in loans made to its chief executive, with some involving
company financiers. Weinstock tends to resolve such matters with
little fanfare, keeping his own role a secret in most cases,
according to a rival Houston lawyer.  “He said his reports are submitted to the government or
the board, and no one hears of it,” said  Lance Lubel , a
Houston-based plaintiffs’ lawyer who has litigated cases against
Weinstock.  Weinstock, 54, has handled internal reviews for other oil
and gas companies, such as  Nabors Industries (NBR)  Ltd., according to
Lubel. He had investigated allegations that the oil-drilling
company may have backdated  stock options  for executives,
according to the person familiar with Weinstock’s work.  The SEC announced in May 2007 that it had ended its review
of Nabors’s stock-option practices without penalizing the
company, according to a regulatory filing.  Laura Doerre , a
spokeswoman for the Hamilton, Bermuda-based energy company,
declined to comment on Weinstock’s work.  Chesapeake announced in May that the audit committee had
hired outside counsel to probe loans made to Chief Executive
Officer  Aubrey McClendon , the natural-gas company’s founder.
Reuters had reported that he’d borrowed as much as $1.1 billion
over several years against his personal stakes in company wells,
including from a firm that does business with Chesapeake.
McClendon said in April that as of Dec. 31 he had $846 million
in outstanding loans tied to the company’s well-participation
program.  For more, click here.  Deals  Latham, Willkie, Davis Polk, Cadwalader, Corroon on Quest Deal  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a maker of tools to help companies
manage computer systems, accepted a sweetened $25.75-a-share bid
from Insight Venture Partners and agreed to the addition of
Vector Capital to the buyout group.  Insight’s new cash offer of about $2.17 billion topped a
per-share bid of $25.50 that Quest received last week. That
offer came from personal-computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL) , a person
familiar with the matter said June 19. The deal’s termination
fee was increased to $25 million from $6.3 million,  Aliso Viejo ,
California-based Quest said in a statement.  Latham & Watkins LLP is representing Quest. From Latham are
partners Charles Ruck, Michael Treska and Scott Shean in the
firm’s Orange County office, Glen Collyer, Pardis Zomorodi and
Jason Silvera in Los Angeles, Michael Egge in  Washington , Brad
Williamson in  New York , and Anthony Klein in Silicon Valley.  Partner Gordon Caplan of Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP
represents Insight. Partners Martin Wellington and Jinsoo Kim of
 Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP represents Vector Capital.  Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP represents Vincent Smith,
Quest’s chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who recused
himself from the vote. Smith is represented by Cadwalader
partners R. Ronald Hopkinson, Linda Swartz and William Mills.  Partners Mark Morton and T. Brad Davey of Potter Anderson
Corroon LLP are representing the special committee to the board
of directors.  Quest said on March 9 it agreed to be acquired by Insight
for $23 a share, and two months later said it received several
other proposals that it anticipated would lead to a superior
offer. Smith prefers a sale to Insight over Dell because it
would allow him to keep running the company, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the negotiations are private.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  Appeals  Taylor Bean’s Lee Farkas Loses Bid to Overturn Convictions  Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.’s former chairman,
Lee Farkas, lost a bid to overturn his fraud convictions for
orchestrating a $3 billion bank-looting scheme prosecutors
called among the biggest recorded in the U.S.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond,  Virginia  yesterday
found nothing in Farkas’s trial that would warrant reversing the
convictions, rejecting arguments he was deprived of a fair
trial.  “Having carefully considered Farkas’s contentions in light
of the record presented to us, we discern no reversible error,”
Circuit Judge Andre Davis wrote for the three-judge panel.  Davis said that the federal court was correct in allowing
the trial to take place in the Eastern District of Virginia, in
appointing a lawyer to defend Farkas, in limiting cross
examination of a witness and in giving instructions to the jury
about the meaning of “beyond a reasonable doubt,” among other
challenges raised by Farkas in his appeal.  Prosecutors presented evidence at trial that “amply
justified” his jury conviction, Davis wrote.  Farkas was found guilty of bank, wire and securities fraud
in April 2011 and sentenced to 30 years in prison in June of
that year.  Prosecutors said the scheme was one of the U.S.’s largest
and longest-running bank frauds, which duped some of the
country’s biggest financial institutions, targeted the federal
bank bailout program and contributed to the failures of Taylor
Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  David Coorssen, the Louisville, Kentucky lawyer who
represents Farkas, said in a telephone interview “We aren’t
surprised by the ruling but obviously are very disappointed for
Lee.” He said hadn’t yet been able to discuss with his client
whether to request a review by the  Supreme Court  or to file a
claim for “insufficient assistance of counsel” during the
trial.  Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer of the  Justice
Department ’s Criminal Division said the decision “confirms that
justice was done in this case,” in an e-mailed statement.  The district court case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).
The appellate case is U.S. v. Farkas, 11-4714, 4th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Richmond).  Law Firm Moves  Hogan Lovells Adds IBM Chief Privacy Officer as Partner  Harriet P. Pearson will join the privacy and information
management practice of  Hogan Lovells  LLP on Aug. 1.  Pearson joins Hogan Lovells from IBM, where she serves as
vice president, security counsel and chief privacy officer.
Pearson will counsel clients on privacy and information security
policy and compliance as well as cross-border data transfers,
data security incident response and remediation, and information
and cyber security risk management and governance, among other
matters.  According to a statement, Pearson was responsible for
information policy and practices affecting over 400,000
employees and thousands of clients at IBM. She led global teams
of legal, data protection, and technical professionals at IBM
providing legal, policy and compliance services to internal
clients.  Pearson currently serves on the advisory boards of the
Electronic Privacy Information Center and the Future of Privacy
Forum.  Haynes & Boone Adds Partners in its Real Estate Practice  Two real attorneys have joined Haynes & Boone LLP from
Bryan Cave LLP.  Bradford Lavender and Steven Monteforte have become
partners in the firm’s New York office. Lavender represents
publicly traded REITs, private equity firms and closely held
real estate companies.  Monteforte specializes in the representation of large,
institutional tenants in all aspects of their corporate facility
needs in New York City and throughout the country, including
commercial lease transactions and national and worldwide
brokerage and facility management agreements.  Haynes & Boone has more than 525 attorneys with offices in
 Texas , New York,  California , Washington, Mexico City and Moscow.  Litigators Mesher, Zeringer Join Sedgwick Firm in Seattle Office  Barry Mesher and Brian Zeringer have become partners in the
Seattle office of Sedgwick LLP. The two, who previously
practiced at Lane Powell PC, are working in the complex-
litigation division of the firm.  Mesher focuses his practice on toxic, mass and municipal
torts; premises liability; insurance coverage; product
liability; professional liability; and labor and employment law.  Zeringer is a litigator with experience handling
commercial, real estate and product-liability litigation. For
the last 15 years, his practice has focused on toxic-tort
litigation, particularly asbestos personal-injury cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 