-- Trafigura Books Supertanker to Ship Forties Crude to Asia
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-06-21T12:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/trafigura-books-supertanker-to-ship-forties-crude-to-asia.html
Trafigura Beheer BV booked a very
large crude carrier to haul Forties oil to  Asia , raising the
number of supertankers involved in the trade to at least 16
since mid-December, according to shipbroker reports.  Trafigura chartered the Fida to load 270,000 metric tons of
crude at Hound Point in the U.K., the loading terminal of the
 North Sea  Forties blend, on July 15 at a cost of $3.7 million to
$4.9 million, according to reports from Athens-based Optima
Shipbrokers Ltd. and Norwegian shipbroker PF Bassoe AS today.
Vessel charters are sometimes not concluded. The VLCC has been
booked to unload in  Singapore  or South Korea, the reports show.  The unprecedented crude flow is taking place after South
Korea and the European Union signed a free-trade agreement in
July 2011. The accord exempted the nation’s refineries from a 3
percent tax on crude imports from the EU. More than half of the
North Sea oil shipped to  South Korea  is Forties blend, a grade
used to set Dated Brent, the benchmark for more than half of the
world’s crude, according to the table of ships chartered.  The Fida is owned by the Oman Shipping Company S.A.O.C. A
phone call and two e-mails sent during out-of-office hours to
the company prompted no reply. Each VLCC typically holds 2
million barrels of oil.  Trafigura didn’t respond to two e-mails sent to its offices
in Geneva today.  Forties traded at a 38 cent-a-barrel premium to Dated
Brent, a two-month high, as of June 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The blend was at a 55-cent discount to
the benchmark today.  Details of VLCC fixtures from the North Sea to Asia since
December are as follows. Freight amounts are in millions of
dollars.  Scotland ’s Hound Point is the loading terminal for
Forties, and Mongstad is where ships take on cargoes of the
Norwegian Troll and Heidrun grades. The data are based on oil-
tanker reports and ship-tracking data from  IHS Inc. (IHS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  