-- Rajoy’s Blown Credibility Puts Spain at Risk of Bailout
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-22T10:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rajoy-s-blown-credibility-puts-spain-at-risk-of-sovereign-rescue.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
has spent much of the political capital he won seven months ago
in the biggest landslide in 30 years, floundering against a
crisis that risks making Spain the first $1 trillion economy to
need a sovereign bailout, investors and analysts say.  Rajoy, singled out by leaders at the Group of 20 summit,
has been taunted by opposition lawmakers and commentators as
borrowing costs soared to a euro-era record even after Spain’s
banks received a 100 billion-euro ($127 billion) lifeline. Rajoy
called the rescue a victory that solved lenders’ problems.  “He clearly doesn’t get it,” said  Gary Jenkins , founder
of Swordfish Research Ltd. near  London , who has tracked bond
markets for more than 15 years. “Spain needs someone who can
come in and grasp the seriousness of the situation and react to
that, not just pretend everything’s okay.”  Spain may be able to stave off a full bailout for as much
as 12 months as domestic banks support treasury bond auctions,
according to  Fidelity Investments ’s Jamie Stuttard. Alessandro Giansanti at ING Bank NV said it may come by September.  “The next three months will be the path to the bailout,”
Giansanti, an Amsterdam-based interest-rate analyst, said in a
telephone interview on June 19.  Next Target  The yield on Spanish 10-year debt was little changed basis
points to 6.61 percent at 12 p.m. today in  Madrid , pushing the
 risk premium  over German bunds to 507 basis points.  Italy ’s
benchmark yield rose 6 basis points to 5.81 percent.  The Spanish-bank bailout made Italy the next potential
investor target. Together, they could overwhelm the sums
committed to safeguard the 17-nation currency bloc. Southern
 Europe ’s two major economies have 2.8 trillion euros of
government debt, four times the total of  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland.  “A rescue for Italy is pretty much impossible without a
major change in German borrowing costs, a major change in
overall euro-zone levels of inflation, a major change in the
level of the euro, or a major change in the structure of the
euro zone,” Stuttard, Fidelity’s head of international bond
portfolio management in London, said in a telephone interview on
June 19.  Bank Needs  Rajoy, 57, who was told by Germany’s  Angela Merkel  at the
G-20 in  Mexico  June 19 to spell out the depth of his banks’
needs “as soon as possible,” will be under scrutiny today when
he faces Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  at a
meeting in  Rome  hosted by Italy’s  Mario Monti .  The contrast between the unelected Monti, praised by global
counterparts for his bid to bring order to Italy’s finances, and
Rajoy, who came to power just weeks later, is underscored in the
bond markets.  When Rajoy took office in December, Italy’s 10-year yields
were surging above 7 percent and comparable Spanish debt traded
as much as 200 basis points lower. Now, Spain’s 10-year notes
yield 81 basis points more than Italy’s.  The International Monetary Fund June 8 urged Spain that
devising an “effective communication” strategy is “critical”
for financial stability.  “The Spanish problem was entirely avoidable,” said  Thomas Mayer , a Frankfurt-based economic adviser to Deutsche Bank AG.
“This has been created by miscommunication.”  Policy Reversals  The run-up to the bank bailout was marked by policy
reversals and self-contradictions by Rajoy, who lost two general
elections in Spain before ousting the governing Socialist Party
in November.  Rajoy called for the euro region’s rescue fund to
recapitalize distressed lenders on May 28, even as he argued
that Spanish lenders won’t need external support. On June 2, he
called on euro members to give up sovereignty over their budgets
to cement a fiscal union, reversing his stance from three months
earlier. That’s when he said budgets were a sovereign matter as
he defied deficit commitments to the European Union.  The following week, he left it to Economy Minister Luis de Guindos to explain the bank rescue. Eighteen hours later, with
Spaniards posting criticism on Twitter with the hashtag
#RajoyCobarde -- Rajoy, coward -- and El Pais newspaper accusing
him of hiding, the premier spoke to the press.  Rescue Winners  “Yesterday, the credibility of the euro won, yesterday the
future won,” he said on June 10. “Yesterday, the European
Union won.”  Then, he announced that since the banks’ funding problems
were resolved he would continue with his plans to watch the
national soccer team play that night and climbed aboard his
government jet to fly to the Polish city of Gdansk.  “People were astonished that he was going off to  Poland ,”
Jonathan Tepper, a partner at London-based investment research
firm Variant Perception, said in a telephone interview. “Things
like that make him look completely incompetent.”  A spokeswoman for Rajoy who asked not to be named said the
premier wanted to be clear the June 9 agreement was not a
bailout for the sovereign and he wasn’t denying reality.  Spain 
has not been dragging its feet over the aid request since the
official position has been that they would wait for yesterday’s
stress-test results to decide how much capital would be required,
she added.  Yield Surge  Spanish 10-year government bond yields rose as much as 76
basis points in the week that followed, the biggest weekly gain
since 1997 and commentators and rival politicians mocked Rajoy
for refusing to acknowledge that the loan deal was a bailout.  “Say it with me, it’s - a - res - cue,” Rosa Diez, leader
of a minority group, taunted the prime minister in parliament.
“Nothing bad’s going to happen if you say it.”  Rajoy’s budget cutting faces virtually no reduction in the
350-member parliament, where his  People’s Party  has 185 seats.  Still, his standing with the public has taken a beating. A
poll conducted for  El Mundo  by Sigma Dos between June 12 and
June 14 showed Rajoy’s disapproval rating doubled to 43 percent
from January.  In Mexico, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said it
wasn’t all Rajoy’s fault, criticizing Europe’s leaders for
fumbling the bailout.  “To have that being a negative story is amazing” given
the amount of money pledged, Zoellick told a June 17 panel
discussion at the meeting in the Mexican resort of Los Cabos.
“The execution was extremely poor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  