-- Rand Snaps Seven-Day Winning Streak as Current Account Gap Grows
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-21T14:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rand-snaps-seven-day-winning-streak-on-global-growth-concerns.html
The rand weakened, snapping a seven-
day winning streak, and yields rose after  South Africa  posted
its biggest current-account deficit in three years in the first
quarter as demand slumped for the nation’s exports.  South Africa’s currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 8.2710
per dollar as of 3:54 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the
nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.42 percent.  The current account shortfall, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, widened to 4.9 percent of gross
domestic product from 3.6 percent in the previous three months,
the South African Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin.
The median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a shortfall of 4.5 percent.  “It is a concern, and it will in due course have a rand
impact,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research
at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “It
has put a floor on rand appreciation for now.”  The rand gained 5.4 percent against the dollar in the first
quarter, the second-best performer of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. That’s hurt export earnings at the same
time that a debt crisis in  Europe  curbed demand from a region
that buys about a third of South African manufactured goods. The
rand has plunged 7 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of April.  The rand also weakened today as stocks and commodity prices
fell after the U.S. Federal Reserve cut growth estimates and a
report showed  China ’s manufacturing may shrink for an eighth
month.  China PMI  Fed officials cut their estimate for economic growth in
2012 to between 1.9 percent and 2.4 percent, and extended
stimulus known as Operation Twist. A preliminary reading of a
purchasing managers’ index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics shows China’s PMI may shrink in June, matching the
streak of contractions during the global financial crisis.  “Risk appetite seems to have softened” after the Fed
statement “disappointed”, Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “This has been compounded by a further decline in the
HSBC China PMI.”  Emerging-market stocks declined, with the benchmark  index 
falling for the first time in five days. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of raw materials dropped for a second day as the
prices of metals including copper and nickel fell. Metals and
other commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  