-- RBC Downgraded 2 Levels by Moody’s in Review of 17 Firms
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-21T22:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rbc-downgraded-2-levels-by-moody-s-in-review-of-17-firms.html
Royal Bank of Canada ’s  credit rating 
was cut two steps to Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service because of
the lender’s “significant exposure” to volatile capital
markets activities. This is the second downgrade to Royal Bank’s
long-term credit rating by Moody’s in 18 months.  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s largest lender by assets, was
downgraded from Aa1, Moody’s second-highest level, as part of a
review of 17 firms with global capital markets operations. The
downgrade puts Royal Bank’s credit rating by Moody’s lower than
Canada’s other big banks.  “All of the banks affected by today’s actions have
significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to capital markets activities,” Greg Bauer,
Moody’s Global Banking managing director, said in a statement.  “RBC remains one of the strongest and highest-rated banks
in the world in terms of our credit ratings, capital base and
balance sheet,” Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman for Royal Bank,
said in an interview. “We expect minimal impact on our business
and no impact on our clients.”  Moody’s said Feb. 15 it may cut Royal Bank’s credit rating
as much as two levels, as part of its review of firms including
Bank of America Corp.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Moody’s said it put the ratings of the
firms under review because the companies “face challenges that
are not fully captured in their current rankings.”  Other Downgrades?  “Royal is the most international of all of Canada’s
capital markets banks, they’ve got the biggest platform in
 Europe ,  New York  and London, and that could explain Royal being
rated lower than all its peers,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst
with National Bank Financial, said in an interview. “It raises
the question as to whether the other Canadian banks might suffer
downgrades as well.”  Moody’s put Royal Bank’s long-term credit rating under
review simply because it’s deemed to have significant global
capital markets activities, and the review is not due to
specific performance or risk concerns,  Gordon Nixon , Royal
Bank’s chief executive officer, said March 1 during the
company’s annual meeting.  “The downgrade doesn’t affect their funding costs, but it
does leave them as the lowest-rated Canadian bank” by Moody’s,
Routledge said. “That’s a minor reputation hit.”  Moody’s downgraded Royal Bank’s credit rating to Aa1 from
Aaa, the highest level, in December 2010 because of the lender’s
increased focus on investment banking and trading. At the time,
it was the first downgrade by Moody’s in at least 15 years.
Moody’s last upgraded Royal Bank’s rating in March 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  