-- Treasuries Gain as Signs of Global Slowing Boost Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-21T21:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/treasuries-gain-before-spain-auction-on-contagion-concern.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in three days amid signs Europe’s deepening debt crisis is
weighing on growth in the world’s largest economies, burnishing
the allure of U.S. government securities’ relative safety.  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped the  most  this week as
Philadelphia-area manufacturing unexpectedly slid, more
Americans sought jobless benefits and  China ’s manufacturing
probably shrank for an eighth month. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded 15 global banks. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday policy makers are prepared to consider additional
steps to aid the economy.  “The economy and Europe are still very fragile, and as
such we can go lower in Treasury yields,” said  James Camp ,
managing director of fixed income in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , at
Eagle Asset Management Inc., which oversees $21.5 billion. “The
fundamentals do not augur for dramatic rate increases for the
next few years. We are seeing a recasting of expectations for
capital markets.”  Ten-year yields fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.62 percent as of 5:48 p.m. New York time, Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices showed. Yields slid as much as six basis
points in the biggest intraday drop since June 15. They
increased more than eight basis points over the past two days.
The 1.75 percent securities due in May 2022 rose 3/8, or $3.75
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 7/32.  Long Bonds  Yields on  30-year bonds  tumbled five basis points to 2.69
percent. They reached a record low 2.51 percent on June 1.  Trading  volume  shrank. About $269 billion of Treasuries
changed hands through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer
broker, down 15 percent from yesterday’s $317 billion. The
average volume over the past year is $255 billion.  Stocks fell as investor appetite ebbed, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropping 2.2 percent.  Treasuries returned 3 percent from the end of March to
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury
Master index, amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis was worsening
and U.S. growth was slowing. The  S&P 500  lost 4.1 percent.  Bonds extended gains today after the Fed Bank of
Philadelphia’s  general economic index  fell to negative 16.6 in
June from minus 5.8 the previous month. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast the gauge would improve to zero,
the dividing line between growth and contraction.  Initial  jobless claims  totaled 387,000 in the week ended
June 16, Labor Department figures showed. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey called for 383,000. The four-week average, a
less volatile measure, climbed to the highest of the year.  “There’s no sign of positive momentum in the labor
market,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in  New
York  at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the U.S. central bank.  Forecasts Lowered  The Fed cut its estimate yesterday for economic growth in
2012 to between 1.9 percent and 2.4 percent, from April
forecasts of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent. It lowered its
inflation forecast to 1.2 percent to 1.7 percent this year, down
from an April prediction of 1.9 percent to 2 percent.  Policy makers extended through year-end their Operation
Twist program of selling shorter-term securities and buying the
same amount of longer-term debt to lower borrowing costs. The
$400 billion program was scheduled to end in June. The Fed
expanded it by $267 billion.  The central bank bought $4.78 billion of Treasuries today
due from June 2018 to August 2019 as part of the program.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and TIPS,
which represents traders’ expectations for the rate of inflation
over the life of the bonds, narrowed to 2.07 percentage points.
It touched a 2012 low of 1.9 percentage points on Jan. 3 and a
high of 2.45 percentage points on March 20. The five-year
average is 2.02 percentage points.  Moody’s Downgrades  Treasuries remained higher as Moody’s cut credit ratings of
Credit Suisse Group AG three levels, and Morgan Stanley and UBS
AG two steps. It also downgraded 13 other banks, including Bank
of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “All of the banks affected by today’s actions have
significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to  capital-markets  activities” Moody’s Global
Banking Managing Director Greg Bauer said today in a statement.  Spain’s banks would need as much as 62 billion euros ($78
billion) in capital to withstand a worst-case economic scenario,
according to two consulting firms hired by the government to
conduct stress tests on the lenders, Roland Berger Strategy
Consultants and Oliver Wyman Ltd.  China Manufacturing  Treasuries gained earlier after a purchasing managers’
index for China’s manufacturing showed a preliminary reading of
48.1 this month, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said
today, below the 50 level that indicates expansion. That signals
an eighth month of contraction, which would match the streak
during the global financial crisis in 2008.  Euro-area  manufacturing  output shrank at the fastest pace
in three years in June. A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-
nation region fell to 44.8 from 45.1 in May, London-based Markit
Economics said today in an initial estimate. That’s the lowest
in 36 months.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Berlin yesterday
allowing direct sovereign-debt purchases through the euro-area
bailout fund “is not up for debate” at present. French
President  Francois Hollande  has championed the idea of using
rescue facilities to purchase countries’ bonds as a way to help
ease Europe’s debt turmoil.  Worse Coming  “The question is, will the economic picture get worse?”
said Tom Tucci, managing director and head of Treasury trading
in New York at CIBC World Markets Corp. “You are going to start
to see worse economic data. The reality of it is we are at a
lower interest-rate level for longer.”  The Treasury said it will auction $99 billion of notes next
week: $35 billion of two-year debt on June 26, the same amount
of five-year securities the next day and $29 billion of seven-
year notes on June 28.  The U.S. sold $7 billion today of 30-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities at a record low offering yield of
0.52 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.64, versus an
average 2.72 at the past six auctions. Indirect bidders, an
investor category that includes foreign central banks, bought
34.3 percent of the securities, compared with an average of 40.6
at the past six sales. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer
investors that place their bids directly with the Treasury,
purchased 28.1 percent, versus an average 17.4 percent.  “Demand continues for the asset class even in this
uncertain risk-off environment,” said Michael Pond, co-head of
interest-rate strategy in New York at the primary dealer
Barclays Plc. “Investors are worried about tail risks of
inflation. They are worried about what monetary policy could do
down the road, and they are so far convinced that the Fed won’t
allow deflation to occur.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  