-- Republican Ire Over Obama Immigrant Rule Hardens Divide
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-21T19:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/republican-ire-over-obama-immigrant-rule-hardens-divide.html
Republicans say President  Barack Obama  should have waited for Congress to overhaul immigration
laws instead of bypassing lawmakers with a directive to halt the
deportations of some young people brought to the U.S. illegally
by their parents.  History suggests he would have had to wait a long time. For
a decade, since then-President  George W. Bush  failed to win
support for what he called a balanced approach, lawmakers have
been unable to advance immigration legislation. Republicans in
particular have been divided between those who emphasize border
security and the deportation of illegal immigrants and those who
favor a path to citizenship for some.  Congress also hasn’t been able to peel off smaller pieces
of the debate, such as skilled-worker visas sought by the U.S.
technology industry.  “There is a significant gridlock, and I tell you some of
the sincerest members of Congress truly do not know what would
be the best approach,” Representative Trent Franks, an  Arizona 
Republican, said in an interview. “We truly can’t. The absolute
polarization on the issue makes it almost impossible for even
the sincerest ones to even reconcile all of it.”  Obama’s June 15 directive affects about 800,000
undocumented immigrants 30 and younger who were brought to the
U.S. before age 16, have been in the country for at least five
years, have no criminal record and are in school or have a high-
school diploma or the equivalent. That’s a slice of the 11.5
million people that the U.S. government  estimates  are in the
country illegally.  Rightward Shift  As with other policy issues, including health care and
 climate change , the  Republican Party  has moved far to the right
since Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah in 2001 proposed the Dream
Act. That measure would provide a path to legal status for
younger illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children.
Eleven years later, Obama’s directive seeks to create that path
without a vote by Congress.  Lawmakers “can’t get together to solve simpler issues,”
said Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a
Washington-based nonprofit group that backs an overhaul of
immigration laws. “They’ve totally forgotten how to make deals.
The wings of both parties are very strong right now. That makes
it harder for both of them to come to the center.”  Dream Act  The Dream Act fell out of favor in the past two years with
Republican conservatives, many backed by the  Tea Party . Hatch,
who faces a tough re-election contest this year, avoided voting
on the legislation in late 2010, when Republicans and a few
Democrats killed the measure in the Senate. The House, then
controlled by Democrats, had passed the bill earlier with eight
Republican votes.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican  who voted
against the Dream Act in 2010, told reporters on June 19 that
Obama’s decision is “going to make it much more difficult for
us to work in a bipartisan way to get a permanent solution.”  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney told Latino
public officials today that Obama has failed to show leadership
on immigration issues, while offering few details on his plan
other than pledging “my own long-term solution that will
replace” the temporary measure issued by Obama.  “Last week, the president finally offered a temporary
measure -- he called it a stopgap measure -- that he seems to
think will be just enough to get him through the election,”
Romney said today to the  National Association of Latino Elected
and Appointed Officials at Disney’s Contemporary Resort in Lake
Buena Vista, Florida.  Romney Speech  Romney said today, as he has before, that he favored giving
permanent residency to foreign students who obtain advanced
degrees in math, science or engineering at U.S. universities,
saying they should have green cards stapled to their diplomas.
Romney also repeated some previous statements of support for
providing a path to legal status for illegal immigrants who
serve in the military.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
Romney should work to cast immigration as an economic issue and
pledge to “deal with it in a complete way.”  “We’re the only industrialized nation in the world that
doesn’t have a rational immigration policy,” said Graham, who
worked on the unsuccessful 2006-2007 overhaul effort,
“President Obama has really shown an appalling lack of
leadership. So there’s an opportunity here.”  Opinion Polls  Obama’s directive has focused attention on the immigration
issue in the presidential campaign. A Bloomberg News poll
released June 19 showed that 64 percent of likely voters
surveyed after Obama’s announcement said they agreed with the
policy, while 30 percent disagreed. Independent voters backed
the decision by a better than a 2-to-1 ratio.  The last “good year” an overhaul could have happened was
2007, said Muzaffar Chishti, the director of the Migration
Policy Institute’s office at the  New York  University School of
Law. In June of that year, a bipartisan immigration effort led
by Senators  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, and  Ted Kennedy ,
a Massachusetts Democrat, collapsed, and Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  pulled the measure from the floor.  This work ended up complicating McCain’s presidential
campaign in 2008 because of opposition from conservatives, such
as Representative Steve King of Iowa, who were concerned about
border security and illegal immigrants.  Now, King said he may sue over Obama’s immigration
directive. “One side wants amnesty and the other side wants the
rule of law,” he said in an interview. “I am for the rule of
law. If you grant amnesty, it undermines the rule of law and
then who would respect it again.”  ‘Terrible Mistake’  Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, called Obama’s
decision “a terrible mistake” that further polarizes
lawmakers.  “It just poisons the well for immigration,” Cornyn told
reporters. “It makes fixing our broken immigration system,
which I think should be a national priority, that much harder to
do.”  After Obama’s announcement, Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida
Republican, said he is dropping plans to introduce legislation
that could grant work visas to some young people brought to the
U.S. illegally. Rubio, who has been mentioned as a possible
Romney running mate, was working behind the scenes in the Senate
to gain support for his provision and hadn’t introduced
legislation.  The Senate’s only Hispanic Republican, Rubio today
criticized Obama’s administration for not reaching out to him
before announcing the directive, saying that not consulting
Republicans showed Obama had no interest in a bipartisan plan.  ‘Bipartisan Solution’  “If you’re really interested in a bipartisan solution and
you read in the newspaper that there’s a Republican senator
working on an idea, don’t you reach out to them and say, ‘Hey,
how does your idea work? I’m just curious.’ That never
happened,” Rubio told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor.  As technology companies have lobbied to increase the number
of skilled-worker visas, lawmakers have fended off efforts to
separate visa expansion efforts from a broader immigration
overhaul. Disparate efforts, such as the visas and the Dream
Act, have been delayed as lawmakers seek a bargain on
immigration that has eluded Bush, Obama and the Congress when it
was controlled by Republicans and then by Democrats.  “That was the wisdom that prevailed from 2005 until
today,” Jacoby said. “Even pro-business Republicans held tough
to that line to not break it up and get a big deal.” The
prevailing philosophy, she said, is “We can’t fix the roof
until we buy a whole new house.”  Silicon Valley  Among the groups advocating for expanding skilled-worker
visas, known as  H-1B visas , is the  Silicon Valley Leadership
Group , whose members include Microsoft Corp.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel
Corp . and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   Emily Lam, the group’s federal issues director, said
persuading Congress to increase the number of such visas has
been difficult because a faction of lawmakers hasn’t wanted to
address the issue without finding a way to assist low-skilled
workers.  Obama’s announcement prompted an outburst of “animosity”
among people who wrongly think that expanding visas for highly
skilled workers will increase competition for jobs, Lam said.
Even so, she said that by raising the issue, Obama may have
created some “windows of opportunity” for advocates of
expanding H-1B visas.  “As an advocate, I’d still think it’s better to have
people angry and talking about it than not talking about it at
all,” she said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  