-- Republicans’ Voter Suppression Project Grinds On
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-06-21T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/republicans-voter-suppression-project-grinds-on.html
Mitt Romney  was in Michigan this
week trying to make it competitive in the presidential election.
It’s a steep climb for the native Michigander because President
 Barack Obama ’s auto bailout, which Romney opposed, has helped
bring the  state’s unemployment rate  down by 5.7 points since
2009.  But Romney has a strong ally there: legislation being
pushed this month by his fellow Republicans aimed at preventing
the nonpartisan League of Women Voters from undertaking the
voter-registration drives it has sponsored for nearly a century.  Across the country, the Republicans’ carefully orchestrated
plan to make voting harder -- let’s call it the Voter
Suppression Project -- may keep just enough young people and
minorities from the polls that Republicans will soon be in
charge of all three branches of the federal government.  Yes, both sides try to change voting laws to favor their
team. The 1993 “motor voter” law that made voting more
convenient by extending registration to the Department of Motor
Vehicles helped mostly Democrats. That was at least in the long
American tradition of expanding the franchise.  The Republican effort to restrict voting isn’t just anti-
Democrat, it’s anti-democratic. No fair-minded person believes
the tall tales of voters pretending they were someone else,
which have been  debunked  by the Brennan Center for Justice and
others. What fool would risk prison or deportation to cast a
single vote?  Rigging System  This isn’t about stopping vote-stealing and other
corruption, for which there are already plenty of laws on the
books. It’s about rigging the system to keep power.  First we saw the efforts during the George W. Bush
administration by  Karl Rove  and Justice Department officials to
get rid of U.S. attorneys who refused to pursue bogus voter-
fraud cases. When Republican prosecutors complained, Rove and
company ran for cover.  Then came Crawford v. Marion County, the 2008 case in which
the U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled that mandatory photo-identification
laws were constitutional on the basis of ballot protection. The
evidence presented included not a single case of in-person
impersonation fraud -- the only fraud that photo ID laws can
prevent. And the millions of Americans -- mostly less-affluent
seniors -- without driver’s licenses? Good luck.  The big Republican victory in the 2010 election was
essential to the Voter Suppression Project. With the help of
ALEC -- a conservative lobbying outfit that spreads cookie-
cutter bills to state legislatures -- Republicans moved with
lightning speed to implement their scheme. Since 2011, 18 states
have  enacted  voter-suppression bills, with similar ones pending
in 12 more.  In the presidential race, it’s hand-to-hand legal combat,
with almost every battleground state embroiled in a struggle
over voter eligibility.  Michigan ’s bills attack the League of Women Voters by
 requiring  some volunteers to attend state-approved training
sessions before they can register voters. The catch is that the
bill makes no provisions for such sessions. Ha! It does threaten
them with penalties for registration offenses that aren’t
specified.  The bill is modeled on  Florida ’s, parts of which a federal
judge invalidated May 31 because he said they had “no purpose
other than to discourage” constitutionally protected activity.  Witch’s Broomstick  In  Ohio , the Obama campaign helped collect enough
signatures to put a referendum on the ballot repealing
restrictions on absentee voting. Preferring not to face the
voters directly on voter suppression, the Republican-controlled
legislature repealed its own law, although it left intact a
related measure that prohibits early voting on the three days
before an election. That’s designed to discourage the tradition
in black communities of busing worshippers from church to the
polling place.  Several battleground states have new photo-ID requirements.
 Pennsylvania ’s law allows valid student ID, but with a number of
restrictions. Same in  Wisconsin , which  attached  a series of
bring-me-the-witch’s-broomstick demands for students looking to
use a school ID. Fortunately, a state judge ruled against the
Wisconsin law, although it’s being appealed.  Virginia’s legislation allows multiple forms of photo ID
but  restricts  registering for an absentee ballot in person. A
New Hampshire bill that  required  those without photo ID to fill
out an onerous affidavit was thankfully just  vetoed  by Governor
 John Lynch .  The Obama campaign is obviously concerned about these
ballot-access issues for political reasons. But even those with
no dog in this fight should recognize that a great democracy
doesn’t sully itself by suppressing the precious right to vote.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to end  fossil-fuel
subsidies  and on what a  shock-and-awe solution  to  Europe ’s
crisis would look like; Stephen L. Carter on the  Supreme Court’s
legitimacy ; William Pesek on  Japan’s debt and nuclear power
plants ;  Jonathan Weil  on  JPMorgan gains  that offset its trading
loss; Carl Pope on bringing  clean energy innovation  to the
global poor; Christopher Swift on  defeating al-Qaeda in Yemen .  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 