-- RG Steel Wins Approval of Asset Auction, Bankruptcy Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-06-21T21:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rg-steel-wins-approval-of-asset-auction-bankruptcy-loan.html
RG Steel LLC, the fourth-biggest
U.S. maker of flat-rolled steel, won court approval to hold an
auction to sell virtually all its assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today approved guidelines that will govern the asset sale. Carey
also gave RG Steel permission to borrow $50 million to help fund
operations while it pursues a sale.  RG Steel resolved objections from the official unsecured
creditors committee, which claimed in court papers that the
financing and sale procedures would lead to a “fire sale.” The
company and committee negotiated extensions to deadlines
required by the bankruptcy loan, allowing more time for RG Steel
to seek buyers for the assets and for creditors to investigate
lenders’ claims. The financing, which was to have terminated on
July 27, will end on Aug. 10.  “We’ve gained two to four weeks to auction the assets,”
Matthew A. Feldman, an RG Steel lawyer, told Carey. “Sixty days
felt quite tight and this gives us the additional time that the
committee sought.”  The auction process will proceed on a “dual track” and
there is an “absolute drop-dead date” of Aug. 24 to complete a
sale, said another RG Steel attorney, Shaunna D. Jones. The key
dates in the auction process fluctuate depending on whether the
company can find a so-called stalking-horse bidder to set a
benchmark for the auction.  Bid Deadline  All offers to compete in the auction must be received by
July 25, and the company has until July 30 to negotiate a
stalking-horse agreement, Jones said. If there is no agreement
with an initial bidder, the company will hold an auction July
31, with a hearing to approve the sale on Aug. 7 or Aug. 8.
Otherwise, the auction will be held Aug. 21, with the sale-
approval hearing set for Aug. 23.  “If we have a stalking-horse bidder, we can take advantage
of the longer time period,” Jones told Carey.  The bankruptcy loan, which received interim court approval
June 1, gives the company as much as $30 million in available
funds through June 15, and as much as $20 million more from June
16 to July 27, according to court documents.  Secured lenders, owed about $440 million, are providing the
bankruptcy loan. Their debt will be paid down as proceeds from
inventory and accounts receivables come in, Jonathan Helfat, a
lawyer for the lenders, said at the June 1 hearing.  Steel Prices  RG Steel, based in Sparrows Point,  Maryland , listed assets
and debts of more than $1 billion each in Chapter 11 documents
filed May 31. “Substantial liquidity problems” began in
mid-2011, “driven by a rapid decline in steel prices, while raw
material prices remained at peak levels,” according to a filing
by Chief Financial Officer Richard Caruso.  Renco Group Inc. bought the three-plant steelmaker from
 Russia ’s  OAO Severstal (CHMF)  last year for about $1.2 billion, less
than three years after Severstal acquired it for $2.2 billion.
Renco created RG Steel to buy the mills, which can produce
8.2 million tons of steel a year.  The company and its affiliates are 75 percent-owned by
Renco, with the remaining equity owned by Cerberus RG Investor
LLC, according to court papers.  RG Steel’s operations include three main steel-producing
plants in Sparrows Point; Warren,  Ohio ; and Wheeling,  West
Virginia . The company also has facilities in Mingo Junction,
Martins Ferry and Yorkville, Ohio.  The lead case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  