-- Obama Has Tailwind as He Follows Romney Speech to Latinos
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/romney-criticizes-obama-for-lack-of-leadership-on-immigration.html
President  Barack Obama , speaking in
Florida at the same venue where  Mitt Romney  criticized the
incumbent’s immigration policy, gets his turn today to make his
case to the critical Hispanic voting bloc.  Obama, who will address the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials, announced last week a plan to
exempt from deportation younger illegal immigrants who meet
certain requirements. Hispanics and voters in general welcomed
the move.  Romney yesterday argued that Obama takes the Hispanic vote
for granted and has failed to lead on immigration. He offered
few details on his own plan, other than pledging a “long-term
solution” to replace Obama’s temporary measure.  “For two years, this president had huge majorities in the
House and Senate; he was free to pursue any policy he pleased,”
the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said in Lake
Buena Vista,  Florida  yesterday. “But he did nothing to advance
a permanent fix for our broken immigration system.” He only
acted when “facing a tough re-election and trying to secure
your vote.”  In his June 15 announcement, Obama said he won’t try to
deport some illegal immigrants under the age of 30 who were
brought to the U.S. before they turned 16 and who have been in
the country for at least five straight years. They must have no
criminal history and attend school or have earned a high school
degree or its equivalent, or have served in the military.  Executive Order  “Some people have asked if I will let stand the
president’s executive order,” Romney said to about 1,000 people
in a ballroom at Disney’s Contemporary Resort. “The answer is
that I will put in place my own long-term solution that will
replace and supersede the president’s temporary measure.”  Romney received tepid applause, getting some boos when he
mentioned repealing the health-care law Obama championed. Juan
Zapata, a Republican and the Latino group’s chairman, called the
largely Democratic audience “polite.”  Obama had momentum heading into today’s speech after his
announcement last week, said Florida Representative Darren Soto,
an Orlando Democrat supporting the president.  “There’s definitely going to be a more welcome
reception,” Soto said. “He has a lot of wind at his sails.”  Permanent Residency  As he has before, Romney endorsed awarding permanent
residency to foreign students who get advanced degrees in math,
science or engineering at U.S. universities, saying they should
have green cards stapled to their diplomas. He also supports a
pathway to legal status for illegal immigrants who serve in the
military.  In wooing Hispanic voters angered by the stern positions he
took during the Republican primary campaign, Romney also must be
careful not to antagonize Republicans who view Obama’s approach
as akin to amnesty.  In response to Romney’s speech, Obama’s campaign
spotlighted the so-called Dream Act legislation, which would let
many illegal immigrants stay in the U.S. and provide a path to
citizenship.  Romney’s pledge yesterday to keep his promises to Hispanics
contrasts with his primary campaign, Gabriela Domenzain, the
president’s campaign director of Hispanic press, said in an e-
mailed statement. He previously “called the Dream Act a
‘handout’ and promised to veto it,” she said.  Presuming Support  Romney told the audience Obama presumes Hispanics are with
him.  “He may admit that he hasn’t kept every promise,” Romney
said, previewing the president’s speech. “He’ll imply that you
don’t really have an alternative. I think he’s taking your vote
for granted.”  Hispanic households have been among the hardest hit by the
struggling economy, he said, repeating a constant theme.  “Is the America of 11 percent Hispanic unemployment the
America of our dreams?” he asked. “We can do better. We can
prosper again, with the powerful recovery we’ve all been waiting
for.”  Romney’s remarks lacked specifics, said Ana Navarro, a
Republican strategist based in Florida.  “I wish I heard more,” she said. “Hispanics who want a
solution for the 11 million undocumented here are faced with two
options: a guy who makes big promises and doesn’t deliver or a
guy who makes no promises.”  Court Ruling  The U.S. Supreme Court is due to weigh in next week on
immigration, ruling on  Arizona ’s law requiring police officers
to check a person’s legal status during routine traffic stops.
The law also makes it a crime for illegal immigrants to work in
the state.  With the U.S.  unemployment  rate at 8.2 percent, the
politics of immigration are sensitive. Neither party wants to be
viewed as favoring illegal immigrants over American workers.  While Obama campaign officials deny that politics motivated
the president’s recent directive, they are counting on it to
solidify support among Hispanic voters in a close race with
Romney.  Hispanics helped propel Obama to the White House in 2008.
He won 67 percent of their vote compared with 31 percent for
Republican  John McCain , according to exit polls. This year,
Hispanics could be crucial in such swing states as Florida,
 Colorado ,  Nevada  and  Virginia .  Poll Findings  A Bloomberg poll this week showed Obama benefiting from his
new immigration policy. Among likely voters, 64 percent surveyed
said they agreed with the policy and 30 percent disagreed.
Independents backed the decision by better than 2-1.  In battling to lock up the Republican nomination, Romney
used tougher rhetoric on illegal immigration, opposing any
proposal that gives legal status to undocumented immigrants
without first requiring that they leave the U.S. He made no
distinction at the time for illegal immigrants brought to the
country as children.  Once the nomination was secured, Romney has tried to
moderate his position, stressing the pain Hispanics have
suffered in the economic downturn.  Romney, 65, this week disclosed he is considering an
Hispanic,   Marco Rubio , as a potential vice presidential running
mate. Rubio, 41, is being vetted for the No. 2 spot on the
Republican ticket, Romney said, challenging a news report
suggesting the Florida senator had been excluded from the
search.  As a running mate, Rubio, a Cuban-American elected to the
Senate in 2010, could boost Romney’s standing among Hispanics
and has the backing of former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, the
brother of one former president and son of another.  Rubio yesterday said Obama’s shift on deportation was
intended as a political “talking point,” underscored by his
failure to consult Republicans beforehand to build bipartisan
support.  “This White House didn’t reach out to anybody,” Rubio
told reporters at a breakfast in  Washington  sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor. “That never happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Lake Buena Vista, Florida at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  