-- Rosneft Gets $3 Billion Credit Line for Regional Projects
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-06-21T18:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rosneft-borrows-3-billion-for-eni-statoil-deals-refinery-1-.html
OAO Rosneft agreed to borrow as much
as 100 billion rubles ($3 billion) for five years from VTB Group
as it plans an oil refinery near Moscow and aims to develop
projects with  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Statoil ASA. (STL)   Igor Sechin , the head of Rosneft and Vladimir Putin’s
former deputy prime minister for energy, signed a series of
agreements today at the  St. Petersburg International Economic
Forum  as the state-run oil producer expands transnational
alliances and seeks to tap growing fuel demand at home.  “All of these projects will be realized through our
partnership with VTB and using the  credit line ,” Sechin told
reporters today at the event. “The credit is for regional
projects in Russia.”  Rosneft may build an oil refinery in the Moscow region at a
cost of more than $7 billion and with capacity of as much as 12
million metric tons a year, Sergei Shoigu, the regional
governor, said at the forum.  The company may also use the funds to help build an oil
products pipeline from Rosneft’s Samara group of refineries,
construct a petrochemical complex in Russia’s Far East and
modernize refineries, according to Sechin.  Rosneft today also signed agreements with Eni and Statoil,
bolstering accords reached in April and May.  Statoil will get the right to help develop five fields with
hard-to-recover resources in the Stavropol region of southern
Russia, Sechin said. The companies also agreed in May to
cooperate in the region and West Siberia, as well as four blocks
in Russia’s part of the  Barents Sea  and in the Sea of Okhotsk,
as well as in Norway’s offshore.  Rosneft will grant Eni access to resources in the Arctic
offshore and Black Sea, in exchange for stakes in refining and
North African production assets, Sechin told reports after the
signing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  