-- Rubio Says Obama Didn’t Reach Out to Him on Immigration Move
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-21T16:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rubio-says-obama-didn-t-reach-out-to-him-on-immigration-move.html
Senator Marco Rubio said President
 Barack Obama  showed he was only “interested in a talking
point” by not consulting congressional Republicans on a
directive halting the deportations of some young people brought
to the U.S. illegally by their parents.  The first-term senator from  Florida , who declined to
discuss reports that he is being vetted as a running mate for
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , said
Obama’s June 15 directive “injected election-year politics into
an issue that privately I thought we were making progress on.”  After Obama made his announcement, Rubio, 41, said he was
dropping plans to introduce legislation that could grant work
visas to some young people brought to the U.S. illegally.  The Senate’s only Hispanic Republican, Rubio today
criticized the Obama administration for not reaching out to him
before announcing the directive, saying that not consulting
Republicans showed that the president had no interest in a
bipartisan solution.  “This White House didn’t reach out to anybody,” he said.
“I’ve never had one conversation with anybody in the
administration about my idea or what it looks like.”  Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, said he had been
working behind the scenes in the Senate to gain support for his
provision, which was similar to a Democratic proposal that
Republicans and a few Democrats killed in the Senate in 2010,
and hadn’t introduced legislation.  “If you’re really interested in a bipartisan solution and
you read in the newspaper that there’s a Republican senator
working on an idea, don’t you reach out to them and say, ’Hey,
how does your idea work? I’m just curious,’” Rubio said. “That
never happened.”  Recasting Image  Rubio, who has campaigned with Romney, said the former
Massachusetts governor was doing a good job of recasting the
 Republican Party  as “the pro-legal-immigration party,” not
just the “anti-illegal-immigration party.”  He pointed out that Republicans’ main objections following
Obama’s announcement were centered on the president’s decision
to bypass Congress, rather than on the substance of the policy
change.  While he said that, in the short term, Democrats probably
would continue to outstrip Republicans in terms of support from
Hispanic voters, he attributed that deficit to large pockets of
Latinos who live in areas dominated by Democrats and have formed
ties with that party.  “What I think we should focus on is the growing number of
Hispanic voters in key states like Florida,  Virginia ,  Iowa ,
 North Carolina , and others, that are much more open-minded, that
do not a long-standing geographic allegiance to one party or
ideology, who vote for the candidate, not the party,” he said.  Obama Lead  An NBC/Wall Street Journal/Telemundo poll conducted May 16-
21 found that Obama had a 34-point lead over Romney among
registered Latino voters.  Romney, who is speaking today in  Orlando , Florida, to a
convention of Latino public officials, said earlier this year
during the Republican primaries that he opposed granting legal
status to illegal immigrants. More recently he has been
softening his tone; he declined to say what he would do about
Obama’s policy if elected president, and said during a CBS
interview that aired June 17 that he would “work with Congress
to put in place a long-term solution.”  For many Hispanic voters, immigration is a “gateway
issue” because most know personally someone affected by
immigration policy, Rubio said, adding that Obama’s new policy
left many unanswered questions about how it would be implemented
and set back broader overhaul efforts.  “This issue will never be solved in a reasonable and
responsible way until it it significantly de-politicized,” he
said. “As long as immigration is a political issue used by both
sides against each other, we will never reach the kind of
reasonable and balanced approach to it that it needs and
deserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  