-- RusHydro Discount Widens on Share Sale Concern: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-06-21T03:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/rushydro-discount-widens-on-share-sale-concern-russia-overnight.html
OAO RusHydro (RSHYY)  sank in New York to
trade at the widest discount versus Moscow shares in two weeks
on prospects the board of Russia’s largest hydropower company
will support a secondary share offering.  American depositary receipts of the Moscow-based company
tumbled 11 percent yesterday to $2.30, extending the discount
versus the shares to 3.7 percent, the most since June 5. The
retreat sent the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-
traded Russian companies listed in the U.S. down 1.1 percent to
87.53 in New York yesterday. The  RTS stock-index futures 
retreated 0.8 percent to 131,765.  RusHydro may hold a secondary share sale to allow OAO
Rosneftegaz to buy a 25.8 percent stake in the company,
 Kommersant  said June 19, citing people familiar with the plan.
The company’s board meets tomorrow to discuss development plans
through 2016, and could signal it welcomes the deal, according
to Otkritie Financial Corp. President  Vladimir Putin  said last
month that state-owned Rosneftegaz can acquire more energy
assets in addition to its control in oil and gas producers.  “This is a perfect illustration of unpredictability, not
only RusHydro, but the whole sector,” Sergey Beiden, an analyst
at Otkritie brokerage in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“People are running away from such risks.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 2.3 percent to $25.60 yesterday. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, rose 1 percent to 38.45 points in New York.  ‘Foreign Factors’  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it will expand its
program to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt by
$267 billion through the end of 2012 in a bid to reduce
unemployment and protect the expansion.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  declined to commit to
direct sovereign debt purchases through the euro-area bailout
fund in comments made yesterday in Berlin.  “The Russian market is a hostage of foreign factors,”
Konstantin Chernyshev, head of research at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “It depends on what
is happening in Europe even more than on what U.S. news flow is,
including stimulus measures. Europe is an extremely important
factor for  Russia .”  Oil dropped to an eight-month low in New York yesterday
after the U.S. Energy Department reported that the country’s
crude inventories climbed to the highest level in 22 years.
 Brent crude  in London dropped to an 18-month low and Urals
crude, Russia’s chief export blend, retreated to the lowest
since 2010.  Valuation  RusHydro fell 7.6 percent to 77.82 kopeks in Moscow, or 2
U.S. cents, dropping by the most since May 23 yesterday. The
government owned 60.38 percent of RusHydro as of March 31,
according to the company’s  website .  If the Kommersant report is right, the transaction would
value RusHydro’s  common shares  at 1.1 rubles apiece, compared
with 1.6 rubles expected by the market, Beiden said.  Elena Vishnyakova, the head of RusHydro’s press office in
Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday that the company is not
commenting on the Kommersant report.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone
provider, lost 0.2 percent to $8.12 yesterday, dropping for the
first time in five days. A Moscow court rejected the company’s
request to revise its May 25 decision in which it banned
VimpelCom and its Russian unit from paying dividends from their
2011 profits, Interfax news agency reported yesterday.  The May 25 ruling came as the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service
claimed Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’s Weather
Investments II SARL sold 11.3 percent of VimpelCom’s voting
stock to Telenor ASA, according to the statement.  Bobby Leach , the Amsterdam-based communications director
for VimpelCom, didn’t immediately return calls made after hours.  ‘Shouldn’t Take Years’  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , eastern Europe’s largest lender, fell 2.5
percent to $10.48 in New York yesterday, falling by the most
since June 1 and trading at a 0.5 percent discount to the bank’s
Moscow-traded shares.  Russia’s government shouldn’t delay its planned sale of
shares of Sberbank, Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  said in
 St. Petersburg  yesterday. Russia plans to sell 7.6 percent of
the bank.  “Choosing the moment shouldn’t take years,” Gref said.
“It should take months, perhaps half a year.”  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s second-biggest oil producer after OAO
Rosneft, retreated 0.6 percent to $53.80. Lukoil lost 0.1
percent to 1,748.60 rubles, or $53.64, in Moscow yesterday.  Oil for July delivery declined 2.7 percent to $81.80 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the lowest
since Oct. 5. Prices are down 17 percent this year. The July
contract expired yesterday.  Rusal Falls  Brent oil for August settlement declined 3.2 percent to
$92.69 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 17, 2010. Urals crude slumped
3.2 percent to $91.09 yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 30, 2010.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.3 percent to HK$4.60 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:26
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent
today as a preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’ index
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed China’s
manufacturing may shrink in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  