-- Russian Economy Overheating Risk to Abate, Bank of America Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-06-21T13:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/russian-economy-overheating-risk-to-abate-bank-of-america-says.html
The Russian economy’s risk of
“overheating” from  consumer spending  is about to ease as
slowing global growth pushes down oil prices, the key source of
revenue for the world’s largest energy exporter,  Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch said.  The country’s lowest-ever unemployment rate at 5.4 percent
and wage growth of 15.1 percent in May, reported by the
statistics office yesterday, prompted the bank to lift its
end-2012 inflation forecast to 6.3 percent from 6 percent,
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Russia’s economy expanded 4.9 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter as consumers take advantage of record-low
inflation, a boost in  government spending  and delays to
increases in regulated prices. Even so, cooling global growth
and falling  oil prices  are bound to limit the risks, Bank of
America said.  “All of these supportive factors and trends will reverse
later in the year,” Osakovskiy wrote. “The economy should
start to feel the impact of lower oil prices and a related
decline in corporate profits.”  Government spending expanded earlier this year as  Vladimir Putin  pledged $158 billion more for pensioners, the military and
state workers before re-election as president in March.  The jobless rate dropped 0.4 percentage point to 5.4
percent, matching a level reached four years ago and the lowest
since at least 1999, the statistics office said.  Corporate investment has also surged this year, rising 7.7
percent in May from the same month last year as the government
eased social-security contributions for employers, Osakovskiy
wrote.  While inflation will probably breach the central bank’s 6
percent target, the goal of supporting economic growth “will
likely outweigh inflationary concerns later in the year,”
prompting the central bank to cut its overnight auction-based
repurchase rate and benchmark refinancing rate by 50 basis
points in the fourth quarter. The rates are at 5.25 percent and
8 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  