-- S. Africa Companies Hoard Cash on ANC Policy Concerns
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-22T15:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/s-africa-companies-hoard-cash-on-anc-policy-concerns.html
South African companies are hoarding
near-record amounts of cash, hurting returns with  interest rates 
at 30-year lows, as concern that President Jacob Zuma’s ruling
party could push through policies that will cut profit hold back
investments from miners like  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)   The  African National Congress , facing protests over a 25.2
percent unemployment rate, starts a four-day policy conference
on June 26 that will debate proposals to nationalize mines,
banks and telecommunications companies, seize land without
compensation and raise mine taxes. Europe’s credit crisis,
slowing economic growth in China, local factories operating at
below capacity and inadequate port, rail and road infrastructure
are also forcing companies to sit back.  “Investors are going to be taking a wait-and-see
attitude,” Nic Borain, a Cape Town-based political analyst at
BNP Paribas Cadiz Securities said in a June 20 interview. “The
policy documents going into the ANC conference indicate a more
thorough attempt to share the spoils of the South African
economy between those who controlled the old  South Africa  and
those who control the politics in the new.”  Cash belonging to companies sitting on deposit with banks
increased 11 percent to 522 billion rand ($63 billion) at the
end of April from a year earlier, after reaching a record 540
billion rand in December, according to the latest available data
from the Pretoria-based  South African Reserve Bank .  Sitting on cash is costing companies. The average return on
equity for the 162 stocks on the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
last month declined below 22 percent for the first time since
the end of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Return Cash  Policy uncertainty “doesn’t mean they have to hold the
cash,” said Neville Chester, who helps oversee 296 billion rand
at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in  Cape Town . “The cash needs
to get returned to shareholders and allocated to other
investments” if it’s not going to be spent, he said.  The central bank has kept its  repurchase rate  at a 30-year
low of 5.5 percent since November 2010 to offset effects from
Europe’s debt crisis on growth, which it estimates may slow to
2.9 percent this year from 3.1 percent in 2011.  Zuma, 70, is being pushed by some members of the ANC, its
youth wing, the  South African Communist Party  and the Congress
of South African Trade Unions to use the country’s mineral
wealth to improve the lives of black  South Africans , many of
whom live in poverty 18 years after apartheid ended.  Next week’s ANC conference will be followed by another in
December, when decisions will be ratified and leaders for the
100-year-old organization elected.  Policy Platform  “While there is need for change we’re not looking at a
counter-productive platform of policies,” ANC spokesman Keith
Khoza said by phone yesterday. The ANC will “adopt what is
responsible and that will help the economy grow” and boost job
creation, he said.  While an ANC-commissioned study released in February found
that seizing mines would be an “unmitigated economic
disaster,” it recommended imposing a 50 percent tax on the
profits of mining companies earning returns in excess of 15
percent, levies on the sale of prospecting rights and more taxes
on companies based in offshore  tax havens .  “One of the concerns investors have is what is going to
happen here; the sooner we can get clarity, the better,”  Nick Holland , chief executive officer of Gold Fields, South Africa’s
second-largest producer of the metal, told reporters in
Johannesburg on May 17. “That’s what investors want and that’s
what we want as well as a company that is investing heavily.”  Share Underperformance  Gold Fields, which is digging the world’s deepest mine in
South Africa, has 5.2 billion rand in cash on its  balance sheet 
after reaching 6.1 billion rand in December, the most since at
least 1998. The company is studying opportunities in Finland,
the Philippines, Peru and  Mali  to reduce the proportion of its
gold that it mines in South Africa, where output has declined
since 2009, to 40 percent of total production by 2015 from 62
percent in 2008.  South Africa has the biggest platinum, chrome and manganese
reserves. Metals account for 64 percent of exports in the $388
billion economy. Labor and power costs have increased faster
than inflation for each of the past three years.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa Mining Index (JMNNG)  declined 2.2 percent to
30,771.82 by the close in Johannesburg, taking losses in dollar
terms over the past 12 months to 28 percent, compared with a 6.3
percent slide in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Metals & Mining
Index.  ‘Unknowns’  “What is not happening, is there is no expansion being put
in place on a forward looking basis,”  Kevin Lings , who helps
manage 353 billion rand at Stanlib Asset Management Ltd. in
Johannesburg. “The horizon has shortened and the immediate
focus has become shorter; companies are not really looking far
beyond that because there are too many unknowns to effectively
plan into that environment.”  The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa, a unit
of Cosatu with 300,000 members, called for the nationalization
of banks, mines, telecommunications and energy companies. The
 National Union of Mineworkers , the largest union within Cosatu,
doesn’t support nationalization and instead encourages greater
local processing of minerals. The ANC Youth League has said it
wants Zuma replaced by his deputy,  Kgalema Motlanthe .  “We have meetings with big listed companies that are
saying if there is policy uncertainty about nationalization of
mines, why am I going to make long-term capital investments?”
Nicky Newton-King, chief executive officer of  JSE Ltd. (JSE) , operator
of South Africa’s stock and bond exchange, said in an interview
yesterday.  Deals Stalled  Mergers and acquisitions, which should be boosted by the
cash holdings, are being stalled by the political and global
economic environment,  Mike Brown , chief executive officer of
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said in
a May 18 interview. Deals dropped 18 percent to 54.2 billion
rand in the first half compared with a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The policies up for debate “present a whole range of
threats that could be keeping those companies from spending
their money,” BNP Paribas’ Borain said. “They are also an
attempt to make South Africa more sustainable in the long term
and make the South African story a more enduring one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  