-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Fell in May to 4.55 Million
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-21T14:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-fell-in-may-to-4-55-million-rate.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
declined in May, showing an uneven recovery in residential real
estate.  Purchases of existing properties dropped 1.5 percent to a
4.55 million  annual rate  last month, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a
4.57 million pace.  The weakest  employment  gain in a year last month and
limited access to credit are restraining a housing industry
that’s been supported by record-low borrowing costs and cheaper
properties that are drawing investors. The figures underscore
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments yesterday
that the economy is failing to get a boost from a typical real-
estate recovery.  “There’s a gradual bleeding into the market of distressed
properties,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “It’s a bumpy trajectory”
for housing. “It’s going to be a gradual recovery.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 74 economists ranged
from 4.40 million to 4.73 million.  Stocks Fell  Stocks declined after a Fed report showed manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region contracted at the fastest pace in almost
a year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.3 percent to
1,351.25 at 10:48 a.m. in New York.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  fell to minus 16.6 in June from minus 5.8 the previous
month. Economists forecast the gauge would improve to zero, the
dividing line between growth and contraction, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The report covers eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Another report today showed more Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week,
indicating the labor market continues to struggle.  Jobless claims decreased by 2,000 to 387,000 in the week
ended June 16, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median forecast in the Bloomberg called for
383,000. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, climbed
to the highest of the year.  Since Recession  Existing-home sales, which are tabulated when a contract
closes, have climbed since reaching a low of 3.39 million at an
annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to the subprime lending
collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25 million
in September 2005.  The median price of an existing home climbed 7.9 percent to
$182,600 in May, the highest since June 2010, from $169,300 in
May 2011, today’s report showed. The increase in May reflected
more sales of higher-priced properties, according to  Lawrence
Yun , chief economist of the Realtors group.  The number of previously owned homes on the market
decreased 0.4 percent to 2.49 million in May from a month
earlier. At the current pace, it would take 6.6 months to sell
existing inventory, compared with 6.5 months at the end of the
prior period.  Single-Family Homes  Sales of single-family homes decreased 1 percent to an
annual rate of 4.05 million, while condominiums and co-op
transactions fell 5.7 percent to a 500,000 pace.  Three of four regions showed sales declines, led by a 4.8
percent drop in Northeast. Purchases also fell in the West and
South.  Of all purchases, cash transactions accounted for about 28
percent, down from 29 percent in April. Distressed sales,
comprised of foreclosures and short sales in which the lender
agrees to a transaction for less than the balance of the
mortgage, accounted for 25 percent of the total last month, the
lowest since the group began tracking the data in 2008, down
from 28 percent in April.  Investors accounted for 17 percent of purchases in May, a
decrease from 20 percent in April. First-time buyers accounted
for 34 percent of the market in May.  First-Time Buyers  “First-time buyers are really not stepping up,” Yun said.
Typically, first-time buyers make up 40 percent to 45 percent of
the purchases, he said. Instead, most sales were homeowners who
were trading up, he said.  Cheaper properties and  lower mortgage rates  pushed up
homebuyer affordability to a record in the first quarter,
according to the NAR. The average 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage
dropped to a record-low 3.67 percent in the first week of June,
according to figures from  Freddie Mac .  “Demand for resales should be supported mainly by the
investor activity, supported by historically high
affordability,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas, said before today’s report. “Traditional buying to own
and live in should continue to be limited by tight lending
standards.”  Foreclosures keep boosting the inventory of unsold homes
and depressing prices. Foreclosure starts grew in May for the
first time since January 2010, after the largest U.S. loan
servicers settled with states over faulty documentation,
according to a report last week from RealtyTrac Inc., a real
estate data provider in  Irvine ,  California .  Hovnanian Homes  New Jersey-based builder  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  is
among companies that are more upbeat. The company reported a 52
percent increase in contracts in the second quarter compared
with last year.  “It doesn’t feel like a head fake this year, it feels like
it’s beginning of a recovery, so we’re very encouraged with what
we’ve been seeing,” said  Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer,
said at a June 13 conference.  “There are some good signs in housing, but nevertheless we
are not getting the size of the boost, the amount of help in the
recovery we would normally get from a housing recovery,”
Bernanke said yesterday at a press conference in Washington
after the Fed announced it would extend a program aimed at
bolstering the economy.  “Access to credit is a major issue,” Bernanke said.
“Mortgage access is much tighter than it has been for a long
time. What that does, to some extent, is it mutes the impact of
the Fed’s actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  