-- Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Probably Declined in May
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-probably-declined-in-may.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
probably fell in May, showing an uneven recovery in residential
real estate, economists said a report may show today.  Purchases dropped 1.1 percent to a 4.57 million  annual rate 
last month, according to the median forecast of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Jobless claims last week were little
changed, other data may show.  The weakest  employment  gain in a year last month along with
limited access to credit are restraints on an industry that’s
been supported by record-low borrowing costs and a drop home
values. The figures underscore Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s comments that the economy is failing to get a boost
from a more typical real-estate recovery.  “The housing market is recovering very slowly,” said
Yelena Shulyatyeva, U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in New York.
“I do see a pickup in demand throughout the year but it’s going
to be very gradual. What we need to see probably is continued
low  mortgage rates . That will gradually continue to improve
housing demand.”  The report from the National Association of Realtors is due
at 10 a.m. in Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from
4.4 million to 4.73 million.  Existing-home sales, which are tabulated when a contract
closes, have climbed since reaching a low of 3.39 million at an
annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to the subprime lending
collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25 million
in September 2005.  Labor Market  Limited job growth may be weighing on housing. Employers
added 69,000 positions in May, the fewest in 12 months,
according to Labor Department figures. The jobless rate climbed
to 8.2 percent from April’s 8.1 percent.  First-time applications for  unemployment benefits  fell to
383,000 last week from 386,000 in the prior period, according to
the Bloomberg survey median before Labor Department figures at
8:30 a.m. Jobless claims are close to a high this year of
392,000, reached in April.  Home prices  have shown few signs of strengthening as
foreclosures put more properties on the market. Foreclosure
starts grew in May for the first time since January 2010, after
the largest U.S. loan servicers settled with states over faulty
documentation, according to a report last week from RealtyTrac
Inc., a real estate data provider in  Irvine ,  California .  “Be careful of the signals that you’re translating into
recovery because they’re not very strong,” said Michael Feder,
chief executive officer of Radar Logic Inc. in  New York , which
tracks home prices. “Some of the signs of an early spring
recovery were actually the result of a mild winter in some
markets and some investor buying.”  Housing Affordability  Cheaper properties and lower mortgage rates pushed up
homebuyer affordability to a record in the first quarter,
according to the NAR. The average rate on a 30-year fixed
mortgage dropped to a  record-low  3.67 percent in the first week
of June, according to figures from  Freddie Mac .  New Jersey-based builder  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  is
among companies that are more upbeat. The company reported a 52
percent increase in contracts in the second quarter compared
with last year.  “It doesn’t feel like a head fake this year, it feels like
it’s beginning of a recovery, so we’re very encouraged with what
we’ve been seeing,” said  Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer,
said at a June 13 conference.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
advanced 34 percent since the end of last year, more than the
7.8 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  “There are some good signs in housing, but nevertheless we
are not getting the size of the boost, the amount of help in the
recovery we would normally get from a housing recovery,”
Bernanke said yesterday at a press conference in Washington
after the Fed announced it would extend a program aimed at
bolstering the economy.  “Access to credit is a major issue” for some Americans
wanting to buy a home, Bernanke said. “Mortgage access is much
tighter than it has been for a long time. What that does, to
some extent, is it mutes the impact of the Fed’s actions.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  