-- Samsung’s Galaxy S III Smartphone Goes on Sale in U.S.
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-06-21T14:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/samsung-s-galaxy-s-iii-goes-on-sale-in-u-s-taking-on-iphone.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , challenging
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, began rolling out its Galaxy S III flagship
smartphone in the U.S. through T-Mobile USA Inc.  The touch-screen device will be available from the three
other largest U.S. carriers --  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  -- in the coming weeks, the Suwon, South
Korean-based company said today in a statement.  While Samsung makes a range of phones, the company is
focusing its advertising on the Galaxy III, kicking off the
largest U.S. campaign for a mobile device in its history.
Samsung is taking aim at the iPhone, currently the best-selling
smartphone at AT&T, Verizon and Sprint. T-Mobile, the Galaxy S
III’s initial carrier, doesn’t offer the iPhone, giving it more
incentive to make the Samsung product a hit.  “Vendors have been focusing their portfolio toward
flagship phones and for Samsung, the Galaxy III will be that
high-profile device,” said Mark Sue, an analyst with RBC
Capital Markets in New York.  T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , is selling the
Galaxy III for $279.99 with a two-year contract. Verizon, AT&T
and Sprint will offer it for $199.99 with a two-year commitment.  Patent Fight  Apple and Samsung, the top two smartphone makers, have
accused each other of design imitations and are waging patent
battles on four continents. Apple has said it’s considering a
restraining order request to block sales of the Galaxy S III in
the U.S. The Cupertino, California-based company lost an earlier
appeal to ban Samsung phones from the country last month.  The Galaxy relies on Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, the most widely used software on smartphones. While the
iPhone dominates smartphone sales at the major U.S. carriers,
Samsung outsold Apple globally in the first quarter, according
to research firm  Strategy Analytics .  The next iPhone will probably debut in October, according
to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
Minneapolis.  The previous Galaxy was a good seller in its own right,
helping spur demand for the successor, Sue said.  “I don’t know whether it can exceed the sales pace of the
Galaxy II, but the indications are that there is a lot of
consumer demand for the Galaxy III,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  