-- Schumer, Norquist Trade Blame for U.S. Fiscal Impasse
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-21T19:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/schumer-says-grover-norquist-to-blame-for-fiscal-impasse.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  and
anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist  blamed each other for blocking
changes to U.S. fiscal policy that would reduce the federal
 budget deficit .  Republicans who sign Norquist’s pledge against tax
increases are the obstacle to a long-term fiscal deal, said
Schumer, a  New York  Democrat. Schumer and Democrats who want to
raise taxes are at fault for enabling government spending, said
Norquist, president of Americans for  Tax Reform .  Democrats continued their attacks on the pledge today as
Norquist met with about 100 staff members and 20 House
Republicans in the Ways and Means Committee’s hearing room in
Washington.  “Grover Norquist is the problem around here, and
bipartisanship in the Senate is the solution,” Schumer told
reporters.  Norquist’s pledge requires its signers to oppose all tax
increases and to use any revenue from limiting tax breaks to
reduce tax rates. All except six House Republicans and seven
Senate Republicans have signed it.  “Raising taxes is what some politicians want to do instead
of reforming government,” Norquist said after the meeting.  Schumer, President  Barack Obama  and other Democrats want
higher taxes for top earners as part of a  deficit reduction 
plan. Most Republicans reject that idea, and, in addition to the
pledge, they cite their opposition to higher taxes.  ’Only Solution’  “The only solution to taming an out-of-control-spending
government is to cut spending,” presumptive Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , who has signed the pledge,
said on June 17 on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Some Senate Republicans, including Tom Coburn of Oklahoma
and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, have openly broken with
Norquist. Others, including Saxby Chambliss of Georgia and  Mike Crapo  of Idaho, have been involved in bipartisan deficit-
reduction negotiations with Democrats.  Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican, said today that,
while he isn’t “religiously opposed” to taxes, he is concerned
that Democrats’ tax-raising approach would squelch economic
growth.  “I am in favor of more revenue for government so that
government can do two things with that revenue: It can pay down
the debt, and it can fund the essential things that the federal
government should do,” Rubio told reporters in Washington at a
breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. “I think
the way you generate that revenue is through more taxpayers, not
more taxes.”  Fiscal Cliff  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year to avert a
so-called fiscal cliff, spending cuts and tax increases totaling
$607 billion will take effect, and the economy would probably go
into  recession , according to the Congressional Budget Office.  In recent weeks, Rubio said, a bipartisan sense has been
emerging that any long-term solution to the nation’s economic
woes would need to include a mix of spending cuts and revenue
increases to promote growth.  “I think there’s a consensus that you can’t only cut your
way out of this, and you can’t only tax your way out of this,”
he said. “The only way out of this predicament is ’How do you
grow your way out of this?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  