-- SEC’s Schapiro Faces Bipartisan Criticism on Money Fund Rule
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-06-21T16:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/sec-s-schapiro-says-iosco-money-market-proposal-was-a-screwup-.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  faced skeptical lawmakers from
both parties today as she defended her campaign to overhaul the
regulation of  money-market funds .  In an appearance before the Senate Banking Committee that
lasted just under an hour, Schapiro told lawmakers that while
most funds are “well and responsibly managed,” they are
susceptible to the types of runs that helped freeze credit
markets in 2008. Schapiro hasn’t been able to convince a
majority on her five-member commission to support a proposal to
rewrite money-market rules and today’s hearing demonstrated the
difficult task she faces on  Capitol Hill  as well.  “In my view, you’re portraying an industry that’s
extremely vulnerable, that has all these risks of runs and I
really find that extraordinary in light of the actual history,”
Senator Patrick Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican, told
Schapiro. “We’ve had another round of real stress: an ongoing
recession, European credit crisis, downgrade of the U.S.
government, considerable redemption pressure and not a single
problem in this industry.”  Concern over money funds, once seen as among the safest of
investments, grew after the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, contributing to a broader run that
exacerbated a freeze in global financial markets. The run calmed
after the Treasury Department temporarily guaranteed money-fund
shareholders against losses and the Fed began buying fund assets
at face value to help them meet redemptions.  Floating Values  Schapiro said her goal is not to “demonize an industry.”
She is proposing that money market funds either allow their net
asset values to float or hold more capital and prevent customers
from withdrawing all their funds at once.  Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat, said he was
concerned about the idea of requiring money funds to float their
share prices.  “I think that’s a problem,” he said.  Such a proposal would follow rules the SEC adopted in 2010
that introduced liquidity minimums, average maturity limits and
new disclosure requirements. Schapiro told the Senate panel that
since those rules took effect, three money-market funds have
required their sponsors to step in and support them to avoid
their net asset value falling below $1 per share.  Schapiro also told the Senate panel that the International
Organization of Securities Commissions prematurely released a
 study  of possible changes to money-market fund rules in April  Early Release  The study’s release, which drew objections from three of
the SEC’s five commissioners, was a “genuine screwup,”
Schapiro said. IOSCO, based in  Madrid , is an international
organization of securities regulators, including the SEC.  Options in the study included changing the money-market
fund industry’s stable net asset value. The two Republican
members of the SEC, Troy Parades and Daniel Gallagher, joined
Commissioner  Luis Aguilar , a Democrat, in issuing a  statement  on
May 11 saying IOSCO’s report “does not reflect the views and
input of a majority of the Commission.”  Schapiro later told reporters that IOSCO normally waits for
the SEC’s full input before issuing a report.  “They published before getting our comments,” Schapiro
told reporters. “It was a timing mismatch. We thought we’d get
more time. Normally they wouldn’t publish without checking back
with us first to see why they hadn’t gotten our comments and
that just didn’t happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  