-- SAC’s Cohen Said to Be Deposed in SEC Trading Probe
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-06-21T17:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/sec-said-to-depose-sac-s-cohen-in-insider-trading-probe.html
Steven A. Cohen , the billionaire
founder of hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, is facing renewed
scrutiny from U.S. regulators over whether he illegally bought
and sold stocks using inside information, two people familiar
with the matter said.  Cohen, 56, was recently deposed by Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators in New York about trades made close to
news such as mergers and earnings that generated profits for his
fund, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the investigation isn’t public. Neither Cohen nor
Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital, which oversees about
$14 billion, has been accused of wrongdoing.  SAC Capital has repeatedly landed in the cross hairs of a
federal crackdown on  insider trading  on  Wall Street  that burst
into public view in October 2009 with the arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, founder of Galleon Group LLC. U.S. criminal
prosecutors said last year they were looking at trading accounts
at SAC Capital, including one run by Cohen that consists of the
best ideas from the firm’s portfolio managers and analysts. Also
last year, two former traders pleaded guilty to engaging in
criminal  securities fraud  while at SAC Capital.  Cohen, who made his name as a rapid-fire stock trader, is
one of the biggest and most successful managers in the $2.13
trillion hedge-fund business. SAC Capital has returned an annual
average of 30 percent since the firm opened in August 1992. That
compares with an annualized gain of 7.96 percent, including
reinvested dividends, by the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of the
largest U.S. stocks.  Raise Eyebrows  “Being deposed will certainly raise eyebrows among
investors,” said Vidak Radonjic, managing partner at Beryl
Consulting Group LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , which advises
clients on investing in hedge funds. “But I doubt that they’ll
be inclined to pull their money from him given the relationship
and trust his firm has with them.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, and  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington, declined to
comment. The people familiar with the matter didn’t specify the
exact date of Cohen’s deposition.  Since the SEC began to unravel a web of traders, analysts
and corporate insiders about five years ago, federal authorities
have criminally charged 68 people, and 62 of them have been
found guilty. Last week,  Rajat Gupta , a former head of McKinsey
& Co. and a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director, was found
guilty of passing tips to Galleon’s Rajaratnam, who was
sentenced to 11 years in prison in 2011 and is appealing his
conviction.  Childhood Passion  Cohen said at conference in Las Vegas in May 2011 that he’s
been interested in investing since he was 12 years old, when
after reading the sports pages he would pore over the stock
tables in the  New York  Post his father would bring home every
evening. He started SAC Capital with 12 people and about $25
million after leaving brokerage Gruntal & Co.  Cohen’s main fund, SAC Capital International Ltd., saw net
deposits in 2011 before he closed it to new investments in
August, people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.
The fund raised $2.8 billion from June 2009 through October
2011.  The fund declined 19 percent in 2008, the first loss in its
history. It has returned 4.5 percent this year through May,
according to two people briefed on the matter. Hedge funds on
average have returned 0.83 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Finra Referrals  SAC Capital drew attention in May 2011 when U.S. Senator
 Charles Grassley  asked the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-regulatory body, to
provide information on the “potential scope of suspicious
trading activity.”  Finra referred to the SEC at least 18 trades by SAC Capital
in the past 11 years that were executed close to market-moving
announcements, including mergers and the release of clinical-
trial results for new drugs. The referrals aren’t allegations or
proof of securities-law violations.  “It’s pretty serious if it’s risen to the state that the
SEC wants him to testify on the record,” said Ross Intelisano,
an attorney at Rich, Intelisano & Katz LLP in New York, who has
represented investors in lawsuits against  hedge funds .  At least one agent at the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,
B.J. Kang, had been inquiring about SAC Capital’s trading for
several years, according to a person who’s been interviewed by
him. Kang was the lead agent in the Galleon investigation and is
pictured in photos taking Rajaratnam into custody on Oct. 16,
2009.  January Arrests  In January, the government arrested Jon Horvath, a
technology analyst at SAC Capital’s Sigma Capital Management
unit, over claims he made trades based on tips from a Dell Inc.
employee. Horvath has pleaded not guilty.  Former SAC Capital portfolio manager Donald Longueuil
received a 30-month prison term after pleading guilty in April
2011 to a four-year conspiracy that included his then co-worker
Noah Freeman and others. Freeman, who also pleaded guilty, is
cooperating with investigators and has yet to be sentenced.  Prosecutors said Longueuil and Freeman were friends who
shared illegal tips about technology companies in order to get a
trading edge. Longueuil, who worked for SAC Capital’s CR
Intrinsic unit in New York from July 2008 to July 2010, was
accused of giving information to Freeman.  Freeman in return passed material non-public information to
Longueuil that he had obtained from other sources, including
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant to expert networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC who was convicted in June 2011.  Primary Global  At Jiau’s trial, Freeman testified that SAC Capital used
Primary Global “almost exclusively, if not exclusively” as its
expert networking firm. Primary Global employees as well as
corporate executives they paid as consultants have been ensnared
in the government’s probe.  Longueuil, who also agreed to forfeit more than $1.25
million in illegal profits, admitted that after reading a
newspaper article about a federal probe of Primary Global, he
went to his office and took pliers to two drives on his
computer, destroying them. Prosecutors said he walked 20 blocks
and dumped the parts in four different garbage trucks.  As part of the conspiracy, which prosecutors said ran from
2006 to 2010, Longueuil and the others obtained inside
information about companies including Marvell Technology Group
Ltd., Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc., Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., Actel Corp. and Cypress Semiconductor Corp., the
U.S. said.  Art Collector  Cohen has a net worth of $8.3 billion as of March,
according to Forbes magazine. He lives in a mansion in the woods
north of downtown Greenwich,  Connecticut , that features a
basketball court and a two-hole golfing green. He’s also an avid
art collector, having owned works by  Jeff Koons  and  Damien
Hirst . SAC Capital employs 1,000 people worldwide in offices
from New York to Hong Kong.  Cohen, who was an unsuccessful bidder for the  Los Angeles
Dodgers  of  Major League Baseball  earlier this year, is an
investor in the  New York Mets .  “The spotlight is on him again and will likely be
distracting for him,” said Peter Rup, chief investment officer
at New York-based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, which invests in
hedge funds. “However, Cohen has enough capital to indemnify
investors against disgorgement and legal fees, so it’s not as if
they’re going to pull their money quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  