-- Senate Passes Agriculture Bill Aimed at Saving $23.6 Billion
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-06-21T19:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/senate-approves-agriculture-bill-aimed-at-saving-23-6-billion.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed a bill that
would cut agriculture programs by $23.6 billion over 10 years,
mostly by ending direct payments to growers regardless of
commodity prices, the biggest policy change in decades.  The measure was approved today 64-35. While the bill ends
direct payments, farmers would be protected partly by expanded
crop-insurance programs and aid for so-called shallow losses
when prices drop or crops fail.  The bill is “about standing up for our farmers, our small
business, our exporters, our manufacturers,” Agriculture
Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow  said before the vote.
“This represents significant reform.”  The bill sets policy for U.S. agricultural programs for a
five-year period. The measure is a prime target for budget
cutters because of near-record farm profits and the highest-ever
expenditures on  food stamps , the Department of Agriculture’s
biggest expense.  Net  farm income  this year will be $91.7 billion, the
second-highest ever, according to the USDA. Spending on food
stamps reached a record $75.7 billion last year, double the
level of four years ago.  Production Subsidies  The farm bill governs programs that feed needy families,
improve air and soil quality, encourage rural development and
provide a safety net for farmers who suffer crop or income loss.
Production subsidies, which may reach $11 billion this year, aid
agribusinesses such as  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and Cargill
Inc. by lowering the costs of their raw materials.  In three days of debate this week, lawmakers turned back
several efforts to cut or restrict crop insurance, including an
amendment sponsored by  New York  Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand that
would have reduced subsidies for insurance providers by $5
billion to increase funding for food stamps.  Senators also rejected amendments that would have ended the
import-quota system that protects U.S. sugar producers and other
support for the sweetener. The measures were backed by
confectioners such as  Hershey Co. (HSY)  that say they artificially
inflate sweetener prices.  Crop Insurance  While losing direct payments, growers of crops including
corn, soybeans and sorghum would become eligible for insurance-
reimbursement rates based on near-record high prices. A new
insurance program was included for cotton farmers, who would
also lose direct payments. The plan was modeled on a proposal
from the National Cotton Council, the industry group for
growers.  The Senate also turned back a plan to end payments to
farmers with more than $250,000 in adjusted gross income while
voting to cap gains on a crop-loan program at $75,000.  The House Agriculture Committee is still working on its
version of the legislation, which will have to be reconciled
with the Senate measure. Republican Chairman  Frank Lucas  of
 Oklahoma  and  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the panel’s top
Democrat, have said their bill will include more aid for rice
and peanut growers, who have said the Senate’s bill doesn’t
provide an adequate safety net.  ‘Balanced Proposal’  “The House Agriculture Committee will consider a balanced
proposal that saves taxpayers billions of dollars, recognizes
the diversity of American agriculture, respects the risks
producers face, and preserves the tools necessary for  food
production ,” Lucas said in a statement after the vote.  Lucas yesterday said his committee will begin debate on its
version of the legislation on July 11. Congress must pass a bill
by Sept. 30 to keep programs from expiring. A lapse would
require either an extension of the previous bill passed in 2008
or a reversion to the 1949 measure that underlies the current
law.  Groups including the National Corn Growers Association and
the American Soybean Association support the Senate plan, saying
it helps farmers while lowering the  federal budget  deficit.  The Senate bill is S. 3240.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  