-- Senate Seeks Government Studies on Budget-Cut Effects
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-21T18:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/senate-seeks-government-studies-on-budget-cut-effects.html
The  U.S. Senate  asked the government
to conduct three studies on the likely effects of $1.2 trillion
in automatic budget cuts scheduled to start in January.  By voice vote today, senators adopted an amendment ordering
reports from the Defense Department on how $500 billion in cuts
to its programs starting in 2013 would affect national security,
from the Office of Management and Budget on the effect of all
the reductions, and from President  Barack Obama  on how his
administration would implement the automatic spending decreases,
known as sequestration.  “This is a strong sign that both sides understand the pain
that sequestration would inflict,” said Senator  Patty Murray , a
Washington Democrat who worked on the proposal with Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican. It was adopted as an amendment to
legislation setting farm policy through fiscal 2017.  McCain, the top Republican on the Armed Services Committee,
is pushing to spare defense programs from the automatic cuts.  “At least the American people will know what the effects
of sequestration will be,” he said after the vote. He said he
hoped the analysis will help “galvanize” the public to push
lawmakers to agree on an alternative.  The Pentagon study would be due Aug. 15. The OMB report
would be required within 30 days after enactment of the measure
ordering the study. The president would have 60 days to submit
his report.  Defense Targets  McCain had planned to offer an amendment calling solely for
a report from the Defense Department. Such a provision also has
been included in an Armed Services Committee measure setting
defense spending targets and policy for the 2013 fiscal year,
which starts Oct. 1. The provision received bipartisan support
from committee members.  The Defense Department has said it doesn’t have plans for
the cuts. It already expects to cut $487 billion from its budget
over the next decade. The sequestration would be in addition to
that.  The administration and Congress may not start negotiating
ways to reduce the  deficit  until after the November election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  