-- Severn Trent Offers First RPI Bonds From a U.K. Water Utility
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-06-21T10:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/severn-trent-offers-first-rpi-bonds-from-a-u-k-water-utility.html
Severn Trent Plc offered the first
retail price index-linked debt from a U.K. water utility to non-
professional investors under a multiyear program as companies
seek alternatives to traditional corporate debt and bank loans.  “We expect this market will continue to grow,” Chief
Financial Officer Mike McKeon said today in a telephone
interview. “Investors are looking at these kind of products and
issuers are looking for other sources of liquidity. We’re
looking at this as a multiyear program.”  Britain’s second-largest water company plans to raise 50
million to 100 million pounds ($157 million) and expects to
return to the retail  bond market  every 12 to 18 months, he said.  Severn Trent’s plan follows a trend of borrowers seeking
new areas of funding in the U.K., with National Grid Plc raising
260 million pounds through an RPI-linked bond in September. The
U.K. this month began a “funding for lending” plan to spur
banks to offer more financing for companies and households as
the government struggles to ignite economic growth.  “With the bond markets less liquid and bank-financing
markets tough, it is no surprise that U.K. utilities continue to
find innovative sources of funding,” Mark Freshney, analyst at
 Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) , wrote in a note today to investors.  Severn Trent’s bonds will pay interest semi-annually at a
real rate of 1.3 percent a year, adjusted for changes in the
RPI, the Coventry, England-based company said in a statement.
Barclays Bank Plc and Investec Bank Plc are acting as joint
managers. The offer will be open until about July 4 and the
issue is likely to take place on July 11, Severn Trent said.  Capital Intensive  “We’re a heavy capital-intensive business and we’re
constantly looking at issuing new bonds and refinancing existing
bonds,” McKeon said. “Traditionally we’ve used the wholesale
market. We believe we can be successful in this market.”  The company is two years into a five-year plan to invest
2.5 billion pounds repairing and improving its water networks.
U.K. water utilities are required to meet expenditure targets
set by regulator Ofwat, with the funds coming from customers,
whose price caps are also set by the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  