-- Short Sellers Target Brazil’s Usiminas as Debt Balloons
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-06-21T13:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/short-sellers-target-brazil-s-usiminas-as-debt-balloons.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA ’s rising debt costs and its ranking as the most expensive
Brazilian steelmaker are fueling bets the stock may slump
further after hitting an eight-year low this week.  The ratio of borrowed shares in Usiminas, an indication of
short selling, exceeds 12 percent of floating equity, the
highest for any metals and mining company in  Brazil , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowed shares of top Brazilian
producer  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  is 3.45 percent, while the ratio for  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID)  is 4.51 percent.  Shrinking demand from the  auto industry  and a local
currency decline that’s inflating the cost of its dollar debt
are hurting Usiminas, whose preferred shares fell 46 percent in
the past 12 months. After net debt surged about 70 percent in
March from a year earlier, Usiminas may sell new equity if debt
ratios continue deteriorating, Bank of America Corp. analysts
said in a June 5 note to customers.  “There’s no other way than selling shares and increasing
capital if Usiminas wants to keep its investment plans,” Jose Luiz Garcia, who helps manage 3.2 billion reais ($1.6 billion)
at Rio de Janeiro-based Mercatto Gestao de Recursos, said in a
telephone interview. “What we see is a company with low
margins, high debt and few prospects of earnings improvement.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Usiminas’s credit rating
two levels to Ba2 on May 10, making it the first Brazilian
company to lose its investment grade this year. The downgrade
reflects the “continued deterioration” in the company’s
operating results, Moody’s said in a statement at the time.  Usiminas, based in  Belo Horizonte , declined to comment on
this article when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Highest Valuation  Usiminas is trading  28.5 times  analysts’ earnings estimates
for this year, the highest of local rivals and No. 3 among 15
global peers tracked by Bloomberg. Gerdau trades at 13.7 times
estimates and CSN at 9.8.  Of the 20 analysts who rate the preferred stock and are
tracked by Bloomberg, 11 advise clients to sell, while six say
hold and three  recommend  buying Usiminas shares. Three others
have put their ratings under review. The company will post 2012
profit excluding some items of 205.5 million reais, the average
of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg  survey . That would be the
lowest annual  profit  since 2002, when Usiminas had a 367.5
million-real loss before some items.  Usiminas tumbled to an eight-year low on June 19 after
Deutsche Bank AG cut the stock to sell, citing “deteriorating
earnings,” and Sao Paulo-based Valor Economico newspaper
reported that the company may sell shares and assets to raise at
least 1.5 billion reais of additional capital. The stock slid 2
percent to 6.90 reais at 10:27 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  today.  ‘Complex Situation’  Regulations in Brazil prohibit so-called naked short
selling, when traders short shares without actually taking
possession of them. Investors in Brazil borrow stock to use for
short-selling, hedging and tax purposes. Short selling allows
traders to profit from drops by selling stock and buying it
later at a lower price.  “Usiminas is in a very difficult and complex situation,
and this is reflected in the figures,” Usiminas Chief Executive
Officer Julian Eguren said on an April 24 conference call with
analysts.  An 11 percent decline in the Brazilian real against the
U.S. dollar in the 12 months ended March 31 caused Usiminas’s
foreign-currency debt to balloon, prompting the company to ask
bondholders to renegotiate clauses that can trigger an early
payment. Local bondholders approved the waiver in a June 11
meeting.  Dilution  Usiminas committed to keeping local debt less than 4.7
billion reais, dollar debt under $2.2 billion and a cash
position of at least 3.5 billion reais. Usiminas had 8.78
billion reais in debt as of March 31, with about 46 percent of
it denominated in U.S. dollars, according to an April 23 company
statement.  Usiminas’  preferred shares  lost 2.2 percent to 7.04 reais
yesterday, extending its decline during 2012 to 31 percent.
Porto Alegre-based Gerdau  gained  21 percent in the period and
Sao Paulo-based CSN dropped 18 percent. The Brazilian benchmark
Bovespa index is up 0.7 percent this year. Usiminas’s voting
shares, the index’s worst performer this year, fell 45 percent.  “We don’t think it is worth it for investors to build a
position in Usiminas now,” Daniella Maia, chief analyst at
brokerage Ativa SA CTV in  Rio de Janeiro , said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “If a new share sale really happens,
current shareholders will be very diluted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  