-- Slim Boosts Odds of Winning KPN After Failed German Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-21T17:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/slim-boosts-odds-of-winning-kpn-after-failed-german-talks.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , seeking to fend off
 America Movil  SAB’s 2.6 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) bid for a
stake in the Dutch phone company, will start the sale of its
Belgian mobile-phone division next month.  KPN completed a strategic review and will begin the sale
process of the BASE unit in July, which people familiar with the
matter previously estimated may fetch about 1.8 billion euros.
The Hague, Netherlands-based KPN reiterated today that America
Movil’s 8 euro-a-share unsolicited offer for as much as a 27.7
stake undervalues the former Dutch phone monopoly.  KPN is moving ahead with a disposal after ending
discussions on potential market consolidation involving its E-
Plus unit in  Germany  because of “adverse conditions” in the
financial markets. To defend itself, KPN had been evaluating
options with  Telefonica SA (TEF) , including a merger of KPN’s E-Plus
unit with Telefonica’s O2, the two smaller of Germany’s four
wireless operators, people familiar the matter said this month.  “I can’t imagine that America Movil is going to be best
pleased at the tactic of selling off one of the growth assets,
even if it was the smaller one of the two,” said Paul Marsch,
an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.  KPN shares fell 5.3 percent to close at 7.48 euros on the
Amsterdam exchange today. The failed talks in Germany left KPN
Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok with few options to counter
America Movil’s offer, which ends June 27. KPN said today its
accelerated investment strategy in the Netherlands is on track.  “BASE is a best-in-class No. 3 mobile player in  Europe ,”
KPN said. “The proceeds will be used to improve KPN’s credit
profile and financial flexibility.”  KPN said April 16 it had started reviewing the future of
BASE. Private equity firms including Bain Capital LLC and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. are among those that may make an offer,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  CEO Mike Fries said in a June 12
interview that he would consider the Belgian asset.  “We’ll take a look at it,” Fries said. “Whether it’s
something we’ll do is hard to say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  