-- SmartMoney Editor Is Said to Lose Job as Print Edition Ends
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-21T22:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/smartmoney-editor-is-said-to-lose-job-as-print-edition-ends-1-.html
SmartMoney  Editor-in-Chief Jonathan Dahl and two dozen other staffers will lose their jobs as part
of Dow Jones & Co.’s plan to stop producing a print edition of
the personal-finance magazine, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  The monthly title will cease printing after its September
issue, though it will continue online, News Corp.’s Dow Jones
division said earlier today in a statement. The editorial staff
of SmartMoney.com will add six new positions and the site’s
employees will report to Raju Narisetti, managing editor of the
Wall Street Journal’s digital operations.  “It’s clear that the volatility of markets and asset
classes has increased the need for rapid delivery of personal
finance intelligence, so we will be expanding our team and
presence on the Web,” Robert Thomson, editor-in-chief of  Dow
Jones (IYR)  and managing editor of the Wall Street Journal, said in
the statement.  SmartMoney was started in 1992 to capitalize on burgeoning
interest in personal finance. In recent years, it has struggled
to maintain advertising sales, mirroring the broader print-
journalism business. The magazine’s ad pages fell 10 percent
this year through the June issue, compared with a year earlier,
according to  Media Industry Newsletter .  Hearst Venture  SmartMoney, which was founded as a joint venture between
Dow Jones and Hearst Corp., became fully owned by Dow Jones in
2010 when the company bought out Hearst’s 50 percent stake. It
had a circulation of about 815,000 as of December, according to
the  Audit Bureau of Circulations .  The announcement follows a management shake-up under the
leadership of Lex Fenwick, a former Bloomberg LP executive who
took the Dow Jones CEO job in February.  Todd Larsen stepped down as president this week after being
passed over for the top job earlier this year. Other departures
included Scott Schulman, president of corporate markets group;
Lynne Brennen, head of circulation; and Bethany Sherman, the
chief communications officer.  Fenwick replaced  Les Hinton , who departed as Dow Jones CEO
in July amid fallout from a phone-hacking scandal at the parent
company’s U.K. newspaper unit. Hinton had been in charge of News
Corp.’s British newspapers at the time the hacking took place.  The company also announced this week that Alisa Bowen,
general manager of the company’s Wall Street Journal Digital
Network, will become head of product for Dow Jones. And the
division is creating a new department called Data Strategy that
will integrate its research teams. The operation will be run by
Joe Lanza, who currently serves as president of the company’s
Financial Markets.  Bloomberg competes with  News Corp. (NWSA)  units in providing
financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Nick Turner  at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  