-- Soccer Denying Impoverished City Shows Stadium Risk: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-06-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/soccer-denying-impoverished-city-shows-stadium-risk-muni-credit.html
Chester, Pennsylvania, the state’s
oldest city and where 35 percent of residents live in poverty,
has found that hosting an 18,500-seat  Major League Soccer 
stadium doesn’t guarantee economic success.  Four years ago, former social-sciences professor John
Linder questioned why promoters wanted to “bring soccer to a
basketball town.” As mayor since January, he’s been trying to
make the $122 million PPL Park, financed mostly with county and
state funds, generate enough money to meet the city’s costs.  Linder, 64, who taught at Delaware County Community College
in Media, Pennsylvania, may levy parking and amusement fees on
mostly out-of-town fans. He also wants Major League Soccer’s
Philadelphia Union to make a $500,000 payment in lieu of taxes
that it missed in 2010. The team says it’s negotiating the fee.  “What they’re paying us doesn’t cover our expenses,”
Linder said in a telephone interview. “I have a mandate to my
citizens that we persevere to get the best bang for our buck.”  From Glendale,  Arizona , to Harrison, New Jersey, officials
have learned that promises of economic gains tied to sports
venues can fizzle, burdening taxpayers. At least $10 billion in
municipal debt backs venues for professional sports, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ninth Place  In Chester, 15 miles (24 kilometers) south of Philadelphia,
public funds covered about 71 percent of the cost of the stadium
for the Union, which is in ninth place in the league’s 10-team
Eastern Conference. Related residential projects and a
convention center haven’t been built, leaving the  city  of 34,000
in a program for distressed communities that it entered in 1995.
Chester’s poverty rate is almost triple the state average.  The team has created 650 jobs at the stadium and has
donated to community organizations, Nick Sakiewicz, the Union’s
chief executive officer and operating partner, said yesterday.  “It’s hundreds of thousands of dollars that we’re kicking
back into the city,” Sakiewicz said in a telephone interview.
He said further development, stalled by the recession, is now
hung up because of the mayor’s fee proposals.  “No one wants to build in an uncertain tax climate,”
Sakiewicz said. He said the team would look for alternatives to
hiring city police if that’s a burden on the community.  Penalty Rate  Investors have been penalized. Surrounding Delaware County
sold $28.6 million in general-obligation debt in 2009 to help
cover the stadium’s cost. Bonds maturing in July 2039 traded
yesterday at an average yield of almost 3.5 percent, or about
0.4 percentage point above AAA debt, Bloomberg Valuation data
show. When the securities were issued in January 2009, they
yielded about the same as top-grade bonds. The bonds have a AA
rating from  Standard & Poor’s , third-highest.  The county in 2010 raised its hotel-occupancy tax to 3
percent from 2 percent to help pay off the debt.  “Stadiums tend not to be good neighbors at developing the
areas around them,” said Victor Matheson, who teaches sports
economics at the College of the  Holy Cross  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts . People are often “grasping at straws” when they
turn to such venues in hopes of spurring economic gains in
depressed communities, he said.  Communities from  Minneapolis  to  Santa Clara , in
 California ’s Silicon Valley, are betting that investing public
dollars in facilities for professional sports teams will unlock
economic fields of dreams. Yet in places such as Glendale, jobs
are being cut to help cover costs.  Coyotes Deal  Glendale, home to the  National Hockey League ’s  Phoenix
Coyotes , fired 49 workers in May and on June 12 raised the city
sales tax by 0.7 percentage point. Combined with county and
state charges, the total levy is 10.2 percent, among the highest
rates in the U.S. The move followed passage of a 20-year, $324
million lease accord for a potential Coyotes buyer, including
yearly payments to the team of as much as $20 million to run the
arena.  Chester, whose high school boys’ basketball team has won
eight state championships, has been trying to rebound from the
departure of shipbuilding and manufacturing industries.  The stadium was proposed as an anchor in a $500 million
development plan. It was projected to generate $69 million a
year in economic activity, producing $19 million in annual  tax
revenue , according to a 2008 application for a state grant.  Pennsylvania  provided $45.5 million for the project, said
Steven Kratz, a spokesman for the state Community and Economic
Development Department. The Delaware River  Port Authority , which
collects tolls on Philadelphia-area bridges and trains, kicked
in $10 million. PPL Park opened in 2010.  Payment Plan  Under the project agreement, the team is supposed to provide
$500,000 a year in payments in lieu of taxes, Linder said.
Chester has only received the money for 2011, he said.  Sakiewicz, the team’s chief executive, said he’ll make this
year’s payment if the city will send a bill for the money. He
said it is negotiating an agreement for the 2010 obligation.  Linder said he’ll send a bill for the 2012 payment, if
that’s what it will take to get the funds. No bill was needed
before the team sent its 2011 payment, he said by telephone.  Harrison, the  New Jersey  home of the soccer league’s New
York Red Bulls, sued the team for money it says is due. A tax-
court judge in  Newark  ruled that the team owed Harrison
property taxes that went unpaid 2010 and 2011.  Chester has to pay expenses related to policing its venue,
which has averaged 18,400 fans per Union game this year. Income
taxes paid by residents working at the stadium on game days are
sparse, the mayor said.  If proposed parking and amusement fees, or some other
revenue alternatives, aren’t set up, fire services may be
curtailed, he said.  “I wish there would have been better monitoring built in”
to ensure costs were covered, Linder said about the stadium
deal.  Following are pending sales:  LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY plans to issue $500 million of
tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used for capital
projects and to refund debt. (Added June 21)  NEW YORK  STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY plans to issue $1.1
billion in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as next week,
according to an offering statement. Proceeds will be used to
fund capital projects. On June 12, S&P lowered its outlook on
the agency’s debt to negative from stable and assigned the
securities an A+ rating, fifth-highest. (Updated June 21)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  