-- Solvency II Phase-In, Dubai ‘2012’ Law, China: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-21T12:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/solvency-ii-phase-in-dubai-2012-law-china-bonds-compliance.html
The European Union is considering
phasing in new capital rules for the life insurance industry
over seven years, easing the burden on insurers who had
criticized the changes.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, is
considering the change as it negotiates with insurers and
members of the European parliament about the transition from the
current Solvency I regime to Solvency II rules, Karel van Hulle,
the EC’s head of pension and insurance, said in a telephone
interview from Brussels yesterday.  The proposal was discussed at a meeting in Brussels
yesterday, according to Stefaan de Rynck, a spokesman for  Michel
Barnier , the European Commissioner for Financial Services.
Solvency II, which is scheduled to be applied in 2014, aims to
improve policyholder protection by forcing insurers to hold more
capital as a buffer against potential investment losses.  About 40 percent of German life insurers would have
problems complying with the new rules, Financial Times
Deutschland reported yesterday. Prudential Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest insurer by market value, has threatened to leave Britain
if Solvency II hinders its U.S. business.  The seven-year transition could buy the industry time to
come up with a long-term solution to its struggle with the low
interest-rate environment that reduces yields insurers earn on
their investments, according to Stephan Kalb, who heads  Fitch
Ratings ’ insurance ratings team.  The Council of the European Union and the European
Parliament will vote on the plans, which could be finalized at
the beginning of July, van Hulle said.  Compliance Policy  Dubai’s Ruler Makes Changes to Some Laws for Financial Center  The  Dubai Financial Services Authority , the regulator of
Dubai’s tax-free financial center, said Dubai’s ruler had
 enacted two laws  that alter some provisions of the center’s
markets law and regulatory law.  The Markets Law 2012 replaces the Markets Law 2004. It
brings about a number of changes including modifications to
prospectus disclosure, DFSA said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The new law also changes provisions relating to what
activities constitute an offer, market misconduct provisions and
corporate governance, according to the statement. The Regulatory
Law Amendment Law 2012 allows the DFSA to undertake regulatory
oversight of auditors within the DIFC, according to the
statement.  The Dubai International Financial Center opened in 2004 to
attract international banks, asset managers and insurers and is
home to the regional offices of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)  The center also has a
stock exchange and is governed by its own laws that seek to
match regulatory standards in developed markets.  Separately, Dubai will make the registration of property-
rental contracts mandatory starting next month as the emirate
seeks to collect rental-market data.  The requirement will start next month and help Dubai’s Real
Estate Regulatory Agency, known as RERA, better set the
emirate’s rental index to stop landlords from charging
inflatable rents, RERA Chief Executive Officer Marwan bin
Ghalita told reporters yesterday. Real-estate brokers will need
to comply to receive or renew trade licenses.  Indonesia May Allow Banks to Own as Much as 90% of Local Lenders  Indonesia may allow banks to own as much as 90 percent of
commercial lenders, easing concerns on ownership caps that may
affect acquisitions including DBS Group Holdings Ltd.’s bid for
 PT Bank Danamon Indonesia. (BDMN)   Bank Indonesia  plans to announce the ownership rule before
July, Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad, who’s in charge of banking
regulations, said in Jakarta after a speech yesterday. In
response to reporters’ questions, Hadad said that while the
ownership stake could be as high as 90 percent of local lenders,
“this will be on a very selective basis.”  The comment comes two months after Singapore’s DBS’s 66
trillion rupiah ($7 billion) bid for Danamon, which triggered
proposals from Bank Indonesia’s officials to restrict the
shareholding of local lenders by other financial institutions.
The possible limit led traders to bet that the deal, Southeast
Asia’s largest banking takeover, may unravel. The takeover of
Danamon would give DBS a 3,000-branch network of 6 million
customers, more than the entire  population  of Singapore.  That would make it the largest takeover of a Southeast
Asian bank, exceeding Singapore-based  United Overseas Bank
Ltd. (UOB) ’s $5.5 billion acquisition of local rival Overseas Union
Bank Ltd. in 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s parliament this week approved Hadad to head the
board of a national financial regulator due to start operating
in January 2013.  For more, click here.  China Measures Said to Boost Bond Market, Issuer Scrutiny  China  is allowing more companies to trade bonds and
increasing scrutiny over issuers as the government seeks to
ensure that the expansion of its nascent debt market isn’t
derailed by defaults.  The top economic planning agency ordered local governments
to examine the ability of companies to repay bonds maturing in
2012 and 2013, two people with direct knowledge of the matter
said June 18, asking not to be identified as they weren’t
authorized to speak to media. The China  Securities Regulatory
Commission  began allowing mutual funds to invest in private
placements by smaller companies, according to an agency document
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Chinese companies sold more debt in the first five months
of the year than in all of 2010 as the government encouraged
companies to boost fundraising through sales of equity and bonds
in a campaign to wean them off  loans  from state-owned banks and
make their finances more transparent. The growth is spurring
concern given that China has never had a domestic bond default,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  China’s 4.2 trillion  yuan  ($659 billion) corporate bond
market is about 9 percent of its gross domestic product.  For more, click here.  Position Limits in Commodities Requested by Development Group  Position limits in commodities traded in the European Union
are needed to prevent “excessive speculation” from
contributing to hunger and poverty, the London-based  World
Development Movement  said.  Data from the U.S. show that speculators held as much as 60
percent of a futures contract, it said in an e-mail yesterday.
Speculators allow companies that need to hedge against price
changes a way to share the risk.  U.K.-based World Development Movement is an “anti-poverty
campaigning” organization, according to a statement on its
website.  Basel Group Said to Agree on Rules for Large National Banks  Global financial regulators reached an agreement to toughen
oversight of lenders whose collapse would threaten national
economies, according to two people with knowledge of the
discussions.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , meeting in
Stockholm, agreed on rules to monitor  lenders  that escaped plans
last year to force international financial institutions to set
aside more money to weather a crisis. The rules create a
blueprint to identify and regulate banks that have a large
presence in a single country, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the meetings were private.  The regulators will seek comment on the measures before
finalizing them later this year, the people said.  The Group of 20 nations has called for tougher regulation
to boost the resilience of lenders whose collapse would cause
economic turmoil. The push comes on top of measures published by
the Basel committee in 2010 to more than triple the core- capital
requirements  of all internationally active banks.  Authorities last year published a provisional list of 29
financial institutions that they said should face capital
surcharges of as much as 2.5 percent of their risk-weighted
assets because their collapse would have global ramifications.
While the committee doesn’t intend to draw up a list of the new
domestically systemic, or D-SIB, banks, the plans include
guidance for supervisors on identifying and regulating them, the
people said.  Regulators also said banks on the list should face
heightened supervision.  The paper will give guidance to authorities on what kinds
of instruments such lenders should be allowed to count toward
meeting additional capital requirements, one of the people said.
The group will leave it to national regulators to specify how
much extra capital their identified lenders should hold. The
committee also agreed on a package of rules for derivatives
trading, one of the people said.  Compliance Action  Kuwait Central Bank Sets Lenders New Governance Rules, KUNA Says  Kuwait’s central bank released new governance guidelines
for local lenders to follow starting July 1, state-run news
agency  KUNA  reported yesterday, citing Governor Mohammed al-
Hashel.  The new rules are an upgrade of regulations in place since
2004 and “take into consideration the lessons learned from the
recent global financial crisis,” KUNA cited al-Hashel as
saying.  U.K. to Require Public Companies to Report CO2 Emissions  The U.K. will require publicly listed companies to report
their greenhouse-gas emissions starting in April 2013,
Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman said in a  written
statement  to Parliament in London yesterday.  Spelman said the mandatory reporting will provide
“transparency enabling investors to see how listed companies
are managing their carbon liabilities.”  SAC’s Cohen Said to Be Deposed in SEC Probe of Insider Trading  Steven A. Cohen , the billionaire founder of hedge fund SAC
Capital Advisors LP, is facing renewed scrutiny from U.S.
regulators over whether he illegally bought and sold stocks
using inside information, two people familiar with the matter
said.  Cohen, 56, was recently deposed by Securities and Exchange
Commission investigators in New York about trades made close to
news such as mergers and earnings that generated profits for his
fund, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the investigation isn’t public. Neither Cohen nor
Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital, which oversees about
$14 billion, has been accused of wrongdoing.  SAC Capital has repeatedly landed in the cross hairs of a
federal crackdown on  insider trading  on  Wall Street  that burst
into public view in October 2009 with the arrest of Raj
Rajaratnam, founder of Galleon Group LLC. U.S. criminal
prosecutors said last year they were looking at trading accounts
at SAC Capital, including one run by Cohen that consists of the
best ideas from the firm’s portfolio managers and analysts. Also
last year, two former traders pleaded guilty to engaging in
criminal  securities fraud  while at SAC Capital.  Cohen, who made his name as a rapid-fire stock trader, is
one of the biggest and most successful managers in the $2.13
trillion hedge-fund business.  For more, click here.  Courts  Hontex to Compensate Investors After Reaching Settlement  Hontex International Holdings Co. (946) , suspended from trading
after the Hong Kong securities regulator accused it of
misleading investors, agreed to pay shareholders HK$1.03 billion
($133 million) to end a lawsuit.  Hontex “accepts and acknowledges” that statements in its
prospectus were false and misleading, Simon Westbrook, a lawyer
for the  Securities and Futures Commission , said on the 13th day
of a High Court trial in which the regulator accused the fabric
maker of inflating figures in its December 2009 listing
prospectus.  It’s the first time the Hong Kong regulator has negotiated
a share repurchase by a listed company to compensate initial
public offering investors.  Hontex admitted to “being reckless” and said it isn’t
able to verify what its true financial position was in the three
years before the listing, said Westbrook, reading from a list of
agreed facts signed by the Fujian province-based company and the
regulator. High Court Judge Jonathan Harris made the order to
proceed with a repurchase offer plan.  The agreement shouldn’t be taken as admissions of criminal
liability by Hontex or its directors, according to an SFC
statement yesterday. Hontex plans to work with regulators to
reinstate trading, the lawyer added.  Interviews/Hearings  SEC’s Schapiro Tells Congress Money Markets Prone to Runs  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  will tell a Senate panel today that money-market mutual
funds are vulnerable to runs and must face rules to avoid
taxpayer bailouts.  “Unless money-market fund regulation is reformed,
taxpayers and markets will continue to be at risk that a money-
market fund can transform a moderate financial shock into a
destabilizing run,” Schapiro said in testimony prepared for a
Senate Banking Committee hearing. “In such a scenario, policy
makers would again be left with two unacceptable choices: a
bailout or a crisis.”  Schapiro told lawmakers that money funds should be required
to float their net asset values or increase their capital
buffers. She also said in the prepared remarks that limits on
redemptions could “further enhance a money-market fund’s
resiliency.”  The five commissioners at the SEC are divided on whether
and how to propose rules for money-market funds. Concern over
money funds, once seen as among the safest of investments, grew
after the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund, triggering a broader run that contributed to a
freeze in global financial markets.  For more, click here.  NYSE CEO Says Market Structure Leaves Public ’Disconnected’  High-frequency trading and so-called dark pools and other
market structure developments have eroded public confidence in
equity markets,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan
Niederauer  told lawmakers yesterday.  “The public has never been more disconnected,” Niederauer
said in Washington at a House Financial Services subcommittee
hearing called to examine ways to ensure “orderly, efficient,
innovative and competitive” markets. “The citizenry has lost
trust and confidence in the underlying mechanism,” he said.  Lawmakers and regulators have been reviewing innovations
such as high-frequency and algorithmic trading since a May 2010
market plunge temporarily erased $862 billion in U.S. equity
value.  Representative John Campbell, a California Republican, said
at the hearing that events such as the May 2010 plunge and
innovations like dark pools and high frequency trading leave the
public suspicious of Wall Street.  Niederauer, 52, who runs the biggest U.S. stock exchange
operator, responded that “what used to be an investors’ market
is now thought of as a traders’ market.”  Domenici Says EU Limits Credit-Ratings Rotation Plan  European Union lawmaker Leonardo Domenici spoke at a news
conference in Brussels about the regulation of credit-ratings
companies.  Yesterday, lawmakers voted to scrap most of a proposal to
force businesses to rotate the firms they hire to assess their
debt, while backing tighter restrictions on sovereign-debt
ratings.  For the video, click here.  BOE’s Jenkins Says Investors Must Adapt to New Liquidity Risks  Bank of England official Robert Jenkins said investors must
adapt their strategies to a world where liquidity “is no longer
limitless and no longer free.”  “Confronted with sudden surges in cross-border flows,
elected governments will attempt to intervene in the interests
of stability generally and to protect their taxpayers
specifically,” Jenkins said. “Your well-timed trading
strategies will not be allowed to get in the way.”  He made the remarks at the Global Alternative Investment
Management conference in Monaco yesterday.  Jenkins, a member of the U.K. central bank’s Financial
Policy Committee, also said that the crisis in Europe has
increased the risk that government actions may hurt borrowers’
ability to repay debts.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  James Kroeker to Step Down as SEC Chief Accountant Next Month  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced its
second high profile resignation in less than a week yesterday
when it said that James Kroeker, its chief accountant, will
leave the agency in July.  Kroeker, 42, joined the SEC in 2007 as deputy chief
accountant before becoming the agency’s top accountant in 2009.
During his time at the agency, Kroeker focused on a review of
fair value accounting standards and sought to improve reporting
of off-balance sheet assets.  The SEC said Kroeker plans to return to the private sector.  The agency announced June 15 that Eileen Rominger, head of
the SEC’s investment management unit, will step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  