-- South Sudanese Prisoners Held Years Without Charge
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-06-21T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/south-sudanese-prisoners-held-years-without-charge.html
Prisoners in  South Sudan  often
languish for years in “dire conditions” before going to trial,
New York-based Human Rights Watch said.  About a third of South Sudan’s approximately 6,000
prisoners haven’t been convicted of an offence and remain
detained while they wait for their cases to be processed,  Human
Rights Watch  said today in an e-mailed statement. The
organization said its researchers interviewed more than 250
inmates and legal authorities over a 10-month period.  “Judges pass long sentences and even condemn to death
people who, without legal assistance, were unable to understand
the nature of charges against them or to call and prepare
witnesses in their defense,” Human Rights Watch said.  Landlocked South Sudan, one of  Africa ’s poorest regions,
gained independence in July following decades of conflict with
the north. Its 79 prisons are overcrowded and unhygenic,  Human
Rights Watch  said, citing the death of at least 15 people due to
disease last year in just two facilities. Inmates reported
routine beatings with sticks and whips, it said.  The group said its researchers found that many prisoners
were detained for activities that were not illegal, such as
adultery, while others were held to compel family members
suspected of crimes to turn themselves in.  About 90 people are imprisoned because they appear to have
mental disabilities, according to Human Rights Watch.  Justice Minister John Luk Jok and Rodento Tongun, a public
relations officer from the prisons service, had their phones
switched off, while Information Minister Barnaba Marial Benjamin
didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  Legal Notice  “I think right away there should be a legal notice from
the Ministry of Justice that prisoners who have not been charged
should be set free,” Victor Lowilla, a senior legal aid
attorney with the South  Sudan  Law Society, said yesterday by
phone from Juba, the capital.  Lowilla said government salaries for public prosecutors are
so low that most qualified lawyers go into private practice.
Prosecutors and members of “traditional courts” that operate
in much of the country need training, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  