-- South Africa Posts Biggest Current Account Gap in 3 Years
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-21T10:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/south-africa-current-account-gap-widens-as-export-proceeds-sink.html
South  Africa  posted its biggest
current-account deficit in three years in the first quarter as a
stronger rand and a slump in global demand cut exports in
Africa’s largest economy.  The  shortfall  on the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, widened to 4.9 percent of gross
domestic product from 3.6 percent in the previous three months,
the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin released in
 Pretoria  today. The median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 4.5 percent.  The rand gained 5.4 percent against the dollar in the first
quarter, the second-best performer of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. That’s hurt export earnings at the same
time that a debt crisis in Europe curbs demand from a region
that buys about a third of South African manufactured goods.  “The second and third quarters are definitely going to
look quite a lot weaker,” Gina Schoeman, an economist at  Absa
Group Ltd. (ASA) , said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.
“Imports aren’t going to deteriorate as much as exports and
that will put pressure on the current account deficit.”  The deficit may widen to about 5 percent to 5.5 percent
this year from 3.3 percent in 2011, Schoeman said. The
government is estimating the shortfall will reach an average of
4.4 percent a year over the next three years.  Foreign Inflows  The rand was at 8.2418 against the dollar as of 12 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 8.2578 before the data was released. The yield
on the rand debt due in 2015 rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 6.01 percent today.  A stronger rand last quarter led “to a contraction in
export proceeds over the period,” according to the report.
“The slowdown in industrial production in some of  South
Africa ’s key export markets dampened the demand for especially
South Africa-produced mining commodities.”  South Africa relies on foreign investment in stocks and
bonds to fund the current account gap, inflows that have
fluctuated this year as investors sell off riskier, emerging-
market assets.  Export earnings fell 2.4 percent to 697.7 billion rand
($84.4 billion) in the first quarter, while imports rose 0.3
percent to 819 billion rand, the central bank said.  Interest Rates  The current-account gap was adequately funded by foreign
portfolio inflows, which more than doubled to 29 billion rand in
the first quarter from 13 billion rand in the previous three
months. Foreign direct investment dropped by more than half to
7.7 billion rand in the first three months of the year, the bank
said.  A slump in exports comes as consumers and the government
cut back on spending, undermining the economy’s recovery. Growth
in  consumer spending , which accounts for two-thirds of
expenditure in the economy, slowed to an annualized 3.1 percent
in the first quarter from 4.6 percent in the previous three
months, the central bank said in its report.  “Poor global prospects will hurt  consumer confidence  and
increase worries about  job security ,”  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  said
in an e-mailed note to clients today. “Given the deterioration
in domestic spending and the unexpected easing in inflation,
chances of an interest rate cut have increased.”  The Reserve Bank has left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent, the lowest level in more than 30
years, since November 2010. Governor Gill Marcus said on July 8
policy makers are ready to adjust  interest rates  in either
direction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  