-- Spain to Make Bank-Aid Request Within Days, Guindos Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-21T15:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/spain-to-make-bank-aid-request-within-days-guindos-says.html
Spain  will formally request European
Union aid for its struggling banks in the coming days and the
euro-region’s permanent rescue fund would be the ideal vehicle
to provide the support, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said.  The request is now a “mere formality,” de Guindos said in
Luxembourg before the start of a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers. Details of bank stress tests to be released later
today will eliminate doubts about the lenders and bring
“transparency” about just how much money they will need, he
said.  Spain’s Economy Ministry is set to announce today in  Madrid 
just how much capital its banks need as it publishes the results
of an audit carried out by consultants  Oliver Wyman  and  Roland
Berger . De Guindos said he will use those reports to help
determine how much of the 100 billion-euro European loan the
nation will tap.  The most important thing now is the result of the stress
tests and “the different steps” needed to carry out the
capital injection for some Spanish banks, he said.  While details on how the lenders will receive the aid have
yet to be determined, De Guindos said the European Stability
Mechanism, which is due to come into effect next month, would be
the ideal vehicle to provide the capital to his country’s
banking system.  “As you know, the permanent mechanism will in theory start
working in the coming days and in a way it is ideal to inject
capital into the banks,” he said. “By the end of July we will
have a very clear and detailed idea of how the process will be
carried out.”  Using the ESM may mean the loans would have preferred
status over other Spanish debt in case of a default, which could
make Spanish  government bonds  less appealing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  