-- Spain’s Banks Need Up to $78 Billion, Report Shows
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-22T14:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/spain-s-banks-need-up-to-78-billion-assessors-report-says.html
Spain ’s banks would need as much as
62 billion euros ($78 billion) in capital to withstand a worst-
case economic scenario, according to two consulting firms hired
by the government to conduct stress tests on the lenders.  Oliver Wyman Ltd. estimated banks would need between 51
billion euros and 62 billion euros should Spanish gross domestic
product shrink by a combined 6.5 percent over three years and
 house prices  drop 60 percent from the peak. Roland Berger
Strategy Consultants said lenders would need 51.8 billion euros
under those conditions. The study didn’t consider potential
losses on  government bonds .  Spain  hired the firms  last month to estimate capital
shortfalls as investors questioned the health of lenders
pummeled by a five-year real estate slump. Spanish bank stocks
surged today, paced by the nationalized  Bankia SA (BKIA) , after the
 European Central Bank  was said to relax rules on the collateral
lenders can use for funding and Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said there was now a “roadmap” to solve the crisis.  “We believe the stress tests factor in severe enough
losses,” Morgan Stanley analysts Alvaro Serrano, Lee A. Street
and Sara Minelli said in a research note today. “Although some
market participants were expecting more capital needs, once
endorsed by the audit, we believe the 51-62 billion euros will
be enough to improve confidence.”  Funding Needs  De Guindos has said Spain will use the results of the
studies to determine how much money it might need to draw from
the 100 billion euros made available by  Europe  after it
requested funding to clean up banks.  He said today in Luxembourg that Spain would send a letter
on June 25 to request the aid. A memorandum of understanding on
the terms of the aid will be put together in the next two to
three weeks and that’s more important than the formal request,
de Guindos told reporters.  Not all analysts were satisfied by the results of the
stress tests.  “We would have been more comfortable if these numbers had
come out closer to 80 billion,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial
industry strategist at Olivetree Securities in  London .  Fitch
Ratings  said in a report today that the 6 percent core tier one
capital ratio being used for the  stress test  “appears low.”  Shares Rise  Bankia surged as much as 25 percent,  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA rose as
much as 6.8 percent and  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  climbed as much
as 11.9 percent in  Madrid  trading. Banco Sabadell SA jumped as
much as 9.3 percent after its Chairman Josep Oliu ruled out
seeking state aid.  The ECB decided yesterday to lower the minimum rating
threshold for mortgage-backed securities to BBB- from A-,
according to an official who declined to be identified. Spanish
banks have been unable to use some securities as collateral
because the rating is too low, the person said.  The European Commission, which will impose conditions on
how Spain’s banking industry is restructured, likes the idea of
setting up a so-called bad bank to hold soured assets, Deputy
Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said at a briefing in
Madrid yesterday.  “They like the idea of the bad bank, but we’ve only just
started talking and it will become clearer,” Latorre said.  Spanish officials have repeatedly ruled out setting up a
bad bank, which removes troubled assets from bank balance sheets
by acquiring them at a discount. Latorre said the government
will make its request for European bailout funds in coming days.  Adverse Scenario  The  studies  by  Roland Berger  and Oliver Wyman are based on
data for banks at the end of 2011 and follow the publication on
June 8 of an International Monetary Fund report that showed
banks needed at least 37 billion euros to withstand a worsening
economy. An IMF official said at the time Spain may need to
build a buffer of 60 billion euros to 80 billion euros.  “The market is as likely to have as many questions now
about the Spanish bank recapitalization as it did before the
announcement,” Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International
in Madrid, said in a phone interview.  In the so-called central scenario, the banks would need
between 16 billion euros and 25 billion euros through 2014,
 Oliver Wyman  said. Roland Berger said banks would need 25.6
billion euros in that situation.  The adverse scenario assumes that land values fall as much
as 90 percent from their peak, unemployment reaches 25.1 percent
this year, 26.8 percent next year and 27.2 percent in 2014 and
10-year bond yields stay above 7.4 percent for three years. The
national  unemployment rate  currently stands at 24.3 percent and
Spanish  10-year bonds  yield about 6.7 percent.  Bailed Out  Oliver Wyman said its study estimated losses for banks of
as much as 274 billion euros, an amount that would be mitigated
by provisions, asset protection programs, profit generation and
excess capital buffers to give the maximum 62 billion-euro
capital shortfall.  Most of the capital needs are concentrated among lenders
that have already been bailed out by Spain’s bank restructuring
fund, Fernando Restoy, the Bank of Spain’s deputy governor, said
at the Madrid briefing. The country’s top three banks won’t
require a recapitalization even in the worst case, Roland Berger
said, without identifying the institutions.  ‘We’re not talking about someone urgently needing a certain
amount of capital to meet its commitments at the moment,” said
Restoy. “We’re talking about the capital that would be needed
if we saw a scenario of extreme tension that is very far from
being likely to happen.”  More Audits  Spain has also hired four accounting firms to review how
banks account for doubtful loans. Results of the second round of
the auditing process are due July 31. A third analysis, which
wasn’t previously announced and will also use a “bottom-up”
approach, will be published in September, Latorre added.  By mid-October, banks will have to prepare recapitalization
plans for submission to the Bank of Spain and the European
Commission in liaison with the ECB, the Economy Ministry and
Bank of Spain said in a statement. Once approved, banks will
have to raise the required capital within nine months.  The results follow previous attempts by the government this
year to bolster confidence in banks by forcing them to increase
provisions for soured real estate and boost reserves to cover
property loans that are still being repaid.  Government orders in February and May require banks to set
aside 82 billion euros for real estate, boosting provisions on
those assets to 45 percent of the 307 billion-euro total.  The stress-test results don’t take into account those
provisions because they are based data from the end of 2011.  ‘Additional Burden’  “The results confirm that the actions carried out by the
government so far were necessary and that the estimates in
relation to provisions and recapitalizations were correct,”
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said. “I repeat my wish that the
financial assistance is approved as soon as possible.”  The government’s takeover of the Bankia group last month
fueled investors’ concerns that repeated attempts to clean up
the financial system over the past three years had failed.  Bankia, Spain’s third-biggest lender, based a May 25
request for 19 billion euros of state aid on the assumption that
it would need the funds to cleanse mortgages and company loans
as well as real estate.  Pedro Pablo Villasante, the general secretary of the
Spanish banking association, told reporters in Madrid yesterday
that he couldn’t say whether the results of the independent
studies of the banking industry would result in further orders
to banks to increase loan-loss provisions.  “The best way to resolve the problems is to focus on those
that have problems and not place an additional burden on those
that don’t,” he said. “The righteous should not have to pay
for what the sinners have done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  