-- State Department Creates Global Sports Mentor Program for Women
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-21T16:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/state-department-creates-global-sports-mentor-program-for-women.html
The U.S. State Department joined
ESPN’s women’s unit in creating a mentoring program that links
emerging international female sports leaders and American women
in the same fields.  Two days before the 40th anniversary of the passage of
Title IX, legislation that banned sexual discrimination for any
education program receiving federal financial assistance, U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced the creation of the
“Global Sports Mentoring Program” to “support opening more
doors for girls and women in sports.”  “Through mentoring and networking, we want to support the
rise of women sports leaders abroad who in turn can help nurture
the next generation of girl and women athletes,” Clinton said
at a State Department news conference in  Washington .  Through a larger initiative, “Empowering Women and Girls
Through Sports,” the State Department created a female sports
council and will send envoys abroad to play and talk with young
women, while bringing international female athletes to the U.S.,
Clinton said.  Members of the council include former Olympic swimmer Donna de Varona; Rutgers University women’s basketball coach Vivian Stringer; soccer player Julie Foudy; and Laura Gentile, the
founder of ESPNW, the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unit that focuses on
women’s sports.  Title IX forced schools to evaluate whether female students
were being provided with equal participation chances.  Changes Dumped  U.S. President  George W. Bush ’s administration eased the
policy in 2005. Five years later, the U.S. Department of
Education, under current President  Barack Obama , scrapped the
Bush changes, saying they made it easier to deny girls an
opportunity to play school sports.  “The Title IX decision was revolutionary,” Clinton said
today. “All of us who care about opportunities for girls and
women view it as one of the most consequential pieces of
legislation for women in our country’s history. And it wasn’t
only about sports, it was about making sure women had access to
laboratories, classrooms, all that made up the academic,
educational environment.”  ESPN’s networks will feature more than 175 hours of live
women’s sports on June 23 to celebrate the anniversary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 