-- Sumitomo Mitsui Said to Fire Banker Amid Insider Trading Probe
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-06-21T06:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/sumitomo-mitsui-said-to-fire-banker-amid-insider-trading-probe.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) ’s lending unit fired a senior banker amid a government
investigation into insider trading, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  is
considering asking prosecutors to pursue a criminal case over
the trades, said three people, who asked not to be identified
because the investigation isn’t public. The person hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing.  Japanese regulators are cracking down on insider trading
after recent cases eroded confidence in the nation’s capital
markets. As well as  Sumitomo Mitsui , Japan’s second-biggest
banking group, companies being examined include  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , the country’s largest brokerage, and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The banker was seconded to the company’s SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. brokerage unit from Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
when the trades were made, two of the people said. Takashi Morita, a spokesman for Sumitomo Mitsui Banking in  Tokyo ,
declined to comment, as did SMBC Nikko spokesman Tadataka Ishida.  SMBC Nikko said on Oct. 6 that it is being investigated by
the commission for a possible  insider-trading  violation by an
executive and that it is “fully cooperating” with the probe.  The Mainichi newspaper said today that a former SMBC Nikko
executive may be indicted by Yokohama prosecutors over a 2011
insider-trading case. A spokeswoman for the Yokohama District
Public Prosecutors’ Office, who asked not to be named because of
the organization’s policy, declined to comment.  Enoteca Sale  An SMBC Nikko banker last year allegedly told an
acquaintance that managers of Enoteca Co., a wine importer, were
preparing to buy the company’s shares in a tender offer, the
Asahi newspaper reported in October. The acquaintance traded the
stock before the buyout was announced, the newspaper said.  SMBC Nikko has already been penalized for a separate
information leak. The Financial Services Agency ordered the
brokerage in April to improve its business after 23 sales staff
were found to disclose information to 34 clients before an
unidentified company’s announcement of an equity offering. The
firm said on April 20 that it will take proper actions against
employees who were involved in the violations.  Nomura on June 8 apologized for its employees’ role in
leaking information ahead of share sales that the investment
bank managed in 2010. The acknowledgment confirmed that it was
the unidentified underwriter found by the SESC to have provided
information on public offerings by Inpex Corp., Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. and Tokyo Electric Power Co.  The SESC found that an employee of  JPMorgan (JPM)  gave
information on a 2010 offering by Nippon Sheet Glass Co.,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. New York-
based JPMorgan said on May 29 that it’s “cooperating fully” with
the authorities on the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  