-- Swaps Guidance Plan for U.S. Banks Abroad Delayed by CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-21T19:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/swaps-guidance-plan-for-u-s-banks-abroad-delayed-by-cftc.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission postponed a meeting today to propose guidance
extending the reach of Dodd-Frank Act swaps rules to overseas
offices of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
other banks as commissioners debated details of the document.  “I’m pleased that we’ll be able to put out to public
comment very soon the commission’s proposal on cross-border
transactions,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in an interview
in Washington. “We have a consensus to move forward on this.”  The agency’s five commissioners were negotiating until late
yesterday about the compliance timetable for U.S. banks compared
with their foreign-based competitors. Gensler had earlier
suggested a delayed timetable for overseas banks, which led to
opposition from U.S. firms.  The agency’s commissioners may vote in the next few days in
private to propose the guidance, according to a person with
knowledge of the rulemaking who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Commissioners can vote on paper without holding a public meeting
in a process known as seriatim.  The proposal for so-called interpretive guidance has been
criticized by U.S. bankers who say it could put them at a
disadvantage to overseas competitors. The international reach of
clearing and trading regulations gained urgency after JPMorgan
disclosed at least $2 billion in losses on trades by the bank’s
chief investment office in  London .  “Modern finance has showed us time and time again that
those risks keep crashing back here when there is a problem,”
Gensler said in an interview this morning.  Common Rules  JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
other U.S. banks have argued that applying Dodd-Frank to their
overseas operations would hurt their ability to compete with
foreign-based rivals that may face other requirements.  “If JPMorgan overseas operates under different rules than
our foreign competitors, we can no longer provide the best
products and services to our U.S. clients or our foreign
clients,” JPMorgan’s Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said
at a House Financial Services Committee’s June 19 hearing on the
bank’s losses. “The rules at the transaction level about margin
reporting, all those requirements may enable Deutsche Bank to
make the better deal.”  The international guidance sets up U.S. regulators and the
CFTC as arbiters of the adequacy of the regulation outside the
U.S.,  John Williams , a New York-based partner at Allen & Overy
LLP law firm, said in an e-mail. “Non-U.S. regulators will be
eager to prove, as a matter of national competitive advantage,
that their regulatory regimes are comparable to each of the
U.S.-style entity-level rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  