-- Syrian Air Force Colonel Defects to Jordan in MiG-21
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-06-21T21:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/syrian-air-force-colonel-defects-to-jordan-in-mig-21.html
A Syrian air force colonel flew a
fighter jet into neighboring  Jordan , where he was granted
political asylum, according to Jordanian and U.S. officials.  Jordan’s government approved the pilot’s asylum request,
the official Petra news agency reported, citing Minister of
State for Media Affairs and Communications Sameeh Al-Maayteh.
The jet flew into Jordan at 10:45 a.m. yesterday and landed at a
military air base, Petra reported earlier.  Syrian authorities “lost contact” with a Russian-made
MiG-21 jet at 10:34 a.m. while it was on a training mission on
the southern border, the Syrian Arab News Agency reported,
citing an unidentified official. The agency identified the pilot
as Col. Hassan Merhi al-Hamade.  Thousands of Syrian servicemen have defected, and many
joined the rebellion that broke out last year against the rule
of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that broke out last year.
This is the first time an air force pilot was reported to have
defected with a jet, a development U.S. officials said may
encourage others.  “It’s obviously a very significant moment when a guy takes
a $25 million plane and flies to another country seeking
asylum,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday in  Washington . “That’s how these things start.”  More than 120,000 Syrians have taken refuge in Jordan since
the outbreak of the unrest, and thousands more have fled to
Turkey and Lebanon. More than 10,000 people have been killed in
the conflict, according to the  United Nations .  Asked about  Syria ’s request that Jordan return the fighter
jet, Al-Maayteh said in a phone interview, “Giving the plane
back to Syria needs several technical procedures, and in light
of international norms it is the Jordanian army that is in
charge of this issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  