-- U.K. Retail Sales Rise More Than Forecast After April Slump
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-06-21T08:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-k-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast-after-april-slump-1-.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose more than
economists forecast in May, recovering some of the ground lost
the previous month when poor weather damped demand.  Sales including auto fuel gained 1.4 percent from April,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London. The
median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 1.2 percent increase. Retail sales fell a revised 2.4
percent in April, curbed by the wettest April on record.
Excluding fuel, sales increased 0.9 percent in May.  While  easing inflation  is easing the squeeze on Britons’
incomes, the government’s austerity plan and Britain’s relapse
into a recession are undermining confidence.  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  was overruled in his call for more stimulus
this month, as he warned the euro-region crisis was a “black
cloud” darkening the prospects for the U.K. economy.  “With inflation falling, consumers have got more
purchasing power and May wasn’t as much of a washout weather
wise,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at  Scotia Capital  in
London. Still, “there’s clearly an overhang, a dark cloud on
confidence. The euro crisis is clearly depressing business
sentiment both on the continent and here”  The pound pared its decline against the dollar after the
data were published. It traded at $1.5697 as of 9:33 a.m. in
London, down 0.1 percent from yesterday.  Fuel Sales  In May, sales of clothing and shoes rose 3.4 percent from
the previous month, the statistics office said. Household good
sales increased 0.7 percent, while fuel sales surged 6.2
percent. From a year earlier, overall sales were up 2.4 percent.  In the three months through May, sales rose 0.5 percent
from the previous three months. Excluding auto fuel, retail
sales gained 0.9 percent in May from April and were up 3 percent
from a year earlier.  U.K. inflation slowed to 2.8 percent in April, data this
week showed. Consumer prices are still rising twice as fast as
annual pay, while  unemployment claims  unexpectedly rose in May,
underlining the fragility of Britain’s labor market.  According to today’s report, shop prices as measured by the
retail sales deflator rose an annual 0.9 percent in May, the
least since October 2009. The deflator on food prices was 3
percent, down from 3.7 percent in April.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
company, said on June 13 that sales growth slowed in the first
quarter, with Chief Executive Officer Justin King saying “the
market conditions reflect the tough challenges consumers face.”  Bank of England policy makers split 5-4 at their meeting
this month when they kept their  bond-purchase target  unchanged
at 325 billion pounds ($509 billion). Still, most officials
“judged that some further economic stimulus was either
warranted immediately or would probably become warranted to
meet” the 2 percent inflation target, according to the minutes
of the meeting, published yesterday.  The central bank also said that the “risks to U.K. and
global activity from financial distress and political tension
within the euro area had intensified again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  