-- Bryson Cites Medical Issues in Resignation
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-21T18:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-commerce-secretary-john-bryson-resigns-after-medical-leave.html
U.S. Commerce Secretary  John Bryson 
resigned, citing health reasons less than two weeks after being
treated for a seizure following a pair of minor car accidents in
 California .  Bryson, 68, who has been in office eight months, was found
unconscious in his Lexus after the second of two collisions, Los
Angeles County police said. He was treated for a seizure the
same day, according to his office, and informed President  Barack Obama  of his resignation yesterday.  “I have concluded that the seizure I suffered on June 9th
could be a distraction from my performance as secretary and that
our country would be better served by a change of leadership of
the department,” Bryson, the former chief executive officer of
 Edison International (EIX) , wrote in a letter to Obama released today.  Deputy Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank , an economist, has
been the acting head of the agency since Bryson took a medical
leave June 11.  Police said Bryson passed field tests for alcohol use at
the scene and that they don’t suspect drugs were involved. They
are still are awaiting results of blood tests to confirm he was
not under the influence of any substances, San Gabriel Police
Lieutenant Daniel Russo said by telephone today.  Police had been investigating possible felony hit-and-run
charges after Bryson drove his car into the rear of stopped
vehicle at a railroad crossing and five minutes later struck
another car two miles away. No case has been forwarded to
prosecutors, Russo said.  Acting Secretary  In a statement issued today, Obama thanked Bryson for his
service.  “John fought tirelessly for our nation’s businesses and
workers, helping to bolster our exports and promote American
manufacturing and products at home and abroad,” Obama said.
“John has proven himself an effective and distinguished leader
throughout his career in both the public and private sectors.”  Obama press secretary  Jay Carney  declined to say whether
the president would nominate a replacement for Senate
confirmation before the November election.  With an election fewer than five months away and the Senate
planning to recess in August, time is short to find a
replacement at the agency that has 47,000 employees and a $7.5
billion budget. The department had been a key component in
delivering on Obama’s goal of doubling annual U.S. exports to
$3.14 trillion by the end of 2014 from 2009 levels.  Rockefeller Reaction  “It is not a position you can simply ignore,” said James Lucier, a senior political analyst at Capital Alpha Partners LLC
in Washington. “You have to find a candidate and move it
forward. But I’m not sure it can be successful in five months.”  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat and
chairman of the Commerce Committee, praised Bryson’s tenure as
sparking manufacturing and helping promote American businesses.  “I have great respect for John and his desire to resign in
an effort to make sure there are no distractions toward job
growth and advancing America’s businesses and entrepreneurs for
a full economic recovery,” Rockefeller said in a statement.  The agency also runs the Census Bureau and the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , among other functions.  In his statement, Obama said he was confident in Blank’s
abilities and the department would continue “putting forward
policies that help our workers and businesses compete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  