-- U.S. Banks to Pay $125,000 to Many Hurt in Foreclosures
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-21T20:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-banks-to-pay-125-000-to-many-hurt-in-foreclosures.html
U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will pay as much as $125,000 plus
equity to individual customers most harmed by mishandled
foreclosures in 2009 and 2010, according to a remediation plan
released by federal regulators.  “While we’ve made great strides since we took enforcement
action against large mortgage servicers last year, much work is
still ahead,” said  Thomas Curry , U.S. comptroller of the
currency, in a statement. This industry guidance “helps people
who are considering requesting a free review to understand how
they may be compensated for the financial injury they may have
suffered,” he said.  A group of the largest mortgage servicers were ordered by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and other banking
regulators last year to clean up their foreclosure practices and
hire independent consultants to see whether their methods in
2009 and 2010 unfairly hurt customers. The 14 firms, also
including  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , could be
instructed to give lump-sum payments between $500 and $125,000
in each case involving improper practices, the regulators said.  Besides lump-sum payments, loan servicers who improperly
handled foreclosures may have to rescind them, modify loans or
correct credit reports, according to industry guidance issued
today by the OCC and the  Federal Reserve .  “I think the range of potential recovery is surprisingly
large,” said  David Dunn , a lawyer who represents lenders at
Hogan Lovells U.S. LLP in  New York . “Is there a rationale for
those numbers? I haven’t seen it if there is.”  Potential Claimants  The universe of potential claimants includes an unknown
portion of the 4.4 million borrowers to whom regulators sent
letters informing them they can ask for reviews. Of those, 4.4
percent, or 193,630, had done so by the end of May, according to
a six-month report on the process also released by the
regulators today. The independent consultants picked another
144,817 files to examine. About 12,000 cases have gone through
review so far.  The guidance says a person whose house was foreclosed on
when the mortgage wasn’t officially in default should be given
$125,000 if the foreclosure can’t be rescinded. That borrower
would also be entitled to any positive difference between what
was owed on the mortgage and what the house was worth at the
time of the error.  People who lost homes to foreclosure in 2009 and 2010 are
being given a deadline extension from July 31 to Sept. 30 for
filing to have their cases reviewed for potential errors and
misrepresentations, and can do so through
 www.independentforeclosurereview.com .  Top States  Borrowers from  California  have so far led the requests for
review with 35,480, followed by Florida and  Texas , according to
the report.  “The servicers see this guidance as an important step
toward completion of the Independent Foreclosure Review
process,” according to a statement from the Housing Policy
Council of the Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based
trade group representing the largest mortgage servicers.  Consumer groups are concerned the payouts won’t amount to
much in regions with high real-estate costs.  “Whether it’s enough really depends a lot on where you
live,” said Paul Leonard, the California director for the
Durham, North Carolina-based Center for Responsible Lending.
“If you no longer have your home, $125,000 may or may not get
you back in a home in California.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 