-- U.S. Stocks Tumble as Commodities Enter Bear Market
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-21T21:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-on-china-pmi-index-decline.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, while
commodities entered a bear market, after signals of a global
slowdown in manufacturing added to disappointing housing and
labor market data at the world’s largest economy.   Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  slumped at least 3.4 percent
to pace losses in commodity shares.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY) 
plunged 17 percent as its earnings forecast trailed estimates.
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  rose 2.7 percent as the maker of Hebrew
National hot dogs forecast profit that beat estimates. Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in September rose 0.2
percent at 5:43 p.m. New York time as bank credit downgrades
announced by Moody’s Investors Service matched expectations.  The  S&P 500  fell 2.2 percent to 1,325.51 at 4 p.m. in New
York, its second-biggest loss in 2012. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  slid 250.82 points, or 2 percent, to 12,573.57. Volume
for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about 7.2 billion
shares, or 6.9 percent above the three-month average.  “It’s risk off,” said  James McDonald , chief investment
strategist at Northern Trust Corp. in Chicago, whose firm
manages $717 billion. “The economy is losing momentum. The
question will be how much the U.S. and China slow. On top of
that, the Fed’s response yesterday was fairly tepid. While they
indicated willingness to do more, they haven’t done it.”  Stocks from Hong Kong to London and Sao Paulo slumped on
concern about a global slowdown. Data showed euro-area
manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace in three years and a
Chinese output gauge indicated contraction. More Americans than
forecast filed claims for jobless benefits, manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region shrank and sales of existing homes fell.  ‘Very Sluggish’  The reports came out a day after the  Federal Reserve 
lowered its growth and employment estimates while signaling it
may add to its record stimulus. The central bank yesterday
extended its so-called Operation Twist program to replace short-
term bonds with longer-term debt, disappointing some investors
who expected more asset purchases. Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  today said the  U.S. economy  “looks very sluggish.”  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which
measures how much data is missing or beating the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys, fell to minus 64.8, the lowest
since August. It turned negative this year in April after
remaining above zero since October. The Fed announced Operation
Twist in September, four months after the index turned negative.  A challenging economic environment has made Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst Noah Weisberger recommend shorting the  S&P
500 (SPX) , or bet on further declines. He has a target of 1,285, or
5.2 percent below yesterday’s close.  Worsening Picture  “With incremental U.S. monetary policy on hold, the market
will need to confront a deteriorating growth picture near
term,” Weisberger wrote.  Expectations for further policy action gave stocks their
first back-to-back weekly gain since April on June 15. The S&P
500 earlier this month was on the brink of a so-called
correction, or a  10 percent  drop from a recent peak, on concern
about a global slowdown and a worsening of Europe’s crisis.  All 10 S&P 500  groups  fell today as commodity shares had
the biggest losses. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of
companies most-tied to the economy lost 2.9 percent. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which measures the cost
of using options as insurance against declines in the S&P 500,
rose 16 percent, the most since November, to 20.08.  Measures of commodity producers in the S&P 500 lost at
least 3.2 percent for the biggest declines since November. The
S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials fell 2.8 percent to
settle at 559. It has dropped 22 percent from this year’s
highest close of 715.52 on Feb. 24, entering a bear market.  Alcoa, Chevron  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, dropped 4.2
percent to $8.55. Chevron decreased 3.5 percent to $100.02.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  tumbled 2.3 percent as all of its 24
stocks retreated.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  dropped 3.9 percent to
$7.82.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slid 2.6 percent to $35.51.  In after-hours trading, Morgan Stanley jumped 3.4 percent
after the world’s largest brokerage was downgraded two levels by
Moody’s Investors Service rather than the three-grade cut that
the ratings firm said was possible. The bank dropped 1.7 percent
to $13.96 during regular trading.  Donald Jones, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst, said in a
June 19 note that the most likely outcome expected by bond
investors was a three-grade rating cut.  Bed Bath & Beyond declined 17 percent, the most ever, to
$61.17. It said comparable-store sales in the first quarter rose
3 percent compared with 7 percent a year earlier. Analysts
 projected  a gain of 3.8 percent, the average of five estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Red Hat  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) , the largest seller of the open-source Linux
operating system, fell 6.2 percent to $53. Billings, a predictor
of revenue, were $310 million in the quarter ended May 31,
falling short of the $319 million average analyst estimate, said
Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  fell 11 percent to $59.45. It withdrew its
application in Europe to expand regulatory approval of Revlimid
as a first option and maintenance therapy for patients with a
deadly blood cancer.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  retreated 7.8 percent to $5.65. The
largest U.S. maker of computer memory reported a fourth
consecutive quarterly  loss  after prices fell for chips used to
store data in phones and tablets, crimping sales.  ConAgra jumped 2.7 percent to $25.26. The company forecast
fiscal year 2013 earnings of at least $1.95 a share. On average,
the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit of $1.92.  Ad Trends  Gannett Co. added 3.2 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$13.47. The publisher of USA Today reaffirmed its long-term
annual revenue growth targets. The owner of 82 daily newspapers
and 23 television stations also said at an analysts’ conference
that it sees improved ad trends across all of its groups.  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  surged 43 percent to $63.78, the
highest level on  record , as it won support from a U.S. advisory
panel for a drug to treat a deadly blood cancer that affects
50,000 Americans.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s 22 percent rally in two weeks through
yesterday has helped the company avoid posting the biggest slump
among the largest U.S. initial public offerings since the start
of 2011. The shares rose 0.8 percent to $31.84 today.  The social-network operator, which set a record for
technology companies by raising  $16 billion  last month, has
unveiled new products and services after the shares tumbled to a
low of $25.87 on June 5.  First Month  PetroLogistics LP (PDH)  dropped 20.4 percent in its  first month 
of trading, or 3.1 percentage points more than Facebook, giving
the propylene maker the worst return among the 30 largest IPOs
since the beginning of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Concern Facebook was overvalued and that the company will
struggle to increase revenue fast enough pushed the stock down
as much as 32 percent from its IPO price of $38 on May 17.  Since the shares bottomed earlier this month, Facebook
introduced a real-time bidding platform to better target ads to
consumers and ComScore Inc. released research that showed
marketing on the social network is effective.  “Investors are starting to come around to see the
significant opportunity of the Facebook platform,” Victor Anthony, a New York-based analyst at Topeka Capital Markets
Inc., said in a telephone interview. He has a buy rating on the
stock. “It was a botched IPO process but ultimately, the
underwriters did their job. If the stock increasingly marches
up, all the concerns will be tapered down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  