-- U.S. Consumer Bureau Violates Constitution, Lawsuit to Claim
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-21T19:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-consumer-bureau-challenged-as-unconstitutional-in-lawsuit.html
A small bank in  Texas  plans to file
a lawsuit in federal court today claiming that the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act, which overhauled financial regulation, is
unconstitutional, C. Boyden Gray, a lawyer for the bank, said in
a conference call.  The lawsuit, aimed in particular at the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, alleges that the law violates the U.S.
Constitution because Congress does not appropriate its budget,
the president has limited ability to remove its director and the
courts face restrictions in reviewing its actions.  “As a whole, Dodd-Frank aggregates the power of all three
branches of government in one unelected, unsupervised and
unaccountable bureaucrat,” Gray, founder of law firm Boyden
Gray & Associates, said in a statement.  Gray served as White House counsel to President  George H.W. Bush  and is a member of the board of  directors  of the Federalist
Society, a conservative legal group.  The lawsuit could not be confirmed in court records.  Dodd-Frank, enacted in 2010, aims to curb the kinds of
transactions that led to the 2008 financial crisis. In addition
to creating the CFPB, it imposed new rules on derivatives,
limits the ability of banks to trade on their own account and
imposes an array of new rules for mortgages.  The lawsuit, which was to be filed by the State National
Bank of Big Spring, Texas, argues that the structure of the CFPB
violates the principle of separation of powers.  ‘Political Stunt’  Deepak Gupta, a Washington-based appellate lawyer and
former CFPB official, called the lawsuit “more a political
stunt than a serious legal challenge” to Dodd-Frank.  “There remains sharp disagreement over the agency, but not
every disagreement can be constitutionalized,” Gupta said in an
e-mail.  Gray portrayed the lawsuit as coming on behalf of smaller
banks, which have argued that it is expensive to comply with
federal regulations. State National Bank had $294 million in
assets as of March 31, according to data published by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The bank is a member of the  Independent Community Bankers
of America , a trade association, according to its president,
Camden Fine. Fine said his group has about 6,000 member banks,
and “as far as we can tell, no other bank in the nation is
involved.”  Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican,
highlighted the lawsuit in a statement without endorsing it.  Republican Support  “ House Republicans  have worked to change the bureau’s
structure to make the CFPB more effective, less politicized and
more accountable,” Bachus said after the lawsuit was announced.  Gray said the bank has standing to bring the lawsuit since
it must follow CFPB rules. It quit offering mortgages in the
face of the agency’s ability to regulate the home finance
market.  “Rather than trying to anticipate the un-anticipate-able,
they left the market,” Gray said. ’’That is a serious harm.’’  Gupta called the argument “a very dubious and speculative
theory of standing” in his e-email.  “There’s a good chance that the court will throw the case
out for lack of injury and will not even reach the
constitutional challenge,” he said.  The lawsuit also includes challenges to the Jan. 5 recess
appointment of  Richard Cordray , the former Ohio attorney
general, to head the bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  