-- Agencies Set Mortgage-Servicing Rules for Military
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-06-22T15:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-agencies-set-mortgage-servicing-rules-for-military-members.html
(Corrects housing agency name in seventh paragraph of
story published June 21.)  U.S. regulators released rules for
mortgage servicers that are designed to help members of the
military get information needed to sell their homes or modify
loans when they are forced to relocate.  “Those who serve our country deserve to be given the best
service by their mortgage servicer,” Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau Director  Richard Cordray  said today in an e-
mailed statement outlining the guidance. Relocation requirements
“can complicate a servicemember’s homeownership decisions in
ways that civilians may not experience,” he said.  The guidance from the CFPB,  Federal Reserve , Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.,  National Credit Union Administration 
and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency affects service
members who get “permanent change in station” orders that
can’t be appealed and must be followed on a short timetable.  The goal of the guidance is to ensure that members of the
military who must move are getting “clear, accurate, and timely
information about available options such as loan modification or
short sale,” the CFPB said in its statement.  “If a regulator determines that a mortgage servicer has
engaged in practices that are unfair, deceptive, or abusive, or
if a regulator determines that a mortgage servicer has in any
way violated federal consumer financial laws, it will take
appropriate enforcement action,” the CFPB said.  Handling Foreclosures  Mortgage servicers are responsible for collecting monthly
payments, acting as escrow agent for taxes and insurance, and
handling foreclosures when borrowers are seriously delinquent.
The five largest U.S. servicers --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  -- reached a settlement with federal agencies and
49 states over claims of abusive foreclosure practices.  Under the new policy,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  won’t seek
court judgments that force people to pay the difference between
the mortgage balance and a home’s sale price for any property
purchased on or before June 30, 2012, according to the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , which oversees the government-owned
finance companies.  Members of the military who get so-called PCS orders will
automatically be eligible for a short sale of their homes, FHFA
said. The rule follows one last year that opened government
foreclosure programs to service members who get the orders.  “We are not suggesting that we are creating brand-new
programs,” Cordray said at a news conference.  180,000 Homeowners  About 180,000 members of the military are homeowners,
according to the  Department of Defense . It is unclear how many
of those homes are owned by so-called under water borrowers,
those who owe more than their homes are worth. About one-third
of active-duty service members get PCS orders each year,
according to the CFPB.  Air Force Captain Elizabeth Farrell, 38, estimates she lost
as much as $200,000 when she sold a house in LaPlata, Maryland,
last November after she was transferred from duty in Washington
to Eglin Air Force Base in Florida.  “We tried to do the right thing and we paid the whole
amount,” Farrell said in a telephone interview from her home in
 Fort Walton Beach , Florida. “If you were unlucky enough to buy
a home and you lost money, but you were financially responsible,
you’ve got to pay.”  Short Sale  Farrell bought the LaPlata house in January 2006 for
$620,000. It sold in November for $465,000, including $12,000
Farrell contributed to help the buyer with the down payment. She
assumed the lenders were going to approve a short sale and
forgive part of her debt.  “They weren’t willing to share any of the losses,”
Farrell said. As a result, Farrell still owes money to USAA, a
San Antonio, Texas-based bank that caters to military members.
The bank had a second lien on the house.  Nicole Alley, a spokeswoman for USAA, said the bank treats
PCS orders as “a qualified hardship and works with our members
to settle on the basis of their ability to repay the debt.”  “The majority of our members repay their outstanding
balance,” Alley said in an e-mail. “In cases where the laws
dictate that USAA Bank should forgive the remaining balance, we
forgive it.”  USAA reduced the  interest rate  on the balance of her loan
to 0.5 percent from 7 percent, Farrell said. She has 115
remaining monthly payments of $623 as of June 5.  Waive Rights  The new federal guidance also addresses such problems as
mortgage servicers asking people to waive rights under the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act -- which forbids foreclosure on
active-duty military members -- as a prerequisite to getting
assistance.  The rules also address the practice of asking service
members to skip mortgage payments to become eligible for
assistance for which they would otherwise not qualify.  “We look forward to working with our servicers on this new
short sale policy,” Paul Mullings, Freddie Mac’s interim head
of single family business and information technology, said in a
statement. “Together we can help ease the challenge of
relocation for military families when Permanent Change of
Station orders are received.”  The Departments of Agriculture, Defense, Housing and  Urban
Development , Justice, Treasury, and  Veterans Affairs  all
endorsed the rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  