-- U.S. House Prices Rise in April for a Third Month, FHFA Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-06-21T14:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-house-prices-increase-in-april-for-a-third-month-fhfa-says.html
U.S. house prices rose 0.8 percent
in April from the previous month, the  third straight  advance, as
the  property market  shows signs of stabilization, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  said.  The increase beat the 0.4 percent gain that was the average  
estimate of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Prices jumped 3 
percent from a year earlier, the FHFA said in a statement today.  Job gains, low  interest rates  and a tight supply of homes
for sale are boosting property prices following the worst slump
since the Great Depression. Home seizures in May fell 18 percent
from a year earlier even as initial notices of default rose, a
sign that banks are turning to alternatives to foreclosures that
depress values, RealtyTrac Inc. said on June 14.  “Favorable levels of valuations and mortgage affordability
mean that the foundations for a sustainable improvement in
housing are firmly in place,”  Paul Diggle , an economist with
Capital Economics Ltd., wrote in a report yesterday in which he
predicted an increase in prices this year.  The FHFA index, which measures price changes of single-
family houses, showed increases in six of the nine regions
covered on a seasonally adjusted basis. The monthly gain was 
led by a 2.2 percent jump in the area that includes California 
and Oregon. Prices fell 1.2 percent in the region that includes 
Massachusetts and Maine.  The U.S. gauge is 18 percent below its 2007 peak and is at
roughly the same level it was in April 2004, the FHFA said.  Confidence among homebuilders is improving and permits, a
proxy for future construction, climbed to the highest level
since 2008, the Commerce Department reported June 19.  A recovery remains uneven. Sales of  previously-owned homes 
fell 1.5 percent in May to a 4.55 million annual rate, figures
from the National Association of Realtors showed today.  The FHFA report is based on changes in real estate values
using purchases of properties with mortgages backed by  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  or  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  It doesn’t provide a specific price for
homes. The median home  price , as measured by the National
Association of Realtors, was $177,400 in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  