-- U.S. Setting Bank Data-Sharing With Japan and Switzerland
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-21T18:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-setting-bank-data-sharing-with-japan-and-switzerland.html
The U.S. is negotiating with Japan
and Switzerland on detailed procedures for sharing U.S. account
holders’ offshore bank information under an anti-tax-evasion law
scheduled to take effect in 2013, the Treasury Department
announced.  Banks and financial institutions from around the world have
been complaining to the U.S. about the burdens caused by the
 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act , or Fatca. The agreements
announced today are part of the governments’ efforts to create a
smoother process for information exchange.  Under the law, overseas banks will be required to inform
the  Internal Revenue Service  annually about the balances and
activity in their U.S. customers’ accounts. The U.S. can impose
a 30 percent tax on some U.S.-related payments being sent to
financial institutions outside the country that don’t comply
with the rules.  “The intergovernmental framework announced today provides
a second model for implementing Fatca in a way that addresses
domestic legal impediments and reduces burdens on financial
institutions,” Emily McMahon, acting assistant secretary for
 tax policy , said in a statement.  At a hearing at the IRS on May 15, representatives from
banks in Japan, Switzerland and other countries warned that in
some cases, Fatca conflicts with local privacy laws, making it
illegal for them to comply.  Different Model  The negotiations with  Japan  and Switzerland represent a
different model from potential agreements the U.S. announced
earlier this year with France, Germany,  Italy ,  Spain  and the
U.K. In those other countries, financial institutions would
report information to their governments, and the governments
would share information directly, and automatically, with each
other.  The agreements with Japan and Switzerland would allow
financial institutions to report information directly to the
U.S. and permit the U.S. to request any additional information
it seeks from the foreign government under existing treaties.  The agreements don’t absolve financial institutions from
their requirements under Fatca, a senior Treasury official said
on a conference call with reporters today. The Swiss government
would change its law to allow banks to report some information
to the U.S.  Model Rule  The model announced today could be extended to other
countries, said the official, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss the details of the agreements.  Among the countries that might be interested in similar
agreements are  Mexico ,  Australia ,  Canada  and  Israel , said Laurie
Hatten-Boyd, a principal at KPMG LLP.  “Seeing that Switzerland has made it this far would give
everybody a great sense of hope that they would be able to
negotiate something that would be workable for them,” she said.  Congress passed Fatca in 2010 to help cover the costs of a
tax incentive for companies to hire additional workers. The
Treasury Department expects to issue final regulations on Fatca
later this year, the official said.  In a  statement , the Swiss government said the agreement
would reduce the cost of implementation for financial
institutions and that refusal to participate would cause “major
disadvantages” for the country’s financial industry.  “Negotiations between  Switzerland  and the  United States  on
the resolution of outstanding tax issues concerning the past are
still ongoing,” the Swiss Department of Finance said in the
statement. “It is hoped that an agreement will be reached by
year-end.”  Hatten-Boyd said the international agreements will reduce
compliance burdens because financial institutions won’t have to
set up the withholding systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  