-- U.S. June Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-06-21T14:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/u-s-june-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia .  Jun-12    Firms responding to the June Business Outlook Survey indicated weaker business
conditions this month. The survey’s indicators for general activity, new orders,
shipments, and average work hours were all negative this month, suggesting
overall declines in business.  Input price pressures were less in evidence this
month, with more firms reporting declines in input prices. And for the second
consecutive month, more firms reported declines in prices for their products
than reported increases.  The survey’s indicators of future activity remained
positive and improved slightly, suggesting that the current weakness in activity
is expected to be short-lived.  Indicators Suggest Decreases in Activity  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index
of current activity, fell from a reading of -5.8 in May to -16.6, its second
consecutive negative reading (see Chart 1).  Nearly 40 percent of the firms
reported declines in activity this month, exceeding the 22 percent that reported
increases in activity.  Indexes for new orders and shipments also showed notable
declines, falling 18 and 20 points, respectively.  Indexes for current unfilled
orders and delivery times both registered negative readings again this month,
suggesting lower levels of unfilled orders and faster deliveries.  Firms’ responses suggest steady employment this month but shorter hours.  The
percentage of firms reporting higher employment (14 percent) edged out the
percentage reporting lower employment (12 percent).  The current employment
index increased 3 points this month. Firms indicated fewer hours worked this
month: the average workweek index decreased 14 points and posted its third
consecutive negative reading.  Price Indexes Decline This Month  Indexes for prices paid and prices received both decreased and were negative
this month, suggesting that price pressures have moderated notably.  The prices
paid index fell to -2.8, its first negative reading since July 2009.  Nearly 16
percent of firms reported declines in input prices; 13 percent reported
increases.  Firms also reported that the prices received for their own products
fell: For the second consecutive month, more firms reported a decrease in
product prices (17 percent) than reported an increase (10 percent).  Despite Weakening, Outlook Remains Positive  The future general activity index improved from a reading of 15.0 in May to 19.5
in June (see Chart 1). Although area manufacturers are not as optimistic as they
were earlier in the year, the percentage of firms expecting increases in
activity over the next six months (34 percent) is higher than the percentage
expecting decreases (14 percent). The indexes for future new orders and
shipments remained positive and also improved, increasing 12 and 17 points,
re-spectively.  In special questions this month, firms were asked about their plans for  capital
spending  over the next six to 12 months. The share of firms expecting to
increase their capital spending on plant and equipment (32 percent) was greater
than the share planning reductions (20 percent). On balance, these responses
represent some improvement over the responses received when the same question
was asked in November 2011. Although slightly fewer firms expect increases than
in November, far fewer firms anticipate decreases in capital spending.  There
was a significant increase in the share of firms that expect to keep capital
spending constant (from 25 percent in November to 42 percent in June).  Summary   The June Business Outlook Survey suggests that firms in the region’s
manufacturing sector are experiencing declines in overall activity this month.
Firms reported a notable falloff in new orders and shipments.  Overall,
em-ployment remained steady, but average work hours were lower. Price pressures
continued to recede this month, and more firms reported declines in prices for
their own goods than reported increases. The outlook among the reporting firms,
while not as optimistic as in the first quarter, suggests that firms believe
that activity will rebound over the next six months.  Special Question (June 2012)  Do you expect your firm’s spending on new plant and equipment over the next
six to 12 months to increase, decrease, or remain unchanged relative to your
firm’s actual spending over the past six to 12 months? 