-- UN Sustainability Drive Draws China, Bolivia Criticism
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-21T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/un-sustainability-drive-draws-china-bolivia-criticism.html
The United Nations plan to harmonize
economic growth with environmental protection drew criticism
from Chinese and Bolivian leaders, underscoring a rift that
limited the ambition of the Rio+20 summit.  China Premier  Wen Jiabao  joined Bolivia’s  Evo Morales  and
 Ecuador ’s president in raising concerns about the sustainable
development initiative at a conference of more than 180 nations
in Rio de Janeiro, suggesting that the effort to cap use of
fossil fuels and spur renewable energy threatens poverty relief.  “The global process of sustainable development is not
balanced,” Wen told delegates at the summit last night. “The
gap between the north and the south is rising. Grave new
challenges are posed by the international financial crisis,
 climate change  and  food security .”  Morales and Ecuador’s leader made the argument more
forcefully, suggesting the clean economy push was a ploy by
richer nations to maintain their dominance over poor countries.
The comments help show why envoys at the summit marking the 20th
anniversary of Earth Day aren’t planning to adopt legally
binding targets for improving the quality of air and water.  “Environmentalism is an imperial strategy which quantifies
every river, every lake and every natural product and converts
it into money,” Morales said in a speech. “By measuring the
utility of nature in money, it colonizes nature. The
environmentalism of capitalism is predatory colonialism.”  Ethiopia vs U.S.  Ecuador President  Rafael Correa , speaking to delegates,
showed a slide indicating fossil-fuel emissions with Ethiopia at
the low end of the scale and the U.S. and Qatar at the other.  “The 20 percent of richest countries generate 60 percent
of the emissions, the poorest generate 0.72 percent,” Correa
said. “This is one of the biggest planetary injustices. It’s
fashionable to have multimillion-dollar bank bailouts. We need
to save the environment too. How do we resolve this? Through the
payment of environmental debt by the richest countries.”  The conference is due to finish tomorrow, when leaders are
scheduled to endorse a 49-page document outlining their
sustainability goals. It includes voluntary commitments and
isn’t legally binding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Reed Landberg in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Rio de Janeiro at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  