-- Hungary Sentiment Index Edges Higher in June After May Plunge
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-06-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/hungary-sentiment-index-edges-higher-in-june-after-may-plunge.html
Hungary’s  economic sentiment  index
rose in June after the gauge plunged the most since the onset of
the global credit crisis in the country in late 2008.  The index improved to minus 24.5 from minus 24.9 in May,
the GKI research institute in Budapest said today in an e-mailed
statement. The  business confidence  index decreased to minus 14.6
from minus 14, while the  consumer confidence  index rose to minus
52.6 from minus 55.9.  Business confidence deteriorated further while consumer
expectations “recovered about half of the extremely big drop
seen in May,” GKI said, adding that  consumer confidence  was
still at the weak level seen in October 2009.  Hungary’s economy contracted 1.2 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, raising the risk of a
recession. The government submitted to parliament changes to a
disputed central bank law as it seeks to resume financial-aid
negotiations with the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  after talks collapsed in December.  The forint gained for a sixth day and traded at 285.01 per
euro yesterday afternoon, its strongest level since May 7 on
optimism that bailout talks will start soon. The benchmark  BUX (BUX) 
stock index has advanced 10.3 percent this month.  Sentiment in the manufacturing industry, the engine of the
economy, and the services sector deteriorated in June, while the
outlook among construction and retail business improved
somewhat, according to GKI.  Households’ perception of their financial situation over
the next year and their ability to save improved, GKI said,
adding that consumers’ assessment of their current financial
situation was at the lowest since the institute started the
index in 1993.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will introduce new taxes on
phone calls, financial transactions and insurance products to
trim the  budget deficit  below the EU’s 3 percent of economic
output limit and end an excessive-deficit procedure.  GKI’s indexes are calculated based on a balance of positive
and negative answers to questions about the outlook for the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  