-- Turkish Central Bank Maintains Interest-Rate Corridor
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 2012-06-21T12:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/turkish-central-bank-maintains-interest-rate-corridor.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept its
interest-rate corridor unchanged as it seeks to support the lira
and slow inflation.  The bank in Ankara left the  benchmark  one-week repo rate at
5.75 percent, it said on its website today, matching the
forecasts of all 11 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. It also
kept the maximum rate on overnight loans at 11.5 percent, while
allowing banks to hold more of their reserves in gold and
foreign currencies.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci varies  interest rates 
daily within those boundaries to help bring down inflation and
defend the currency while maintaining economic growth. The
inflation rate declined to 8.3 percent last month from a 3 1/2-
year high of 11.1 percent in April, while the lira and
government bonds have posted gains this month.  “We feel that the bank is more comfortable nowadays,
because petroleum prices continue to decline” and the lira is
“relatively stable,” said  Ozgur Altug , an economist at BGC
Partners in Istanbul, in an e-mailed note. Oil has fallen almost
20 percent this year.  While domestic demand is supportive, “a cautious stance on
price movements is required as inflation will stay above targets
for some time,” the central bank said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision. The year-end goal is 5.5 percent.  Bonds Gain  The lira has gained more than 4 percent this month and was
little changed at 1.7929 per dollar at 2:30 p.m. Yields on  two-
year government bonds  have dropped about half a percentage point
in the same period and were heading for the lowest level in
eight months at 8.92 percent.  The central bank also raised the proportion of  reserve
requirements  that can be held in foreign exchange to 50 percent
from 45 percent, while the limit for gold was increased to 25
percent from 20 percent.  The changes will add as much as $2.7 billion to the central
bank’s foreign exchange reserves, $2.2 billion to gold reserves
and as much as 5.6 billion liras ($3.1 billion) to banks’ lira
liquidity, the bank said.  The bank has lent at the lower-end rate of 5.75 percent for
the past 13 working days, the longest period since March. That
has reduced  average funding costs  for banks to 8.7 percent
yesterday from as high as 10.8 percent in May.  The central bank may seek to bring that rate down toward
8.5 percent, Altug said. It may consider lowering the top end of
the rates corridor in two or three months, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Aydan Eksin in Istanbul at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 