-- US Airways Climbs as AMR Labor Woes Raise Odds of Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-21T20:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/us-airways-climbs-as-amr-labor-woes-raise-odds-of-merger.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  rose to the
highest price since 2008 after pilots at bankrupt  American
Airlines  rejected a final contract offer, a move that may boost
odds of the two companies merging.  The rejection coupled with parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s failure to
secure contracts with flight attendants and mechanics may delay
its exit from bankruptcy by as much as a year,  Dan McKenzie , a
Rodman & Renshaw analyst, said in a report today. Creditors may
then push the U.S. Bankruptcy Court to end the period in which
AMR has the sole right to propose a restructuring plan, he said.  “Time matters and bondholders may not want to wait
around,” wrote McKenzie, who rates  US Airways  as market
outperform. “Chapter 11 is expensive and a deal with US Airways
could accelerate claims recovery and, separately, result in a
more stable business model.”  US Airways, based in Tempe,  Arizona , climbed 3.4 percent to
$13.47 at the close of trading in  New York , the highest since
Feb. 27, 2008.  AMR’s convertible 6.25 percent notes due in October 2014
rose 0.875 cent to 60.75 cents on the dollar, the highest this
year, at 4:02 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting service of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Labor Spending  The decision by the  Allied Pilots Association  board not to
let members vote on the airline’s final offer thwarted efforts
to agree on cost cuts before an expected ruling tomorrow by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane that may allow American to throw out
existing contracts.  If Lane allows AMR to void the labor agreements, the
carrier could begin to impose new terms to help shave $1.25
billion from annual labor spending. It still would seek longer-
term contracts with each union. Most carriers in  bankruptcy
protection  have completed such negotiations before exiting.  American hasn’t said whether it will ask Lane for more time
to negotiate with the APA. One major issue, involving pilot
scheduling, separated the two sides, said Tom Hoban, a union
spokesman.  Some proposals in American’s final contract offer to its
pilots were too vague to put to members for a vote, the  Allied
Pilots Association  said yesterday, after its board voted 11-5
against the broader ballot.  Merger Delay  American was “very disappointed” in the decision, said
 Bruce Hicks , a spokesman. The Fort Worth, Texas-based airline’s
last offer would have given pilots pay increases, a chance to
move up to industry pay rates, furlough protection, profit
sharing and equity in the restructured American, he said.  If American is allowed to void the existing contracts, a
potential merger with US Airways probably would be delayed until
next year, when AMR expects to exit bankruptcy,  Ray Neidl , a
Maxim Group LLC analyst, said in a report. That decision also
would allow US Airways to begin pressing to review AMR’s
financial records to prepare a bid, he said.  If the judge rules against the bankrupt airline on the
contracts, “the game is over for AMR and a merger happens,”
Neidl said. US Airways, which hasn’t made a formal offer,
earlier reached agreements with American’s unions contingent
upon a merger.  A request from creditors to allow other restructuring plans
to be considered would raise the chance that US Airways succeeds
with a merger to 80 percent from 70 percent, McKenzie said.  American has said it wants to emerge from bankruptcy as an
independent company.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  