-- Vanishing Households Undercut Claim of Australia Shortage
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-22T02:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/vanishing-households-undercut-claim-of-australian-home-shortage.html
Australia  has almost 1 million fewer
households than assumed in government forecasts of a housing
shortage, raising doubts about a supply shortfall cited as the
main reason the nation will avoid a U.S.-style crash.  The Pacific nation had 7.8 million households, data
released yesterday from the 2011  Census  showed. That compared
with estimates of 8.7 million as of June 2010, according to the
latest figures used by the  National Housing Supply Council , a
group created by the government in May 2008 to monitor housing
demand, supply and affordability. Australia’s population also
grew by 300,000 less than previously estimated, to 21.5 million.  “There’s been a bit of a disconnect between the estimates
between the census points and the actual census data,” said
David Cannington, Melbourne-based economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “My feeling is that some of the
underlying housing demand numbers will be revised down.”  Australia faces a shortage of about 369,000 homes by 2016,
under a medium household growth scenario, which assumes the
nation will have 9.7 million households by that time, the
council said in a  report  released last week. While  home prices 
across Australia’s eight state capitals fell for a fifth
consecutive quarter in the three months through March, the
longest stretch of losses on record, the Council has maintained
that the gap between supply and underlying demand has widened.  ‘Gigantic Difference’  The council’s figures are based on the last census,
conducted in 2006, with adjustments for additions and reductions
of homes, said Owen Donald, Sydney-based chairman of the
National Housing Supply Council, in a telephone interview.  “On the face of it, 900,000 is a gigantic difference,” he
said. “We need to get to the bottom of what’s in the statistics
bureau numbers.”  Some 75.6 percent of private dwellings were detached homes,
1 percentage point below 2006. The number of semi-detached homes
and apartments both increased, to 9.9 percent and 13.6 percent
respectively.  The average household size remained unchanged at 2.6
people, unexpected in a nation with an aging population where
more people would typically live alone or in childless homes,
Donald said. The number of single-person households slipped to
24.3 percent from 24.4 percent in 2006, the census showed.  The percentage of family households slid to 71.5 percent
from 71.7 percent, while group households climbed to 4.1 percent
from 3.9 percent in 2006, the data showed.  This is the first time since European settlement that the
utilization of homes has increased in the country, with more
people occupying the average home than there was five years ago,
 Craig James , chief equities economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  Ltd., said in an e-mailed report dated yesterday.  Home Use  “The increase in home use clearly has implications for the
home building sector and residential real estate,” James wrote.
“If rents and mortgage repayments continue to outpace housing
income, then the one-time lift in home usage may become more of
a trend.”  The median monthly mortgage payment jumped 38 percent to
A$1,800 ($1,830), according to the census figures, which are not
adjusted for inflation. The median weekly rent surged 50 percent
to A$285 a week.  While affordability has improved as prices dropped, both
home-loan payments and rents as a proportion of median family
income are still well above the long-term average, the Real
Estate Institute of Australia said in a  release  on June 6.  Home prices  across Australia have seen quarterly declines
since the beginning of 2011 as global economic uncertainty and
fears of overpaying for properties in the English-speaking
world’s most unaffordable housing market kept buyers sidelined.  Dwellings in Australia cost 6.7 times the average annual
income as of the third quarter of 2011, Illinois-based
consulting company  Demographia  said in a report in January.  Unaffordable Homes  The increase in the number of people living in group
households and in apartments and townhouses backs this up, said
David Collyer, campaign manager at tax reform advocacy group
Prosper Australia.  “Young adults have gone back home with mum and dad, or are
sharing houses,” said Collyer, who argues that Australia has an
oversupply of housing based on statistics showing water usage
and new building data. “Household sizes have gone up even more
than people think, and the oversupply of housing will be
revealed to be even worse than we thought.”  As more Australians live with friends or parents to combat
falling affordability, the number of vacant dwellings rose to
934,471 in the 2011 census from 830,376 in 2006.  Increasing Affluence  The increase was at least partly due to more Australians
owning second or holiday homes, said Matthew Hassan, Sydney-
based senior economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   The proportion of households wholly owning their homes was
32.1 percent from 34 percent in 2006, while owners with a
mortgage climbed to 34.9 percent of households versus 34.1
percent. Renters comprised 29.6 percent of households from 28.1
percent in 2006, the census data showed.  Economists at Westpac, ANZ Bank and the building industry-
backed Housing Industry Association are among those that have
argued a shortage of homes will keep Australian prices from
collapsing to the extent seen in the U.S., where they’ve slumped
more than 35 percent below their 2006 peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  