-- Virginia Board to Discuss Ousted President’s Employment Terms
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-06-21T23:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/virginia-board-to-discuss-ousted-president-s-employment-terms.html
The  University of Virginia ’s board
will meet next week to discuss the “terms of employment” for
 Teresa Sullivan , the president they ousted earlier this month,
fueling speculation they may reinstate her.  The controversy over Sullivan’s unexpected departure after
less than two years in her position has led to an uproar at the
college founded in 1819 by  Thomas Jefferson . Sullivan is
scheduled to leave her post on Aug. 15, and the board will meet
to discuss “possible changes” in her status on June 26,
according to a statement by the university.  Unseating Sullivan has led to a nationally visible backlash
on the school’s campus in Charlottesville,  Virginia , referred to
locally as “Grounds.” The board will probably address the
ouster, since it wouldn’t embarrass itself by meeting without
taking action, said  John O’Brien , an associate professor of
English who wants Sullivan restored.  “We are not counting our chickens yet, but it looks like
the board is meeting to reinstate Sullivan,” O’Brien said.  Sullivan called today for civility in the debate over her
dismissal.  “Emotions are running high on Grounds, but there is no
excuse for abusing anyone with whom you disagree,” she said in
a statement.  She asked in particular that Carl Zeithaml, named by the
board as her interim replacement, and his family be spared from
“abusive behavior,” according to a statement. Deans at 10 of
the university’s 11 schools, along with the university librarian
and dean of admissions, sent a letter to the board today asking
for Sullivan’s reinstatement.  ‘Important Decisions’  “We recommend strongly that discussions begin immediately
to reset the relationship with President Sullivan, reconstitute
the team she had put together over that past year, and
accelerate the important decisions to be made,” the deans said
in the letter.  Zeithaml, who will remain dean of the McIntire School of
Commerce until he becomes interim president on Aug. 16, wasn’t
asked to sign the letter because of the “difficult position”
it would put him in. Zeithaml has already said he opposes
Sullivan’s removal.  The board is out of touch with the goals and culture of the
university’s faculty and operations, said William Wulf, who was
one of 13 university professors on the faculty until he resigned
June 19 in protest of Sullivan’s dismissal.  “Just discussing reinstatement is not a victory,” he said
in a telephone interview. “If I were Terry, I’d demand the
resignations of the majority of the board.”  Under Pressure  Governor  Bob McDonnell  is under pressure to jettison the
rector, or head, of the university’s board of visitors, Helen Dragas. Her term expires July 1 and can be renewed by McDonnell.
If the governor doesn’t reappoint her, Sullivan, who was forced
to resign on June 10, may have enough support on the board to be
reinstated, said David Leblang, chairman of the department of
politics.  McDonnell, a Republican, hasn’t disclosed his plans for
Dragas’s future. Dragas, who has donated to both Republicans and
Democrats, was first appointed to the board by Governor  Tim Kaine , a Democrat, in 2008. All board members are appointed by
the governor and confirmed by the state general assembly.  “One way or another, the governor owns this mess,”
Leblang said. “We are lobbying our constituents, we are
lobbying our alums.”  Sullivan was forced out by Dragas and the board, who said
they were frustrated by what they said was Sullivan’s slow
approach to change. E-mails from Dragas revealed that she was
concerned the school was falling behind  Harvard University  and
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in offering online
education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  