-- Voters Believe Attack Ads Even as They Don’t Like Them
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/voters-believe-attack-ads-even-as-they-don-t-like-them.html
Mitt Romney  and  Barack Obama  are
accusing each other of being “out of touch” based on things
they’ve said on the campaign trail. The conclusion of a
plurality of likely voters: They’re both right.  In the past two months, the presidential campaigns have
been laying down their candidate narratives and fine-tuning the
messages they will be using against their opponent. According to
a Bloomberg National Poll, the public believes almost all of the
bad things they are saying about each other.  More than half of voters agree Obama is “in over his
head” when it comes to fixing the economy and that he hasn’t
delivered the change he promised in the 2008 race, two central
themes of Romney’s campaign.  At the same time, pluralities say Romney’s economic
platform would be a return to the “failed” policies of
President  George W. Bush  and that Romney would be an
“ineffective” job creator.  The poll results offer insight into how the barrage of
attacks being aired on television and computer screens in swing
states are creating a political environment some voters describe
as toxic, and even personally harmful.  “I feel half the things they are saying to me are probably
false,” says Loretta Price, 65, a retiree from Ocala,  Florida .
“It’s nonstop baloney.”  In almost equal numbers, likely voters question whether
either candidate understands the anxiety they’re experiencing
because of the economy’s uneven recovery.  Out of Touch  Forty-nine percent of likely voters say Obama’s June 8
comment that the “private sector is doing fine” shows he’s out
of touch. Half say Romney’s comment last Aug. 11 that
“corporations are people, too” shows he’s not in touch with
ordinary Americans, either.  The contentious political climate is beginning to affect
the personal lives of voters, the poll shows.  A majority say they talk about politics at least once a
week, including more than one in four, 28 percent, who say they
talk about the topic almost every day.  Those conversations aren’t always friendly. Sixty-one
percent of those who talk about politics say they agree with
just some or not at all with the other conversation
participants.  More than one in three, 36 percent, say they stopped
talking about politics with someone because of differences.
Fifteen percent say they no longer speak about politics
altogether because the discussions have become “too painful.”  Losing Friends  In all, 44 percent say they’ve distanced themselves from
someone because of political differences.  “We’ll get into a discussion that pretty quickly becomes
clear that it’s not going to resolve itself in any amiable
way,” says Elizabeth Eklund, 22, a student nurse in  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan .  Adam Burdess, 27, says several Facebook friends
“unfriended” him on the website after he posted comments
voicing his strong support for the federal health-care law.  “It caused me to tone it down a little bit,” he says. “I
felt bad that they felt compelled to unfriend me over something
like that.”  The poll, conducted June 15-18 by  Des Moines , Iowa-based
polling firm Selzer & Co., has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points for the full sample of 1,002 and 3.6
percentage points for the 734 likely voters contacted.  Echoing in Ads  The messages tested are themes both candidates are
employing on the campaign trail and in television ads.  A June ad from Obama hits Romney’s record as  Massachusetts 
governor, charging him with having “one of the worst economic
records in the country.” A Romney ad aired around the same time
highlights the country’s  unemployment  and  foreclosure  rates,
asking how Obama can improve the economy if “he doesn’t
understand it’s broken.”  Poll respondents registered concern about the policies of
Obama’s administration and whether they have strengthened the
economy, while they also remain unsure whether Romney’s
proposals would be any better.  More than half, 54 percent, say for the economy to improve,
the administration’s plans need more time to take full effect --
an argument that’s a central theme of the Obama campaign. The
number who say a “complete change of course” is needed, a core
Republican message, dropped to 43 percent from 48 percent in
October 2010.  Not Bill Clinton  Fifty-seven percent of likely voters and 61 percent of
independents say the president hasn’t delivered the change he
promised during the 2008 campaign. Pluralities of likely voters
say he has embraced “European-style socialism” and is more
partisan than former President  Bill Clinton .  Men have a more negative view of Obama than women, as 61
percent of male voters and 54 percent of female voters say the
president hasn’t delivered the change he promised.  Still, voters show doubts about whether Romney is better
qualified to create jobs or appreciate the stress in their
lives. Fifty-two percent say he’s “too wealthy” to relate to
the problems facing ordinary Americans.  Forty-seven percent say the former governor would be an
“ineffective” job creator, given Massachusetts’ ranking as
47th in job growth during his term.  They take a less negative view of Romney’s private sector
background.  Bain Attack  Democratic assertions that as chief executive officer at
Bain Capital LLC, a private equity firm, Romney fired workers to
make more profit don’t resonate as much as other attacks.
Thirty-eight percent of likely voters and 32 percent of
independents agree that Romney “killed more jobs than he
created” while working at Bain.  Romney’s religion could be a drag. The poll finds that
almost four in 10, 39 percent, of all respondents have a
negative view of the Mormon Church, compared with 29 percent who
say they have a favorable impression of the religion.  In contrast, 49 percent have favorable views of the
Catholic Church and 41 percent view evangelical Christians
positively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  