-- Wal-Mart Says Technology Unit Co-Heads to Leave Company
-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-21T23:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/walmart-labs-co-heads-harinarayan-rajaraman-to-leave-retailer.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, said the co-heads of its Silicon Valley
innovation group, @WalmartLabs, are leaving the company.  Venky Harinarayan and Anand Rajaraman, who ran the 200-
person unit in San Bruno,  California , will leave and take time
off from the industry, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “They stayed for a year and built a really strong
culture,” Shernaz Daver, a spokesperson for @WalmartLabs, said
in a telephone interview. “The rest of the team will stay
intact.”  Harinarayan and Rajaraman joined Wal-Mart last year when
the retailer bought their company, Kosmix, and used it as the
foundation for @WalmartLabs, bringing social media expertise to
advance the e-commerce business. As Wal-Mart has tried to build
up its online operations it has made management changes as
executives have departed.  “It’s too bad because they are smart guys,” Bryan
Gildenberg, an analyst with London-based Kantar Retail, said of
the departures of Harinarayan and Rajaraman.  “You have people
in that environment who are serial entrepreneurs and they just
aren’t in tune to working for a big company,” Gildenberg said
by telephone today.  Wal-Mart has been trying to bolster its Walmart.com online
operation and has had several changes in the senior management
of the business in the past year. The company generates less
than 2 percent of sales from its online business, according to
an estimate from Kantar.  Online Unit  The company named Neil Ashe as president and chief
executive officer of Global E-Commerce in January. In September,
the company announced that two senior e-commerce executives were
leaving the online unit. Eduardo Castro-Wright, a Wal-Mart vice
chairman who ran global sourcing operations along with the
online business, left the unit and is retiring in July. Wan Ling Martello, Wal-Mart’s executive vice president of e-commerce,
left the company for  Nestle SA. (NESN)   Daver said the departures of Harinarayan and Rajaraman are
not related to last year’s management changes. In tech
companies, the founders often leave to start new ventures, she
said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Stone in  San Francisco  at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jillian Ward at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net  