-- Whitman Capital Founder Loses Bid to Dismiss Indictment
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-06-21T22:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/whitman-capital-founder-loses-bid-to-dismiss-indictment.html
Doug Whitman, the founder of Whitman
Capital LLC, was denied requests to dismiss  insider-trading 
charges against him and suppress wiretap evidence gathered by
the U.S.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected Whitman’s requests
at a hearing today in New York, citing his ruling allowing
prosecutors to use wiretap evidence in the insider-trading case
against former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta .  Whitman was indicted by federal prosecutors in New York in
February on charges that he took part in two separate insider-
trading schemes. Prosecutors allege he traded on illegal tips
involving  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and  Marvell Technology Group
Ltd. (MRVL)  to make more than $900,000 for his  Menlo Park , California-
based hedge fund.  He’s charged with two counts of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and two counts of securities fraud. If
convicted, Whitman faces as long as five years in prison on each
conspiracy charge and 20 years on each securities fraud charge.
The trial is scheduled to begin July 30.  Prosecutors allege Whitman received material nonpublic
information from Roomy Khan, the former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive
who aided the prosecution of hedge-fund manager Raj Rajaratnam,
and Karl Motey, an independent consultant who has pleaded guilty
to insider trading and is cooperating with the U.S.  ‘Wrecking Ball’  Whitman’s lawyer, Bradford Berenson, argued today that his
client had no idea where Khan and Motey got their information or
whether it had been improperly obtained.  “There is too high a risk based on how this indictment
reads, that Mr. Whitman has been indicted for having
conversations with Mr. Motey and Ms. Khan that he had no reason
to know were criminal,” Berenson said.  The lawyer said his client hired Motey to do legitimate
research and didn’t know if Motey’s sources breached their
fiduciary duty by giving him the information Whitman then traded
on.  The case has “taken a  wrecking ball  to Mr. Whitman’s life
and career,” Berenson said. Whitman operated a hedge fund which
focused on technology companies and was intensely research-
driven, the lawyer said.  Hired Researcher  “Mr. Whitman employs people like Karl Motey to help him do
research,” Berenson said. “In those kinds of situations, if he
does not know where or how or who Mr. Motey gets his information
from, how is he ever to know that he can’t trade on the
information that he’s hearing?”  Rakoff said he would allow prosecutors to present their
evidence to the jury and that they will have to prove that
Whitman knew the information he received wasn’t public.  Whitman’s lawyers said they need more information from the
U.S. to prepare a defense, including the identities of sources
of alleged tips and the timing of the conversations and trades.  In addition to testimony from Khan and Motey, prosecutors
said their evidence against Whitman includes consensual
recordings and court-ordered wiretaps of phone conversations.  “The evidence will show that Mr. Whitman knew this
information was provided by Khan and Motey by insiders
corruptly,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Chris LaVigne said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, and the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Whitman, 12-
cv-01055, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  