-- Wimbledon Gives Murray Two Chances to Put U.K. at Top in Tennis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-21T23:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/wimbledon-gives-murray-two-chances-to-put-u-k-at-top-in-tennis.html
Andy Murray  heads to Wimbledon this
year with two shots at historic triumph or familiar failure.  The fourth-ranked tennis player in the world will be trying
to end the U.K. drought of Grand Slam singles winners when the
grasscourt tournament starts on June 25. Twenty days after the
men’s champion is crowned on July 8, Murray begins his quest for
Olympic gold on the same All England Club lawns as London hosts
the 2012 Games. No U.K. player has won an Olympic tennis title
since the sport returned to the games in 1988.  Murray, 25, has been knocked out of the Wimbledon
semifinals the past three years. He told reporters at Wimbledon
yesterday that the thought of one day succeeding at the All
England Club keeps him going.  “I think about it a lot when I’m training, when I’m
struggling in practice or when I’m finding a running session or
a cardio session very tough,” Murray said, shortly after he was
picked for the British Olympic team. “It’s something you think
about and tell yourself to give you that extra motivation.”  Murray is the fourth favorite to win Wimbledon at 8-1 with
U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes. That means a successful $1 bet on the
right-hander from Dunblane,  Scotland , would bring in $8 plus the
original stake. Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  is the 7-4 favorite to
successfully defend his title with French Open winner  Rafael Nadal  at 2-1 and  Roger Federer  of Switzerland at 9-2. Murray is
also the fourth favorite to win the gold medal at 6-1, with
Djokovic the 2-1 Olympic top choice.  Fred Perry  The last British man to win one of the sport’s four major
titles was  Fred Perry , who captured the U.S. National
Championships in 1936. He also won Wimbledon that year, and his
statue is one of the first things spectators see when they enter
the club.  A joke that has been around almost as long as the string of
title-less years says the Perry statue still has the best
backhand in the U.K. Each year, thousands of spectators without
a Centre Court ticket occupy Murray Mound --- previously known
as Henman Hill -- the rise outside Court 1 where matches are
shown on a video screen. Tim Henman made four semifinals between
1998 and 2002. A collective groan went through Murray Mound last
year when a forehand winner by Nadal of  Spain  ended Murray’s
latest attempt to reach his first final.  “Playing at Wimbledon for a Brit is the ultimate pressure
situation,”  Annabel Croft , a former British tennis pro and now
a broadcaster, said in an interview. “You’ve grown up in a
country where that is the pinnacle of the sport, so to even get
to play at Wimbledon is like a dream come true. But what comes
with that is this massive expectation and big pressure.”  Junior Champion  Croft won the junior Wimbledon and Australian Open titles
in 1984 at 17. She rose to No. 21 in the women’s tour rankings
but never made it past the third round before retiring in 1988.  “As much as tennis players always say, ‘You put the
pressure on yourself,’ which you do, it’s heartbreaking when you
feel like you are letting a nation down if you don’t win,”
Croft said.  Murray has lost all three major finals he’s played, the
most recent at the 2011 Australian Open to Djokovic. At
Wimbledon, he was beaten by Nadal the past two years and by 2003
U.S. Open champion  Andy Roddick  in 2009, all one step short of
the final.  At the start of this year, Murray hired eight-time major
champion  Ivan Lendl  as his coach. The Czech-born American, the
Wimbledon runner-up in 1986 and 1987, had no previous coaching
experience, and once said grass was for golf.  “It seems like as each event goes by, the pressure is
amped up, and it seems less likely for it to happen because he’s
still the same age as Djokovic, and he’s only a year younger
than Nadal,” seven-time major singles champion  John McEnroe ,
53, said on a conference call for ESPN two days ago.  Winning Start  Murray started the season by winning at Brisbane and losing
in the semifinals at the Australian Open to Djokovic in a five-
set match. He was runner-up in Miami and Dubai, and lost in the
quarterfinals of the French Open to Spain’s  David Ferrer .  “Murray Mania” in Britain has been tempered this year
following his near-forfeit because of a back injury at the
French Open and an opening loss as defending champion in the
Queen’s Club grass-court tournament in London last week.  Murray was called a “drama queen” by Britain’s most
recent Wimbledon singles champion, 1977 women’s winner  Virginia Wade , after his second round win in Paris. He limped around the
court against  Finland ’s Jarkko Nieminen, holding his back, and
served at half speed. Murray later said he’d had back spasms
during the night and was close to quitting the match.  Injury Questions  Tommy Haas , formerly the world’s second-ranked player, told
the German broadcaster Sport1 last week that Murray sometimes 
exaggerates injuries, and that “people talk about it in the 
locker room.”  Croft said the locker room now holds more players “that
actually believe that they could potentially beat” Murray.  “I think he’s really feeling the pressure at the moment,”
she said. “And that’s why we saw what we saw at the  French
Open .”  Murray’s game is built on fitness, counterattacking and a
strong service return, ideal for faster surfaces like Wimbledon.
McEnroe said this will be “the real test to see if he’s going
to be able to bridge this gap” with Nadal, the second seed, and
Djokovic.  Murray said in April he considers an Olympic gold medal to
be as important as winning Wimbledon. He has been fine-tuning
his grasscourt game with Lendl this week.  “We’ve done some different things in practice than normal
and, hopefully, they’ll pay off when the tournament starts,” he
said two days ago at an exhibition outside London.  Murray said he’s learned to deal with the public’s
expectations. His first Wimbledon appearance was a third-round
exit in 2005, when he was 18, and “there was no pressure.”  “Once I started to get to 21, 22 years old, it’s been
fairly challenging because the expectations rise and you are
putting more pressure on yourself,” he said. “But I am
probably more used to it now than I was a few years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  