-- Twitter to Expand Ad Product Into 50 Countries This Year
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-21T09:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/twitter-to-expand-ad-product-into-50-countries-this-year.html
Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Dick Costolo said the short-messaging service will start
offering its promoted advertising product in 50 new markets this
year as it reduces its reliance on the U.S.  Twitter’s ads, which encourage users to subscribe to a
company’s feed by recommending its postings, or “tweets,” to
users, will be made available in additional markets in  Latin
America , including Brazil, and Western Europe, Adam Bain, the
company’s revenue chief, said today in a press conference in
Cannes,  France . A full list of countries wasn’t immediately
available.  Twitter, based in San Francisco, is predicting $1 billion
in advertising revenue by 2014, two people familiar with the
forecast said this month. The free-to-use service, which Costolo
said today is growing “delightfully well,” unveiled its first
ad offering in 2010, and recently expanded to mobile ads.  “The growth we’re seeing on the platform is interestingly
still broad-based and global, still growing quite fast,”
Costolo said at the Cannes Lions advertising festival.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  crossed the $1 billion threshold five years
after its founding, while  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which sold shares in an
initial public offering last month, achieved that goal six years
after it got started. Founded in 2006, Twitter will be eight
years old in 2014.  Jack Dorsey, Twitter chairman and co-founder, said today
that the company will be patient when it comes to raising cash
or selling shares to investors. The closely held company “has
always put itself in a position where we can choose when we are
ready” to have an IPO, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  