-- Women Vendors Get Less Than Price of Drone From U.S. Set-Asides
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-06-21T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/women-vendors-get-less-than-price-of-drone-from-u-s-set-asides.html
A new federal program to help  small
contractors  owned by women is drawing criticism from lawmakers
and business advocates who say it has provided too little
assistance to too few firms.  After an 11-year delay, the first contracts were awarded
under the program in April 2011, according to federal
procurement data compiled by Bloomberg. By the end of the fiscal
year on Sept. 30, agencies had doled out $21.1 million in set-
asides, less than the cost of one Reaper drone. The contracts
equal about 0.1 percent of the amount  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
No. 1 government contractor, won in federal awards last year in
the April-September time period.  “To put it bluntly, $21 million is nothing,” said Ann
Sullivan, head of government relations for Women Impacting
Public Policy Inc., a Washington-based nonprofit organization
that promotes female-owned businesses.  The amount may reflect the program’s slow start, rules that
cap the contracts, and stiffer competition over a shrinking pool
of revenue for small businesses, Sullivan said.  Congress in 2000 ordered the  Small Business Administration 
to create the program, which is similar to those that reserve
work for some minority-owned firms.  ‘Not Working’  Sullivan, also the president of Madison Services Group
Inc., a government relations firm in Washington, said she worked
with Congress, the SBA and the White House to help create the
set-aside program for women.  “We worked for 11 years to try and get this thing in
place,” Sullivan said. “Is the program working? Well, looking
at those numbers, the answer is no, it’s not working.”  Tiffani Clements, an SBA spokeswoman, said the agency was
unable to comment on the fiscal 2011 data because it hasn’t yet
released its small-business contract report on government goals.  Under the initiative, the $21.1 million went to about 150
small businesses last year, or an average of $140,000 per
contractor. Only three companies earned more than $1 million in
the set-aside contracts.  The government has a target of awarding 23 percent of
prime, or direct, contracts to small firms, a goal it has missed
every year for the past decade.  Difficult Market  It’s difficult to start a new  small-business  category that
essentially competes with the others for limited awards, Angela Styles, a former head of the Office of Federal Procurement
Policy, said in an interview.  “There are a lot of interest groups in the mix for that 23
percent,” said Styles, now a partner at Crowell & Moring LLP,
citing the many different minority groups seeking money. “It’s
such a hard market to break into, and it’s hard to stay in it.”  Rita Leitensdorfer knows this firsthand. In 2006, she took
over her father’s audiovisual firm, St. Louis-based
Communitronics Corp. She owns 100 percent of the business and
about 75 percent of her revenue comes from federal contracts,
she said.  She won a $7,222 set-aside under the new program from the
U.S. Army in August. She said she hasn’t noticed many other
opportunities for women-owned businesses.  Leitensdorfer said that, like participants in other set-
aside programs, she has to “jump through hoops” though she
hasn’t received many benefits.  “We just want a fair shake as contractors,” she said in
an interview.  Contract Spending  The government awarded $310 billion in contracts during the
last two quarters of fiscal 2011, the same period when agencies
began reserving set-asides for women-owned small businesses.  Under the 8(a) set-aside program, which targets small firms
owned by socially or economically disadvantaged individuals,
agencies awarded $11.9 billion in the same period. Under the
service-disabled veteran-owned set-aside initiative, the
government awarded $3.38 billion.  Each program is different. For the effort geared toward
women, contracts are limited to no more than $4 million for
services and $6.5 million for manufacturing.  “Unfortunately, under current law, the Small Business
Administration’s women’s contracting program restricts the
contract size for women-owned small businesses, while other
programs do not face the same disadvantage,” said Senator
 Olympia Snowe , a Republican from  Maine .  Contract Caps  Snowe on March 7 reintroduced legislation, S. 2172, to
eliminate the caps on the contracts.  “I remain concerned that the current caps restrict federal
agencies’ ability to award contracts” through the set-aside
initiative for women, Snowe said in an e-mailed statement.  The eligible contracts are further restricted to fewer than
400 industries in which woman-owned businesses are deemed to be
under-represented, such as construction of multifamily housing
and air-traffic control.  To be eligible for the program, at least 51 percent of a
small business must be directly owned and controlled by women
who are U.S. citizens.  The government generally defines small businesses as those
with fewer than 500 employees or less than $7 million in annual
revenue. Awards to the firms fell 5 percent last year.  Washington Area  Businesses doing work in eight congressional districts --
including four near  Washington  -- won more than half the set-
asides last year.  “Congress probably wouldn’t have approved a program
primarily to help women in the greater Washington area,”
Charles Tiefer, who served on the Commission on Wartime
Contracting and is a law professor at the University of
Baltimore, said in an interview “The bulk of the country, away
from the Washington area or the coast, is getting such a small
fraction.”  Representative Sam Graves, chairman of the House Small
Business Committee, said the findings show the SBA needs to do a
better job of promoting the effort.  “There are a lot of businesses that want to participate in
this program, and contracting officers who could use this
program, but have no idea about it,” Graves, a Missouri
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement. No businesses in
Graves’ district won contracts through the new program.  Graves is supporting the Senate bill that removes the caps
on the set-aside contracts for women.  Even as 2011 marked the first year of the women-owned set-
aside awards, contracts to women-owned small firms declined last
year for the first time in more than a decade.  Agencies awarded women-owned small businesses a total of
$17.4 billion last year, a 4 percent drop from $18.1 billion the
previous year.  The government set a goal in 1994 of awarding at least 5
percent of the total value of eligible contracts to women-owned
businesses. It has never met it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  