-- Women’s Facebook Recommendations Spur More Likes From Men
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-06-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/women-s-facebook-recommendations-spur-more-likes-from-men.html
Women sway more men to their
 Facebook  recommendations than they do members of their own
gender, suggests a survey that may help advertisers hone their
online pitches. Women are also less susceptible to influence.  The research, published in the journal  Science , tracked the
use of an application to see whether one’s Facebook friends
would adopt it. When women sent friends a notification that they
had used the app, about 1 1/2 times more male friends acted on
the information than females. Men, however, were 49 percent more
influential in general.  The findings may help companies improve targeted marketing
campaigns on Facebook, the operator of world’s largest social
network. Shares of Menlo Park-based  Facebook Inc. (FB)   tumbled  17
percent from its first day of trading May 17 through yesterday
as the company struggled to show investors how it can leverage
its more than 900 million members to increase advertising
revenue, which brought in $3.15 billion last year.  “I think Facebook is in a unique position to improve its
advertising strategy and focus on the social factors that
influence its users, for example, looking at the influence of
advice from peers on what to buy, or at incentives that direct
the spread of advertising campaigns,” said Dylan Walker, co-
author of the study and a research fellow at  New York
University’s Stern School of Business.   The study showed that people whose relationship status is
“single” or “married” are more than twice as influential
among friends as users whose status is “in a relationship” or
“it’s complicated.” Influence on Facebook generally increases
with age, with people older than 31 being 51 percent more likely
to influence friends than people younger than 18.  Influence Susceptibility  Users’ social media behavior tended to be either
consistently influential or susceptible to influence, but not
both, according to the study. Susceptibility decreased with age,
and women were found to be 12 percent less susceptible to
influence than men.  The findings shed light on the nature of earned media on
Facebook and may be used to understand which types of users
could play the biggest role spreading brands and products and
boosting the company’s revenue,  Paolo Parigi , an assistant
professor of sociology at  Stanford University , said.  “If a company goes in that direction and singles out a
group, in this case males, they could expand the reach of a
certain message they want to broadcast,” Parigi said June 19 in
a telephone interview. “I am not sure how much that would
translate into sales, though, because research shows that having
strong personal connections with Facebook friends is key to
influencing referral sales.”  Female Influence  Parigi said the finding that women influence men more than
other women may be attributed to a pattern of women being
“embedded in more social networks than men.” For example, by
simultaneously holding a job and being the main child care
provider, women may improve their ability to influence men.  A Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted online from May 31 to June 4
showed that just one in five people on Facebook bought products
because of advertising or comments they saw on the site. At the
time the poll concluded, 34 percent of users were spending less
time on Facebook compared with six months earlier.  This month, the company discussed its plans to make mobile
advertising location-based and introduce real-time bidding for
advertising on its site. The new bidding process is intended to
help advertisers deliver more time-sensitive messages.
Advertisers currently target users on Facebook based on
interests in their profiles and the pages they “like” on the
site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  