-- World’s Highest Debt Yields Signal Buy Belize Bonds to TCW
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-21T21:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/world-s-highest-yields-signal-buy-belize-to-tcw-on-restructuring.html
Belize’s vow to restructure more
than $500 million of dollar debt for the second time in five
years has stoked the biggest bond decline in  emerging markets .
TCW Group Inc. is betting the rout has gone too far.  The yield on the Central American country’s $544 million of
notes due in 2029 has surged 235 basis points to 19.4 percent
since Jan. 31, when Prime Minister Dean Barrow said he would
restructure the securities, without giving more details. The
yields have climbed 872 basis points from a year ago and are the
highest among 50 nations tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG
index. Notes sold by Argentina and  Pakistan  yield 12.6 percent
and 11.8 percent, respectively.  Barrow said he would pursue more lenient terms for the
government after the  interest rate  on the notes rose to 8.5
percent this year from 6 percent as part of an accord reached
with bondholders in 2007. TCW says investors are overestimating
the losses the country will seek to impose in any new agreement.  “What I think is likely is that they will propose a return
to lower coupons and perhaps some maturity extension,” said
Marcela Meirelles, a Latin America strategist in  Los Angeles  at
TCW, which oversees $128 billion of assets and bought Belize
bonds after the sell-off. “They can engineer a situation in
which the debt service is once again manageable.”  Rating Cut  Moody’s Investors Service cut Belize’s credit rating for a
second time this year on June 1 to Ca, 10 levels below
investment grade, citing weak growth in the $1.4 billion
tourism-based economy. Moody’s first lowered the rating in
February, prompting Barrow to say he “doesn’t give a damn”
about ratings companies.  AJ Mediratta, a partner at Greylock Capital Management, is
leading a group of investors holding about $300 million in
Belize bonds that is seeking to negotiate with the government.
He said any proposal shouldn’t result in losses, as measured by
net present value calculations, because the country’s debt
levels are “stable.”  “We know Belize has challenges like many countries and
what we’d like to see is a good-faith process,” Mediratta said
in a June 19 interview from  New York . “If Belize can
restructure in a pragmatic and open way that is friendly to
investors and preserves access to the markets, it should only be
a benefit for them.”  Finance Secretary Joseph Waight declined to comment on the
restructuring, and messages left for officials at the central
bank and the government by Bloomberg News weren’t returned. Mark Espat, who heads the government team assembled in March to
consider a restructuring, also declined to comment.  Debt Service Levels  An increase in debt service levels is set to combine with
declining oil revenue to place a heavy strain on public finances
and the economy, the central bank said in a report on its
website.  “The government’s latest projections indicate that the
country is facing sizeable financing gaps from 2013 onwards,”
the report said. “The authorities are in active discussions
with multilateral partners, but it is clear that multilateral
funds alone will not close these expected shortfalls.”  TCW’s bet may be paying off. Belize’s 2029 bonds have
returned about  15 percent  since February, compared with 1.6
percent for Latin American debt, according to JPMorgan indexes
and data collected by Bloomberg.  Drop in Yield  The yield on the bonds fell 64 basis points today, the most
in a month, to 18.72 percent.  Roberto Sanchez-Dahl, who oversees $1.3 billion of
emerging-market debt at Federated Investment Management Co.,
said he sold his Belize debt after the election-season comments
because a lack of information led him to prepare for the worst.  “We decided there was not that much upside from there,
given the very large political pressure for them to do something
about it,” Sanchez-Dahl said in a telephone interview from
Pittsburgh. “It looked like it could turn into a very
complicated situation there, and under the current market
environment, we just didn’t want to have any loose cannons
there.”  The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts Belize’s economy
will expand 2.8 percent this year after growing 2 percent in
2011, compared with 4 percent growth for the entire Central
America region. About 35 percent of the country’s population
lived in a dwelling without a flush toilet or refrigerator,
according to a 2010  census .  Belize’s Superbond  The restructuring is Belize’s latest effort to control
debt-servicing costs. The Central American country consolidated
its debt into a so-called superbond in 2007 following higher
spending related to tropical storms and hurricanes over the
previous decade. At the time, the government said its recovery
from storms left it with “heavy external debt obligations.”  In 2007, Belize was spending a quarter of its revenue on
interest payments. Public debt  outlays  equaled 13.6 percent of
revenue from April 2011 to March 2012, according to the central
bank. The jump in the superbond’s coupon ahead of the elections
probably made continued payments a “deal breaker” for the
government, said Franco Uccelli, senior economist for Central
America and the Caribbean at JPMorgan in Miami.  Belize, which is wedged between Mexico and  Guatemala  on the
Yucatan Peninsula, could expect yields on restructured debt to
fall as low as 10 percent, Uccelli said. The country cut its
debt-to-GDP ratio to about 84 percent last year from 100 percent
in 2005, he said.  “They got a big relief in terms of their debt service
burden” in the earlier debt restructuring, Meirelles said.
“They don’t need a big haircut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  