-- WPP’s Sorrell Steps Back in Pay Row Amid New U.K. Rules
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-21T07:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/wpp-s-sorrell-steps-back-in-pay-row-amid-new-u-k-rules.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Sorrell , whose pay package was voted down by investors
last week, said he will accept plans by U.K. Business Secretary
Vince Cable to give shareholders binding votes on executive pay.  WPP is in talks with investors to alter Sorrell’s
compensation structure, after a majority opposed to a 56 percent
raise in a non-binding ballot, he said in an interview yesterday
at the Cannes Lions conference in France. The 67-year-old is
staying out of these discussions, he said.  Investor groups including ISS and  Glass Lewis  had urged
shareholders to vote against the increase, saying Sorrell’s pay
was too high compared with other U.K. executives. In a Financial
Times column published before the vote, Sorrell argued that his
remuneration should be compared with international rivals such
as  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)   “There hasn’t been a one-way reaction,” the CEO said
yesterday. Taking into account the negative press his salary got
and the reaction to his column, “there are people who said both
articles were good.”  At the June 13 shareholder meeting, about 60 percent of
investors voted against the proposed pay. Sorrell said that he
isn’t contacting any shareholders himself during current
discussions with investors, which he emphasized are not
negotiations.  Publicly traded companies in the U.K. will have to give
shareholders binding votes on executive-pay structures every
three years, Cable told lawmakers yesterday.  ‘Compelling Evidence’  “There is compelling evidence of a disconnect between pay
and performance in large U.K.-listed companies,” Cable said in
a statement to Parliament. “It is right that the government
acts to address this clear market failure.”  Sorrell said he’ll accept whatever lawmakers decide.  Executives are losing many of their battles to keep raises
and bonuses as European investors, hit by instability on the
continent and burgeoning jobless rates, push back against what
they see as inappropriately high pay levels. Last month,
shareholders voted down insurer  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s remuneration plans
while staging protests at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Inmarsat Plc for failing to
keep compensation in line with stock performances.  The investor rebellion at WPP is one of the biggest since
2009, when 90 percent of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
shareholders turned down the pension plan for the lender’s
former chief  Fred Goodwin . Sorrell’s pay package, including
long-term incentives, was worth 11.6 million pounds ($18
million) last year, making him the second-highest paid company
head in Britain’s FTSE 100 Index where CEOs received a median
compensation of 3.2 million pounds, according to remuneration
researcher Manifest and MM&K.  Stock Returns  “If Britain wants world champions in the private sector,
we have to pay competitively,” Sorrell wrote in the column this
month. “If the government or institutions believe pay is
excessive, tax it. Do not fiddle with the market mechanism. WPP
is not a failure, it is a success.”  WPP was little changed at 777 pence as of 8:20 a.m. in
 London . An investor in the company will have made a 15 percent
return so far this year. That compares with a gain of less than
1 percent in the FTSE 100 Index.  Sorrell has built WPP into the largest advertising industry
in the world since he took over Wire and Plastic Products in
1985. Much of the growth is through acquisitions, and the
company has made more than two dozen so far this year, expanding
into faster-growing markets in Asia and Latin America and into
digital properties.  Yesterday, WPP announced a $540 million deal to acquire
AKQA, a U.S. digital agency which recently won contracts to
handle advertising for  Verizon Wireless  and  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Sorrell
said.  As part of the transaction, WPP is creating a new fund
based in San Francisco that will help the agency work more
closely on ad initiatives with Silicon Valley heavyweights such
as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Sorrell said.  AKQA CEO Tom Bedecarre will run the unit, which will draw
funding from the 300 million pounds to 400 million pounds WPP
spends on acquisitions annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Cannes, France via   athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  