-- Xstrata Seeks Investors for Papua New Guinea Copper Project
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-06-21T07:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/xstrata-seeks-investors-for-copper-project-in-papua-new-guinea.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fourth-
largest copper producer, may sell part or all of the Frieda
River copper and gold project in  Papua New Guinea .  Xstrata is “assessing the best way to advance the projects
and ensure the best outcome for all stakeholders,” Melissa
Bowerman, a spokeswoman for the company’s copper unit, said in
an e-mail today. “As part of this process we are assessing the
interest of other investors in the Frieda River project.”  Xstrata follows rivals, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio
Tinto Plc (RIO) , in rationing  capital spending  after a slump in
commodity prices. Mining company valuations have plunged 26
percent in the past year, according to the Bloomberg World
Mining Index, on concern that global economic uncertainty will
curb demand for commodities. Copper prices have fallen 17
percent in the past 12 months and traded at $7,545 a metric ton
yesterday on the London Metal Exchange.  The Frieda River project, 81.8 percent owned by Xstrata, is
worth about $1 billion, based on the estimated copper resources
of 12 million tons, according to project partner  Highlands
Pacific Ltd. (HIG)  Xstrata will complete the feasibility study on
Frieda River by December, Highlands Chief Executive Officer John Gooding said today by phone from Brisbane.  An initial study in November 2010 indicated the project is
capable of producing 246,000 tons of copper and 379,000 ounces
of gold annually for the first eight years, Highlands said today
in a separate statement. It also announced a plan to sell shares
to PNG Sustainable Development Program Ltd. that will make the
company a “cornerstone” investor in Highlands.  Highlands expects to raise between $10 million and $20
million selling shares to PNG Sustainable, which will hold
between 10 percent and 20 percent of the company, Gooding said
today. Highlands shares, which were halted today, last traded at
15 Australian cents yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  