-- Yahoo, Gevo, SodaStream, Foxconn: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-21T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/yahoo-gevo-sodastream-foxconn-intellectual-property.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , owner of the largest
U.S. Web portal, is in talks to resolve a patent-infringement
dispute with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , according to a court filing.  Lawyers for Yahoo asked U.S. District Judge Jeffrey S.
White in San Francisco yesterday for a two-week extension on
deadlines to file replies in the lawsuit while the companies
hold discussions. The lawyers also asked for a two-week delay in
a motion hearing now set for Aug. 10, according to the filing.  “The parties are currently engaged in settlement
negotiations to resolve this dispute,”  Kevin Smith , a Yahoo
lawyer, said in the filing. “The parties believe that a further
extension will facilitate settlement.”  Yahoo sued Facebook in March, alleging that the social-
networking provider infringes patents covering such functions as
Internet privacy, advertising and information sharing. Facebook
countersued in April, accusing Yahoo of infringing 10 of its
patents.  Scott Thompson , who was Yahoo’s chief executive officer at
the time, has since resigned after failing to correct
misstatements in his academic record.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the proposed delay. Andrew Noyes, a spokesman
for Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Gevo Probably Didn’t Infringe Butamax Patent, Judge Rules  Gevo Inc. probably didn’t infringe a patent held by Butamax
Advanced Biofuels LLC, a joint venture of  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  BP Plc (BP/) ,
and is free to sell its renewable-fuel products, a judge said in
a pretrial ruling.  Butamax sued Gevo, backed by the oil refiner  Total SA (FP)  and
specialty-chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , in 2011 alleging misuse of
technology for genetically engineered microorganisms used to
produce biofuels. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson, in a ruling
filed June 19, denied Butamax’s request for a preliminary
injunction to block Gevo’s fuel sales.  “The court finds it unlikely that plaintiff will prevail
on its claim of infringement” at trial, Robinson wrote in a 25-
page opinion in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware . She also
said that Gevo “raised a substantial question concerning
validity” of two patent claims based on earlier inventions.  Gevo, based in Englewood, Colorado, is involved in several
patent lawsuits with Wilmington-based Butamax. Gevo built a
biofuels plant in Luverne,  Minnesota , to produce renewable
additives to be sold to oil refiners that make diesel and jet
fuel. The Minnesota plant can also produce ethanol, according to
court papers.  Based on the ruling, Gevo may sell fuels “in any market,
to any customer, in any region,” the company said in a
statement yesterday. Butamax officials said they plan to appeal.  “This is an early step in a long and complex litigation
process,” Paul Beckwith, the company’s chief executive officer,
said in a e-mailed statement. “We remain highly confident in
the ultimate outcome of this case and our other cases against
Gevo.”  New patents Gevo has secured on technology for genetically
engineered microorganisms should give it a “significant cost
advantage” in the animal-feed market, Rob Stone, an analyst at
Cowen & Co. in Boston, said in a research note yesterday,  “We need to make sure we protect our  intellectual
property , so when Butamax is infringing, we’ve filed suit to
protect that, and we’ll continue with that,” Brett Lund, Gevo’s
general counsel, said yesterday in a telephone call with
investors. A trial over the patent claims is set for April 1,
2013, according to court dockets.  The case is Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC v.  Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , 11-
cv-54, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  SodaStream Takes Landfill Marketing Tactic to Coca-Cola Hometown  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  already told Coca-Cola Co. it
wouldn’t stop using Coke bottles in its marketing. Now
SodaStream is taking the fight to the company’s front door -- or
at least the park across the street from Coke’s World of Coca-
Cola museum in Atlanta.  On June 22, SodaStream, which sells do-it-yourself soft-
drink machines, plans to erect a car-sized cage at Centennial
Olympic Park, filled with thousands of used soft-drink bottles
and cans. The point: buying packaged drinks clogs up landfills,
while making soda at home helps save the planet.  A similar display at a South Africa airport has drawn
threats of a lawsuit by  Coca-Cola (KO) , the world’s largest beverage
maker with a market value of about $170 billion, 228 times
larger than SodaStream. The upstart uses 30 such displays around
the globe to take issue with the waste created by big soda
companies.  “No one’s going to shut us up with a lawyer’s letter,”
SodaStream Chief Executive Officer Daniel Birnbaum said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Not in South Africa or
anywhere.”  After SodaStream, based in Airport City,  Israel , refused to
comply with a lawyer’s letter from Coca-Cola dated June 8, Coke
hand delivered a second letter which Birnbaum got this week, he
said. Coke went after a display at O.R. Tambo International
Airport in Johannesburg and demanded all others be removed, as
well, according to the first letter. The company alleged
trademark infringement and a breach of local advertising
standards.  SodaStream’s devices employ reusable bottles, rechargeable
CO2 canisters and tap water, which Birnbaum says are more
environmentally friendly. Its products are sold in 42 countries.  “Coca-Cola is a leader in recycling and sustainable
packaging as demonstrated by our aggressive goal to collect the
equivalent of 50 percent of the bottles and cans we sell
globally by 2015,” the company said in a statement.  Kent
Landers , a spokesman, declined to comment further.  Vuitton Fake at Issue in ‘Hangover’ Film Excluded From U.S.  The fake version of the  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
bag that was at issue in the luxury-goods company’s trademark
suit against  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers Entertainment
unit was the subject of proceedings before the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  That Washington-based agency has the power to exclude
imports that infringe U.S. patents and trademarks. Vuitton went
to the ICT as “the first luxury goods company to seek redress”
from the commission, the company said in a statement.  Vuitton’s suit against Warner was dismissed by a federal
judge in Manhattan who said there was no likelihood that
moviegoers would think a faux Vuitton bag was real just on a
character’s say-so.  The luxury-goods company had argued that the placement of
the fake bag in the film and the character’s reference to it as
the real thing would confuse consumers as to the source of the
product and that mistaken association would tarnish the
company’s trademarks.  In its May 30 order, the ITC issued its order barring the
importation of handbags, luggage, accessories and packaging that
infringe any of five Vuitton trademarks.  That case is In the Matter of Certain Handbags, Luggage,
Accessories, and Packaging Thereof, 337-754, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  The case against the film company is Louis Vuitton
Malletier SA v. Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., 1:11-cv-09436-
ALC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Hong Kong Court Dismisses Foxconn Request to Throw Out BYD Claim  Foxconn Technology Group lost an appeal to block  BYD Co. (1211) 
from suing the Taiwanese electronics maker for gathering false
evidence in a  trade-secrets  dispute.  Judge Robert Tang of the Hong Kong Court of Appeal handed
down the judgment yesterday with appellate judges Joseph Fok and
Carlye Chu. The decision upholds an August 2010 lower court
ruling.  BYD, the Chinese car and battery maker partially owned by
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , countersued Foxconn
after units of the electronics maker filed a suit in 2007 that
claimed BYD recruited Foxconn employees and stole trade secrets.
BYD doubled its revenue from its handset business in 2005, 2006
and 2007 as a result, Foxconn said in court documents.  In its countersuit, BYD accused Foxconn of unlawful
business interference, defamation and conspiracy to injure.
Foxconn was involved in planting documents and coercing a former
employee to confess he had stolen secrets, according to BYD’s
filings in 2010.  Foxconn, the world’s biggest contract manufacturer of
electronics, argued that BYD couldn’t show that the alleged acts
caused any specific harm. Dominic Wai, a lawyer for Foxconn,
declined to comment on whether the company would appeal further
and ask the city’s top court to dismiss BYD’s countersuit.  “This is not a case where it is plain that the BYD Parties
had not suffered any damage,” Judge Tang wrote in yesterday’s
judgment.  BYD, which competes with Foxconn, became battery supplier
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  last year. Foxconn assembles Apple’s iPhones and
iPads.  Vincent Tong, a spokesman at handset-manufacturing unit
 Foxconn International (2038)  in Hong Kong, couldn’t immediately say
whether the company plans to appeal the ruling.  The case is CACV3/2011, BYD Co. and Shenzhen Futaihong
Precision Industry Co. in the Court of Appeal.  Copyright  Nigerian Officials Say No More Tolerance for Software Piracy  Nigeria’s Copyright Commission has warned it has a new
policy of zero tolerance for software piracy, the country’s
Vanguard News  reported .  In 2011, Nigeria had a piracy rate of 82 percent, which
caused a $250 million loss, the newspaper reported.  The commission recently conducted a raid on a real estate
company in Lagos and seized counterfeit  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software
for which the raid targets couldn’t provide documentation,
according to Vanguard News.  Fake products included Microsoft’s Windows XP, Vista,
Office 2007 and Office 2010, and all were sent to Microsoft
Ireland for confirmation, according to the newspaper.  Japan Lawmakers Consider Criminal Penalties for Infringement  Proposed amendments to Japan’s copyright law could
criminalize the downloading of pirated content and those who
transgress the law could end up serving a two-year prison term,
Wired News  reported .  If the measure is approved by lawmakers, it could go into
effect at the beginning of 2013, according to Wired.  Under the new law making any copies of games or movies
would be illegal, as would uploading or downloading the data
they contained, Wired reported.  Takeshi Miyamoto, a member of the lower house, was the only
legislator to speak against the bill, which is supported by
Japan’s three major political parties, according to Wired.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 