-- Euro Tumbles as Moody’s Downgrades Ratings for 15 Banks
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-21T21:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/yen-weakens-versus-dollar-on-boj-stimulus-speculation.html
The euro fell the most in five
months against the dollar as Moody’s Investors Service lowered
credit ratings on 15 global banks, adding to concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation currency weakened amid reports of possible
downgrades and remained lower after the announcement late in the
New York trading session. The yen weakened to its lowest level
against the dollar in almost a month as U.S. two-year yields
exceeded similar-maturity yields in Japan by a larger amount.
The dollar strengthened a day after the Federal Reserve declined
to increase asset purchases while extending its policy to
lengthen maturities of existing debt holdings. New Zealand’s
dollar and Mexico’s peso erased earlier gains.  “The news out of Europe remains pretty dour, despite the
fact that we’ve had a bit of consolidation higher the last
couple weeks,”  Mike Moran , a currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“That plays into a broadly risk-averse investor mindset, which
has been helping the dollar.”  The euro depreciated 1.3 percent to $1.2540 at 5 p.m. in
New York, reaching the biggest loss since Jan. 13. The yen
weakened 0.9 percent to 80.28 per  U.S. dollar  and touched the
weakest level since May 17. The 17-nation currency fell 0.4
percent to 100.69 yen.  Moody’s Rating  Credit Suisse Group AG’s credit rating was cut three levels
by Moody’s, Morgan Stanley was reduced two levels and 13 other
banks were downgraded.  Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank, received the
maximum reduction that Moody’s said in February it may make
during a review of global banks with capital markets operations.
Morgan Stanley and UBS AG, the other firms singled out for such
a steep cut, were lowered two steps instead.  “All of the banks affected by today’s actions have
significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to capital-markets activities,” Moody’s Global
Banking Managing Director Greg Bauer said today in a statement.  “Because Morgan Stanley was only downgraded two notches,
rather than three, we think equities and risk in general will
take that positively,” Douglas Borthwick, managing director at
Faros Trading LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview. “We expect a little bit of a retracement in the sell-
off in risk today, which would mean a retracement higher in the
euro and Australian dollar.”  Japan Yields  The  difference  between yields on Japanese and U.S. two-year
government securities has widened since June 4 and yesterday
reached its highest level since April 5. U.S. two-year yields
exceed  Japan ’s similar maturity debt by 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point.  “I attribute the dollar gains against the yen to cross-
rate weakness in the yen and the wider  interest-rate 
differentials between the U.S. and Japan in the two-year
sector,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  pledged on June 1 to
take “decisive action” to protect against “excessive moves”
after the yen climbed to its highest level since February
against the dollar. Japan has intervened to curb the yen’s 60
percent appreciation during the past decade. The currency surged
to a post-World War II record of 75.35 per dollar in October
before slipping 7.8 percent in the first quarter.  BOJ Stance  “Expectations for further monetary easing by the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  are increasing,”  Neil Jones , head of hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“Markets expect the proposed consumption tax hike to pass
through parliament by the end of the month. Tighter fiscal
policy raises the chances of a looser monetary policy. On both
counts, a currency should weaken, and the yen is no exception.”  New Zealand’s dollar erased an earlier gain against the
dollar as Asian stocks declined and Chinese data added to signs
global growth is slowing, damping investor appetite for higher-
yielding assets.  The kiwi fell 1.2 percent to 78.64 U.S. cents, after
earlier reaching 80.17 cents, the strongest level since May 4.
This pullback should find support at 79.15 cents, and then in
the area from 78.50 to 78.85 cents, Niall O’Connor, a technical
analyst in New York at JPMorgan Chase & co., wrote in a report
today.  Mexico’s peso dropped from a one-month high after the
 Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
fell to minus 16.6 in June, the lowest level since August, from
minus 5.8 in the previous month. The currency depreciated 1.6
percent to 13.9241 per dollar. It touched 13.6316 yesterday, the
strongest intraday level since May 15.  Factory Reading  The euro-bloc manufacturing  composite index  held at 46, the
same reading as in May, London-based Markit Economics said today
in an initial estimate. That matches the lowest since June 2009.
Economists had forecast a drop to 45.5, the median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “The weak PMI data we’ve seen from Europe is weighing on
the euro,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “The growth outlook is
coming into question. There is plenty to put the euro back under
pressure.”  The  European Central Bank  earlier this month held its
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1 percent, while
President  Mario Draghi  said “a few” policy makers called for a
cut. The central bank’s next rates decision is scheduled for
July 5.  Finance Meeting  European finance ministers are set to meet in Luxembourg
today to discuss the currency union’s financial woes.  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24 and has depreciated about 6.6 percent in the past 12 months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that measure
10 developed-market currencies.  Barclays said in its global outlook published today that
selling the euro is the most compelling trade in the foreign-
exchange market. The company forecast that the currency will
weaken to $1.15 in the coming year.  The dollar strengthened versus most of its major
counterparts even after the Fed said yesterday it stood ready to
implement further stimulus following the announcement of an
extension to its program to replace short-term bonds with
longer-term debt.  The central bank said it will expand its so-called
Operation Twist program, which seeks to lower borrowing costs by
extending the average maturity of the securities in the central
bank’s portfolio, by $267 billion through the end of the year.
Officials also cut their estimates for 2012 growth after last
month’s slowdown in hiring and said there will be little
progress on unemployment during the rest of the year.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, added 0.9 percent to 82.350, the strongest
level since June 13.  “The slowdown in the  U.S. economy  is more than I have
expected, and it’s damping people’s willingness to buy the
dollar,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director in  Tokyo  at
 FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  