-- Yuan Falls on Weaker PBOC Fixing, Bleaker U.S. Growth Outlook
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-06-21T09:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-21/yuan-falls-on-weaker-pboc-fixing-bleaker-u-s-growth-outlook.html
The yuan weakened for a second day
after the People’s Bank of China lowered the currency’s
reference rate and the Federal Reserve cut its growth estimate
for the U.S., worsening the outlook for Asian exports.  China’s central bank lowered its daily fixing for the yuan
0.06 percent to 6.3040 per dollar. Fed officials forecast
yesterday the U.S. economy will expand 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent this year, less than an April projection of 2.4 percent
to 2.9 percent. The Fed also said it will increase its so-called
Operation Twist program, replacing short-term bonds with longer-
term debt, by $267 billion through the end of 2012.  “The market remains undecided what to make of the Fed’s
decision,” said Nizam Idris, head of Asian fixed income and
currencies at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “The slightly
weaker euro also led to the weaker yuan fixing.”  The yuan fell 0.07 percent to 6.3642 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on either
side of the daily fixing.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in
June, matching the streak during the global financial crisis in
a signal the government’s stimulus has yet to reverse the
economy’s slowdown. The preliminary reading was 48.1 for a
purchasing mangers’ index today from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics. Above 50 readings indicate expansion.  The yuan will remain “soft for the time being” against
the dollar and appreciate by around 1 percent over the next six
months, Barclays Capital said in a report yesterday. The
authorities won’t allow yuan depreciation to mitigate weakening
exports and will opt for export tax rebates and subsidized
credit for exporters instead, it said.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were steady at 6.4048
per dollar in Hong Kong, a 0.9 percent discount to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In Hong
Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.07 percent to 6.3655,
snapping a three-day advance.  One-month volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, fell five basis points to 1.85 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  