-- M&A Isn’t Likely to Stage ‘Major’ Recovery Yet, Shafir Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-03-21T16:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/m-a-likely-not-at-start-of-major-rally-citigroup-s-shafir-says.html
Mergers and acquisitions probably
aren’t at the start of a “major” recovery because of economic
uncertainty, even amid the planned takeovers of companies such
as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and H.J. Heinz Co., said Mark Shafir, global co-
head of M&A at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   While the strong start to the year raised expectations,
economic and geopolitical concerns persist, according to a
presentation by Shafir at Tulane University’s Corporate Law
Institute Conference in New Orleans. U.S. spending cuts,
leadership changes in China, and sovereign debt problems in
 Europe  have made corporations skittish about big deals, he said.  “We are not getting the feeling we are in a sustained
upturn,” Shafir said.  “March is a bit disconcerting.”  Still, M&A performance in the fourth and first quarters
show that the right circumstances are in place for dealmaking
to accelerate, he said. Shafir, 57, was among the bankers who
counseled  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  on its agreement last year to
sell a 70 percent stake to Japan’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  for more than
$20 billion.  There have been more than $420 billion in deals announced
so far this quarter, including the Dell acquisition and  Warren
Buffett ’s proposal to buy ketchup maker Heinz with 3G Capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The previous quarter
yielded $713.6 billion, the strongest period for M&A in more
than four years.  ‘Underwhelming’ Confidence  Based on prior M&A cycles, there should be more deal
activity, Shafir said, citing corporate and political
uncertainty and “underwhelming” confidence due to
macroeconomic and geopolitical concerns.  “Are we going to see more mega LBOs? I am still
skeptical,” he said. “Dell is an unusual situation. There is a
strong desire to do it, but I am not convinced we are going back
to seeing mega LBOs.”  Separately, an unexpected increase in interest rates could
pose another threat to mergers, he said. Central banks have
pumped some $9.3 trillion of credit into the market place. When
rates increased in 1994, fixed income investors suffered. This
is because when interest rates increase, bond prices decline.  “How do you clean up this liquidity without massive
disruption in the bond markets?” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  