-- L.A. ‘Pothole Queen’ Livens Mayor Race With War on Ruts
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-03-21T03:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/l-a-pothole-queen-livens-mayor-race-with-war-on-ruts.html
In  Los Angeles , where deteriorated
roadways add an average of $746 a year to the cost of
maintaining a car, potholes have become a symbol of municipal
neglect and an issue in this year’s race for mayor.  Both candidates in the May 21 runoff election have touted
their pothole-fighting credentials in a race defined less by
grand ambitions for the second-largest U.S. city than by a focus
on core services such as policing and street repairs.  City Controller Wendy Greuel dubbed herself the “Pothole
Queen” when, as a councilwoman from the San Fernando Valley,
she personally brandished a shovel and helped fill 747 holes in
the pavement one weekend. Her rival for mayor, Councilman Eric Garcetti, boasts that his office developed a first-of-its-kind
smartphone application for residents to easily report potholes
and other nuisances.  “This is the No. 1 issue that people complain about in my
council district and every council district in the city, on a
consistent basis,” Councilman Mitchell Englander, who is
neutral in the mayor’s race, said in a telephone interview. “It
affects rich people and poor people. It affects every
neighborhood in the city.”  Los Angeles maintains 6,500 miles (10,500 kilometers) of
streets and highways, more than New York with 6,000 miles and
 Chicago  with 4,000 miles, according to transportation
departments in the three largest cities.  Degraded roads inflict more damage on cars in metropolitan
Los Angeles every year than in any other metro area: $746 on
average, compared with $638 in New York and $333 in Chicago,
according to a 2009  report  by the  American Association  of State
Highway and Transportation Officials.  Issue Resonates  That’s an issue that resonates with voters, especially
since the mayoral race is largely devoid of grand philosophical
debates, said Raphael Sonenshein, director of the Pat Brown
Institute for Public Affairs at  California State University , Los
Angeles.  Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , who can’t run again because of
 term limits  and hasn’t endorsed a successor, took on ambitious
initiatives such as City Hall control of public schools and
extending the regional subway to the  Pacific Ocean , Sonenshein
said.  “It may not be time for a grand vision,” Sonenshein said
in an interview. “It may be a time for making sure the details
get taken care of.”  “This campaign is not of poetry, but prose,” he said.  ‘Severe Disrepair’  In a televised debate before the March 5 primary election
narrowed the field to Greuel and Garcetti, Sonenshein asked the
candidates how they’d deal with the “severe disrepair” of many
streets.  Greuel promised to seek federal funding for repairs.  “Fixing our streets is critically important for our city,
not only for tourism, but also for business,” she said.  Garcetti said he’d sell bonds backed by a half-cent
 increase  in Los Angeles County’s sales-tax rate, approved by
voters in 2008 for transit projects over 30 years.  “I would take a bond out against those 26 years and spend
it in three years as mayor, paving hundreds of miles of streets
now,” he said.  Potholes in colder climates typically  form  after rain or
melted snow seeps under the pavement and expands because of
freezing, eventually creating a cavity that leaves the roadway
unsupported, according to the highway association.  Los Angeles doesn’t get snow, rarely experiences freezing
temperatures and has less than half of the annual precipitation
of  New York  or Chicago. Southern California potholes form when
rain seeping through cracks softens soil beneath the pavement,
which then collapses under the weight of traffic, according to a
 bulletin  from the city’s Street Services Bureau.  Damage Claims  The damaged pavement bends tire rims, wrecks axles and
wears out vehicle suspensions. Patti Metroulas said her 2007
Honda Civic incurred about $1,400 in damage when she hit a large
pothole near a Studio City strip mall in 2011. Road conditions
in the city’s San Fernando Valley, where Metroulas lives,
haven’t improved since then and she said the mayoral candidates
don’t seem to be offering solutions.  “We drive on the roads here in L.A. at our own risk and
fix the damages out of our own pockets,” Metroulas said by e-
mail. “I have no hope that the next mayor will consider this
matter of any consequence. Maybe when somebody dies in an
accident caused by a pothole, the results will be different.”  Metroulas said she filed a reimbursement claim with the
city and was turned down. In the year ended June 30, the city
attorney’s office received 648 such claims and paid 101 of them
a total of $42,153, according to Frank Mateljan, a spokesman for
the office. The previous year, there were 2,014 claims, with 119
paid $54,433, he said.  Core Services  Greuel and Garcetti, both Democrats, have promised to focus
on core city services such as public safety, road maintenance
and parks, if elected.  Greuel, 51, represented part of the San Fernando Valley as
a city councilwoman from 2002 to 2009, before her election as
controller. While on the council, her office spurred the city to
fill 164,345 potholes, said Dan Loeterman, a campaign spokesman.  “In many cases, she put on a vest and gloves herself and
joined crews as they filled the potholes,” Loeterman said by e-
mail. “Shortly after she was elected, Wendy grabbed a shovel
and with the help of 100 volunteers, filled 747 potholes in a
single weekend, earning broad praise from her constituents.”  Garcetti, 42, who has represented a Hollywood-area council
district since 2001, pioneered the use of mobile applications to
report potholes, graffiti and other nuisances in 2010, campaign
spokesman Yusef Robb said. Instead of phoning in a problem, a
resident can snap a photo and upload it along with the location
from the smartphone’s GPS.  “If Eric can do this on his own with a staff that’s 1/10th
of 1 percent of the entire city staff, there’s no reason the
city couldn’t do this,” Robb said by telephone. “We’re a big
city and we should be doing big things, but we can’t lose sight
of our basic responsibilities: keeping the streets safe and
keeping the streets clean. When you do little things, it leads
to big things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  