-- Madrid Olympics Bid Is Workable After 24% Budget Cut, IOC Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-03-21T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/madrid-olympics-bid-is-workable-after-24-budget-cut-ioc-says.html
Madrid ’s proposal to spend five
times less on infrastructure than  Rio de Janeiro  to host the
summer  Olympic Games  is workable, according to International
Olympic Committee executives.  The Spanish capital is grappling with an economic slump as
it competes against  Tokyo  and Istanbul to host the 2020 games.
Madrid cut planned  capital spending  by 24 percent to $1.9
billion for the Olympics since it finished second to Rio in the
race to host the 2016 games, according to Bloomberg News
calculations.  Madrid invested in a new airport, transport links and
sports stadiums before an economic slump began in 2008, IOC
Olympic Games Executive Director Gilbert Felli said after a
visit to the city. Madrid’s bid book says 80 percent of sports
arenas needed are in place.  “We believe the numbers proposed are feasible,” Felli
told reporters. “The citizens have already paid for a big part
of” the infrastructure, Felli added.  Switzerland’s Felli was also among an IOC group that
visited Tokyo last month, and that will next travel to Istanbul
before submitting a report on the three candidate cities. IOC
members will decide which gets the games in a Sept. 7 vote in
 Buenos Aires .  Madrid is least likely to be chosen at odds of 4-1,
according to Dublin-based  bookmaker Paddy Power , which rates
Tokyo as the 8-13 favorite and Istanbul at 2-1. A successful $1
wager on Madrid would yield a $4 profit.  Spain’s economic woes have worsened since Madrid’s bid four
years ago, with the  unemployment rate  rising to a record 26
percent from 18.5 percent. Public sector debt last year surged
20 percent to 884.4 billion euros ($1.14 trillion) -- 84.1
percent of gross domestic product -- according to the central
bank on March 15.  Rio’s successful bid included a plan to spend on $11.1
billion on infrastructure. Madrid can get by on much less, the
U.K.’s Craig Reedie, president of the IOC 2020 games evaluation
committee, told reporters.  ‘We have looked closely at capital costs and we believe
them to be attainable,” Reedie said. “The games simply can’t
get more expensive every time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  