-- Maehara Says DPJ May Oppose Kuroda for Complete BOJ Term
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-03-21T06:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/maehara-says-dpj-may-oppose-kuroda-for-complete-boj-term.html
Japan ’s biggest opposition party
may oppose newly installed central bank governor Haruhiko Kuroda
for a full five-year term that would begin next month, lawmaker
Seiji Maehara said in an interview.  Parliament last week approved Kuroda’s appointment to serve
the remainder of predecessor  Masaaki Shirakawa ’s term as head of
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  from March 20 to April 8, with support from
Maehara’s Democratic Party of Japan. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
government today renominated Kuroda, who must be confirmed to
serve a complete term.  “We’ve given him a provisional license, but we haven’t yet
decided whether to approve him fully,” Maehara, a former
economy minister whose DPJ is the biggest party in the upper
house, said today in an interview.  He called on Kuroda to show “flexibility” over the BOJ’s
2 percent inflation target, which Abe has advocated to overcome
more than 15 years of falling prices. Maehara reiterated his
party’s opposition to changing the law governing the central
bank to allow the government to fire the governor.  A DPJ rejection of Kuroda, who gives his first press
conference at 6 pm. today, risks further jeopardizing the
party’s popularity after suffering a landslide loss to Abe’s
Liberal  Democratic Party  in December. Pledges to revive the
economy with aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus have
boosted Abe’s popularity ahead of upper house elections in July.  Maehara said concerns that unlimited monetary easing could
fuel inflation justify greater scrutiny of the new central bank
governor, even at the risk of leaving the position vacant.  ‘National Interest’  “It would be in the national interest to vote against
someone who puts inflation ahead of everything else, which could
lead to a collapse of the economy,” he said.  The central bank in January set a 2 percent inflation
target, which Kuroda has said he aims to achieve in two years.
Maehara said the target should not be fixed.  DPJ policy chief Mitsuru Sakurai last week said he wanted
to observe the results of Kuroda’s first BOJ policy meeting on
April 3-4 before the party decides whether to support him.  As party policy chief under Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ,
Maehara was a proponent of further monetary easing, calling on
the BOJ to consider buying foreign bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  