-- Allstate’s Esurance Turns to Wal-Mart for Auto Sales
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-21T13:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/allstate-s-esurance-turns-to-wal-mart-for-auto-sales.html
Esurance,  Allstate Corp. (ALL) ’s online
auto-insurance seller, is turning to the world’s largest
retailer to boost policy sales.  The insurer is starting a pilot program tomorrow at 150
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  locations in Illinois to promote Esurance
products, according to an e-mailed statement. Customers will get
a discount card from in-store kiosks, and can buy the policies
over the Internet or by phone.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, is seeking new ways to attract customers as television-
ad spending by insurers soars in what McKinsey & Co. has called
a “marketing arms race.” The Northbrook, Illinois-based firm
acquired Esurance in 2011 to compete with  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico unit and  Progressive Corp. (PGR) , which have added
policyholders as more drivers shop online.  “We’re bombarded with so many ads inside the home,” said
 Brad Adgate , head of research at  Horizon Media , a New York-based
ad firm that works with Geico. “Unique venues outside the home
are one way to get your message across.”  Esurance tapped actor John Krasinski for TV spots and radio
ads that began airing in 2011. One ad pokes fun at rivals by
asking whether customers should trust car insurance promoted by
talking animals. Allstate hired Sanjay Gupta from online bank
Ally Financial Inc. last year as chief marketing officer to help
build Esurance.  The Wal-Mart program promotes only Esurance, which is run
separately from Allstate’s flagship auto and home unit that
sells through agents. Danny Miller, an Esurance spokesman,
declined to discuss terms of the deal.  Expansion Possible  Esurance will probably weigh the results of the program in
 Illinois  before deciding whether to widen it, Adgate said.  “If they decide to expand this nationwide, first I think
this would be pretty expensive,” he said. “It would be a
pretty broad-reach vehicle.”  Miller said Esurance isn’t planning to expand the pilot
program in other U.S. markets now. He declined to say how
Esurance will evaluate the results.  The Esurance program meshes with Wal-Mart’s strategy to
provide customers with “affordable access to everyday money
services,” Sarah Spencer, a spokeswoman for the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer, said by phone. She said Esurance is
leasing space, and declined to disclose other details.  Wal-Mart has been expanding in financial services by
offering Bluebird prepaid  debit cards , money transfers, check
cashing and bill payment in stores.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest
U.S. life insurer, began selling prepaid life policies at Wal-
Mart stores in  South Carolina  and  Georgia  in September, the
first time the retailer offered life coverage.  Allstate’s Roots  Esurance’s effort recalls Allstate’s  roots . The insurer was
started by Sears, Roebuck & Co. in 1931 to sell mail-order car
coverage. It opened its first sales location in a Sears store in
 Chicago  in 1934, according to the company’s website. Sears sold
part of Allstate in an initial public offering in 1993.  Policies in force at Esurance climbed 31 percent to 1.03
million as of Dec. 31 from a year earlier, Allstate said in a
 report  on its website. Allstate’s namesake brand of standard
auto coverage lost about 300,000 policies last year. Allstate
had  climbed  19 percent this year through yesterday, beating the
9.3 percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Chief Executive Officer Tom Wilson has said that efforts to
boost rates for homeowners’ insurance hurt the ability to retain
auto customers, who often buy the policies together.  Auto insurers increased ad spending 15 percent a year over
the past decade to almost $6 billion in 2011, McKinsey said in a
report in January. Geico’s tab of almost $1 billion that year
was the biggest outlay among U.S. property-casualty companies,
according to  SNL Financial . State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. spent about $814 million, followed by Allstate,
which paid $745 million.  “Given the amount of money that Allstate or other insurers
are spending, I’m not sure the incremental TV ad can do that
much,” said Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP. “The next step has to be more creative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  