-- Ally to Sell Remaining Mortgage Servicing Rights to Quicken
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-21T15:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ally-to-sell-remaining-mortgage-servicing-rights-to-quicken-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the lender
that had its capital plan rejected last week by the Federal
Reserve, agreed to sell its remaining agency mortgage servicing
rights to Quicken Loans Inc. for about $280 million.  The loans had an unpaid principal balance of about $34
billion as of Jan. 31, the Detroit-based lender said today in a
statement. The deal is expected to be completed in the second
quarter, subject to approval by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
firm said.  “Going forward, the bank’s full focus and resources will
be centered on its leading direct banking franchise and
advancing its customer-centric deposit activities, as well as
continuing to grow its key role in Ally’s auto finance
operation,” Barbara Yastine, 53, chief executive officer of the
Ally Bank unit, said in the statement.  Ally, which received a $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout that
left the U.S. Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake in the
company, had its capital plan rejected by the Federal Reserve
last week after regulators said the firm’s planning process and
capital ratios didn’t meet standards.  Ally has disagreed with the Fed over the calculation of
capital ratios, saying in a statement last week that it
“continues to be a well-capitalized bank with a leading
position in the market.”  The lender agreed March 12 to sell agency mortgage
servicing rights to West Palm Beach, Florida-based  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN)  for about $585 million. Mortgage servicers
handle billing and collections, and oversee foreclosures when
borrowers don’t pay.  After Ally completes the transactions with Ocwen and
Detroit-based Quicken Loans, it will have “exited all the non-
strategic mortgage activities,” Yastine said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  