-- Americans’ View on Economic Outlook Climbs to Three-Month High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-21T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/americans-view-on-economic-outlook-climbs-to-three-month-high.html
Americans’ views of the economic
 outlook  improved in March to the highest level this year as
stock prices rallied to a record high.  The gap between positive and negative expectations narrowed
to minus 4 this month from minus 7 in February, according to
results of the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. The weekly
measure fell for the first time in seven weeks, to minus 33.9
from minus 31.6.  Gains in the stock market and stable  home prices  may be
making consumers feel wealthier, giving them the wherewithal to
boost the spending that makes up about 70 percent of the
economy. At the same time, further improvement in sentiment will
be tested by higher payroll taxes and concerns government budget
cuts may hold back the economic expansion.  “Americans are growing more confident about their own
financial and economic situations,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “A quicker pace
of employment growth, a modest wealth effect, and what looks to
be a decline in gasoline prices has likely bolstered future
expectations on the economy.”  Another report today showed fewer Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week. First-
time  jobless claims  rose by 2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended
March 16, according to data today from the Labor Department in
Washington. Economists projected an increase to 340,000. The
monthly average dropped to the lowest level since February 2008.  Stocks fell, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
approached a record high yesterday, as German manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted and Cyprus’s president worked on a new
plan to obtain a European bailout. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.5
percent to 1,551.5 at 9:36 a.m. in New York.  Stock Prices  The S&P 500 has  surged 130 percent  from a 12-year low in
2009 as the economy rebounded from its worst recession in the
post-World War II era. Better-than-estimated corporate earnings
and the  Federal Reserve ’s record monetary stimulus have combined
to spur the stock market. The benchmark S&P 500 rose to within
two points of its 2007 record last week while the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  reached an all-time high.  Today’s comfort report showed the weekly buying-climate
index decreased to minus 42.2 from minus 38.4 the prior week.
The measure of Americans’ views on the current state of the
economy cooled to minus 59.5 from minus 57.8, while the gauge of
personal finances fell to 0.2 last week from 1.4 the prior
period.  Based on the Bloomberg comfort survey’s monthly outlook
figures, 30 percent of respondents, the most this year, said the
economy is improving, while 36 percent indicated it’s about the
same.  Unemployment Rate  Labor-market progress may help sustain consumer attitudes
about the economy. Unemployment fell to 7.7 percent in February,
the lowest in four years, from 7.9 percent in January, and
employers added 236,000 jobs, the Labor Department reported
earlier this month.  The recovery in the residential real estate market is
helping stabilize household balance sheets. Home prices in 20
U.S. cities rose in the 12 months ended in December by the most
in more than six years. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values increased 6.8 percent from December 2011, the biggest
year-to-year gain since July 2006, after advancing 5.4 percent
in November.  The housing gains are encouraging homeowners to take on
more remodeling projects, boosting home-improvement retailers
such as  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  The Mooresville, North Carolina-based
company said it is hiring 9,000 permanent part-time workers this
year as it sells more appliances and bathroom fixtures.  Homeowners are giving themselves “the psychological
permission to spend it and feel good about it” as property
values increase, Lowe’s Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock 
said on a March 13 conference call.  Gasoline Prices  Consumers are starting to feel less of a pinch to their
pocketbooks from prices at the pump. The cost of a gallon of
 regular gasoline  averaged $3.69 on March 20, down from $3.79 on
Feb. 26 that was the highest in more than four months, according
to figures from AAA, the largest U.S. auto group.  Further declines may help relieve some of the stress to
household budgets from higher payroll taxes. The levy that funds
 Social Security  has reverted to its 2010 level of 6.2 percent
from 4.2 percent, meaning workers earning $50,000 take home
about $83 less a month.  Bloomberg’s weekly comfort gauge showed confidence fell in
three of four regions, led by a drop in the West. Sentiment in
the South improved.  Income Groups  The figures also showed confidence among Americans who earn
the least continued to climb. The sentiment gauge for those
making less than $15,000 a year reached its highest level since
December 2007. Comfort among those without a high school degree
was at a one-year high, while sentiment was the strongest since
June among those 35 to 44 years old.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in  New York , conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate. The percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  If you’d like to receive a copy of the comfort results on a
weekly basis, please contact  BloombergNewsPR@bloomberg.com   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  