-- America Movil Jumps on Buyback Increase, Finance Chief Comments
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-03-21T21:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/america-movil-buybacks-surge-with-stock-trading-at-four-year-low.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the mobile-phone
carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , rose the most in
10 months after an increase in share buybacks and optimism from
its finance chief on Mexican telecommunications legislation.  The company is stepping up its share repurchases after the
prospect of tougher regulation in Mexico pushed the stock to an
almost four-year low. America Movil acquired 526 million shares
since March 11, when lawmakers announced a plan to boost phone-
industry competition. That total exceeds the 479 million Mexico
City-based America Movil had acquired all year before that date.  The shares have fallen 17 percent this year amid investor
concern that the legislation could give the government power to
break up the company. America Movil, on the other hand, views
the planned new rules as an opportunity to begin offering
television services for the first time in Mexico, Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said.  “The reform is very positive because it provides a push to
a sector that needed it,” Garcia-Moreno said today at the
Bloomberg Mexico Economic Summit in Mexico City. “We welcome
greater competition in Mexico.”  The shares  gained  4.3 percent to 12.35 pesos at the close
in Mexico City, the biggest increase since May 7. They ended
last week at 11.60 pesos, the lowest close since April 30, 2009.  Doubling Program  The company, the largest wireless carrier in the Western
Hemisphere by subscribers,  said  this week that it plans to more
than double its share buyback program to 79.2 billion pesos
($6.4 billion) from 39.2 billion pesos.  “That’s an impressive increase, assuming they do the whole
thing,” said Chris King, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore. “They need to try and stem the bleeding -- the stock
is awfully cheap.”  King said he’s  maintaining  a hold rating on America Movil
shares, in part because the Mexican legislation is making it
difficult to predict the company’s performance.  America Movil has 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone lines
and about 80 percent of its land lines.  While the company didn’t say how quickly it planned to put
the additional buyback funds to work, the lower share price
means America Movil would have enough in its budget to acquire
almost 9 percent of its  outstanding shares .  Slim, 73, owns about 43 percent in America Movil, the
biggest of his $70 billion in holdings, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  An America Movil press official didn’t respond to e-mails
seeking a comment.  America Movil added 30 billion pesos to its buyback fund
last year and ended up spending 17.8 billion pesos. In 2011, it
spent 53.7 billion pesos after boosting the fund by 50 billion
pesos in April of that year, bringing the total in its
repurchase budget at the time to more than 80 billion pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  