-- Angola Restore Copper Rail Line After Four Decade Halt
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-03-25T17:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/angola-restore-copper-rail-line-after-four-decade-halt.html
(Corrects location of Luau in second paragraph. The story
was initially published on March 22.)  Angola plans to restart a railway
used to bring metal to the Atlantic Ocean port of Lobito from
some of the world’s richest copper fields after a four-decade
halt due to a civil war.  The line from the port of Lobito will reach the border of
the Democratic Republic of Congo in August, Luis Lopes Teixeira,
technical director of  Caminho de Ferro de Benguela E.P. , said in
an e-mailed response to questions on March 12.  Cargo will move along the refurbished 1,344-kilometer
(835-mile) line linking Lobito with Luau on the Congo border.
When a branch line inside  Zambia ,  Africa ’s largest copper
producer,
is completed in December Lobito will be able to compete with
ports
in East Africa for copper exports from Zambia and the Democratic
Republic of Congo, which together account for about 7.4 percent
of world  production  of the metal, according to the U.S.
Geological Service.  “The line will serve, directly or indirectly, a vast
region of the interior and east of the country, as well as
neighboring countries that don’t benefit from a maritime
coastline, such as Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana and part of the
Democratic Republic of Congo” Teixeira said. “It will have a
strong influence on the balance of their economies.”  Copper is the biggest export of Zambia and Congo with
combined production estimated to be 1.3 million metric tons last
year, by London-based metals researcher CRU.  The route will offer shorter access to European and
American markets via the Atlantic and restore Angola’s part of
an 84-year-old  trans-continental  rail network that currently
sends some Congolese and Zambian copper, cobalt, manganese and
zinc east to Beira in  Mozambique  and Dar es Salaam in Tanzania.
Most of the metal is currently transported to ports by truck.  Barrick, Glencore  Companies that mine copper on the so-called copperbelt that
straddles the border between Congo and Zambia include Barrick
Gold Corp.,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  and  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   Angola has spent about $1.9 billion in mostly oil-backed
loans from China to rebuild the railway as it recovers from a
27-year civil war that ended in 2002, according to Jose Manuel
Alves de Rocha, an economist at the Catholic University in
Luanda.  Trains currently run 1,032 kilometers from Lobito and
nearby Benguela to Luena in Angola’s eastern Moxico province,
Teixeira said. The final section of 312 kilometers to Luau is
under construction by  China Railway Construction Corp. Ltd. (1186)  The
Lobito Corridor, as the route is known, will handle 20 million
passengers a year and two million tons of goods, he said.  Chinese Locomotives  “Angola has now the opportunity to play an important role
in the outflow of the minerals coming from the copper belt
region, which would further increase the country’s profile
within the Southern Africa Development Community,” Ana Cristina
Alves, a senior researcher at the South African Institute of
International Affairs, said in an e-mail. “It’s an important
landmark for the government.”  The rail company has eight locomotives, 66 passenger cars
and 94 cargo wagons, with plans to acquire 40 more locomotives,
all from China, Teixeira said. One of the biggest challenges
facing the rebuilt line is to compete efficiently with other
sub-Saharan railways and ensure adequate maintenance, he said.  Rail lines from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia,
 Zimbabwe  and South Africa are looking at ways to cooperate and
increase traffic and trade into the South African port of
Durban, Africa’s busiest. State-owned Zambia Railways Ltd.
signed a cooperation agreement with Transnet Freight Rail, a
unit of South Africa’s Transnet SOC Ltd., on Feb. 20.  The Benguela line will also have to compete with a railway
to Tanzania that offers a route to the Asian economies, Alves
said.  Civil War  The Benguela Railway was first built under contract from
 Portugal , Angola’s former colonial ruler, by Sir Robert
William’s Benguela Railway Co. to export metal from the
provinces of Copperbelt in Zambia and Katanga in the Congo.  Construction, which began in 1903, was halted during World
War I and completed in 1929. Service along most of the route was
discontinued after the start of Angola’s civil war in 1975 at
the end of colonial rule. Trains ran from Benguela to Huambo
about 340 kilometers east until 1992. Reconstruction began in
2006 after a $300 million loan from the  China  International
Fund.  “We feel proud, recognizing that it also means more
responsibility, as the result of our work is viewed with more
attention not only within Angola but in other African
countries,” Teixeira said. “It’s important to have an
international line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  