-- Tanker Owner Lets Ship Drift Hundreds of Miles to Save Fuel
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-03-21T15:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/tanker-drifts-toward-algeria-as-owner-norden-battles-fuel-costs.html
A tanker owned by  D/S Norden A/S (DNORD) ,
 Europe ’s biggest publicly traded commodity-shipping company,
turned off its main engine for more than 200 miles to save on
fuel as the industry curbs an expense that was a record in 2012.  The Nord Integrity, a 47,400-ton ship designed to transport
fuels including gasoline and diesel, sailed by wind and currents
on its way to load cargo in  Algeria  after refueling in the
 Canary Islands , Hellerup, Denmark-based Norden said in a company
newsletter e-mailed today. The vessel saved $17,000 by switching
off for 280 nautical miles (518 kilometers) and drifted for
three or four days.  “You could see more of this on specific routes, given how
fuel prices are,” said Per Mansson, managing director of
shipbroker Norocean Stockholm AB, who served on tankers in the
1970s that would drift for as many as 14 days when sailing
between  Sweden  and the Caribbean. “It’s never difficult as long
as the currents are right.”  Owners across the industry are cutting speeds to save on
fuel costs that now account about 75 percent of average
expenses, according to the Baltic and International Maritime
Council, the largest trade group. Norden spent $651 million on
fuel in 2012, or 67 percent of its voyage costs, according to
the newsletter. Prices at the port of Rotterdam averaged a
record $640.39 a ton last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The voyage complied with safety regulations, and a ship
wouldn’t turn off its engine while carrying a cargo, Jens Malund
Jensen, head of Norden’s product tanker operations, said in the
newsletter. Wind and currents must move in the right direction
and a vessel must have enough time and space to move safely to
make such sailing possible, according to the report.  “Owners are trying everything because one ton saved a day
is $600 on your bottom line,” said Truls Dahl, a shipbroker at
Fearnleys A/S in Oslo who said that he hasn’t seen ships switch
off their engines during his 30-year career in the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  