-- Anti-Terror Drone Program Weighed for Shift to Pentagon
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-03-21T04:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/anti-terror-drone-program-weighed-for-shift-to-pentagon.html
The Obama administration is
considering whether to transfer more overseas counterterrorism
operations to the Defense Department, including a secretive
drone program run by the Central Intelligence Agency, according
to three officials familiar with the deliberations.  The discussions, two of the officials said, are part of a
larger review of U.S. counterterrorism initiatives that includes
questions about whether such efforts have relied too heavily on
drone attacks, night raids on suspected terrorists and other
military actions. All of the officials asked not to be
identified in discussing intelligence matters.  The move would potentially bring more transparency to the
secretive drone program, which uses unmanned aircraft to kill
alleged enemy combatants in countries from Pakistan to  Yemen .
The drone strikes have come under increased scrutiny from
diplomats, human rights groups and U.S. lawmakers from both
parties concerned about the legality of targeted killings.  President  Barack Obama  pledged in last month’s  State of the
Union  address to engage with Congress and the public about how
his administration was targeting, detaining and prosecuting
terrorists. “I recognize that in our democracy, no one should
just take my word that we’re doing things the right way,” he
said.  Shifting control over some -- but not all -- strikes by
remotely piloted vehicles from the CIA to the military would
impose tighter and more transparent controls on such attacks and
make it easier to coordinate them with the governments in target
countries, one of the officials said.  Kinetic Actions  Some military, intelligence and State Department officials
have argued that the emphasis on so-called kinetic actions has
come at the expense of strengthening local governments,
improving economic conditions, reducing official corruption and
taking other steps to undermine support for extremist groups,
the officials said.  The debate has been fueled in part by what a fourth
official described as a critical report on counterterrorism
policies by the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board. The
official asked to not be identified because the report,
completed last year, remains classified.  The panel, whose co-chairmen at the time were former
Nebraska Republican Senator Chuck Hagel -- now Obama’s defense
secretary -- and former Oklahoma Democratic Senator David Boren,
found that the U.S. has focused too narrowly on military action
at the expense of broader intelligence activities and responding
to other threats to U.S. interests.  Brennan Nomination  The U.S. drone program emerged as an obstacle during Senate
consideration of  John Brennan ’s nomination as CIA director.
While serving as Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, Brennan was
the drone policy’s architect and principal overseer.  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, staged a 13-hour
filibuster delaying Brennan’s confirmation vote and seeking a
pledge from the Obama administration that it wouldn’t use drones
to target Americans on U.S. soil without an imminent threat.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder sent Paul a letter the
next day, March 7. “It has come to my attention that you have
now asked an additional question: ‘Does the President have the
authority to use a weaponized drone to kill an American not
engaged in combat on American soil?’” Holder wrote. “The
answer to that question is no.”  Brennan, 57, was confirmed in a 63-34 vote later that day.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, had also demanded
more information from the Obama administration about the
program’s legal rationale during hearings on Brennan’s
nomination. Wyden has pledged to pursue the issue.  U.S. Citizen  Lawmakers’ and human-rights groups’ questions about the use
of drones surged in the aftermath of the 2011 killing in Yemen
of the radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S. citizen, and an
alleged al-Qaeda propagandist Samir Khan, 25, a Saudi-born
American of Pakistani heritage. Two weeks later, al-Awlaki’s 16-
year-old, Denver-born son, Abdulrahman, was killed in a
suspected drone strike in Yemen.  During his confirmation hearing last month before the
Senate Intelligence Committee, Brennan said al-Awlaki was
involved in numerous plots to kill Americans, including a 2010
attempt to blow up two U.S.-bound cargo planes with bombs hidden
inside laser-printer cartridges.  Brennan also said the White House has an “approval process
before any action is contemplated, including those actions that
might involve the use of lethal force.”  The use of drones to combat militants in  Pakistan  has
provoked complaints from that country’s government. Last month,
the Pakistani ambassador to the U.S., Sherry Rehman, called such
targeted killings a “direct violation of our sovereignty” and
said they produce more militants than they eliminate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  