-- Lanxess Forecasts Bigger-Than-Estimated Drop in Quarterly Profit
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-21T07:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lanxess-says-first-quarter-profit-will-be-significantly-lower.html
Lanxess AG (LXS) , the chemical maker that
joined  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index in September, forecast a
larger-than-estimated drop in profit for the current quarter on
weak demand in the tire and automotive industries.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items will probably fall to between 160 million
euros ($207 million) and 180 million euros in the quarter, the
Leverkusen, Germany-based company said today. That compares with
369 million euros a year earlier. Norbert Barth, an analyst at
Baader Bank, had  forecast  250 million euros.  Lanxess is budgeting for profit to decline in 2013. Earlier
this month, the company announced it will idle synthetic rubber
factories in  Belgium  and the U.S. because of weak orders from
the  auto industry .  Europe ’s car-market contraction accelerated
in February, with registrations dropping 10 percent from a year
earlier, the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association, or ACEA, said on March 19.  “The outlook is disappointing,” said Baader’s Barth, who
has a buy rating on the stock. “We already saw the announcement
that the market is difficult. But it’s surprising that they
expect 2013 to be lower.”  Recovery   Lanxess, which expects a pick-up in demand in the second
half, will give a more precise outlook for the current year when
it publishes its first-quarter report on May 8, it said today.  The maker of synthetic rubber is proposing to increase its
annual dividend payment 18 percent to 1 euro a share for the
year 2012, it said today. A payout of 95 euro cents was
expected, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In this persistently volatile environment, Lanxess will
continue to focus on cost discipline and its proven flexible
asset management,” the company said in the statement.  A plant making butyl rubber, used in the inner linings of
car tires, in Zwijndrecht in Belgium will be closed for four
weeks in May. Production of ethylene propylene diene monomer, or
EPDM, used in wiper blades and door sealants, in Orange,  Texas ,
will be stop for as many as six weeks, spokesman  Daniel Smith 
said earlier this month.  The company is sticking to medium term targets for earnings
of 1.4 billion euros in 2014 and 1.8 billion euros in 2018, it
said today.  Lanxess, which is moving its headquarters to Cologne, said
today that the new building will be inaugurated on Sept. 3. Some
1,000 employees will move into the new building on the banks of
the Rhine river.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  