-- Maryland Requirement for Gun-Carry Permit Upheld by Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-21T20:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/maryland-requirement-for-gun-carry-permits-upheld-by-court-1-.html
Maryland’s demand that a person who
wants a permit to carry a gun outside the home show “good and
substantial reason” for doing so was upheld by a U.S. appeals
court as a constitutional public-safety measure.  A three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Richmond,  Virginia , today reversed a lower-court judge, who
ruled the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms for self-
defense extends beyond the home and that the state’s standard
for granting a carry permit infringed on that right.  “The state has demonstrated that the good-and-substantial-
reason requirement is reasonably adapted to Maryland’s
significant interests in protecting public safety and preventing
crime,” U.S. Circuit Judge Robert King wrote in a 33-page
opinion.  The potential of the case to extend the Second Amendment
right of gun possession to carrying firearms in public drew 45
interest groups and states to file briefs arguing their
positions to the court. The judges opted not to address the
question directly, saying  Maryland ’s law would withstand
constitutional scrutiny even if the Second Amendment does
protect a right to carry a gun outside the home.  ‘Next Step’  “It’s not much of a right if the police can demand that
you satisfy their vision of a ‘good and substantial reason’ to
exercise it,” Alan Gura, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said
in a statement released by the Second Amendment Foundation.
“The next step is for courts to tell Americans that they need a
’good and substantial reason’ to speak, worship or be secure
from unreasonable searches.”  Gura said the decision will be appealed to the U.S. Supreme
Court if it isn’t reversed.  “As a preliminary matter, people should be able to carry
guns for self-defense,” he said.  Under Maryland’s permitting law, residents who wish to
carry a gun outside their home must demonstrate they need it for
personal protection because of a specific threat or their
business activities or because they belong to a high-risk
profession.  Law enforcement  and military personnel on active
assignment and people traveling to shooting ranges are exempt
from the requirement.  “It’s clearly the right result,” said Maryland Attorney
General Douglas Gansler, whose office defended the permit
requirement.  Majority Accepted  States have discretion to require a reason when people want
to carry guns outside their homes, Gansler said in a phone
interview.  “The reality is that the vast, vast majority of
applications are accepted,” Gansler said. “But they need a
reason.”  The case was filed by Raymond Woollard, who challenged the
state’s denial in 2009 for a renewal of a carry permit that was
awarded six years earlier after a Christmas Eve break-in on his
farm in which his son-in-law was arrested and sentenced to
probation, according to today’s ruling. In rejecting Woollard’s
application, the state noted that he hadn’t provided evidence of
any threats or incidents outside his home since the 2002
incident.  In July, U.S. District Judge Benson Legg in Baltimore ruled
the requirement infringed the Second Amendment and enjoined the
state from enforcing it.  “A citizen may not be required to offer a ‘good and
substantial reason’ why he should be permitted to exercise his
rights,” Legg, an appointee of President  George H.W. Bush ,
wrote in his ruling. “The right’s existence is all the reason
he needs.”  ‘Trailblazing’ Decision  King, appointed to the court by President  Bill Clinton ,
called Legg’s decision “trailblazing” and said the state’s
requirement was “inappropriately condemned” by the lower court
for being a rationing system that does little to combat threats
to public safety. King said Legg was “wrong to denounce the
good-and-substantial-reason requirement’s failure to single-
handedly safeguard the public from every handgun-related
hazard.”  His opinion was joined by circuit judges Andre Davis and
Albert Diaz, both appointees of President  Barack Obama .  The judges rejected arguments that increasing the number of
so-called law-abiding gun owners would more effectively protect
public safety and prevent crime.  Handgun Proliferation  “We cannot substitute those views for the considered
judgment of the General Assembly that the good-and-substantial-
reason requirement strikes an appropriate balance between
granting handgun permits to those persons known to be in need of
self protection and precluding a dangerous proliferation of
handguns on the streets of Maryland,” King wrote.  Eight briefs were filed supporting the state. Those
included filings by the American Public Health Association, the
Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence and the Maryland Chiefs of
Police Association.  Woollard and the Second Amendment Foundation received
support from 37 organizations, including the  National Rifle
Association  of America, the Conservative Legal Defense and
Education Fund and 14 states.  The case is Woollard v. Gallagher, 12-1437, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond, Virginia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  