-- Stocks Slide With Euro on Europe Data; Oracle Shares Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   L u   W a n g   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-21T20:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/asian-stocks-advance-led-by-japan-kiwi-increases-as-oil-falls.html
U.S. and European stocks slid, the
euro weakened and commodities declined after data showed an
unexpected contraction in German manufacturing and Cyprus’s
president worked on a new plan to obtain a European bailout.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.8 percent, the most
in almost a month, as technology shares tumbled after  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) ’s results missed estimates. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
sank 0.7 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields lost four basis
points to 1.92 percent. The euro fell versus 14 of 16 major
peers. Oil and gasoline led commodities lower and natural gas
fell after topping $4 per million British thermal units for the
first time since 2011. The yen erased yesterday’s 0.9 percent
slump versus the dollar.  An index of German manufacturing unexpectedly slid to 48.9
this month and services fell to 51.6, while a composite gauge of
both industries in the euro area contracted more than forecast.
Fewer Americans than forecast filed jobless claims last week.
Other reports showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose
to the highest level in more than three years and a gauge of
leading economic indicators topped estimates.  The market “is quite entitled to a breather and I think it
may be taking a breather right now,”  David Kelly , the New York-
based chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds, said in a phone
interview. “The U.S. economic story continues to improve,” he
said. “We still have some European concerns because the
Europeans have to figure out a solution for Cyprus.”  Fed Plans  U.S. stocks rose for the first time in  four days  yesterday,
sending the S&P 500 within 0.5 percent of its 2007 record, and
commodities gained as policy makers weighed bailout options for
Cyprus and the  Federal Reserve  said it will keep up its bond
buying. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank would
alter its monthly bond buying in response to gains in the job
market, underscoring a need for flexibility as he expands Fed
assets beyond a record $3 trillion.  Technology companies in the  S&P 500 , which account for 18
percent of the index and are the  biggest industry  among 10
groups, fell 1.3 percent today and were the biggest drag on the
benchmark gauge today. Oracle Corp. sank 9.7 percent, the most
since 2011, after results missed estimates as corporate
customers transitioning to Web-based programs bought less
hardware and software.  Cisco Systems Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Bank of America
Corp. lost at least 1.6 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  down 90.24 points, or 0.6 percent, to 14,421.49 for its
biggest loss since Feb. 25.  Approaching Record  The S&P 500 is approaching a record almost 5 1/2 years
after peaking and two years after most stocks in the gauge fully
recovered from the worst  bear market  since the 1930s. The index
has climbed 130 percent since March 2009, adding $10 trillion to
the value of American equity as it erased losses from the credit
crisis.  The majority of companies surpassed their previous highs by
April 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P 500
Equal Weighted Index, which counts each company in the index
equally instead of by their market value, increased 192 percent
from the bottom. Unlike past bull markets, where a single
industry dominated, all groups have improved in this rally as
the  U.S. economy  recovers. The breadth of the rebound can be
seen in the S&P 500’s weightings, where none of the 10 industry
measures represents more than 18 percent of the index.  Futures on the S&P 500 remained lower before the open of
U.S. exchanges today as applications for jobless benefits
increased by 2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended March 16, Labor
Department figures showed today. Economists projected 340,000
claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Home Sales  U.S. home sales increased 0.8 percent to a 4.98 million
annualized rate, the National Association of Realtors said
today. The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
rose 0.5 percent in February, more than forecast, indicating the
world’s largest economy is strengthening.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic index  rose
to 2 in March from minus 12.5 the prior month. Readings lower
than zero signal contraction in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and  Delaware .  “We see the economy as being much more fragile than the
market is acting right now,”Eric Thorne, who helps oversee
about $6 billion at Bryn Mawr Trust Co. in Bryn Mawr,
Pennsylvania, said in a phone interview. “We haven’t seen any
major resolution to these issues we were hearing about a couple
years ago, yet stocks have decided to really ignore what’s going
on there and reach new all-time highs any way. Europe and the
surrounding economies having trouble could well be the reason
that the market decides to pause here for a while.  European Markets  The Stoxx 600 fell for the fourth time in five days,
bringing the decline from last week’s 4 1/2-year high to 1.4
percent. Lanxess AG sank 6 percent as the German chemical maker
forecast a larger-than-estimated drop in profit amid weakening
demand in the tire and automotive industries. BASF SE, the
world’s biggest chemical company, retreated 3.1 percent and
Brussels-based Solvay SA lost 3.6 percent.  The euro slipped 1.4 percent versus the yen and lost 0.2
percent to $1.2905 to trade near its lowest levels of the year.
The composite gauge of purchasing managers in manufacturing and
services industries fell to 46.5 from 47.9 in February, London-
based  Markit Economics  said today. Analysts had forecast a
reading of 48.2, according to the median of 23 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  ‘‘German economic data is the lung of the European
economy,” said Yves Marcais, an equity sales trader at Global
Equities in Paris. “When things there slow, it weighs on
confidence.”  Currencies  The yen advanced versus all 16 major counterparts. Haruhiko Kuroda gave his first press briefing as central bank governor,
saying that he will do everything possible to beat deflation and
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  won’t finance or underwrite  government bonds .  The pound strengthened as much as 0.7 percent to a three-
week high of $1.5210 after a government report showed retail
sales increased more in February than economists forecast.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond fell 10 basis points to
4.88 percent after the government sold 4.5 billion euros ($5.8
billion) of securities at an auction, exceeding its maximum
target of 4 billion euros. Yields on French, German, Italian and
Swedish debt also lost at least two basis points.  The ECB turned up the pressure on Cypriot President Nicos
Anastasiades and euro-area finance ministers to deliver a rescue
package, saying it may cut off emergency funds to Cypriot banks
after March 25 unless a plan is in place “that would ensure the
solvency of the concerned banks.”  Cyprus  Euro-area finance chiefs, pressuring Cyprus to shrink its
banking system as the condition for a bailout, are reviving
demands they jettisoned last week as too extreme, four European
officials said. Finance ministers are considering a plan to
shutter the two biggest banks in Cyprus and freeze the assets of
uninsured depositors, said the four officials, who asked not to
be named because the talks are ongoing. The ministers are
holding a teleconference tonight.  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl and the Bank of Cyprus Plc would be
split to create a so-called bad bank, one of the officials said.
Insured deposits -- below the European Union ceiling of 100,000
euros ($129,000) -- would go into a so-called good bank and not
sustain any losses, while uninsured deposits would go  into the
bad bank and be frozen until assets could be sold, said the four
officials.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.6 percent to its
lowest level of the year as benchmark gauges in Brazil,  South
Korea , Indonesia,  Thailand  and  Poland  fell at least 0.4 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA, which gets 17 percent of its revenue
from  Germany , slid 2.5 percent in Warsaw. Indian automakers
Bajaj Auto Ltd. and Tata Motors Ltd. fell at least 4.2 percent.
Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s largest Internet company, slumped
4 percent in  Hong Kong  as analysts cut share price forecasts.
Brazil’s Bovespa Index fell to a four-month low as miner MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA dropped a seventh day.  Commodities Decline  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities slipped 0.6 percent.
Gasoline lost 1.5 percent to $3.0706 a gallon, while  New York 
crude oil for May delivery slipped 1.1 percent to $92.45 a
barrel.  Natural gas futures slid after trading at an 18-month high
above $4 in New York following a government report showing that
U.S. stockpiles declined by less than expected last week. Gas
slipped 0.6 percent to $3.935 per million BTU after rising to
$4.025, the highest price since Sept. 15, 2011. Energy
Information Administration data showed that inventories fell 62
billion cubic feet in the week ended March 15 to 1.876 trillion
cubic feet. Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed an
expected withdrawal of 70 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  