-- AstraZeneca to Cut 2,300 Sales Jobs as Research to Narrow
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-03-21T17:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/astrazeneca-to-cut-2-300-jobs-narrow-focus-of-research.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  plans to cut 2,300
sales and administrative jobs and narrow its drug-research focus
in a bid to return to earnings growth as patents on its best-
selling medicines expire.  AstraZeneca will concentrate on respiratory, inflammation
and autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular and metabolic illnesses,
and cancer, the London-based drugmaker said in a  statement  today
as new Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot presented his
strategy for the company to investors. It also plans to double
the number of experimental treatments in late-stage development
by 2016.  Today’s job cuts bring the number of positions that
AstraZeneca will have eliminated since 2007 to 32,800. The
company, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, is trying to
recover from setbacks in developing treatments for rheumatoid
arthritis, cancer and depression. The stock rose 3.1 percent,
the biggest gain since Nov. 30, 2011.  “We’ve become so accustomed to bad news coming from
AstraZeneca” that the stock is rising on relief that today’s
announcement was benign, said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at
Sphera Funds Management Ltd., a Tel Aviv-based health-care hedge
fund. “They presented their case in a very sound way.”  Cost Savings  The job cuts, along with the elimination of 1,600 research
positions announced March 18 and reductions announced in
February 2012, will lead to $2.3 billion in one-time charges, of
which $1.7 billion will be cash expenses, the company said
today. Benefits of about $800 million a year are expected by
2016, the company said. AstraZeneca employed about 51,700 people
on Dec. 31.  AstraZeneca closed at 3,133 pence in  London , giving the
company a market value of 39.1 billion pounds ($59.3 billion).  Analysts have speculated that Soriot, who joined the
company in October, will need to make a big acquisition to jump-
start growth at the company. Soriot said in an interview this
week that AstraZeneca plans to return to growth through its own
research and smaller  acquisitions , though he wouldn’t rule out
larger deals if the opportunity arises.  No Diversification  “I’m disappointed because Pascal didn’t see a need for a
quick fix,” such as an acquisition, Fabian Wenner, an analyst
with Kepler Capital Markets SA in Zurich, said in an interview.
“They’re confident in their existing pipeline assets and see no
need for diversification. All the others are going for
diversification because it takes the pressure off the R&D
engine, which at AstraZeneca is broken.”  AstraZeneca also said today it reached an agreement with
 Moderna Therapeutics Inc.  to develop cardiovascular, metabolic
and cancer drugs using Moderna’s messenger RNA technology for an
upfront payment of $240 million. AstraZeneca also signed a deal
with  Sweden ’s  Karolinska Institutet  to study cardiovascular,
metabolic and regenerative medicine in  Stockholm .  AstraZeneca will continue to be active in infection
treatments, vaccines and neurology drugs, though investments
will be “more opportunity-driven,” the company said.
AstraZeneca bought MedImmune Inc., the maker of the FluMist
nasal vaccine, for about $15.2 billion in 2007, in a deal that
some investors criticized as being too expensive.  Expiring Patents  Patents are expiring on drugs that accounted for 40 percent
of AstraZeneca’s peak revenue in 2011 of $33.6 billion. The
company’s second-best seller, Seroquel for schizophrenia, lost
U.S. patent protection last year, while Nexium for ulcers, its
third-biggest seller, faces competition from generics in the
U.S. next year. The cholesterol treatment Crestor, its best
seller, loses U.S. exclusivity in 2016.  “We believe we can work through these patent expiries and
other challenges we face and return to growth,” Soriot said on
a call with reporters today. “We face many challenges over the
coming years but we have real opportunities.”  The company expects to “significantly exceed” the average
market forecast for revenue of $21.5 billion in 2018.  AstraZeneca is “confirming a sustained period of revenue
decline in the short to medium term,” as 2018 appears to be “a
world away,” Navid Malik, an analyst with  Cenkos Securities
Plc (CNKS) , wrote in a note to investors today.  Soriot shook up  management  in January, divided research
into three parts and said that drugs made from human cells,
known as biologics, which account for almost half the pipeline,
should be a platform for growth. AstraZeneca’s head of research
and development and its most senior executive for worldwide
sales and marketing activities have left the company.  Moving Headquarters  AstraZeneca also will move its headquarters to Cambridge,
 England , and focus research and development at three sites, the
company said March 18 when it announced the research cuts.  Soriot replaced former CEO  David Brennan , who retired in
June after setbacks in coming out with new medicines. Among the
disappointments were an experimental antidepressant called
TC-5214, which failed two late-stage trials, and the diabetes
drug dapagliflozin, which didn’t win backing from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration.  “There is more to this company than people think,” Soriot
said at the briefing for investors in  New York . “We’re going to
show people that they were wrong about AstraZeneca.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  