-- Baht Traders Most Bullish Since Thaksin Ousted: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-22T04:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/baht-traders-most-bullish-since-thaksin-ousted-southeast-asia.html
Currency traders are giving
 Thailand ’s government the biggest vote of confidence since 2006,
when Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s brother was ousted as
leader in a military coup.  Call options granting the right to buy the baht in a
month’s time cost 0.16 percentage point more than put contracts
on March 20, the biggest premium since July 2006, two months
before  Thaksin Shinawatra  was toppled, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average discount of
0.72 percentage point in the past five years. The so-called
risk-reversal rates show it is cheaper to bet on declines than
gains in  Indonesia ’s rupiah,  Malaysia ’s ringgit, the  Singapore 
dollar and the Philippine peso.  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment on Thailand this month,
citing a resilient economy and a more stable political
environment. Yingluck has helped ease tensions since taking
power in 2011 by shelving measures that would allow her
brother’s return. The baht has rallied 4.6 percent versus the
dollar this year, the most in the region, and this week reached
its strongest level since the currency’s devaluation in July
1997 sparked the Asian financial crisis.  “Thailand’s politics, which were always a cause for
concern, have been so stable, domestic demand looks to be very
strong and the growth rate is outstanding,” said  Minoru Shioiri ,
chief manager of the credit and foreign-exchange trading
division at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit
of  Japan ’s largest publicly traded lender. “We see many factors
that make investors so bullish on Thailand,” he said a March 19
interview from  Tokyo .  Bond Inflows  Overseas investors have  pumped  a net $8.9 billion into Thai
sovereign debt in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show, more
than seven times the net inflows into Indonesian notes.  That’s helped push the Thai 10-year government bond yield
down 14 basis points since the end of January to 3.56 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yields on similar-
maturity securities from Malaysia fell five basis points to 3.49
percent over the same period, while the Indonesian rate climbed
15 basis points to 5.48 percent. Thailand is rated the third-
lowest investment-grade by  Standard & Poor’s , one level below
Malaysia and three rungs above Indonesia.  The nation doesn’t face the uncertainty tied to impending
elections in Malaysia, or a large current-account deficit like
Indonesia, Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
on March 20.  Civil Unrest  Between Thaksin’s ouster in September 2006 and Yingluck
assuming office, the country had four prime ministers. During
the period, Thai courts disbanded two parties tied to the 63-
year old tycoon and disqualified two prime ministers allied to
him. There has been major civil unrest including the closure of
Bangkok’s airport in 2008 and the occupation of a commercial
district in the capital by Thaksin supporters in 2010.  Yingluck’s government is the most stable since the 2006
coup, making Thailand a standout in the region, said Suwat Bumrungchartudom, an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl.  “We see no competitors in parliament and the ruling party
has expanded its control in many parts of the country,” he said
in an interview in Bangkok yesterday.  Southeast Asian currencies have lagged behind the baht this
year, with the peso strengthening 0.6 percent, the rupiah
weakening 1.1 percent, the ringgit declining 1.8 percent and the
 Singapore dollar  losing 2.3 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Current Account  Overseas investors pulled $220 million from Thai stocks in
first four days of this week, paring inflows this year to $83
million, exchange data show. The benchmark share index has
retreated 6.4 percent since closing at the highest level since
1994 on March 15.  The Thai currency, which fell 0.1 percent to 29.23 per
dollar as of 11:15 a.m. in Bangkok from yesterday, will end the
year at 29.3, according to the median estimate of 26 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. There is no need for short-term measures
to curb the baht’s appreciation as Thailand’s economy will
adjust before it strengthens to 27, Finance Minister Kittiratt
Na-Ranong said yesterday. Policy makers should act before the
rising currency does too much damage to exports, he said.  The current-account surplus will probably shrink this year,
offsetting appreciation pressure on the baht, said Nalin Chutchotitham, an analyst at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK)  The country
posted a $2.2 billion deficit in the broadest measure of trade
in January, the most since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
1991, as imports surged 38 percent and exports climbed 16
percent, according to central bank data.  Faster Growth  “We still think that the baht has some more room to rise,
but not at the same pace that it has been so far this year,”
Nalin said in an interview in Bangkok yesterday. “Foreign
inflows probably won’t continue at the same pace as investors
have to take profits.” Kasikornbank revised its end-2013 baht
forecast upward yesterday to 28.50 from 29, according to its
research note.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy grew 6.4 percent
last year as it recovered from floods in 2011 that disrupted
production at manufacturers including  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  That was faster than expansions of 6.2
percent in Indonesia, 5.6 percent in Malaysia and 1.3 percent in
Singapore. The Bank of Thailand raised its 2013 growth forecast
to 4.9 percent in January from 4.6 percent in October.  The baht accounted for almost 12 percent of Kokusai Asset
Management Co.’s Asia Pacific Sovereign Open fund at the end of
last month, up from 2 percent a year ago, according to the
company’s website. The  fund  has made a return of 13 percent this
year, beating 95 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese Easing  “When you compare Thailand with neighboring countries like
Malaysia and Singapore, you can be more bullish on Thailand due
to its stronger economic performance and better currency
outlook,” Tatsuya Higuchi, a senior portfolio manager at
Kokusai Asset, which has $36 billion under management, said in
an interview yesterday. “We have added our holdings of Thai
bonds since late last year.”  Union Investment Privatfonds is adding to holdings of Thai
sovereign bonds, attracted by the nation’s fundamentals and the
currency, according to fund manager Christian Wildmann.  “A brighter looking global economy and the weakening
Japanese yen are two reasons why we regard the baht as an
attractive candidate for appreciation in 2013 due to Thailand’s
role in the global supply chain,” Frankfurt-based Wildmann said
in an interview on March 8.  If loose Japanese monetary policy that has contributed to
the yen’s 18 percent plunge against the dollar since the end of
September succeeds in reviving exports from the North Asian
nation, that will be supportive of the baht, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. Japanese companies accounted for 64 percent of
projects approved by the Thai Board of Investment in 2012, data
compiled by the Japan External Trade Organization show.  “Japan’s reflation policy could actually be positive to
Thailand because it doesn’t compete with Japan,” Craig Chan,
Singapore-based head of Asia ex-Japan currency strategy at
Nomura, said in a March 20 interview. “It’s basically a supply-
chain center for Japanese exporters and if the policy works, it
will benefit Thailand via growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  