-- Banks Don’t Need to Fear New U.K. Regulator, Wheatley Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-21T16:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/banks-don-t-need-to-fear-new-u-k-regulator-wheatley-says.html
Banks in the U.K. don’t need to be
afraid of the new finance regulator, its chief executive officer
said today, reversing the mantra of the previous top official at
Britain’s financial-oversight agency.  “You won’t hear from us the ‘be afraid’ tone,” Martin
Wheatley, the CEO-designate of the Financial Conduct Authority,
told reporters today. His predecessor at the Financial Services
Authority,  Hector Sants , had said banks “should be frightened”
of the regulator.  “We want to get back to us having a discussion with the
CEO’s of firms,” Wheatley said.  The change in tone marks a shift in the approach to
regulating the finance industry as the FSA splits on April 1
into the FCA, a consumer-focused watchdog, and the  Prudential
Regulatory Authority , a unit of the  Bank of England  that will
focus on systemic issues. The move is part of a supervisory
overhaul in the wake of the financial crisis that saw the
nationalization of Northern Rock Plc and the bailouts of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   The FCA will have new powers to ban risky products at an
early stage, to intervene in how  banks (SX7P)  market products, and to
publish warning notices of investigations before they are
settled with the target of the probe. Its “most significant new
power” is to promote competition in the sector, Wheatley said.
The FCA will have oversight of  consumer credit  as soon as next
year, he said.  There will also be less focus on supervisory visits to
regulate firms and more emphasis on corporate governance,
product design and sales processes, Wheatley said. The FCA will
pick individual topics of concern and visit firms based on their
involvement, he said.  ‘More Intrusive’  Wheatley, the former CEO of the Hong Kong Securities &
Futures Commission, said he wants the new U.K. regulator to
focus on where firms plan to make money in the future. The FCA
will be “more intrusive,” and “on the front foot when we see
things we don’t like,” he said.  Sants, who is joining Barclays Plc as its head of
compliance and government and regulatory relations, initiated a
system of more intrusive oversight, a break with the agency’s
philosophy of “light-touch” regulation after it failed to
detect or prevent the financial crisis.  Alternative Checkpoint  The FCA is setting up a new policy, risk and research
division to try to spot issues sooner and be its “alternative
checkpoint on what’s happening in our industry,” Wheatley said.  The regulator’s new competition powers will allow it to
require firms to submit information to price-comparison websites
or change practices, or to divest parts of its operations. It
can also refer matters to the  Office of Fair Trading , a
competition regulator.  While the FCA won’t be an enforcement-led regulator, the
finance industry can expect a continuation of the FSA’s
“credible deterrence strategy,” Wheatley said.  John Griffith-Jones, who will become the non-executive
chairman of the FCA, said the regulator has a chance for “a
fresh start.”  “Prevention in this industry is much cheaper than a
cure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  