-- Biased Loans by Auto Dealers to Bring Bank Suits by CFPB
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-03-22T15:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/banks-to-be-held-liable-for-biased-auto-loans-under-cfpb-rules.html
U.S. banks may be sued by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau if they fund discriminatory
vehicle loans made by auto dealers, according to new guidance
released by the agency.  Banks are legally liable for unfair lending under the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, the CFPB said yesterday in a
 statement . The fact that the improper decisions may be made by
auto dealers -- who are exempt from consumer bureau oversight --
doesn’t absolve lenders of responsibility for resulting racial
disparities, the agency said.  “We cannot afford to tolerate practices, intentional or
not, that unlawfully price out or exclude whole segments of the
population from the credit markets,”   Richard Cordray , the
agency’s director, said today in a Washington speech.  The new guidance demonstrates the CFPB is willing to find
ways to oversee auto lending after dealers won an exemption from
its authority under the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, which created
the agency. Auto and truck loan originations have risen as the
economy recovers from the 2008 credit crisis. They hit $89.4
billion in the fourth quarter of 2012, up 4.2 percent from the
previous quarter, according to the  Federal Reserve .  Auto dealers criticized the CFPB for not allowing more
public participation in creating the new rules, which will be
implemented through the confidential supervision and examination
process. The consumer bureau should have involved other federal
agencies in its decision, the dealers said.  Consumer Cost  The guidance “attempts to force auto-finance sources into
changing the way they compensate dealers without any indication
that the bureau has examined the effect this change could have
on the cost of credit for consumers,” the National Automobile
Dealers Association said in an e-mailed statement.  Dealers play “an essential role for car buyers
nationwide,” Cordray said in today’s speech at a National
Community Reinvestment Coalition conference.  “They provide value, and they deserve fair compensation
for their work,” he said. “But lenders are responsible for
ensuring that the compensation system they are using does not
result in unlawful discrimination.”  The Consumer Bankers Association, which represents retail
finance units of larger banks, called the CFPB’s approach a
result of the decision to exclude auto dealers from Dodd-Frank.  “Congress dealt the American consumer a real clunker by
not guaranteeing all consumers are protected equally at all
points of purchase,”  Richard Hunt , the group’s president, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Loan Market  The market for auto loans is fragmented, with no lender
controlling more than 6 percent, according to data compiled by
 Experian Plc (EXPN) , the Dublin-based company that manages databases
that enable credit granting and monitoring. In the fourth
quarter,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  funded 5.3 percent of auto loans,
while  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  made 5.5 percent and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  made 4.8 percent. Other banks among the top 20 auto lenders
include  Bank of America  Corp.,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , U.S.
Bancorp,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,
according to Experian.  Some banks have already received notices from the consumer
bureau warning that they may face possible enforcement action.
Ally announced in a March 1 regulatory filing that CFPB was
investigating certain retail financing practices.  The rules take aim at a practice the agency refers to as
“dealer markup” and auto dealers call “dealer participation”
or “dealer-assisted finance.” In this system, banks function
as indirect lenders and allow dealers to add to the  interest
rate  the banks charge and pocket the difference.  Reasonable Price  Dealers say the markup is a reasonable price for their
services, including bringing in customers and handling
paperwork. Consumer groups charge the practice gives dealers an
incentive to move buyers into more-expensive loans, a point
Cordray endorsed in his speech.  “There is a significant risk that this discretion may
result in pricing disparities on the basis of race, national
origin, and potentially other prohibited bases,” Cordray said.  In its guidance, the CFPB explicitly states that banks are
responsible for the impact of markups, even if they are not
facing the actual customer.  The agency recommends that lenders take steps such as
limiting the ability of dealers to mark up interest rates,
monitoring the effects of markup policies or eliminating the
discretion to mark up rates in favor of flat fees.  Oversight Exclusion  The regulation of auto lending was one of the hardest-
fought areas of Dodd-Frank. Auto dealers overcame opposition
from President  Barack Obama ’s administration to gain an
exclusion from oversight by the CFPB, with Congress giving
regulatory power to the Federal Trade Commission instead.  The new rules take the form of guidelines that CFPB
supervisors will use to determine if banks are complying with
the credit opportunity law. The CFPB currently supervises banks
with assets above $10 billion. The agency also has the authority
to issue regulations that would allow it to supervise non-bank
auto lenders, like some owned by vehicle manufacturers. It has
so far not done so.  Smaller community banks and  credit unions  would not be
affected by the guidance. The CFPB has worked to woo smaller
banks and credit unions by promising possible exemptions from
major regulations and a go-slow approach on priority areas, such
as overdraft fees.  Mark Cohen, professor of management and law at  Vanderbilt
University  who has been an adviser on fair lending auto cases,
said the CFPB’s guidance “may not be the most efficient way to
effect change in the whole market. It may be the most
politically feasible way.”  Moira Vahey, a CFPB spokeswoman, said the agency is using a
“mix of authorities” to “promote a level playing field
throughout the indirect auto lending market.” She declined to
comment on whether the agency was weighing an industrywide
regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  