-- BASF, Samsung, St.Andrews, Airvana: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-21T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/basf-samsung-st-andrews-airvana-intellectual-property.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical company, lost a U.S. appeals court bid to force
Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. to stop selling a version of its
popular termite killer, a day after filing a new patent suit
against that competitor.  Makhteshim-Agan, the world’s largest maker of generic
agrochemicals, didn’t infringe two BASF patents, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington said yesterday
in an opinion posted on its website.  The dispute is over a way of applying insecticides that use
the chemical fipronil in and around a building. The patents
cover Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF’s  Termidor , which has
been sold for more than a decade and is the top-selling termite
product in the U.S. BASF sued Makhteshim-Agan in 2010, after it
began selling its own version of the insecticide under the name
Taurus SC.  U.S. District Judge William Osteen in Greensboro,  North
Carolina , was correct in finding the BASF patents covered a
specific way of applying fipronil, while Makhteshim-Agan used a
different application method, the three-judge Federal Circuit
panel ruled.  Anne Burt, a spokeswoman for BASF, said the company is
reviewing yesterday’s decision.  BASF filed a new patent-infringement suit March 19 against
Makhteshim-Agan in federal court in  Georgia . It claims Taurus SC
is made using a manufacturing process covered by another patent.  “Intellectual property is the cornerstone of our
innovation-based marketplace,” Jan Buberl, director of
specialty products for BASF North American Crop Protection, said
in a statement. “Improper activity that undermines patent
protection laws is unfair to those who act properly and
lawfully.”  Fipronil is an insecticide also used in flea and tick
control products for pets. Makhteshim-Agan, based in Tel Aviv,
was bought in 2011 by China National Chemical Corp. and taken
private.  The case is BASF Agro BV Arnhem v. Makhteshim Agan of North
America, 12-01206,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is BASF Agro B.V. Arnhem v.
Makhteshim Agan of North America, 10-cv-00276, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  The new case is BASF Agro B.V. Arnhem v. Makhteshim Agan of
North America, 13-cv-00867, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Samsung Countersues Ericsson After Failed Patent License Talks  Samsung Electronics Co. countersued Ericsson AB for patent
infringement, claiming it unlawfully used the South Korean phone
maker’s technology and breached an agreement.  Asia’s biggest technology company is asking that Ericsson’s
lawsuit against it for alleged patent violations be thrown out
as the claims are invalid, according to papers filed March 18 in
 U.S. federal court  in  Texas . At issue are 13 different patents
related to various aspects of mobile-telephone technology.  Ericsson, the world’s largest maker of wireless networking
equipment, sued Samsung in November after failing to extend a
licensing deal after years of negotiations. The two companies
have also filed complaints against each other with the
International Trade Commission over alleged patent
infringements.  “Over the course of two years of negotiations between the
parties, Ericsson has engaged in a pervasive and pernicious
pattern of refusing to grant licenses to Samsung on fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms,” Samsung said in its
filing.  Stockholm-based Ericsson had said in its lawsuit that it
offered to extend its previous licensing agreement with Samsung
on such terms and the Suwon, South Korea-based company refused.  The case is Ericsson Inc. v  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , 6:12-
cv-00895, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  Apple Sued for Security-Patent Infringement by Intertrust  Intertrust Technologies Corp., a developer of digital
rights management software jointly owned by  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Royal
Philips Electronics NV, sued Apple Inc. for allegedly infringing
15 patents related to mobile-device security.  The company’s iPhone, the iPod touch, iPad product lines,
 laptop computers , Apple TV and  App Store  are built on secure
computing technologies developed and patented by Intertrust,
Intertrust said in a complaint filed yesterday in Oakland,
 California , federal court. Intertrust has previously sued
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  over patents. The software maker settled and
licensed the technology in 2004 for $440 million, according to
the complaint.  “Apple’s decision to free-ride off Intertrust’s
innovations has caused, and continues to cause, substantial harm
to Intertrust,” according to the complaint.  Intertrust is seeking a court order barring further
infringement and sales of products that infringe the patents,
lost profit damages, a reasonable royalty and a finding that the
infringement was willful, which would triple damages.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is Intertrust Technologies Corp. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
13-cv-01235, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  St. Andrews Trust Seeks Registration for ‘St. Andrews’ Mark  The  St. Andrews Links Trust , which operates the famed St.
Andrew’s golf course in Scotland, has applied to register “St.
Andrews” as a European trademark, the U.K.’s Courier newspaper
 reported .  The application, filed to cover a broad range of golf-
related goods and services, was made in efforts to halt
outsiders’ attempts to profit through the use of the name,
according to the Courier.  A spokesman for trust told the Courier that local
businesses that identify themselves as being from St. Andrews
won’t be under any threat of trademark enforcement.  The trust, which bills the  St. Andrews  golf course as  the
oldest and most renowned in the world , said it was its duty to
seek registration as means of nurturing what the name symbolizes
around the world, according to the Courier.  Python Software Foundation, Veber Reach Trademark Agreement  The Python Software Foundation, a non-profit group that
holds the IP rights behind the  Python programming language ,
reached an accord with PO Box Hosting Ltd., the foundation said
in a  statement .  The foundation had objected a European trademark
application filed by U.K.-based PO Box Hosting, which does
business as  Veber  in Europe. Veber will rebrand its Python cloud
server and backup services under an as-yet undetermined name,
according to the statement.  Veber has agreed to withdraw its European application and
support the foundation’s use of the Phython name. According to
the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the
foundation registered “Python” for use with computer programs
and a computer programming language in March 2004.  Tim Poultney,  managing director of PO Box Hosting and
Veber, said in a  statement  the “use of the Python name for our
cloud server and backup business has ceased with the services
now available in Europe from Veber. This agreement will remove
potential confusion between the Python software language and our
cloud services business.”  Wowo Appeals Trademark Revocation, Say Mark Isn’t Like Thai Flag  The head of a 300-unit convenience-store chain based in
 Chengdu , China, filed suit in a Beijing court this month,
seeking to overturn the ban on his trademark for its alleged
too-strong resemblance to Thailand’s flag,  China Daily   reported .  After a Thai official who saw the signs on the Wowo Inc.
convenience stores complained that they used the same design and
arrangement of colors as his country’s flag, the Trademark
Office of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce
revoked the mark, according to the newspaper.  Tan Yaohua, chairman of the Wowo stores, said that he had
no intention to infringe and that when he designed his stores’
logo, he didn’t even know what the Thai flag looked like, China
Daily reported.  Xuan Zhiyu, secretary-general of the Shanghai Chamber of
Commerce, told China Daily that he didn’t think of the Thai flag
when he looked at the Wowo logo and had never heard anyone else
remark on the alleged similarity either.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Airvana Granted Injunction in $330 Million Ericsson Suit  Airvana Network Solutions Inc.  was granted a preliminary
injunction in its intellectual-property lawsuit against Ericsson
AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless networks.  Airvana, a Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based provider of
network-infrastructure software, sued Ericsson in February 2012
for more than $330 million, accusing the Stockholm-based company
of developing software based on Airvana trade secrets and using
it to operate wireless  network equipment  to avoid paying license
fees.  New York  State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick, in an
order dated March 19, granted Airvana’s request for an
injunction blocking Ericsson from “using, operating, testing or
deploying” certain hardware unless it’s using software licensed
from Airvana.  “Airvana has met its burden of showing that it will suffer
irreparable harm absent the requested injunctive relief,”
Kapnick wrote.  Kathy Egan, a spokeswoman for Ericsson in the U.S., didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on
the ruling.  The case is Airvana Network Solutions Inc. v. Ericsson
Inc., 650360-2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  Former Excel Transportation President to Be Sentenced in June  Michael Musacchio, a resident of Plano, Texas, who was
convicted of computer hacking against a former employer, is set
to be sentenced in federal court in  Dallas  on June 12, according
to a March 18 court filing.  Musacchio was a former president of Excel Transportation
Services Inc. of Memphis, Tennessee, an intermodal
transportation company that he left in 2004 to form a new
company. According to court documents, he hacked the Excel
computers to provide confidential information to benefit Total
Transportation Services LLC, his new company based in Dallas
County, Texas.  Excel was acquired by  Hub Group Inc. (HUBG)  in 2011.  Musacchio was convicted in May of one count of conspiracy
to make unauthorized access to a protected computer and two
felony counts of computer hacking.  Earlier he was a defendant in a civil trade secrets case
Excel brought in April 2006 against Total Transportation in the
same court. He was dismissed as a defendant in that case in May
2007, which the case against Total settled, according to court
papers.  Two of Musacchio’s co-defendants in the criminal case
previously entered guilty pleas, according to a  statement  from
the U.S. Attorney’s office.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Musacchio, 3:10-cr-00308, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The civil
case is Excel Transportation Services Inc. v. Total
Transportation Services L LC, 3:06-cv-00593-G, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 