-- Batista Getting Respite as LLX Lures Petrobras: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-03-21T14:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/batista-getting-respite-as-llx-lures-petrobras-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
whose commodity startups have lost $8.6 billion in market value
this year, is getting some relief from his logistics company.  LLX Logistica SA’s (IBOV)  19 percent rally in the past month was
the biggest among major Brazilian stocks and global peers after
Batista focused the company on being an oil services port by
luring  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and Waertsilae Oyj.  Batista, 56, is using LLX to target a looming
infrastructure shortfall created by Brazil’s offshore oil boom.
LLX’s success in winning business contrasts with missed project
targets and rising costs at Batista’s other companies, whose
falling value caused creditors to demand additional collateral.  “Investors may have been buoyed by news about new
contracts,” Saulo Sabba, who oversees 350 million reais ($176
million) as chief investment officer at Banco Maxima SA, said by
telephone from Rio de Janeiro. An agreement with Petrobras would
bolster LLX “without a doubt. Eike needs things to happen.”  LLX’s Acu complex in Rio de Janeiro was originally
showcased as an industrial complex that would become the world’s
third largest port, catering to clients from iron-ore miners to
carmakers. Prospective deals with Nissan Motor Co., steelmaker
Ternium SA and oil service provider Subsea 7 SA to set up plants
in the complex failed to materialize over the past 18 months.  Worst Performer  As global commodity prices slipped into a bear market in
June and his interlinked energy and raw-material companies
reduced production targets, Batista offered to pay 3.13 reais
per share to delist LLX in July. The plan was canceled two
months later, after Bank of America Corp. valued the shares at
6.94 reais to 7.63 reais.  The shares have slumped 29 percent since the Sept. 13
suspension of the de-listing and 43 percent in the past year,
the worst performance among 16 logistics peers tracked by
Bloomberg in that period. The group gained 16 percent in the
same period while Brazil’s Bovespa index slid 17 percent.  LLX  trades  at 1.79 times book value compared with the peer-
group average of 2.96 and a ratio of 1.07 for the Bovespa,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. LLX fell as much as 4
percent to 2.14 reais in Sao Paulo today.  A new focus on the oil industry includes housing the
operations of a joint-venture between Batista’s holding company,
the EBX Group Co., and BP Plc to produce and sell maritime fuel.
The change comes ahead of LLX’s March 26 earnings report, when
three analysts estimate it will post a 27.9 million-real net
loss for the fourth quarter, the largest in three years.  LNG Terminal  Acu caters to a region spanning from southern Espirito
Santo state to northern Sao Paulo state, where Petrobras is
looking to set up facilities to avoid overloading the ports of
Macae and Rio de Janeiro as it starts a plan to more than double
production in the next seven years, Jose Formigli, head of
exploration at the state-run oil company, said March 19.
Petrobras is holding talks with LLX, he said. Acu is near the
offshore Espirito Santo and Campos basins.  This month LLX also announced agreements with Waertsilae
and Intermoor Inc. to use the port and secured a permit to
install a liquefied natural gas plant.  “For Petrobras, support ports have always been a concern
because most of their operations are offshore,” Lucas Brendler,
who helps manage 5 billion reais at Geracao Futura, said by
phone from Porto Alegre, Brazil. “If Petrobras is looking to
increase activities at Campos and Espirito Santos, a partnership
with Acu and a logistics base in the area makes sense.”  Esteves Support  Petrobras owns Brazil’s two LNG terminals. A third at Acu
plant would service  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , Batista’s electricity
company, and other companies located in the port complex, LLX’s
press department said in an e-mailed response to questions,
declining to comment on negotiations with Petrobras.  LLX’s rebound in the past month may be more about a
financial arrangement between Batista and Esteves than the
prospect of luring new port clients, Eduardo Carlier, head of
equities at Schroeder Investment’s Brazilian unit, said by phone
from Sao Paulo. The agreement earned Esteves a place on a new
EBX advisory board and gave EBX access to a $1 billion credit
line. BTG’s press department declined to comment on the
arrangement in an e-mailed responce to questions.  Batista’s six trading units had a combined total debt of
24.5 billion reais based on their latest available figures for
2012, compared with 21.5 billion reais in combined market value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of Batista’s oil
and gas company,  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,  plunged  40
percent this year while his iron-ore producer MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA lost 36 percent.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , Batista’s shipbuilder, is building its
shipyard in Acu. While the company was created as a supplier for
OGX, attempts to diversify its client base led to a $900 million
contract last year to supply two floating production, storage
and off-loading platforms, or FPSOs, to Petrobras.  Limited Providers  Petrobras plans to hire 15 new FPSOs through 2017. Support
for the platforms will be the driver for Petrobras’s vessel
fleet growth. In the port of Rio alone, Petrobras vessel
activity should double by 2015, according to Rogerio Caffaro,
chief executive officer of Triunfo Logistica Ltda, which
operates Petrobras’s activities in the port.  “The oil industry has a limited amount of service
providers,” Geracao’s Brendler said. “Petrobras looks to be
seeking to diversify as much as possible to not depend on any
one provider.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  