-- Batista $25 Billion Loss Overwhelms Esteves Boost: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-03-21T15:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/batista-25-billion-loss-overwhelms-esteves-boost-brazil-credit.html
Not even  Andre Esteves , the
Brazilian billionaire who orchestrated a sixfold increase in the
value of a discarded UBS AG investment-banking unit, can save
Eike Batista’s crumbling empire, according to bond traders.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA’s $2.6 billion of bonds
due 2018 fell 12.02 cents to an unprecedented 81.07 cents on the
dollar in the past two weeks, wiping out a record gain on March
7 when Batista announced Esteves’s Grupo BTG Pactual would help
manage the finances of his six publicly traded companies and
people with knowledge of the deal said BTG also offered a $1
billion  credit line . Yields soared 3.48 percentage points to
13.71 percent, which is 5.17 percentage points more than the
average for Latin American  single-B notes .  Batista, who lost $25 billion of personal wealth tied to
his companies in the past year as  OGX (OGXP3)  cut production goals,
faces demands from creditors to boost collateral as confidence
fades in his ability to generate cash, people familiar with the
matter said. The deal with Esteves, who turned a $2.5 billion
investment into a bank with a market value of $15.4 billion,
wasn’t enough to assuage concern over OGX’s viability, according
to Credit Agricole SA.  “Even with the good news of Esteves, they need much more
than $1 billion,” Luiz Campos, a  money manager  at Dinosaur
Securities LLC, which oversees $800 million, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . Batista “needs to prove that he can
generate  cash flow .”  EBX Companies  BTG Pactual officials declined to comment on the bank’s
agreement with EBX Group Co., the holding company of Batista
that includes OGX, according to an e-mailed statement.  “EBX Group’s companies have the necessary funding
established for the coming years and are always looking to
improve the profile of its indebtedness,” the company said in
an e-mailed statement. The company said it’s always evaluating
the “best alternatives” to maximize value to all stakeholders.  OGX said on March 11 that crude output at three offshore
fields in the Campos Basin decreased 14 percent in February, the
latest in a series of production reports that disappointed
investors. Bond prices fell the most on record.  Triple Assets  Esteves, who runs  Brazil ’s most profitable bank, joined
former partners in 2009 to buy UBS’s Brazilian investment bank,
UBS Pactual, at a 19 percent discount to the $3.1 billion they
had sold it to the Swiss bank for in 2006. The value of the
investment bank, now known as  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , has soared
after 44-year-old Esteves, Brazil’s youngest self-made
billionaire, used acquisitions to help triple assets under
management.  As part of the agreement with Batista, BTG provided a $1
billion credit line to EBX, the parent company of six publicly
traded companies controlled by Batista. The 56-year-old lost his
place among the world’s 100 richest people last month and is
close to selling a stake in power generator MPX Energia SA amid
creditors’ demands for more capital, according to people
familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private.  OGX  shares  have fallen 85 percent in the past year and 79
percent since they were first issued in June 2008. OSX Brasil
SA, Batista’s shipping company, is down 65 percent in the past
year.  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA , a coal producer, has tumbled 53
percent since its initial public offering in May. MPX has fallen
23 percent in the past 12 months.  ‘Deep Pockets’  OGX’s  cash  dropped 23 percent in the six months through
September to 5.1 billion reais ($2.6 billion) as oil production
stayed below target. The company is set to run out of money in
less than two years at the current burn rate, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Investors may be underestimating Batista’s ability to raise
financing for his projects, according to Jack Deino, a money
manager who oversees about $1.8 billion in emerging-market debt
at Invesco Ltd. in  New York .  The Esteves partnership shows that “Batista not only has
very deep pockets, but is very well positioned in the business
community,” Deino said by telephone. “Don’t write off  Eike
Batista  just yet. He has an ability to sell the story.”  Batista is also seeing greater success with his logistics
company, LLX Logistica SA, which has rallied 16 percent in the
stock market in the past month. Batista is using LLX to create
an oil-services port to target a looming infrastructure
shortfall created by Brazil’s offshore energy boom.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 187 basis points at
11:11 a.m. in New York, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI
Global index.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose three basis points today to 135 basis points.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.9922 per dollar. Yields
on interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2014 fell two
basis points to 7.79 percent.  OGX produced its first barrel of oil in January 2012, four
years after Batista founded the explorer to take advantage of
investor demand for oil-services companies. The company,
Batista’s biggest holding, replaced its chief executive officer
in June after cutting production targets at its first two wells
by as much as 75 percent.  “The market is very disenchanted with them and with their
failed promises,” Marco Aurelio de Sa, the head of fixed-income
trading at  Credit Agricole ’s Miami brokerage, said by telephone.
“Esteves is not the savior.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  