-- Bell Corruption Mistrial Declared on Counts That Remained
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/bell-corruption-mistrial-declared-on-counts-that-remained.html
A jury that found five former
members of Bell,  California ’s council guilty of misappropriating
public funds failed to reach a verdict on the remaining counts,
resulting in a mistrial.  Following guilty verdicts on some charges on March 20, the
jurors were summoned back yesterday for more deliberation after
four of them said they thought that further instruction on the
law might help them reach a unanimous agreement. Later in the
day, California Superior Court Judge Kathleen Kennedy in Los
Angeles declared a mistrial on the allegations that were still
pending.  “It went from really bad to really well for the defense,”
Stanley Friedman, a lawyer for former Bell councilman Oscar Hernandez, said outside the courthouse.  Hernandez and four other former city officials were found
guilty of paying themselves excessive salaries for sitting on
Bell’s solid waste and recycling authority, a board that
prosecutors alleged hardly ever met. The five were found not
guilty of charges related to the salaries they received for
sitting on the city’s public financing board. Jurors didn’t
return verdicts for the payments the five received for sitting
on the surplus property authority and the community housing
authority.  ‘Phantom’ Meetings  Hernandez, 65, Teresa Jacobo, 55, George Mirabal, 63,
George Cole, 63, Victor Bello, 54, and a sixth defendant, Luis Artiga, 52, were accused of misappropriating about $1.2 million
in public funds by getting paid almost $8,000 a month for
attending “phantom” board meetings. Artiga was found not
guilty yesterday on all charges against him.  Jean Guccione, a spokeswoman for the  Los Angeles  County
district attorney’s office, declined to comment on the mistrial.  Friedman said his client faces a sentence ranging from
probation to eight years in state prison. Such a long prison
term is very unlikely, the lawyer said.  Jurors were deadlocked on so-called special allegations
concerning the amount of money misappropriated that would have
made it a more difficult for the former officials to get
probation, Friedman said.  Median Income  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
Los Angeles, has five council members who serve part-time and
select the city’s mayor from among themselves. The median
household income of the city’s residents is $37,121 and 93
percent of them are Hispanic, according to U.S. Census data.
Twenty-five percent live below the poverty line.  The trial didn’t include former city manager  Robert Rizzo ,
who is charged with 53 counts of misappropriation and conflict
of interest and accused of giving about $1.9 million in
unauthorized loans to himself and others. Rizzo and Angela
Spaccia, the former assistant city manager, will be tried in a
separate case.  All eight of the officials were arrested in September 2010
and accused of misappropriating more than $5.5 million. The Bell
scandal, with Rizzo receiving $800,000 a year to run a city of
38,000, has put the pay of municipal executives under scrutiny.
The median salary for California’s city managers in 2009 was
$187,728, according to the state controller’s office.  The case is People v. Hernandez, BA376025, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at +1-
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 