-- Bersani Called to Meet Napolitano Amid Italian Premiership Talks
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-22T14:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/bersani-leaves-italy-premiership-question-in-napolitano-s-hands.html
Pier Luigi Bersani was called to
meet with Italian President Giorgio Napolitano as the head of
state prepares to announce his choice to lead the next
government.  The meeting will take place at the presidential palace in
Rome at 5 p.m., according to an e-mailed statement today from
Napolitano’s office.  Bersani, 61, is pushing for the premiership after finishing
first in an election last month that left no force in parliament
with a clear path to the majority needed to form a government.
The 87-year-old Napolitano completed two days of consultations
with political leaders yesterday and said that he would announce
his decision today.  “Napolitano will first invite Bersani to test whether he
has enough support in parliament to win the majority of votes,”
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in
 London , said in an e-mail. “Should Bersani fail to succeed,
Napolitano might try to explore other options. However, the
negotiation process with other coalitions could be very long and
not necessarily lead to a firm mandate.”  Italy is under pressure to come up with an administration
as its economy slips deeper into recession and the  crisis in
Cyprus  renews speculation of a euro breakup. The Feb. 24-25
general election was inconclusive as the rise of Beppe Grillo’s
euro-skeptic party upset the traditional balance of power and
fractured the electorate into three blocks.  Rival Lawmakers  Bersani, 61, has so far fallen short in his quest to entice
rival lawmakers to back his candidacy for premier. Bersani did
win a majority in the lower house though he fell short in the
Senate, where both Grillo and former Prime Minister  Silvio
Berlusconi  won blocking minorities. Bersani met Napolitano late
yesterday and told reporters after the appointment that he was
leaving the choice of prime minister in the president’s hands.  “We trust that his considerations and wisdom will provide
a solution for the country in this situation, which certainly is
not simple,” Bersani said. “I think I can, and I hope I can,
have a hand in this solution.”  Napolitano will give Bersani until March 26 to show he can
win a majority in parliament, daily La Repubblica reported
today. If Bersani fails, Napolitano will reach out to an
“institutional” figure to try to build bipartisan support and
avoid another election, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  