-- BofA Says Buy Russian, Hungarian Local Debt on Rate Reductions
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-03-21T17:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/bofa-says-buy-russian-hungarian-local-debt-on-rate-reductions.html
Investors should buy Russian and
Hungarian bonds denominated in local currencies and sell Polish
debt as yields are set to decline further because of interest-
rate reductions,  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch said.  “In both markets, we see scope for further declines in
yields on rate cuts,”  David Hauner , an emerging-markets fixed-
income strategist wrote today in an e-mailed note. “We expect
euro-zone and U.S. rates to drift higher in the medium term,”
they said, adding that “ Russia  and  Hungary  stand out.”  Traders have increased bets on interest-rate reductions in
both nations after leaders placed allies at the helm of their
central banks. Merrill Lynch forecasts 75 basis points of rate
cuts in Russia and 125 basis points in Hungary, Hauner wrote.  Russian President Vladimir Putin named  Elvira Nabiullina ,
his adviser and a former economy minister, as the next head of
Bank Rossii starting in June. The refinancing rate, which is
currently at 8.25 percent, will fall to 8 percent in the second
quarter of 2014, according to the median estimate of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which reduced its benchmark rate
in seven consecutive steps to 5.25 percent in February, matching
a record low, may trim rates further after the appointment of
Gyorgy Matolcsy, a former economy minister, as central bank
president. Derivative traders are betting the rate will fall by
94 basis points percent in the next six months, based on the
 difference  between six-month forward-rate agreements and the
three-month Budapest Interbank offered rate.  There’s “a low chance”  Poland ’s main policy rate will
fall to less than 2.75 percent from 3.25 percent at present,
Hauner wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  