-- Bradley Says U.S. Risks World Cup Failure
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2013-03-21T13:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/bradley-says-u-s-risks-world-cup-failure.html
Midfielder  Michael Bradley  said the
U.S. men’s national soccer team may not advance to the World Cup
next year in  Brazil  as it prepares for a match against  Costa
Rica  tomorrow.  “There’s always that chance we don’t qualify; there’s
always that risk,” he said in an interview a month ago at the
training grounds of his club team,  AS Roma (ASR) , outside the Italian
capital. “It’s impossible for anybody on the outside to
understand what it’s really like, the unpredictability.”  The American squad plays in Denver tomorrow and  Mexico  City
on March 26 as it tries to avoid being shut out of the World Cup
tournament for the first time since 1986. If coach Juergen Klinsmann’s team loses to Costa Rica before heading to Mexico,
where the U.S. has never won a World Cup contest, it would have
no points after two games in the six-nation final qualifying
round for North and Central America and the Caribbean.  Klinsmann, who was a striker on West  Germany ’s 1990 World
Cup winning team, took over from Bradley’s father,  Bob Bradley ,
in July 2011. After four losses in his first seven matches, the
team won nine times last year, lost twice and tied three. The
U.S. also won exhibition matches in  Italy  and at Mexico City’s
Estadio Azteca, its first victory in the 105,000-seat home of
Mexico’s national team.  Bradley said the team is attempting to gel around
Klinsmann’s vision for the squad.  “We’re trying to understand how he wants to work, we’re
trying to understand the things he values, the things he wants
to focus on,” Bradley said Feb. 22 in Trigoria, where Roma
trains. “It’s a process and it takes time.”  Nutrition, Yoga  The Sporting News reported this week that players and U.S.
national team officials it didn’t identify said the German coach
is a good motivator, but needs to spend more time giving
specific tactical instruction rather than on off-field things
like nutrition and yoga.  Captain Carlos Bocanegra, who has played 110 times for the
team, was left out of the lineup in the Feb. 6 Honduras game,
where the U.S. lost a 1-0 first-half lead.  Bocanegra, 33, who wasn’t in the squad for the next two
matches, came to Klinsmann’s defense yesterday, saying in a
statement on his Facebook page that the coach “has a vision of
how he wants to grow the program.” The Real Santander defender
praised Klinsmann for telling players “to your face where you
stand,” which is “the best thing you could ask for.”  Leadership Roles  “Over the past two years, we’ve grown as a team,” said
the 25-year-old Bradley, whose late tying goal against Slovenia
helped the Americans to advance to the second round of the 2010
 World Cup . Teams evolve as core players “start to take on
bigger leadership roles and really take the team in their hands,
and I think that has happened.”  Bradley, who’s played at clubs in Germany,  England  and the
Netherlands, said there’s always a big team or two that doesn’t
qualify for the World Cup.  “It’s our job to make sure that doesn’t happen to us,” he
said. “There’s no point in feeling sorry for ourselves and the
most important thing at this point is to respond in a really
strong way.”  The U.S., which has qualified for every World Cup since
1990, is facing the next few matches without injured goalkeeper
 Tim Howard , fullbacks Timothy Chandler, Edgar Castillo and
Fabian Johnson. Midfielders Jose Torres and Danny Williams and
defender Steve Cherundolo are also out.  Landon Donovan , 31, the all-time leading scorer for the
U.S., has yet to return to training with his club team, the  Los
Angeles Galaxy , after taking a leave of absence to consider his
professional future.  “It’s always a question when the next generation takes
over from the older, more experienced generation,” Klinsmann
said in a video posted on the  website  of the U.S. Soccer
Federation. “I’m not choosing the players because they’re
younger, I’m choosing them because they’re good and maybe better
than someone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  