-- Brazil Real Weakens to 2 Per Dollar for First Time Since January
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-21T17:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/brazil-real-weakens-to-2-per-dollar-for-first-time-since-january.html
Brazil ’s real dropped to 2 per
dollar for the first time since January on speculation
government intervention in the economy to spur flagging growth
is prompting investors to withdraw money from the country.  The real slid 0.5 percent to 2.0002 per dollar at 1:53 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, the weakest level on a closing basis since Jan.
25. Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.56 percent.  The level of 2 per dollar was last crossed in January, when
the central bank intervened to strengthen the currency as
inflation accelerated. Brazil had foreign currency outflows of
$990 million in the week through March 15, the central bank
reported yesterday.  “The flows are negative because Brazil has lost some
appeal for foreign investors,” Sidnei Nehme, a director at NGO
Corretora in Sao Paulo, which trades dollars with importers and
exporters, said in a phone interview. “There are a lot of fund
managers considering underweighting Brazil because of the
inconsistency of monetary and fiscal policy.”  Investors are testing whether the central bank will
intervene if the real falls further as traders pare bets on
increased borrowing costs, according to Flavia Cattan-Naslausky,
a markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The underperformance of the real reflects the
contradictory policies of the government,” she said in a phone
interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The probability of a
Selic increase in April diminished. It’s more probable there
will be an increase in May.”  Bank Minutes  Minutes of the central bank’s March 5-6 meeting indicated
that an increase in the target lending rate from a record low
7.25 percent wasn’t imminent as policy makers said “a cautious
management of monetary policy” was needed. The monetary policy
committee will next meet April 16-17 and May 28-29.  The currency has lost 0.9 percent in the past five days,
the worst performance among major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after South Africa’s rand and  Norway ’s krone. The real
has pared its gain this year to 2.9 percent.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventing
excessive gains. The real closed at a 10-month high of 1.9442
per dollar on March 8 before the central bank intervened on
March 11 to weaken it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  