-- Cameron Unsettled by Housing in Austerity Offers Aid
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-03-21T17:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cameron-unsettled-by-housing-in-austerity-offers-aid.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  is taking a leaf from the U.S. playbook in
expanding government help to homebuyers to stoke the country’s
sagging recovery.  Osborne yesterday pledged 3.5 billion pounds ($5.3 billion)
to help buyers of new homes with loans of as much as 20 percent
of the property’s value, broadening an existing program beyond
first-time purchasers. He also announced a plan to guarantee as
much as 130 billion pounds of new mortgages to fuel demand from
purchasers with limited cash for a deposit.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s goal is to stimulate an
economy at risk of its third recession in four years and counter
criticism that the government’s austerity measures are
exacerbating the slump. The latest measures come after the
government sought to ease lending and spur construction by
simplifying planning laws. Real estate accounts for about 9
percent of the country’s gross domestic product, according to
data compiled by Trading Economics.  “The level of incremental lending this is likely to
encourage could be substantial,” Stephen Noakes, mortgage
director at Lloyds Banking Group Plc, said by telephone.  U.K. homebuilders rallied after Osborne’s announcement to
the highest levels in almost five years. The Bloomberg EMEA
Homebuilders Index rose 0.7 percent today at the 4:30 p.m. close
of trading in  London  after climbing 3.7 percent yesterday. The
 index (BEUHBLD)  has gained 51 percent in the past year led by  Taylor
Wimpey Plc (TW/)  and  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the industry’s largest
company by volume.  Lender Collapse  Loan approvals are about half what they were in the boom
decade that ended in 2007, following the collapse of mortgage
lender Northern Rock Plc. In July of that year, there were 22
mortgages available for 110 percent of a home’s value, according
to personal finance website moneyfacts.co.uk. Lending dried up
after mounting losses and plummeting asset values forced several
banks to accept bailouts from the U.K. government.  The government’s “Help to Buy” plan broadens an existing
program beyond first-time buyers and is a “dramatic
intervention,” Osborne told lawmakers at the House of Commons
in London yesterday during the annual budget.  Increased involvement in the housing market comes a decade
after  Gordon Brown , at the time Chancellor of the Exchequer,
weighed policy proposals to introduce longer term fixed-rate
home loans, a change that may have required a U.K. equivalent of
U.S. mortgage guarantors  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which
guarantee home loans and package them into securities.  Under Conservatorship  The two mortgage financiers have been under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008 and have drawn almost $190 billion in
taxpayer aid to stay afloat during that time after the property
market collapse triggered a global financial crisis and losses
on mortgage debt.  The two agencies, along with U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, are
financing about 90 percent of new lending even as steps are
taken to reduce their dominance, including increases to the fees
they charge for mortgage guarantees.  The  Federal Housing Administration , which backs home loans
to first-time buyers with down payments as low as 3.5 percent,
insured $213.3 billion of mortgages in 2012, three times the
amount seen in 2007. Another government effort, the Home
Affordable Refinance Program, has helped more than 2 million
borrowers refinance, including homeowners who owe more than the
value of their properties.  New U.K. mortgage lending has fallen 52 percent since 2006
as banks retreated from the market following the housing
collapse of 2007, according to the  Council of Mortgage Lenders .  Osborne Help  Loans for home purchases last year totaled about 81 billion
pounds, down from 156 billion pounds in 2006, the group said.
First-time buyers received 27.5 billion pounds in 2012, down
from 48.6 billion pounds in 2006.  Osborne’s Help to Buy program will provide potential buyers
equity loans for newly built homes worth up to 600,000 pounds
starting in April. To qualify for the program, which lasts three
years, potential homebuyers will need a down payment of 5
percent.  It also offers guarantees to support 130 billion pounds of
mortgages for existing and newly built homes. Under the program,
which starts in 2014 and runs for three years, lenders can buy a
state guarantee that compensates part of their losses in the
event of foreclosure, and the government will charge a fee for
the assurance.  Since 2011, the Conservative-led coalition government has
sought to reduce borrowing costs for home buyers by providing
guarantees. The most-recent program, NewBuy, helped buyers get
loans with a 5 percent deposit, with some losses incurred by
defaults split between the state and the homebuilders to help
protect lenders.  Home Prices  Home prices have gained 1 percent to 162,441 pounds in the
year through January, while values in London have gained 7.1
percent, according to the  Land Registry . The U.K.’s housing
market boomed in the decade through Nov. 2007, when they almost
tripled to an average of 182,178 pounds.  The programs still fall well short of the level of U.S.
intervention in housing and in the short-term, the impact will
be limited, according to Capital Economics Ltd.  “This isn’t going to transform the mortgage market over-
night,”  Ed Stansfield , the London-based group’s chief property
economist, said by phone. “The government has announced these
measures without finalizing them with some of the major lenders
who are still shrinking their balance sheets and this scheme is
unlikely to stop them.”  Lowered Forecasts  The government yesterday cut its economic growth forecasts
for this year and next to 0.6 percent and 1.8 percent,
respectively. Osborne said three years ago he would erase
Britain’s budget deficit by 2015 to protect the top  credit
rating  on  government bonds . He has failed on both counts and
yesterday he said spending cuts will carry on for three years
after the 2015 election.  David Cameron’s Conservatives are trailing the Labour
opposition in the polls as voters blame the government’s
austerity package for a persistent economic slump.  “House building has a key role to play in the economic
recovery,”  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  Chief Executive Officer Mike Farley
said by e-mail. “Help to Buy will be particularly helpful to
capital constrained small- and medium-sized house builders,
providing a boost to sales and build rates, which should be good
news for jobs and economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 