-- Canada Curbs Banks' Ability to Use Insured Mortgages as Capital
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-03-21T20:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/canada-curbs-banks-ability-to-use-insured-mortgages-as-capital.html
Canada  is reducing commercial
banks’ ability to use insured mortgages as balance-sheet
capital, according to  budget documents  released today.  The move, designed to limit risks to taxpayers from
weakness in the  housing market , aims to restrict the amount of
so-called portfolio insurance -- government protection on
mortgages with more than 20 percent equity -- that banks can
hold on their balance sheets. The government is also seeking to
ensure the insured loans flow into products securitized by
Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp, the federal housing agency.  Since the 2008 financial crisis, some lenders have retained
mortgages that carry the portfolio insurance on balance sheets
to shore up capital ratios in accordance with international
standards. Most mortgage insurance in Canada is provided by
CMHC, which is backed by the federal government’s top credit
rating.  “It means for the banks, those ways to fund themselves
become a little bit more expensive,” said Michael Gregory,
senior economist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets.  Under the changes, mortgages that carry portfolio insurance
will eventually have to be securitized through CMHC, according
to the text of a budget released today by Finance Minister Jim Flaherty in Ottawa. Canada will also ban insured mortgages,
included those with less than 20 percent equity, from being
securitized through anyone other than CMHC.  Canada requires that mortgages with downpayment of less
than 20 percent be insured.  “These measures will restore taxpayer-backed portfolio
insurance to its original purpose of allowing access to funding
for mortgage assets,” the finance department said.  Insurance Limited  CMHC said last year it was limiting the amount of low-ratio
mortgages it insures as it approached its legal limit of C$600
billion in insurance.  While the changes shouldn’t have a major impact on the
ability of banks to finance mortgages, it reinforces the
government’s recent efforts to limit the use of state-backed
insurance,  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist for TD
Securities Inc., said in an interview.  Flaherty and Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney have
warned that mounting household debt poses a risk to the
country’s financial system and economy, which had its worst six-
month performance since the end of the 2009 recession in the
second half of 2012.  The ratio of Canadian household debt to disposable income
rose to a record 165 percent last quarter, Statistics Canada
said this month in Ottawa.  Existing Homes  Canadian existing home sales fell in February from the
previous month on drops in Vancouver and Toronto, the Canadian
Real Estate Association said March 15. Sales dropped 15.8
percent from a year earlier and the average price fell 1 percent
to C$368,895 on a non-seasonally adjusted basis, according to
the report.  In an updated forecast released separately, the realtor
group said sales will decline 2.9 percent on a yearly basis in
2013 to 441,500 units. The national average home price will drop
0.2 percent to C$362,600, it said.  Flaherty tightened mortgage rules for the fourth time in
four years in July on concern some regional housing markets were
overheating. He reduced the maximum amortization period on
mortgages the government insures to 25 years from 30 years.  The government also said it will take steps to manage the
risks of banks deemed “systemically important” by the
country’s banking watchdog, the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions. Such banks will face higher capital
requirements, the department said.  In addition, the government confirmed systemically
important banks will be required to hold some debt on their
balance sheets that can be converted into capital if the banks
fail, reducing the need for taxpayer-funded bailouts.  Flaherty said the government will extend the ability of
Export Development Canada, which provides loans to exporters, to
offer domestic loans until 2014. The government expanded EDC’s
powers during the financial crisis to include domestic lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  