-- Canada Stocks Fall as Europe Concerns Overshadow Retail Gains
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-21T21:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/canadian-stocks-fall-as-europe-concerns-overshadow-retail-gains.html
Canadian  stocks  fell for the third
time in four days as concern about Europe’s debt crisis
overshadowed a rise in Canadian retail sales and better-than-
estimated U.S. economic data.  Bankers Petroleum Ltd. and Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.
dropped at least 2.5 percent as oil fell 1.1 percent. Financial
shares slumped as Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce lost more than 1 percent. Corus Entertainment
Inc. slid 3.4 percent after an RBC Capital Markets analyst
downgraded the media company. OceanaGold Corp. soared 10 percent
after Edison Investment Research predicted a “transformational
year” for the mining company.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 78.68
points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,747.87 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
S&P/TSX has risen 2.5 percent this year. Trading volume was 5.1
percent below the 30-day average. Nine of 10 groups in the
benchmark index retreated.  “Putting the  European debt crisis  back on the front burner
created a bit of hesitation,” Bob Decker, who helps oversee C$6
billion ($6 billion) at Aurion Capital Management Inc. in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “It’s created a bit of a
light volume sell-off.”  Canadian equities slumped as German manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted and Cyprus worked to obtain a European
bailout. The European Central Bank said it may cut Cypriot banks
off from emergency funds after March 25 while the island
nation’s president, Nicos Anastasiades, tried to forge agreement
on a plan to stave off financial collapse.  Oil Slides  A purchasing managers’ index for Germany’s manufacturing
indicated contraction in the sector, adding to signs the euro-
area economy is struggling to emerge from a recession. Oil
retreated to a two-week low, with crude for May delivery sliding
$1.05 to settle at $92.45 a barrel.  Bankers Petroleum dropped 2.7 percent to C$2.84. The oil
and gas producer appointed David Lawrence French as its
president and chief executive officer following the retirement
of Abdel Badwi. Canadian Natural Resources fell 2.5 percent to
C$32.79, and Encana Corp. retreated 2.1 percent to C$19.51.  Retail sales  in Canada gained 1 percent in January to
recoup some of the previous month’s 2.3 percent plunge on
advances at auto dealerships and department stores, a sign the
economy may be recovering.  In the U.S., fewer Americans than forecast filed jobless
claims last week. Other reports showed sales of previously owned
U.S. homes rose to the highest level in more than three years in
February, and a gauge of leading economic indicators topped
estimates for last month.  Banks Retreat  Banks, industrial shares and telephone companies retreated
the most out of  10 groups  in the benchmark Canadian equities
index, sliding at least 0.8 percent. Royal Bank of Canada fell 1
percent to C$60.74 and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce lost
1.4 percent to C$81.09.  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. dropped 2.1 percent to
C$129.24, while Canadian National Railway Co. lost 2.5 percent
to C$98.84. Intermodal rail traffic in North America climbed at
the slowest rate this year in the week ended March 16 compared
with a year ago, Association of American Railroads data show.  Corus Entertainment slumped 3.4 percent to C$25.22. RBC
Capital Markets equity analyst Haran Posner reduced his rating
on the Toronto-based company to sector perform from outperform.  OceanaGold surged 10 percent to C$2.92, for its biggest
gain since October 2011. Edison Investment Research said
“promising exploration results” at the company suggest a new
source of low-cost gold production and higher earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  