-- Canada January Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-21T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/canada-january-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment insurance report for Jan. released
by  Statistics Canada .  In January, the number of people receiving regular
Employment Insurance (EI) benefits fell for the third
consecutive month, down 8,500 (-1.6%) to 531,100. Compared with
January 2012, the number of beneficiaries was down 8.8%.  Most provinces had fewer beneficiaries in January, with the
largest percentage decreases occurring in Newfoundland and
Labrador, New Brunswick, Alberta and Manitoba.  The number of regular beneficiaries declined slightly in
Prince  Edward Island ,  Quebec  and Ontario, while there was no
change in British Columbia,  Nova Scotia  and Saskatchewan.  Provincial focus  This month marks the first time seasonally adjusted data on
beneficiaries are available for census metropolitan areas (CMAs).
This will allow for month-to-month analysis at a more detailed
geographic level.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, the number of people
receiving regular benefits fell for the second consecutive month,
down 5.3% in January. In the CMA of  St. John’s , the number of
beneficiaries decreased by 3.0% compared with the previous month,
continuing a series of declines that began in the spring of 2011.  In New Brunswick, the number of people receiving benefits
fell 2.7% in January, the third monthly decrease in a row. In
Moncton, the number declined 7.0%, the third consecutive monthly
decrease, and the largest decline in January among all CMAs in
the country. In Saint John, however, the number of people
receiving benefits increased for the fifth consecutive month, up
1.0% in January.  The number of regular beneficiaries in  Alberta  fell by 2.5%,
the second consecutive monthly decrease. In Calgary, the number
of people receiving benefits declined by 2.0% from the previous
month, and in Edmonton it decreased by 1.9%. Compared with 12
months earlier, Edmonton (-16.0%) posted one of the fastest
rates of decline among all CMAs. The rate of decline recorded in
Calgary was 2.5% over the same period.  In Manitoba, the number of people receiving regular
benefits fell for the third month in a row, down 2.3% in January.
In Winnipeg, the number of beneficiaries was little changed from
the previous month.  Following declines in the two previous months, the number
of beneficiaries in Quebec edged down 1.5% in January. Among the
province’s six CMAs, three saw declines from the previous month:
Gatineau (-3.5%), Montréal (-2.9%) and Trois-Rivières (-1.1%),
while there was an increase in Saguenay (+1.3%), and little
change in Sherbrooke and Québec.  In Ontario, the number of beneficiaries edged down by 1.1%
in January, following similar decreases in the previous two
months. There were declines in 9 of the 15 CMAs in the province,
with a rate of decrease ranging from 1.3% in Toronto to 6.5% in
Guelph. Among the 5 CMAs with more beneficiaries in January than
the previous month, increases ranged from 1.0% in Hamilton to
4.3% in Windsor. Brantford was the lone CMA with no change.  Number of EI beneficiaries declines in most occupations  This release, also for the first time, includes an analysis
of the number of beneficiaries by occupation, as data on this
variable are now available.  Most major occupation groups posted declines in the number
of people receiving regular benefits in January compared with
the previous month. Occupations unique to processing,
manufacturing and utilities posted the largest percentage
decrease (-3.1%) and the third consecutive monthly decline. They
were followed by occupations in social science, education,
government service and religion (-2.8%), which also recorded
their third consecutive monthly decline.  In January, three occupation groups saw little change in
the number of beneficiaries: primary industries; art, culture,
recreation and sports; as well as natural and applied sciences.
In the latter group, the number of beneficiaries had been
increasing slightly since July 2012. It is the only occupation
group that had showed an upward trend over that period.  Compared with January 2012, the number of beneficiaries
fell in virtually all major occupational groups. The largest
decline occurred in occupations unique to processing,
manufacturing and utilities (-15.2%). The only occupation group
that showed little change in the number of beneficiaries was art,
culture, recreation and sports.  EI beneficiaries in major demographic groups  Starting with this release, month-to-month analysis for
major demographic groups is provided, using seasonally adjusted
data that are now available.  The number of EI regular beneficiaries in January fell for
the third consecutive month in most age groups. The fastest
decline occurred among young people aged 15 to 24 (-2.7%),
followed by those aged 25 to 54 (-2.0%). At the same time, the
number of beneficiaries was little changed among people 55 and
over.  On a year-over-year basis, the fastest decline occurred
among young men aged 15 to 24 (˗13.9%) and young women in the
same age group (-12.1%), while the slowest decline was recorded
among men aged 55 and over (-3.2%) and women in the same age
group (-2.2%).  Claims increase in January  To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a
claim. The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  The number of initial and renewal claims rose by 8,700
(+3.8%) to 238,500 in January. Quebec (+6.6%) showed the largest
percentage increase in claims, followed by Ontario (+5.2%) and
 New Brunswick  (+5.2%). British Columbia (+1.7%) also saw the
number of claims rise from the previous month.  At the same time, claims fell slightly in Saskatchewan (-
1.4%) and Nova Scotia (-1.2%), while there was little change in
the other provinces.  Note to readers  Employment Insurance (EI) regular benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the
number of regular beneficiaries reflects various situations,
including people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to
work, and people exhausting their regular benefits.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits.  New content and historical revision  For the first time, data on people who receive regular EI
benefits are available by detailed age and for 140 occupation
groups. New seasonally adjusted data by sex, age, census
metropolitan area, census agglomeration and occupation are also
available. The definition of regular beneficiaries has been
expanded to include those receiving regular benefits while
participating in employment benefit programs, such as training.
Furthermore, self-employed people receiving special benefits are
now included in the special benefits category.  Geography boundaries have been updated from the 2001 to the
2006 Standard Geographical Classification, which mainly affects
boundaries of census metropolitan areas and census
agglomerations.  To preserve consistencies across time despite all of the
above changes, all EI data series have been the subject of an
historical revision going back to January 1997.  All data are available on CANSIM.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service  Canada  and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. Recent examples are the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim,” introduced on August 5, 2012,
and the regulation on search for suitable employment, that came
into effect on January 6, 2013.  The number of regular beneficiaries and the number of
claims received for the current and previous month are subject
to revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from January 13 to 19. This period
coincides with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey
(LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people. 