-- Central African Rebels Reject Concessions, Plan to Resume Combat
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a
-- 2013-03-21T08:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/central-african-rebels-reject-concessions-plan-to-resume-combat.html
Central African Republic’s Seleka
rebel group said they will resume an offensive against the
government after President Francois Bozize failed to meet a set
of demands issued four days ago.  The United Nations Security Council expressed “strong
concern” about the deteriorating security situation in the
country and urged all parties to respect a peace accord signed
two months ago in the Gabonese capital, Libreville.  “The president failed to meet all of our demands,”
Sylvain Borbas, a spokesman for Seleka, said in a phone
interview. “We are preparing ourselves to resume combat. We
cannot tell you when we will start fighting again, but we are
preparing our strategy.”  Bozize said yesterday he would free political detainees and
prisoners of war, according to a decree distributed to reporters
today in the capital, Bangui. Seleka had demanded the government
also double its number of Cabinet posts to 10 and order the
withdrawal of South African forces from the country.  Seleka fighters advanced to within about 80 kilometers (50
miles) of Bangui in December after a monthlong assault aimed at
ousting Bozize’s administration, accusing it of failing to honor
a 2008 peace accord. The rebellion ended after the agreement was
signed on Jan. 11.  Since then, the rebels resumed their attacks and now
control three quarters of the country, Margaret Vogt, special
representative of the UN Secretary-General for the Central
African Republic, said in a statement yesterday.  Bangui Battles  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from France in 1960, with at least four
battles for Bangui taking place from 1996 to 2003, when Bozize
toppled predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army
chief.  Under the Libreville accord, Bozize’s administration and
the rebels agreed to form a government of national unity. Under
the agreement, Nicolas Tiangaye of the opposition was appointed
prime minister, while Seleka was given government portfolios
including the Defense Ministry.  “Governments of national unity are extremely difficult to
implement,” Vogt said. “They’re rife with all sorts of tension
and the situation has not been made easier by the fact that we
have a rebellion that controls three-quarters of the country.”  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, said Jan. 7 it
delayed plans to open a mine in the country by at least a year
because of the rebellion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crispin Dembassa in Abuja at 
 cdembassa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  