-- Chevron Lithuania Shale-Gas Deal Delayed to May for Law Changes
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-21T12:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/chevron-lithuania-shale-gas-deal-delayed-to-may-for-law-changes.html
Lithuania will wait to sign a
shale-gas exploration agreement with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  until
Parliament amends laws to strengthen environmental regulations,
Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius said.  “We’ll sign the agreement after Parliament adopts the
legislation, which in the best case could be three weeks after
Easter,” Butkevicius told reporters today in Vilnius, the
capital. “Hopefully in early May we can start getting ready for
actual exploration.”  Chevron, a U.S. energy company, last year bought half of
the Lithuanian oil and gas recovery company LL Investicijos and
in January submitted the only bid in a tender for shale-gas
exploration rights in the Baltic nation. Two parliamentary
committees this week urged the government to ban exploration
until laws regulating such activity are strengthened.  Butkevicius said he subsequently agreed with lawmakers that
the government will rush to prepare draft legislation and
parliament will give the matter fast-track treatment.  The main change would be a new requirement for an
environmental impact study of exploration, separate from the
study required for potential later production of any shale gas
that is found.  “The delay will let political passions subside and will
give us more time to assuage concerns” of residents of the
areas where exploration is planned, he said. “In any case, we
have to find out what resources lay beneath our land.”  The prime minister said shale gas should get a chapter of
its own in a national energy strategy that the government is
preparing, since it may help reduce dependence on imports of
natural gas from  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  