-- China Resources Profit Gains Amid Deals to Boost Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-21T11:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/china-resources-profit-gains-amid-acquisitions-to-spur-growth.html
China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) 
fell the most in almost a year in Hong Kong trading after the
Chinese beermaker and retailer said underlying profit dropped
last year.  The company,  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s government-backed partner in
China, dropped 5.3 percent, the most since May 16, to HK$23.15
as of the close of trading in Hong Kong. Underlying profit,
which excludes after-tax asset revaluation and major disposals
of non-core assets and investments, dropped 19 percent in 2012
from the previous year, the company said in a statement today.  The decline in underlying profit led to a sell-off in the
shares, Anson Chan, an analyst at KGI Asia Ltd., said in an
interview after the results were announced.  China Resources said underlying profit decreased as it
spent to expand its retail store network to new regions on the
mainland and increased marketing promotions in its beverage
business.  The company, which formed a soft-drink venture with  Japan ’s
Kirin Holdings Co., spent HK$200 million last year promoting
Kirin bottled teas, Frank Lai, its chief financial officer said
at a briefing in Hong Kong today.  The brewer also said promotional spending crimped operating
profit growth at its beer unit to 4.8 percent in 2012 from about
15 percent in the previous year. China Resources agreed in
February to acquire Guangdong-based  Kingway Brewery Holdings
Ltd. (124) ’s beermaking assets for 5.38 billion  yuan  ($867 million) to
boost its share of the market.  Net income climbed to HK$3.9 billion ($508 million) from
HK$3 billion a year earlier, the company said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today. Profit climbed as the
company expanded its retail and beer operations.  Beer Operations  “The division has stepped up its marketing and promotional
efforts in response to the intensifying market competition,
which in turn hindered growth in operating profit,” the company
said, referring to the beer operations, in today’s statement.
The company makes China’s best-selling Snow brand with
SABMiller.  Also, global economic volatility would continue to “affect
consumer sentiment and short-term operating environment in the
retail industry” this year, the company said.  Same-store sales growth for the company’s retail division
may slow to about 3.5 percent this year, from 4.1 percent in
2012, Lai said, mirroring inflation.  China  Resources plans to
expand its retail network by between 300 to 400 stores this
year, he said.  The retailer expanded into new regions and benefited from
the acquisition of Jiangxi Hongkelong Department Store
Investment Co. China Resources operated more than 4,400 stores
in China as of end 2012. The Hong Kong based company is also
looking for acquisitions to expand its food business,
particularly in the meat and fresh produce areas, Lai said
today.  China’s Resources’ food unit posted a 19 percent increase
to HK$331 million, and its beverage division saw profits fall 32
percent to HK$86 million, the company said. The Hong Kong-based
brewer said on Nov. 21 a weak global economy would put some
pressure on its consumer goods business.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  