-- Co-Op Bank Says Lloyds Talks Continue as Impairments Triple
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-21T17:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/co-op-bank-posts-loss-on-loan-insurance-redress-and-impairments.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc, a customer-
owned British lender, said it still intends to buy branches from
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  even as it reported a loss on surging
loan impairments and weaker capital levels.  Co-Op Bank will “continue to work” with Lloyds on
completing the 750 million-pound ($1.1 billion) acquisition of
632 branches, known as Verde, that was announced in July, the
Manchester, England-based lender said today in a statement. It
reported a loss of 509.1 million pounds for 2012 compared with a
profit of 48 million pounds in the previous year.  The departure last month of Co-Op Bank Chief Financial
Officer James Mack sparked speculation that the Lloyds deal,
which would more than double the institution’s branch network,
was foundering on concern the cooperative lacked the necessary
expertise and financial strength. Lloyds said this month that it
was also considering an initial public offering for Verde.  “It hasn’t happened, and the reason it hasn’t happened is
we are trying to conclude this transaction in very difficult
economic times,” Peter Marks, chief executive officer of the
lender’s parent entity, Co-Operative Group Ltd., said on a
conference call today. “What remains the same is the strategic
intent. There will come a time when we say enough is enough, but
we aren’t there yet.”  Insurance Sale  Marks is retiring in May after six years as CEO and 45
years working at Co-Op. In August, he said he was “confident”
the firm would buy Verde within “a few months.”  The bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, fell to 8.8 percent last year from 9.6
percent. Its plans to buy Verde cost 38.1 million pounds in
2012.  “The absolute capital position appears weak to us and,
alongside weak profitability, will no doubt raise questions as
to the ability of the Co-Op to complete an acquisition of
project Verde,” Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital
Ltd. in Liverpool,  England , wrote in a note to clients today.  Co-Op Group, whose other main asset is a grocery chain,
also said today that it will sell its general insurance unit to
bolster the balance sheet of its financial arm. Marks said the
sale was intended to “simplify the business” rather than help
fund the Lloyds purchase.  The CEO said it’s too early to put a value on the general
insurance business or whether potential buyers have expressed
interest. Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Ltd. agreed to
buy Co-Op’s life and insurance asset-management businesses
yesterday for about 219 million pounds.  Impairments Triple  The Lloyds deal has dragged on as regulators pressed Co-Op
to appoint a full-time chief for its lending unit. Shares of
Lloyds, which is selling the branches as a condition of its
state bailout during the financial crisis, slipped 1.1 percent
to 49 pence in  London . Lloyds has a November deadline to sell
the branches to satisfy European regulators.  Co-Op Bank’s impairments more than tripled to 474.1 million
pounds. It also set aside 149.7 million pounds to compensate
customers who were wrongly sold insurance.  British lenders including Co-Op, Lloyds and Barclays Plc
have been compensating clients sold coverage on loans, known as
payment-protection insurance or PPI, unnecessarily or without
their knowledge. Britain’s four biggest lenders have set aside
almost 11 billion pounds to cover the claims.  Co-Op Bank said the higher impairments were due to a
“prolonged poor economic outlook” for provisioning estimates,
as well as the performance of some loans in its so-called non-
core assets, which it doesn’t intend to renew.  “We were taking a very pessimistic view of the economy,
and therefore, prudently, it’s right to take these writedowns in
anticipation,” Marks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  