-- Cole Credit Rejects American Realty’s $5.7 Billion Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-03-21T21:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cole-credit-rejects-american-realty-s-5-7-billion-bid.html
Cole Credit Property Trust III
rejected a $5.7 billion buyout offer from  American Realty (ARCP) 
Capital Properties Inc., saying it isn’t in the best interests
of shareholders and is an attempt to disrupt its business.  The Phoenix-based nontraded real estate investment trust
still plans to buy the company that sponsors it, Cole Holdings
Corp., according to a statement today. American Realty yesterday
bid $12 in cash or 0.80 of each share of its common stock for
each Cole Credit share, seeking to create one of the largest
REITs that leases space to single tenants.  Cole Credit, owner of more than 900 mostly single-tenant
office, retail and industrial properties, agreed earlier this
month to buy Cole Holdings with plans to go public after the
merger. The acquisition would immediately add to Cole Credit’s
funds from operations, a measure of  cash flow  used by REITs, and
would support a dividend increase to 70 cents a share from 65
cents, according to the statement.  American Realty “was not only surprised, but
disappointed” that Cole Credit rejected the bid “without
seeking to contact ARCP or better understand its offer in any
way,” the New York-based company said in its own statement
today.  ‘Misleading’ Offer  The American Realty offer is “misleading” and wasn’t
meant for serious consideration, Cole Credit said in a separate
letter to its business partners. The proposal instead appeared
to be “deliberately designed to disrupt the businesses of Cole
Holdings and CCPT III,” according to the letter, signed by Cole
Holdings Executive Chairman Christopher Cole and Chief Executive
Officer Marc Nemer.  The executives said American Realty made the offer public
only 12 hours after submitting it to Cole Credit’s board.  Buying Cole Holdings is superior to the American Realty
deal in part because the resulting company would be self-
managed, rather than run by an external firm, according to the
letter. About 75 percent of the properties American Realty would
own would be from Cole, Nemer and Cole said.  Cole Holdings, based in Phoenix, manages more than 76
million square feet (7 million square meters) of properties.
Cole Credit said it expects to complete the purchase by the end
of June.  Tony DeFazio, an American Realty spokesman, said the
company was preparing a response to the letter.  American Realty said it remains committed to its offer,
which it values at more than $9 billion, including assumed debt,
and that it’s prepared to discuss it with Cole Credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  