-- Congress Duels Amid Budget Debate Yield Campaign Attacks
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-03-21T17:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/congress-duels-amid-budget-debate-yield-campaign-attacks.html
U.S. lawmakers are using this
week’s debate over each party’s fiscal priorities to generate
fodder for 2014 congressional election attacks.  As they did in the 2012 campaign, Democrats intend to
criticize the Republican-controlled House’s plan for balancing
the budget in 10 years by cutting $4.6 trillion across a variety
of programs and partly privatizing Medicare. Republicans will
take aim at the Senate’s proposal to generate $1 trillion in
fresh revenue.  The House voted 221-207 today to adopt a plan prepared by
House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan , a  Wisconsin  Republican.  “There is no question that these budget votes will be used
in upcoming elections because they’ve been used in past
elections,”  Nathan Gonzales , political editor for the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington, said in
an interview. “Both parties will try to use the issue to their
advantage.”  Campaign groups are preparing attacks based on the non-
binding budget plans being adopted this week, neither of which
will be taken up by the other chamber. The National Republican
Senatorial Committee yesterday sent out a release saying each of
a dozen Senate Democrats seeking re-election in 2014 should
oppose their party’s fiscal plan, asserting that it would have a
devastating effect “on families and jobs.”  YouTube Ad  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee this week
unveiled a YouTube ad listing  House Republicans  who lost re-
election in 2012 after Democrats ran budget-related ads. The
ad’s tagline: “2012 was just the beginning.”  Congressional budget resolutions offer ripe material for
political messaging. The long-term budget plans don’t carry the
force of law, so the votes on them are symbolic. Special Senate
rules allow any member almost unlimited latitude to offer
amendments to the plan, and many try to force votes that put the
other party’s members in an awkward spot politically.  That’s one reason that Senate Democratic leaders haven’t
brought a budget resolution to the floor since 2009.  In that year, lawmakers voted on 38 budget amendments; this
week even more may be offered. Texas Senator  John Cornyn , the
chamber’s second-ranking Republican, said he may try to offer a
proposal to withhold pay from the White House Office of
Management and Budget’s director and other OMB officials when
the president doesn’t submit a budget plan on time.  Obama hasn’t sent a fiscal 2014 budget proposal to  Capitol
Hill , though they usually are offered in mid-February.  ‘Do Its Job’  “Texans don’t expect to get paid for a job they don’t do,
and it’s time to start holding Washington to the same
standards,” Cornyn said in a statement. “This administration
should do its job, meet its obligations, and submit a budget.”  Among the amendments that Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin
Republican, said he plans to offer this week is a proposal to
“make sure that no federal money is used to bail out states or
municipalities that have gotten in financial trouble.”  “It’s important that Democrats get put on record as to
whether or not they would actually spend federal taxpayer funds
-- for example, the citizens of Wisconsin would be asked to bail
out, for example, maybe the citizens of  California  or Illinois
or New York,” Johnson said in an interview.  Six Senate Democrats seeking re-election next year in
states carried in 2012 by Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  were among the dozen targeted by the NRSC yesterday. They
are Alaska’s  Mark Begich , Arkansas’  Mark Pryor , Montana’s  Max Baucus , Louisiana’s  Mary Landrieu , North Carolina’s  Kay Hagan 
and South Dakota’s  Tim Johnson .  Baucus Undecided  Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, hasn’t
announced a position on his party’s budget. “I’ll decide that
when I get there,” he said today in an interview.  Kansas Senator Jerry Moran, who heads the Republican Senate
campaign group, said it would be paying close attention to the
budget votes.  “Every vote you cast in Congress has a political
consequence, and I’m sure the NRSC will be very capable of
pointing out to folks in states across the country how senators
voted,” Moran said in an interview.  In the House, Democrats say the budget blueprint proposed
by Ryan, the party’s vice presidential candidate in 2012, would
stunt U.S. economic growth and hurt minorities, women and the
poor.  Top Earners  House Democrats yesterday offered a proposal to raise $1.2
trillion by limiting tax breaks for top earners and
corporations. While the plan was defeated, it offered Democrats
a chance to press Republicans to go on the record against tax
increases for top earners while opposing $200 billion in  defense
spending  cuts included in the proposal.  Democrats say they want to use Ryan’s budget plan as a
platform to defeat Republicans in the 2014 midterm election.  “In plain English, it is bad,” Representative Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat, said of Ryan’s budget during floor
debate yesterday, comparing it with European-style austerity
measures. He said it “kills 2.5 million American jobs” and
“has no vision for how we are going to create jobs.”  Crowley said U.S. voters rejected Ryan’s budget in the 2012
elections. “It is time to say au revoir to this Republican
budget,” he added.  Representative  James Clyburn , a South Carolina Democrat,
said “there is no question” that the Republican budget
blueprint provides fodder for Democratic attacks.  Same Budget  “It is the same budget they ran on, the same one that got
rejected by the voters,” said Clyburn, a member of the
Democratic leadership. He said he “absolutely” will use the
Ryan plan to campaign against Republican candidates.  House Republicans yesterday brought to a vote the Senate’s
budget blueprint to try to force House Democrats to go on the
record as backing it.  The  National Republican Congressional Committee , the
campaign arm for the chamber’s Republicans, on March 19 called
on 10 House Democrats to “denounce” the Democratic budget or
“hurt” the middle class in their districts. After the House
vote today, it sent press releases accusing dozens of Democrats
of voting against “the only plan to balance” the budget.  “Everything is a document for campaign in 2014 because
this is a political arena and things get set up for that
reason,” Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who is
considering a 2014 Senate run, said in an interview.  Campaign Documents  “Yes, they will be documents for campaigns,” King said.
“They already are.”  Budget blueprints “appeal to the base of each party,”
said  John Pitney , a political scientist and professor at
 Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont, California.  Ryan’s budget plan, and Republicans’ support of it, was a
major theme in 2012 Democratic campaigns for House and Senate
seats across the country. The coming days could determine which
party emerges with the upper hand on budget issues in 2014,
Gonzales said.  “We’ll have to have the campaigns to see which side wins
out,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  