-- Conwert Eyes German Real Estate, Sells Eastern Europe
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-21T13:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/conwert-eyes-german-real-estate-sells-eastern-europe.html
Conwert Immobilien Invest SE (CWI)  plans
to buy German residential real estate, part of a strategy shift
to focus more on buying and renovating apartment blocks.  The Vienna-based company may spend as much as 200 million
euros ($260 million) on residential property in German cities
this year, it said in a statement. Conwert said it plans to sell
commercial properties as well as eastern European assets valued
at 127 million euros within the next two years.  “The regrouping of our portfolio is going to continue,”
Chief Executive Officer Johannes Meran said at a news conference
today. That means selling commercial real estate and reinvesting
the proceeds in higher-yielding residential properties, mainly
in  Germany , he said.  Conwert posted a net loss of 167.8 million euros for 2012
after it wrote down more than 117 million euros on goodwill and
other intangible assets. It bought a majority stake in Hamburg’s
 KWG Kommunale Wohnen AG (BIW)  last year, seeking to better position
itself as a manager of residential real estate. The goal is to
become a sustainable dividend-paying company on the basis of
stable rental income, Meran said.  The company said it won’t pay a 2012 dividend and will only
provide a special dividend of 15 cents a share related to last
year’s capital decrease. It assumes the company would be able to
propose a dividend of at least 20 cents a share for 2013.  German Portfolio  Around 60 percent of the company’s 2.9 billion-euro
portfolio is in Germany. That’s set to rise to 80 percent within
the next two years, Meran said.  “The German real estate market is active,” said Stavros Efremidis, Conwert’s executive director. “We will get
opportunities this year.”  The company predicts further restructuring charges this
year, but they will “definitively be lower than 2012,” Meran
said. Conwert aims to improve funds from operations, which
gauges a property company’s ability to raise cash, to 25 million
euros in 2013 from 20.7 million euros a year earlier.  Conwert  fell  1.4 percent to 8.75 euros at 2:11 p.m. in
Vienna. The shares have fallen more than 10 percent this year.  “With rising recurring cash flows, a clearer focus on
residential and lower exposure to higher-risk segments and
markets the share price could develop positively in the next
quarters,” Thomas Neuhold, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  