-- Copper Market Seen by Standard Bank as Liable to ‘Tighten’
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-21T17:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/copper-stocks-at-nine-year-high-as-warehouses-attract-metal-1-.html
The copper market may “tighten
up” more quickly than anticipated once buying resumes from
consumers in  China , the world’s biggest user of the metal,
according to  Standard Bank  Plc.  Three cities hold 69 percent of copper stockpiles tracked
by the London Metal Exchange and supplies may be unavailable for
immediate usage because of the required waiting times for
withdrawals, according to Standard Bank analyst  Leon Westgate  in
London. LME inventories of the metal used in pipes and wiring
reached a nine-year high today.  “The interesting thing will be what happens when the
Chinese do decide to restock,” Westgate said by phone.
“Chinese fabricators have 900,000 tons of copper sitting on
their doorstep, so obviously they feel comfortable,” he said,
referring to an estimate for inventories in bonded warehouses in
the country cited by the bank in a report March 15.  More copper is being tied up in financing transactions,
Steve Hardcastle, head of client services for industrial
commodities at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London , said last week.
Funding accords may involve as much as 60 percent of LME zinc
stocks and 30 percent of nickel, according to estimates by
Societe Generale SA.  Aluminum, Zinc  “It looks like copper is on track to become another
financing- or warehousing-type vehicle, similar to aluminum and
zinc,” Westgate said. “However, the copper market is
fundamentally tighter than those, so the comparison doesn’t
stand up too well.”  Refined copper supply will exceed demand by 92,000 metric
tons this year, or 0.4 percent of global consumption, Barclays
Plc said in a report March 14. That compares with an aluminum
surplus of 1.54 million tons, or 3.1 percent of global usage of
the lightweight metal.  LME copper  stocks  rose for a 26th session to 557,450 tons,
the highest since October 2003, exchange figures showed today.
 New Orleans , the Belgian port city of Antwerp and Johor in
 Malaysia  are the three biggest repositories. Inventories climbed
in the last few months as warehouse companies offered incentives
to draw metal into storage, Westgate said.  Warehouses are able to calculate incentives they can offer
to holders of metal based on waiting times, Duncan Hobbs, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said yesterday at Metal
Bulletin’s  5th World Lead Conference  in Istanbul. Investors are
competing with physical consumers for metal due to demand for
financing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  