-- U.S. Credit Swaps Rise; Corrections Corp. Plans to Issue Bonds
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-21T20:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-jobless-claims-increase.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose as Cyprus officials worked on a new bailout plan and
initial jobless claims increased.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.7
basis points to a mid-price of 91 basis points at 4:16 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Traders
moved into a new version of the measure, Series 20, yesterday.  Euro-area finance ministers expect Cyprus to submit a new
rescue proposal quickly, saying in a statement that the
Eurogroup stands ready to discuss a plan with lawmakers from the
region’s third-smallest economy after they rejected a bank
deposit levy aimed at mitigating the cost of a bailout package.
In the U.S., Americans filed 336,000 first-time claims for
 unemployment insurance  last week, 4,000 fewer than the estimate
by economists, and sales of previously owned homes  rose  in
February to the highest level in more than three years.  “We have an economic recovery going on, but it’s very
tepid,” Robert Grimm, head of corporate trading at Odeon
Capital Group LLC, said in a telephone interview from Greenwich,
 Connecticut . “We can’t afford any disruptions, and if this
Cyprus thing blows up in  Europe , it’s a disruption that’s going
to hurt us.”  Heinz CDS  Standard & Poor’s cut Cyprus’s credit rating one level to
CCC, four steps above default, and said it would probably lower
the rating further if the nation’s “government fails to obtain
a financing program soon.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The cost to protect the debt of  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  dropped as
the ketchup maker, which is being acquired by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital Inc. canceled plans to
distribute $2 billion of the $12 billion in loans backing the
purchase in euros and pounds, according to a person with
knowledge of the deal.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Heinz fell 9.7 basis
points to 175 basis points, according to Bloomberg prices. The
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based company may fund the portion with
bonds or dollar-denominated loans, said the person, who
requested not to be identified because the information isn’t
public.  Corrections Offering  Corrections Corp. of America , the largest U.S. private
prison operator, plans to sell $675 million of senior notes in
two parts to fund a tender offer for outstanding debt, according
to a  filing . The Nashville, Tennessee-based company intends to
issue securities due 2020 and 2023, with proceeds used to redeem
its $465 million of 7.75 percent bonds due June 2017, or to fund
payments linked to its conversion into a real estate investment
trust, the filing stated.  CCA (CXW)  is also seeking to boost its revolving credit facility
to $900 million, as well as to get consent from bondholders to
amend rules governing the debt that “would eliminate
substantially all of the restrictive covenants and certain
events of default provisions in the indenture,” according to
the filing.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index added 8.6 basis points to 402.9 basis points, its
biggest jump since Feb. 25, Bloomberg prices show.  Strong Issuance  Gradual economic growth and accommodating credit markets
have improved the quality of speculative-grade companies,
according to a March 20 report from Moody’s Investors Service
analysts led by David Keisman.  The number of U.S. non-financial companies on Moody’s B3
Negative and Lower corporate ratings list fell to 146 in March
from 176 a year before, the report stated. Strong high-yield
issuance “remains the engine as investors readily lend to
riskier companies in pursuit of higher yields,” Keisman wrote.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt rose 2.4 basis points to 494.9 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  