-- Cotton Crop Worldwide Seen Falling as Farmers Shift to Grain
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-03-21T13:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cotton-harvest-worldwide-seen-slumping-as-farmers-shift-to-grain.html
The global cotton harvest will
probably tumble more than expected in the coming year as farmers
make more money planting grains even after the fiber’s rally,
the  International Cotton Advisory Committee  said.  Output may be less than ICAC’s estimate on March 1, Terry Townsend, executive director, said in an interview, without
providing a number. Farmers may reap 22.56 million metric tons
in the 12 months starting Aug. 1, a 14 percent plunge from 26.26
million tons this year, the committee said earlier this month.
Usage will be 23.8 million tons versus 23.3 million tons.  Cotton slumped 18 percent in 2012, sliding for a second
year, as soybeans climbed 17 percent and corn rose 8 percent.
Farmer margins are lower for cotton than competing crops like
corn and beans, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report March
11. Cotton may extend gains as exportable supplies drop from the
U.S., the largest shipper, Rabobank International said.  “The ratios of cotton to maize, cotton to rice, cotton to
soybeans, all are moving against cotton in favor of those
crops,” Terry Townsend,  executive director  of ICAC, said in an
interview in  Singapore  yesterday. “Our estimates for world
cotton area are declining for 2013-2014.”  The drop in acreage is led by the biggest growers including
 China , India,  Pakistan  and the U.S., said Townsend. The Northern
Hemisphere, which supplies 85 percent of the world crop, plants
the fiber from now through June, he said.  Sowings Decline  A metric ton of cotton in  New York  costs about 6 times the
price of rough rice in  Chicago , down from an  average  of 7.2
times in the past three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The  cotton-corn  ratio of 6.8 is lower than the average of 9.4,
while the  cotton-soybean  ratio is 3.7 versus 4.8.  The 18 percent jump in futures in New York this year may
slow the decline in sowings in the U.S., the largest shipper.
Plantings will probably drop to 11 million acres, said Jordan
Lea, the chairman of Eastern Trading Co., an exporter in
Greenville,  South Carolina . The U.S. government predicted a
decline to 10 million acres on Feb. 22 from 12.32 million acres
last year. Cotton for May delivery traded at 88.33 cents a pound
at 9:42 a.m. in New York.  In China, the largest grower and user, output may be more
than 7 million tons in the year starting September, bigger than
the 6.65 million tons estimated in November, as higher yields
partly offset a drop in area, Xi Jin, a manager at China
National Cotton Information Center, said in Singapore today.
That compares with 7.6 million tons a year earlier, he said.  ‘Fierce’ Competition  “Competition between grains and cotton is fierce,” Xi
said. Government policy makes it more profitable for farmers to
grow grains rather than cotton and the buying price may need to
increase to persuade farmers to stay with the crop, he said.  The purchase policy has boosted domestic prices and spurred
more imports, taking purchases of the biggest buyer to 3.8
million tons in the year through July, more than the U.S.
government estimate of 3.3 million tons, according to the median
of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While cotton  purchases  fell in January for the first time
in four months, imports of yarn advanced for three straight
months, a run not seen since 2011, Chinese customs  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. Rising yarn imports will “fuel a boom” in
cotton consumption by yarn producers including  India , Pakistan,
 Brazil  and the U.S., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  