-- Cotton Rally Encouraging Farmers to Sow More Than USDA Forecast
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-03-21T10:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cotton-rally-encouraging-farmers-to-sow-more-than-usda-forecast.html
The longest cotton rally in four
years and a lingering drought in the southern Great Plains are
forcing farmers in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter, to
reconsider a shift to other crops.  Planting may total 11 million acres, 10 percent more than a
Feb. 22 government forecast of 10 million, said Jordan Lea, the
chairman of Eastern Trading Co., an exporter in Greenville,
South Carolina. Prices are up 37 percent from a 31-month low in
June and heading for a fifth monthly gain, the longest since
July 2009. Corn fell 3.4 percent since the end of October.  The price surge was the “number one” reason “for me
switching back to cotton,” said Randy McGee, 35, who farms
1,200 acres in Idalou,  Texas . He’s ditching plans to sow corn
and sorghum on 300 acres of non-irrigated land that he now plans
to use for cotton. “December grain and corn prices aren’t
looking too promising. I’m sending my seed back.”  After the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s sent corn and
soybean futures to records last year, the government said cotton
planting would drop 19 percent in 2013 as farmers sowed more
profitable crops and slowing demand in  China , the world’s
largest importer. The lingering dry spell in the Plains has left
some areas without enough soil moisture to grow grain, and the
rebound in prices sent cotton to the biggest gain this year of
any commodity.  “Cotton has been buying acres since the beginning of the
year,” Lea, a former president of the American Cotton Shippers
Association, said in an e-mail. “The forecast drop in acres was
probably somewhat exaggerated.”  Top Commodity  Cotton for May delivery fell 0.2 percent to 88.9 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, leaving the most-active
contract up 18 percent this year, the most among 24 commodities
tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge. Prices may reach 95
cents by the end of 2013, according to the median of 16
estimates from analysts and traders in a Bloomberg survey last
month.  If the December futures contract tops 90 cents before the
end of March, up from yesterday’s close at 87.98 cents, farmers
will sow as much as 1.5 million acres more cotton than the
government forecast, O.A.  Cleveland , an agricultural economics
professor at Mississippi State University in Starkville, said in
a March 8 report.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture forecast an 18 percent
drop in production to 14 million bales this year from 17.01
million last year, when farmers sowed 12.32 million acres. On
March 28, the department will release its first estimate of
planting intentions based on a survey of growers. In 2011,
output was 15.57 million bales, after the worst drought in at
least a century decimated crops in Texas, the biggest producer.  Texas Planting  Growers in Texas need to plant cotton as early as mid-May
in some areas to qualify for crop insurance, according to  Plains
Cotton Growers Inc. , an industry group in Lubbock. The state
produced about 5.5 million bales last year.  As of March 12, about 54 percent of Texas was in severe
drought, which means crop losses are likely and water shortages
are common, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. While that’s
down from 71 percent a year earlier, conditions in many areas
may be too dry for any crop except cotton, according to Texas
A&M University in College Station.  “People don’t understand the seriousness of the drought
here,” said Brad Heffington, a 45-year-old farmer who has a
5,700-acre cotton farm in Littlefield, Texas. Heffington had
planned to use 1,500 acres to grow corn and sorghum this year.
Instead, he may plant 750 because it has been so dry.  Need Rain  Corn requires 30 inches to 35 inches of total rainfall and
irrigation water during the growing season to get maximum yield,
while cotton requires 20 inches to 24 inches, he said. His farm
got 7.5 inches of rain since July 3, 2010.  Unlike grains, cotton can survive heat extremes or short-
lived dry periods, said  Gaylon Morgan , a professor and cotton
specialist at Texas A&M. The plant will shed a portion of its
fruit during dry conditions and resume development when rain
returns, Morgan said in an e-mail.  “Grain crops simply have lower yield,” said John Robinson, an agricultural economist at Texas A&M. “Cotton
pencils out to a higher net return than grain crops in dry
conditions.” Texas farmers may sow 5.5 million acres this year,
12 percent higher than the 4.9 million  predicted  by the National
Cotton Council in February, Robinson said.  While some cotton-growing regions in Texas have seen more
rainfall than last year, drought conditions that began two years
ago are  expected  to persist or intensify across almost all of
Texas during planting and early growing season, according to the
National Weather Service.  Moisture Deficits  “They still have a long way to go with moisture
deficits,” said Joel Widenor, director of agriculture services
for Bethesda, Maryland-based Commodity Weather Group LLC.
“They’ve built up a long-term deficit where if you pick up some
precipitation it’s not going to make a big dent.”  Protection from crop insurance also is getting a boost from
the rally in prices, further encouraging farmers to consider
cotton. On the Littlefield farm that Brad Heffington runs with
his 20-year-old son, Tanner, the payout for damaged crops would
be $160 for every acre of cotton, compared with $40 for sorghum,
an alternative for non-irrigated land.  “With cotton insurance, it’s just hard not to go with
that,” said McGee, the Idalou farmer. “If the crop falls out,
you’re guaranteed there.”  Payout rates for crop insurance are essentially set using
the average of futures prices, Texas A&M’s Robinson said. In
some areas, it’s as much as 83 cents a pound, he said.  “Insurance is relatively high,” which “encourages more
planting,” Robinson said. “The higher price probably gives
growers hope, but they have to believe these high prices will be
there at harvest time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  