-- Credit Suisse Joins JPMorgan to Repackage Brazil State Loan
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-03-21T20:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/credit-suisse-jpmorgan-to-sell-brazil-state-loan-to-investors.html
Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are selling to investors through pass-through notes
a $1.27 billion loan made to the Brazilian state of  Minas
Gerais , according to people familiar with the matter.  Credit Suisse made the original 10-year loan in November
with an interest rate of 5.33 percent to help repay debt owed to
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais, or Cemig, as the utility
company is known. The loan will be sold to a special-purpose
entity that will issue the pass-through notes to investors,
according to the people, who asked not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to comment publicly. The state of Minas
Gerais declined to comment on the offering.  Banks are taking advantage of federal guarantees to make
more loans to Brazilian states seeking to refinance debt as
benchmark  interest rates  have fallen to record lows. Brazil
authorized 21 states in August to borrow 60 billion reais ($30
billion) through 2014 with government guarantees to compensate
for lower tax transfers.  “This type of borrowing is OK as long as constraints are
in place,”  John Welch , a strategist at CIBC World Markets, said
by phone from Toronto. “Minas Gerais looks pretty good
fiscally. They got themselves in good shape.”  Brazilian states and cities haven’t been able to take
advantage of the unprecedented decline in  borrowing costs 
because they have been restricted from selling bonds since a
1997 bailout, leaving the country without a municipal bond
market. States faced financial turmoil in the 1990s after years
of mismanagement and hyperinflation.  1999 Crisis  Minas Gerais threatened to halt payments of debt owed to
the federal government in 1999 in a challenge to then President
 Fernando Henrique Cardoso ’s bid to restore investor confidence.
The crisis helped lead to the devaluation of the real.  “The idea is to keep the purse strings very tight on the
states because historically they tend to overdo it and expect a
bailout,” Welch of CIBC said.  Leonardo Colombini, the state finance secretary, told
 Bloomberg News  in October that Minas Gerais also planned to
borrow $450 million from the  World Bank  and 300 million euros
($387 million) from the French Development Agency to pay off
debt to Cemig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  