-- Cuomo Channeling Dad Wins N.Y. Best Rally Since ’09: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-21T02:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cuomo-channeling-dad-wins-n-y-best-rally-since-09-muni-credit.html
New York  debt is rallying the most
since 2009 as Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and lawmakers head for their
third-straight on-time budget, a first for the Empire State in
almost three decades.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market require
just  0.17 percentage point  of extra yield to hold bonds from New
York and its localities instead of AAAs, close to the smallest
penalty in almost four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Helping spur demand, residents of Wall Street’s home state bear
the nation’s steepest local-tax burden, while lawmakers agreed
with Cuomo to extend a higher rate on top earners.  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, and legislative leaders
reached a deal yesterday on a $136.5 billion budget, closing a
$1.35 billion gap. The fiscal year starts April 1. The accord
gives the state three consecutive timely financial plans, a
first since 1984, when Cuomo’s father, Mario, was governor. The
streak has the third-most-populous state on the verge of its
highest  Standard & Poor’s  rating since 1972.  “He’s instilled a sense of confidence that government can
balance the budget on time, and it’s positive for municipal
investors,” said Jim Holihan, who helps oversee $4.5 billion,
including some of the state’s general obligations, at Evercore
Partners in New York.  Beating 2010  Cuomo has said the prospect of a timely plan showed  Albany 
had moved past the dysfunction that previously defined it. In
2010, the year before he took office, the budget process didn’t
finish until August, the tardiest since lawmakers took a record
133 days into the 2004 fiscal period to approve a plan.  Over the past three years, Cuomo, who is in his first term,
closed more than $13 billion in budget gaps, in part by getting
the state’s largest unions to agree to wage freezes. This year’s
negotiations were complicated by a power-sharing arrangement in
the Senate, where a group of five Democrats shares leadership
with Republicans.  “If we get three in a row, technically, I will beat my old
man’s record of two in a row, but who’s being competitive?”
Cuomo said during a March 8 speech in New York at the law firm
Covington & Burling LLP.  Better Credit  S&P has echoed Cuomo’s view that New York’s fiscal position
is improving. The New York-based company in August revised to
positive from stable the outlook on the state’s general
obligations.  The move means New York, which is rated third-highest at
AA, could earn its best grade since it was cut to AA from AAA in
1972. S&P affirmed the outlook this month, citing on-time and
balanced budgets.  “There’s an overall positive perception by the market
about the credit quality of the state,” said James Dearborn,
head of munis in  Boston  at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers, which oversees $34 billion in local debt. “The
timeliness of the budgets indicates that they have a much more
functional legislative process.”  New York issuers have taken advantage of the state’s fiscal
improvement,  selling  more debt in 2012 than those in  California 
for an unprecedented second straight year, Citigroup Inc. data
starting in 1991 show. They borrowed $44.5 billion in 2012, the
most since at least 2003, Bloomberg data show.  Faster Pace  The state and its municipalities are on pace to issue even
more this year, Bloomberg data show. The Golden State and its
localities had been the top sellers every year except 1998.  New York munis have benefited as residents look to avoid
the nation’s highest state and local levies, as tracked by the
 Tax Foundation , a Washington-based research group.  New York joins states with Democratic governors, including
California,  Connecticut  and  Maryland , that have raised taxes in
the past two years, even as Republican-led states such as Kansas
and Louisiana aim to reduce or eliminate income levies.  In Albany, negotiators agreed to extend a higher  tax rate 
on joint filers earning $2 million or more a year, which raises
$1.9 billion annually and was set to expire in 2014. Cuomo, who
is up for re-election in 2014, pushed the higher tax through in
December 2011, coupling it with reductions for married couples
earning less than $300,000 a year.  ‘Positive Forces’  “Investors were so used to the state muddling through the
budget process and there wasn’t a lot of confidence in their
ability to come together and get budgets passed,” said Blake Miller, who helps oversee about $11 billion in munis at
Neuberger Berman Group LLC in New York.  “Now there’s this feeling that positive forces are working
together,” he said. “It all bodes well for the credit.”  Local governments plan to borrow $10 billion this week, the
year’s busiest period, including offers from New York issuers
led by the New York City Transitional Finance Authority.  With the wave of supply, muni yields have exceeded those on
federal debt for six straight trading days, the longest span
since December, Bloomberg data show.  At 2.04 percent,  yields  on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to an 11-month high and compare with 1.96 percent on
federal securities, Bloomberg data show.  The  ratio  of the two  interest rates  is about 104 percent,
compared with an average of about 92 percent since 2001. The
higher the percentage, the cheaper local bonds are relative to
Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  