-- Cybersecurity Lobby Surges as Congress Considers New Laws
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-03-21T16:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cybersecurity-lobby-surges-as-congress-considers-new-laws.html
The determination by Congress and
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to protect networks of
critical U.S. industries from hackers and cyberspies is creating
an explosive growth opportunity -- for lobbyists.  There were 513 filings by consultants and companies to
press Congress on cybersecurity by the end of 2012, up 85
percent from 2011 and almost three times as many as in 2010,
according to U.S. Senate filings. Twelve firms have submitted
new registrations this year on behalf of companies including
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit,  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) ,  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and Ericsson Inc., the U.S. subsidiary of
Stockholm-based Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.  “Cybersecurity is a lobbyist’s dream,”  Rogan Kersh ,
provost at  Wake Forest University  in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina , who researches political influence, said in an
interview.  Washington’s plan to fight attacks had Raytheon Co. and
Lockheed Martin Corp., which want to sell security products,
lobbying on cyber bills and appropriations. Sectors targeted by
hackers, such as banking and energy, have their trade groups
pushing for liability protection for sharing threat information.
Verizon Communications Inc. told lawmakers it wants “greater
cybersecurity without technology mandates or prescriptive
rules.”  Companies want to discuss issues including what kind of
impact government-issued security practices will have on
corporate supply chains, said Avivah Litan, Washington-based
cybersecurity analyst at technology research firm Gartner Inc.  “This is going to be a titanic clash, and when that kind
of industry power is aligned against each other, lobbyists start
sharpening their knives and forks,” Kersh said.  Executive Order  The interest in influencing cybersecurity policy tracks
more urgent warnings by the administration and Congress that
more action is needed to stop Chinese online espionage and
potential digital sabotage of vital infrastructure such as power
grids.  Obama issued an executive order in February directing the
government to develop voluntary cyber standards for privately-
held assets considered critical to national security, and to
increase sharing of cyber attack information with companies.  Companies “used to think they could ignore this issue or
sweep it under the rug,”  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat who
sits on the Senate Commerce and Intelligence committees, both of
which have considered cyber bills, said in an interview.  Mandiant Report  A Feb. 19 report from security firm Mandiant Corp.,
concluding the Chinese army may be behind a hacking group that
has hit at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006, has altered
the debate, Warner said.  “There’s more and more recognition, industry by industry,
that the sheer volume of threats can’t be hidden anymore,” he
said.  The Department of  Homeland Security  will identify
industries subject to the executive order. While standards are
to be voluntary, the order instructs U.S. agencies to consider
making them regulations for critical industries they oversee.  “We want to be prepared to weigh in and help guide or
inform those processes as appropriate,” Ladeene Freimuth, a
lobbyist for the GridWise Alliance, a Washington-based group
representing electric utilities including Pepco Holdings Inc.
and Duke Energy Corp., said in an interview.  The alliance, which first registered to lobby on
cybersecurity March 2, supports a proposal by House Intelligence
Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, giving
liability protection to companies that share threat information,
Freimuth said. The group favors “flexible” regulation that
doesn’t duplicate existing standards, she said.  Lawsuit Protection  The White House is urging Congress to pass legislation to
fill in gaps it couldn’t address in the executive order.
Lawmakers, who failed to pass a cyber bill last year amid
disagreements over the role of government and privacy
protections for consumer data, have returned to the topic in
recent weeks with hearings and new proposals in the House.  Banks, telecommunications companies and energy companies,
which have been targeted for attacks, are pushing for better
sharing of threat and attack details from government. They also
want to be protected from privacy lawsuits if they share
information on customers, and from negligence suits for failing
to act on warnings.  Retailers, Railroads  The  National Retail Federation  lobbied the Senate on its
“Cybersecurity Act of 2012,” as did 3M Co., which also
discussed the bill with Homeland Security and the  Justice
Department , according to Senate filings.  The  Association of American Railroads  lobbied on Rogers’
Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act, which passed a
floor vote in the House last year and has been reintroduced this
session, records show. The National Cable and Telecommunications
Association, meanwhile, lobbied on bills in Congress while also
discussing the formation of the White House cyber executive
order with DHS, the group’s filings said.  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat, in September asked all Fortune 500 chief
executive officers about their companies’ cybersecurity
practices and their views on the federal government’s role in
improving computer defenses.  That made companies realize cybersecurity would gain a
higher profile in Washington, said Jessica Herrera-Flanigan, a
partner at Monument Policy Group, a lobbying firm representing
 Boeing Co. (BA) , Microsoft Corp., and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)   “Companies are realizing that it’s important to engage
with Congress and with the administration to ensure they have
input on the development of laws, rules and regulations that
affect them,” said Herrera-Flanigan, a former staff director
for the House Homeland Security Committee.  Lobbyist Roster  Among those registered to lobby on the issue for Ericsson
are Rhod Shaw, former chief of staff to Senator  Sherrod Brown ,
an Ohio Democrat; Jared Weaver, former deputy chief of staff to
Representative  Anna Eshoo , a California Democrat; and Ansley
Erdel, who formerly worked for Georgia Republican Nathan Deal.  Lobbyists for Google’s Motorola Mobility unit include
Elizabeth Frazee, former counsel for Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican who became chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee this year.  The UPS lobbying team on cyber includes Jeff Forbes, former
staff director of the Senate Finance Committee and chief of
staff to the panel chairman,  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat.  Spokesmen Jimmy Duvall of Ericsson and Cris Paden of
Symantec didn’t respond to requests for comment. A UPS
spokeswoman, Kara Ross, declined to comment, as did William
Moss, a spokesman for Motorola Mobility.  “The new frontier is cyberwar in terms of our national
defense,” Gartner’s Litan said. “I’m not surprised the
lobbyists are ramping up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  