-- Cyprus Woes to Help Latvia Lure Russian Cash, Trigon Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-03-21T17:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cyprus-woes-to-help-latvia-lure-russian-cash-trigon-says.html
Latvia , which wants to join the
euro region next year, will become increasingly attractive for
Russians seeking to redirect investments from crisis-struck
Cyprus, according to pan-Baltic investment bank  Trigon Capital .  “Latvia is in infinitely better macroeconomic shape than
Cyprus and this will not be lost on Russians looking for safe
places to deposit capital,” Joakim Helenius, executive chairman
at the Tallinn, Estonia-based company, which has about $1
billion under management, said yesterday in an interview. “Upon
joining the euro, Latvia will be a part of the ‘hard bloc’ of
euro members rather than a Mediterranean problem case.”  European officials from Brussels to Moscow are involved in
talks to agree on a bailout for the Mediterranean island nation
after its parliament rejected a levy on bank accounts. Russian
companies and individuals have an estimated $31 billion of
wealth in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Non-
resident deposits in Latvia, mainly from neighboring  Russia ,
make up about $10 billion, or half of the country’s total.  The former Soviet republic exited a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.7
billion) International Monetary Fund-led bailout last year,
helped by the fastest economic expansion in the 27-member
European Union. Latvia meets all conditions for the Jan. 1, 2014
switch, which would make it the 18th euro member after Estonia
joined in 2011, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said last
month.  Yield Plunge  The yield on Latvian government bonds due 2018 was little
changed at 1.93 percent at 5:40 p.m. in Riga, compared with 4.14
percent a year ago. Five-year credit-default swaps were one
basis point lower at 116, compared with 108 basis points for
neighboring  Lithuania , which plans to join the euro in 2015.  “Latvia’s banking sector is fairly small in relation to
GDP” and “the risk of another debt crisis is small,” Richard Segal, the head of international credit strategy at Jefferies
Group Inc. in  London , said by e-mail. “Latvia is well placed to
outperform” its emerging-market peers this year, he added.  Latvia’s credit rating was raised one level to Baa2, the
second-lowest investment grade, by Moody’s on March 15. The
ratings company cited economic expansion that averaged 5.5
percent a year in 2011 and 2012 and government progress in
narrowing the budget deficit to 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 9.7 percent in 2009.  ‘Unknown Origin’  Financial services in Cyprus equal about 40 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, while Latvia’s amount to about
3 percent to 3.5 percent of economic output, Kristaps Zakulis,
chairman of the Latvian bank regulator, said in a statement on
the watchdog’s website today.  There is “no reason to expect that large cash flows of an
unknown origin will enter the Latvian financial sector in the
next few days,” he said.  While Latvia has “strong fundamentals” and should benefit
in the long term from adopting the euro, currency-union
membership may be less of a boon for deposit inflows in light of
the Cypriot bank plan, according to Mohammed Kazmi, a London-
based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Potential Russian depositors “will now think twice before
taking their money to Latvian banks,” he said by e-mail.  The Baltic nation’s economic overhaul stands it in good
stead to lure more Russian cash, according to Helenius.  “Joining the euro would make Latvia even more attractive
to Russians seeking a safe haven for their capital in a
politically stable and economically solid economy,” he said.
“I’m bullish on Latvia’s prospects and therefore see the
possibility of Latvian financial instruments outperforming
versus peers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  