-- Cyprus Loan Request Spurned by Russia in Moscow: Sarris
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-03-21T14:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cyprus-said-to-seek-about-5-billion-euro-russian-loan-in-moscow.html
Russia  rebuffed Cyprus’s request
for a bailout loan as the euro-area nation sought to salvage
talks in Moscow by wooing investment in its energy reserves.  Russia is unable to provide loans and will instead consider
making investments in the Cypriot energy industry, the island
nation’s Finance Minister Michael Sarris said today in an
interview broadcast on Antenna TV. Sarris said he will have a
later meeting with his Russian counterpart, Anton Siluanov.  Cyprus asked Russia for a loan of about 5 billion euros
($6.5 billion), according to three Russian officials. The island
nation offered energy and other assets in return, said one of
the three officials, who all declined to be identified because
the negotiations in Moscow that started yesterday are
confidential. The assets are offshore natural-gas fields, said a
second official. Cypriot government spokesman Christos
Stylianides didn’t immediately answer calls to his mobile phone.  The euro region’s third-smallest economy is trying to
overcome a deadlock after Cypriot lawmakers rejected an
unprecedented 5.8 billion-euro levy on bank deposits imposed by
euro-area finance ministers as a condition for a 10 billion-euro
rescue. Cyprus is offering Russia “opportunities,” including
in banking and natural gas, in return for financial assistance,
according to Sarris.  ‘Economic Sense’  “We are asking for help clearly, but something that would
make also economic sense for Russia,” Sarris told reporters.  The two sides discussed energy cooperation and the
prospects of Russian companies taking part in tenders for
offshore exploration rights in Cyprus during talks yesterday
between Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak and Cypriot
Commerce and Industry Minister George Lakkotrypis, according to
a statement e-mailed by the Russian ministry.  The negotiations will last until the end of the week,
Andrey Kostin, head of state-run VTB Group, Russia’s second-
largest bank, told reporters today. The European Central Bank
said it may cut Cypriot banks off from emergency funds after
March 25 unless an aid program from the euro area and
International Monetary Fund is in place.  A 5 billion-euro loan would be the same size as the credit
Cyprus requested in July from Russia, which also lent 2.5
billion euros to the island nation in December 2011. The Moscow-
based newspaper Vedomosti also reported today without citing
anyone that the country was seeking 5 billion euros.  Nothing New  Russia has been offered Cypriot assets, including offshore
gas resources, “but we didn’t hear anything particularly new,”
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said in an interview with
European media published today on the government’s website. The
gas fields are “a difficult issue” because of a territorial
dispute with  Turkey  and the complexity of estimating their
value, he said.  Cyprus says it has gas reserves of 60 trillion cubic feet.
That’s about 21 years of U.K. demand, according to BP Plc’s
statistical review. The country has so far given gas-exploration
licenses to Noble,  Total SA (FP)  and a venture of  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Korea
Gas Corp. (036460)   Some of the rights to offshore reserves are disputed by
Turkey, which invaded the northern part of the island in 1974
after a coup aimed at uniting it with  Greece . Turkey sent an
exploration vessel accompanied by warships and jets to stop
Cyprus drilling for oil and gas in 2011.  The proposed Cyprus bailout is “absurd” and “surprising
in its unpredictability and lack of consistency,” Medvedev said
at a conference in Moscow today. He met European Commission
President Jose Barroso today.  Russia wants to coordinate with the European Union on any
Cyprus agreement, rather than trying to strike a separate deal,
Vladimir Chizhov, the country’s ambassador to the 27-nation
bloc, said in an interview in Moscow today.  Russian companies and individuals have $31 billion of
deposits in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Services.
Including loans to companies registered in Cyprus, Russia’s
exposure is about $60 billion, Moody’s estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  