-- Cyprus May Become Europe’s Lehman, Billionaire Potanin Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-03-21T16:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cyprus-may-become-europe-s-lehman-billionaire-potanin-says.html
Cyprus is undermining trust in
European banks and can be likened to Lehman Brothers Inc., whose
collapse ignited the 2008 global economic crisis, Russian
billionaire Vladimir Potanin said.  “Very serious” levels of capital may be taken out of the
island nation, destroying the economy and hurting the European
Union, Potanin, chief executive officer of OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel, the world’s biggest producer of the metal, said in
Moscow today.  Cyprus is seeking to rescue its economy, the euro region’s
third-smallest, after local lawmakers rejected an unprecedented
5.8 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) levy on bank deposits demanded
by European finance ministers as a condition for a 10 billion-
euro aid package. Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris is in
Moscow this week to discuss a bailout with  Russia , the nation’s
biggest foreign investor.  “The situation in Cyprus kind of reminds me of the
situation with Lehman Brothers,” Potanin told reporters in the
Russian capital. Lehman, once the world’s fourth-largest
investment bank, filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
September 2008.  “Cyprus just messed up,” he said.  Russia has been offered Cypriot assets, including offshore
gas resources, as the country seeks about 5 billion euros of
financing, according to three Russian officials, who declined to
be identified because negotiations in Moscow are confidential.  Russian companies and individuals have an estimated $31
billion of wealth in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Cyprus Central Bank Governor Panicos Demetriades
estimates Russian deposits in the country’s banks amount to as
much as 10.2 billion euros, according to an interview published
today in Moscow’s Vedomosti newspaper.  “The fact that this issue was discussed in this way is
what people will remember,” Potanin said. “Investors remember
what can happen to their money in a second, depositors
understood what their banks may do when the government needs to
cut its budget deficit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  