-- Cyprus Savior Should Be Turkey Not Russia, Standard Bank Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-21T10:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cyprus-savior-should-be-turkey-not-russia-standard-bank-says.html
The financial  crisis in Cyprus  is
an historic opportunity for  Turkey  to win peace and bolster its
European Union accession bid by offering a bailout,  Standard
Bank  Group’s chief emerging-market economist said.  Turkey, which occupies northern Cyprus, should offer aid in
return for an agreement to the terms of the 2004 Annan peace
plan for unification of the island, Tim Ash wrote in a report
today. The plan, named after former United Nations Secretary-
General  Kofi Annan , would create a federation of two states and
was approved by Turkish Cypriots in a referendum in 2004. It was
scrapped after rejection by Greek Cypriots.  The European Union and  Russia  are “both seeking to extract
a pound of flesh for any bailout,” and Cypriots may be better
off going to Turkey, Ash wrote. A deal would allow Turkey to
“save a very big chunk of the substantial aid -- and
significant military spending -- flows it pumps into northern
Cyprus each year, and the north would instead find itself open
to EU structural fund flows,” Ash said.  Cyprus has been divided since Turkey invaded the northern
third of the island in 1974 to stop an attempted coup seeking to
unify the island with  Greece . Cyprus joined the EU in 2004,
represented by the internationally recognized Greek Cypriot
government in the south. The dispute has been a stumbling block
in Turkey’s EU talks.  Turkish aid would “send a clear message to some of its
foes in core continental  Europe  that Turkey has indeed matured
and is worthy of a place at the heart of Europe,” Ash said.  The bailout cost at 7 billion euros ($9 billion) would be
“relatively small change” for Turkey, equivalent to a little
over 1 percent of GDP, and would be repaid by a “peace
dividend,” progress on EU accession and potential energy
dividends from Mediterranean exploration, Ash said.  Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris, who is in Moscow
today negotiating aid, should be told “he is in the wrong
capital,” Ash said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  