-- Cyprus’s Three-Way Game of Chicken
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-21T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/cyprus-s-three-way-game-of-chicken.html
Europe’s handling of a bailout for
Cyprus is looking more chaotic by the minute. Negotiations have
descended into a three-way game of chicken among the island
nation, Russia and the euro area’s leaders.  The initial plan to make insured depositors pay for part of
the bailout was terrible. The Cypriot parliament rejected it,
and now the  European Central Bank  has set a deadline of March
25, warning that unless a new deal is reached it will pull the
plug on the funding that’s keeping Cyprus’s banking system
alive.  What’s amazing about this fiasco is that Europe’s leaders
had almost a year to think about how to avoid it. Ever since
 Greece  restructured its government debt, which made up a large
share of Cypriot banks’ investments, it has been apparent that
the banks would need a major recapitalization. With some
preparation, Cyprus could have offered an excellent test of a
euro-area banking union, in which the ECB would step in, force
losses on the Cypriot banks’ creditors and quickly reopen the
banks under new ownership.  As things stand,  Europe  is facing two extremely undesirable
outcomes. Cyprus could fail to respond to the ECB’s ultimatum,
triggering a banking collapse, an exit from the euro and all the
unknowns of contagion that implies. Alternatively, Russia could
produce most of the 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) Cyprus
needs to secure a bailout, and in exchange get a chunk of the
country’s natural gas reserves and significant influence over a
member state of the European Union.  If Cypriot banks are allowed to fail, the financial health
of the entire euro area will be put at risk over the
insignificant sum of 7 billion euros -- the difference between
the 10 billion euros that the euro area is willing to lend and
the 17 billion Cyprus needs. A deal with  Russia ’s state gas
monopoly OAO Gazprom would potentially undermine years of
efforts by the European Union to cut its energy dependence on
Russia.  Russia, a reluctant player, is being asked to provide about
5 billion euros in exchange for rights to explore Cypriot
waters. Cyprus says it has 60 trillion cubic meters of gas
reserves, but they are uncertain and subject to legal challenge
by  Turkey .  Russian leaders also feel blindsided. Euro-area leaders
have for months been trying to persuade them to provide more of
the bailout than the 2.5 billion euros they already lent to
Cyprus. The proposed raid on Cypriot deposits would in effect
seize the money that leaders in Moscow refused to give.  Letting Cyprus fail would have significant potential costs
for Russia, too. Moody’s Investors Service estimates Russian
exposure on the island to be about $60 billion, $31 billion of
which is in  bank deposits . That money would probably be frozen,
and an important cog in the functioning of many Russian
companies would stop turning.  The best available solution remains a bank restructuring
that puts most of the burden on uninsured -- largely Russian --
depositors, who might lose 15 percent to 20 percent of their
balances. The best way to get a deal would be for all three
parties to negotiate it together. It might also make sense to
involve Turkey and the occupied north of Cyprus. Both have a
financial interest in moving toward reunification, as well as in
gas deposits around the island.  The wider lesson is that Cyprus and the other euro-area
countries wouldn’t be in this position had they moved more
quickly to put in place a banking union and other mechanisms to
fix the euro area’s design flaws. Until they do, the currency
zone will remain vulnerable to crises in even the smallest and
most financially insignificant of its member countries.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 