-- Danske Bank Fires Finance Executive as Division Shifts Focus
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-21T15:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/danske-bank-fires-finance-executive-as-division-shifts-focus.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said it fired the
head of corporate finance in  Denmark  after deciding he wouldn’t
fit in with the lender’s plans to provide clients with a more
complete palette of offerings designed to raise returns.  Danske is shifting its focus away from “selling products
one by one” to providing broader strategic advice after finding
customers weren’t satisfied with the old approach, Mikael Ericson, head of capital markets, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions today. The decision to fire Anders Boending and four
other executives follows that shift, he said.  “We want to ensure that our clients have the capital
structure that best enables them to reach their strategic goals,
regardless of whether that is best done with equity, bonds or
loans,” Ericson said.  Danske has told investors it will boost return on equity
more than threefold by the end of 2015 in part by generating
more income in its corporate and institutional division. Danske
trailed  Sweden ’s Nordea Bank AB in underwriting Danish non-
financial company debt last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Danish business newspaper Borsen reported
Boending’s firing earlier today.  “It is our clear ambition to be a leading corporate
finance entity in Denmark, and we believe our strategy is a
roadmap for becoming so again,” Ericson said. Corporate finance
will report directly to him, he said.  “If we make staff additions, it won’t be like-for-like
replacements,” Ericson said. “Corporate finance is important
for us for strategic reasons as it is a channel for high-level
strategic dialogue with the clients.”  Danske last year had a return on equity of 3.7 percent,
after tax. The Copenhagen-based bank has said it will raise that
to more than 12 percent in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  