-- De Blasio’s NYC Mayoral Hopes Rest on Taxing Rich for School
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-21T16:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/de-blasio-s-nyc-mayoral-hopes-rest-on-taxing-rich-for-preschool.html
Bill de Blasio says a defining
moment in his campaign to become  New York ’s next mayor was when
he told a roomful of corporate leaders they should pay higher
taxes to fund preschool programs for all city children.  Their response ranged from silence to outright protest.  The Oct. 4 speech to the  Association for a Better New York ,
a group of business executives, was akin to “going into the
lion’s den,” said de Blasio, the city’s elected public
advocate. He said increasing the marginal  tax rate  to 4.3
percent from 3.9 percent on income above $500,000 would cost an
average $2,000 for those taxpayers while raising $532 million to
pay for the program as well as after-school activities.  “I always reference that moment because I want to show I
say the same thing in front of wealthy, powerful folks as I’ll
tell parents in the South Bronx,” he said in an interview. “I
wanted to show decency and courage to go before a group who
wouldn’t like it and tell them, ‘This is what I think we need
for the good of the city.’”  It’s also a political calculation. De Blasio, 51, a veteran
strategist who managed  Hillary Clinton ’s victorious 2000 U.S.
Senate campaign, is trying to stand out in a five-way Democratic
primary to succeed Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , a race in which each
candidate is a self-described “progressive.” At stake is
leadership of the most-populous U.S. city and the nation’s
biggest school system, with 1.1 million students.  ‘True Progressive’  Just how de Blasio will position himself won’t be revealed
until the campaign gets closer to the Sept. 10 primary, said his
media adviser, John Del Cecato, a partner in AKPD Message and
Media, which was founded by political strategist  David Axelrod ,
a top adviser to President  Barack Obama .  De Blasio, whose $165,000-a-year position as the city
watchdog makes him first in line to succeed the mayor, is “the
true progressive in the race,” Del Cecato said. He will tap
into “populist feelings emerging around the country focusing on
schools, assuring a living wage, protecting small businesses --
issues appealing to people who feel  City Hall  isn’t listening to
them,” Del Cecato said.  De Blasio has shown he can win votes citywide. In the 2009
race for public advocate, he won a primary runoff against former
mayoral candidate and consumer advocate Mark Green with more
than 62 percent of the vote. In the general election, he
defeated Republican Alex Zablocki with 77 percent of the vote.
De Blasio’s vote total of 672,383 outpolled Bloomberg’s by more
than 115,000.  Third Place  Yet this year, he finished third in a Feb. 14  Marist
College poll  of the mayor’s race, receiving 12 percent support
among registered Democrats, with 32 percent saying they didn’t
know enough about him to form an opinion. City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn, who has led in all the polls so far, had 37
percent. She needs 40 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff with
the second-place finisher.  Born Warren Wilhelm Jr., de Blasio took his mother’s maiden
name later in life. His parents separated when he was 6. His
father, a  management consultant  who lost a leg in combat on
Okinawa in World War II, descended into alcoholism and died when
de Blasio was 18.  “I have some early memories of an intact family that sadly
deteriorated,” de Blasio said. “It’s very tough to say that in
my older years he was only drunk when I saw him at family
gatherings.”  De Blasio came to the city from Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
to attend  New York University , and later Columbia University’s
School of International and Public Affairs. He’s been a  New
Yorker  ever since.  ‘The Underdog’  His early family life is “fundamental to who I am,” he
said. “Brought up in a single-parent family, maybe there’s an
understanding you get for the underdog, for those who aren’t so
privileged.”  His childhood experiences contrast with the life he
describes himself living now, in an interracial marriage with
his wife Chirlane, their teenage son, Dante, and daughter,
Chiara. The entire family participated in de Blasio’s Jan. 27
campaign announcement in front of the row house in Park Slope,
 Brooklyn , where they live.  The announcement came about a month after the political
website politicker.com unearthed a 1979  article  de Blasio’s wife
had written for Essence Magazine before she met de Blasio,
titled “I am a Lesbian.” She wrote: “I’m glad I discovered my
preference for women early, before getting locked into a
traditional marriage and having children.”  Unconventional Field  In a race that includes a candidate, Quinn, who celebrated
a nationally publicized marriage to another woman last year; the
first Asian elected to citywide office; and a candidate with
Caribbean roots seeking to become New York’s second black mayor,
de Blasio’s unconventional family history will probably help
him, said  William Cunningham , a senior adviser to former U.S.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Governor Hugh Carey and Mayor
Bloomberg.  “Anyone who tries to make it an issue will look like a
jerk because it has nothing to do with the job of mayor,”
Cunningham said. “His family, how he grew up, he won’t be typed
as some throwback to a chauvinistic white guy.”  To win the primary, “he’s going to have to work hard to
separate himself from the pack and tie Quinn to the mayor, whose
policies may not be so popular among Democratic voters,” said
 Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist Poll.  De Blasio has pursued that strategy, attacking Quinn for
not supporting a bill that would guarantee workers at least a
few days of paid sick leave. Quinn has blocked the measure from
coming to a vote, saying it would harm the city’s economic
recovery.  Quinn’s Alliance  He also reminds voters that Quinn backed the mayor, a
Republican-turned-independent, and enabled him to win a City
Council vote in 2009 permitting Bloomberg and all term-limited
council members to run for a third term. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “I think he lost his moral authority when he proposed the
term-limit change to benefit himself,” de Blasio said. “My
central thesis is she had made her alliance with Bloomberg and
it was a requirement of that alliance to let this happen for
him.”  Although opinion polls showed voters overwhelmingly
opposed to the law change, Bloomberg won the 2009 election by
more than 4 percentage points over Comptroller  William Thompson ,
the Democratic candidate.  ‘Ill-Gotten Gains’  De Blasio describes Bloomberg’s third term in office as
“ill-gotten gains,” yet he’s the only Democratic candidate who
backs the mayor’s proposed 16-ounce serving size limit on
restaurant sales of sugared drinks, which was struck down in
court. The city is appealing the decision.  He has also praised the mayor for attracting  Cornell
University  and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology into
a partnership to build a $2 billion applied sciences graduate
school on Roosevelt Island. The project may create hundreds of
businesses, thousands of jobs and more than $1 billion in  tax
revenue  over the next 20 years, the mayor has said.  Cunningham says it’s all part of a political equation in
which Quinn, who’s been so closely allied with Bloomberg, must
try to demonstrate her independence from the incumbent mayor,
while de Blasio would benefit by showing he’s not against
everything Bloomberg has done.  “The challenge for Quinn is to show how she’s not the
mayor, and de Blasio is the opposite,” Cunningham said.
“Everyone knows he’s not like the mayor, so he has to step up
and say something good about him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  