-- Deadly Leukemia Tamed by Novel Immune System Gene Therapy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-21T02:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/deadly-leukemia-tamed-by-novel-immune-system-gene-therapy.html
Genetically engineering a person’s
immune system cells to recognize an aggressive form of leukemia
led to remissions in five patients, including one whose cancer
was wiped out in just eight days, researchers said.  Acute lymphoblastic leukemia , which can kill in weeks when
left untreated in adults, appears vulnerable to manipulation of
the immune system, a study in the journal Science Translational
Medicine found. Previous research found a similar approach could
lead to remission in the slower-moving chronic lymphocytic
leukemia, even in those who had failed other treatments.  Patients with relapsed acute leukemia have a “dismal”
prognosis, with long-term survival only in a few who respond to
chemotherapy and complete a stem cell transplant, researchers
said. The  findings , released yesterday, have implications for
patients battling leukemia now and may offer powerful new ways
to combat more common tumors like lung and breast cancer in the
future, said  Renier Brentjen , an oncologist at Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center in  New York .  “This gives us something to offer patients when previously
there was nothing,” he said in a telephone interview. “Their
illness was for all intents and purposes terminal. You have a
disease that has a very bad prognosis, but we have a new
therapeutic entity that may enhance long-term survival.”  The researchers took T-cells from the patient’s own immune
systems, which are supposed to recognize and fight infection,
and programmed them to detect an antigen found only on healthy
and cancerous B cells. Brentjen described the approach as
“forcefully re-educating” the immune system to recognize and
destroy cancer cells.  New Targets  The findings should encourage researchers to expand the
approach to other malignancies, though it may take some time to
find suitable targets for the immune system, he said.  Two patients with the most cancer experienced a so-called
“ cytokine storm ,” with high fevers and plummeting  blood
pressure  that led to monitoring in the intensive care unit. The
others had relatively few symptoms, and were sent home two days
after the new immune system cells were infused, Brentjen said.
The findings suggest the approach may work best early in the
disease, when there is little tumor present, he said.  “This is a new drug,” he said. “It’s a living drug, but
it’s a new drug. As with any new drug, you have to first show
that it works. Then you have to find out how it works best.”  One of the patients in the study relapsed and subsequently
died, while the others went on to receive bone marrow
transplants and showed no signs of cancer. A second patient died
from a suspected blood clot in the lungs while in remission.  Timing Critical  Future studies will determine whether it should be given to
patients before other therapies and whether patients, like those
in the trial, will need  bone marrow transplants  to rebuild their
immune systems or if they can skip the toxic treatment. More
work is also needed to see if the destruction of healthy B cells
caused by the treatment leads to a weakened immune system and
future infections. Those long-term side effects could be
addressed with existing treatments, Brentjen said.  The approach is similar to that used at the  University of
Pennsylvania  in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
though the researchers used different viruses to deliver the
genetically engineered cells and a slightly different method.
The two centers are collaborating on a follow-on study in
patients with chronic leukemia to see which is best.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  acquired the University of Pennsylvania’s
technology as part of a $20 million pact to fund a research
center at the school last summer. Brentjen said his group will
also need sponsors to finance bigger studies needed for U.S.
regulatory approval of the approach.  “Hopefully the interest that this paper creates will be
enough to get outside investors involved,” he said. “We could
keep doing small trials, but it would never been enough to
persuade the  Food and Drug Administration  to approve these
drugs. If we need to license our intellectual property, then
that’s what we will do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  