-- Death Sentence Upheld for Man Behind India’s Deadliest Attack
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-21T06:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/death-sentence-upheld-for-man-behind-india-s-deadliest-attack.html
India ’s top court upheld the death
sentence awarded to a man accused of carrying out serial
bombings in Mumbai that killed 257 people two decades ago, the
deadliest terrorist attack in the nation’s history.  After a trial and appeals that have lasted more than 17
years, a panel of  Supreme Court  judges reduced the punishment
for 10 men to  life imprisonment  after a lower court gave them
the death penalty. The court also rejected Bollywood film actor
Sanjay Dutt’s appeal against a conviction for illegally
possessing fire arms tied to the attack, and gave him a five-
year prison term.  “We have no doubt on the guilt of the convicts” from
“the meticulous examination of confessional statements and
evidence produced by the prosecution,” said a two-judge panel
of P. Sathasivam and B.S. Chauhan.  More than 100 people are accused of planning, funding or
planting the 13 bombs that ripped through India’s financial
capital, including the Bombay Stock Exchange and  Air India ’s
headquarters, in March 1993. The attack, called Black Friday by
India’s media, left more than 700 injured.  The bombings were seen as a reaction to the demolition of
the Babri Masjid, a 16th-century mosque in the northern holy
city of Ayodhya, by Hindu fundamentalists on Dec. 6, 1992, and
subsequent riots that killed more than 1,500 people across the
country. The  Supreme Court  upheld the death sentence awarded to
Yakub Abdul Memon, who the judges said was the main conspirator
and manager of the funds used to carry out the attack.  Legal System  The probe into the blasts, which occurred two weeks after
the bombing of  New York ’s World Trade Center in 1993, highlights
the hurdles India faces in clearing its backlog of criminal
cases. While the U.S. court delivered its first verdict 15
months after the February 1993 blast, this case is still
dragging through India’s legal system.  The men can now seek a top court review of the case and
appeal to President  Pranab Mukherjee  for clemency.  Three of the main accused are still at large. India’s
Central Bureau of Investigation says Tiger Memon, Yakub’s
brother, along with associate and underworld don Dawood Ibrahim
and Mohammad Dossa, conspired to  plant the bombs . India has
accused  Pakistan  of sheltering Ibrahim, a charge that the
neighboring South Asian country has denied.  Dutt, the star of movies including Lage Raho Munnabhai, was
found guilty in July 2007 of illegally possessing three AK-56
rifles, ammunition, magazines, a 9-mm pistol and cartridges
during the 1993 Mumbai blasts case. After being sentenced to six
years in jail, he was granted bail by the Supreme Court pending
appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  