-- Virgin-Delta Air Venture to Stand Alone With No SkyTeam Link
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-21T15:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/delta-says-virgin-venture-will-stand-alone-with-no-skyteam-link.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  said its new
partner Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. doesn’t plan to join the
SkyTeam group and that their joint venture will remain separate
from that between the U.S. company and  Air France-KLM Group. (AF)   Virgin said Dec. 11 it was looking at joining SkyTeam and
might reach a decision in a matter of months after Delta bought
49 percent of its stock. Alliance membership helps carriers
boost marketing efforts through joint ticket sales, shared
lounge access and the combination of frequent-flier programs.  Delta and Virgin are working with regulators on both sides
of the Atlantic and anticipate that approvals for their venture
will be received later this year, possibly in the fall, with the
cost- and revenue-sharing pact to be activated immediately after
that, said Ed Bastian, the Atlanta-based company’s president.  “At some point down the road SkyTeam will come up, and I’m
certain that over time it will be viewed favorably, but right
now that’s not the priority,” Bastian said today. “Their main
priority is addressing their financial needs in respect of the
losses they’ve been posting and getting the JV up and running.”  Delta paid  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  $360 million for the
Virgin stake and needs antitrust immunity to coordinate pricing
and schedules on 31 daily trans-Atlantic flights. Bastian said
that while the application includes coordinated timetabling with
Air France-KLM and Rome-based Alitalia SpA, Delta will have two
separate joint ventures for the U.K. and continental  Europe .  Heathrow Boost  “We’ve made the investment in Virgin Atlantic so it’s not
anticipated that it would ever be enlarged,” Bastian said at a
press briefing in London. “There is a lot going on with respect
to putting together the JV and that’s where their focus is.”  The Virgin deal gives Delta a bigger platform at London
Heathrow airport, Europe’s busiest and the home base for  British
Airways (IAG) , the top carrier in North Atlantic corporate travel.  The airlines will control about 25 percent of the U.S.-U.K.
market, compared with the 60 percent share held by BA and
 American Airlines , which already have antitrust immunity, Delta
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in December.  By linking with Virgin, Delta is targeting North Atlantic
flights that generate roughly one-quarter of all global revenue
from premium fares, more than twice as much as Pacific routes,
according to International Air Transport Association figures.  “There have been a lot of questions as to whether the
Virgin Atlantic brand will stay in the market,” Bastian said.
“Rest assured it is staying in the market. There is no question
about that.”  ‘No Secret’  Delta and Virgin both offer forward-facing, flat-bed seats
with direct aisle access, and thus a consistent premium product,
Bastian said, in contrast with BA and American.  For Virgin, still majority-owned by U.K. billionaire
 Richard Branson , the Delta deal marked the end of a go-it-alone
strategy for a carrier squeezed by high fuel prices, a sluggish
economy and increased competition as rivals consolidate.  Virgin has imposed a salary freeze and has delayed adding
bigger planes while cutting unprofitable routes to destinations
including Nairobi in  Kenya , and Kingston,  Jamaica . Its loss
widened to 135 million pounds ($203 million) in the year to Feb.
28 from 80.2 million pounds a year earlier, the Sunday Times
reported March 10, citing an internal company memo.  “We were fully aware of the current-year losses,” Bastian
said. “Virgin’s had a difficult couple years, that’s no secret.
One of the things that’s dramatically different between us and
 Singapore  is the relevance in the market place. There are many
more commercial opportunities that we will be able to produce.”  While Bastian said that “at some point in time  SkyTeam  will
need to show Virgin why it’s important to join the alliance,” he
added that one-to-one joint ventures have become a focus for
carriers seeking a deeper level of cooperation on key routes.  “The alliances have a lot of substance so I don’t predict
you’re going to wake up one morning and find them imploding, but
alliances have to prove their worth,” he said. “Delta’s approach
has been to create really strong bilateral relationships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  