-- Deutsche Bank, Goldman Miss $129 Million Fee in Evonik IPO Snub
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/deutsche-bank-goldman-miss-129-million-fee-in-evonik-ipo-snub.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  are among a group of banks that lost out on about 100
million euros ($129 million) in fees after  Germany ’s Evonik
Industries AG ditched an initial public offering in favor of a
private placement, said people familiar with the matter.  The decision by owners CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and RAG
Stiftung to sell shares directly to institutional investors last
week with the help of local brokerage MainFirst Bank AG came
after three failed IPOs in five years. Evonik had sought to
raise as much as 4 billion euros in last year’s attempt, led by
Deutsche Bank and Goldman, according to one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks were private.  Evonik’s move was an unexpected blow to the IPO advisers,
which had counted on the sale being revived and ultimately
getting paid for the work they had done preparing for the last
offering, these people said. It also highlights a new threat to
bulge-bracket banks struggling to boost fees in an IPO market
coming off its worst year since 2009. The Evonik sale would have
been Germany’s biggest IPO in more than a decade.  “This is something investment banks may be concerned about
because other intermediaries are competing with their
business,” said Martin Steinbach, the Frankfurt-based IPO
leader for  Europe ,  Middle East ,  India ,  Africa , at Ernst & Young.  Evonik announced on March 12 that its owners sold a 12
percent stake to institutional investors. The deal may value the
company at about 14 billion euros, a person familiar with the
matter said. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP advised
the institutions buying the shares. None of the IPO advisers
were involved in the transaction.  ‘Painful Lesson’  “We have learned a painful lesson on the topic of IPOs,”
Evonik Chief Executive Officer Klaus Engel told reporters last
week in Essen, Germany, where the company is based. Engel cited
the four-to-six month IPO preparation process as one of the
reasons why its three attempts were derailed.  MainFirst, a Frankfurt-based brokerage with 200 employees
that specializes in selling European equities to institutional
investors, reached out to Evonik’s owners soon after they
abandoned the last IPO attempt in June, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The bank suggested a private placement that would allow the
owners more control over pricing and reduce risk, the person
said. By the end of February it had lined up a first group of
investors and had a second group less than a month later,
according to the person.  The share placement will probably pave the way for a public
listing on the Frankfurt stock exchange at the end of April,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Fee Fall  For Evonik’s owners, using MainFirst was not only more
efficient, it was cheaper. The firm will earn a fraction of the
estimated 100 million euros, or 2.5 percent of the IPO proceeds,
that Evonik would have paid to Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse Group AG and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to people familiar with the
matter.  Spokesmen at Goldman, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Credit
Suisse, Deutsche Bank and MainFirst declined to comment.  IPO fees in Europe fell by almost two-thirds to $351
million in 2012, mirroring a similar decline in volumes as
concern about the region’s sovereign debt crisis curbed investor
appetite for new shares. IPOs are among the most lucrative
advisory businesses for banks.  Evonik’s route to the stock market could be an alternative
for large companies like Evonik that are already known to
investors, Ernst & Young’s Steinbach said.  “This clearly adds to the arsenal of alternatives for
companies that want to list,” said Stephan Hutter, a partner at
Skadden who led the transaction. “The uniqueness of the
transaction is also that the owners didn’t retain the services
of the traditional investment banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  