-- Discount Drug Plans May Not Be Saving Medicare Money
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/discount-drug-plans-for-may-not-be-saving-medicare-money.html
Preferred-pharmacy plans that
promise lower prices for people who agree to buy their
 prescription drugs  from certain stores may be costing the U.S.
Medicare program more money to support, pharmacists said.  While Medicare patients get reduced co-payments in the
plans, offered by companies including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) 
and  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the insurers are shifting the burden of those
discounts onto the federal government, according to an analysis
today by the National Community Pharmacists Association. The
agency that runs Medicare told insurers in a Feb. 15  letter  that
it has begun to scrutinize the costs of preferred pharmacies.  Medicare, which provides health coverage for the elderly
and disabled, has been trying to reduce excess costs, with
government audits this year uncovering $5.1 billion in
overpayments to insurers and a similar amount spent on
inadequate nursing home services. Preferred pharmacies in one
UnitedHealth plan may cost as much as 10 percent more than other
stores, the community pharmacists group said.  “These patients are giving up their choice of pharmacy and
yet the overall costs are not any lower,” B. Douglas Hoey, the
Alexandria, Virginia-based association’s chief executive
officer, said by telephone. The question of whether the plans
shift costs to taxpayers “needs to be investigated,” he said.  Four drugs commonly used by seniors, including generic
versions of the cholesterol medicine Lipitor, cost Medicare
about 9 percent to 10 percent more when customers used
pharmacies in UnitedHealth’s AARP Medicare Rx Preferred plan
than at non-preferred stores, according to Hoey’s analysis. His
group said it’s raising the issue because independent pharmacies
are typically shut out of preferred-store contracts as insurers
rely on larger chains such as  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)   UnitedHealth Response  Medicare spent $67 billion in 2011 on its prescription drug
benefit, known as Part D, according to the most recent report
from the program’s trustees. About 38 million people are
expected to enroll in the drug plans this year.  UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S. medical insurer, said it
meets regularly with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services and the issue of pharmacy costs hasn’t been raised. The
community pharmacists’ analysis “is not a complete, fair or
accurate representation of the value that our preferred pharmacy
network offers,” the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company said
in a statement e-mailed by Sarah Bearce, a spokeswoman.  “Our preferred pharmacy network complies with regulatory
requirements for preferred networks, including offering lower
cost-sharing to our members and lower aggregate drug costs to
the federal government,” the company said.  Humana, the second-biggest private Medicare insurer, uses
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  as a preferred pharmacy. Alex Kepnes, a
spokesman for Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana, said the
company wouldn’t comment on the report.  Price Discrepancies  In last month’s letter to Medicare drug plan providers, the
agency, known as CMS, said “we are concerned because our
initial results suggest that aggregate unit costs weighted by
utilization (for the top 25 brand and top 25 generic drugs) may
be higher in preferred networks than in non-preferred networks
in some plans.” It didn’t name any companies.  Such price discrepancies, if found to be accurate, may
violate a CMS requirement that discount programs not increase
total payments from Medicare to the insurers.  Ideally, preferred-pharmacy networks should reduce drug
costs for Medicare beneficiaries and taxpayers, said  Dan Mendelson , the CEO of Avalere Health, a Washington-based
consulting company. Tiered cost-sharing should steer patients to
the lowest-cost options, he said by phone.  If the preferred pharmacies don’t save Medicare any money,
“that’s counter to the theory,” he said.  Lawmaker’s Inquiry  U.S. Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, wrote
Medicare’s acting administrator,  Marilyn Tavenner , on Feb. 25
asking her to make sure the plans are “accurately marketed” to
Medicare beneficiaries and that preferred pharmacies aren’t more
costly.  “I have heard concerns that not all preferred pharmacy
prices are better than non-preferred pharmacy prices,” Moran
wrote.  In  Montana , for example, Hoey’s pharmacists group found
that generic Lipitor, generic Plavix, diovan and Nexium together
cost $359.38 per month through UnitedHealth’s AARP Medicare Rx
Preferred plan at a Walgreen preferred pharmacy in Helena. The
same drugs cost $327.73 at the independent Anderson Family
Pharmacy in Great Falls. Hoey said his group relied on data from
Medicare’s website.  AARP Members  AARP, the largest advocacy group in the country for people
ages 50 and older, earned about $458 million in 2011 from
UnitedHealth in exchange for using its brand on Medicare plans.
AARP’s policy and advocacy arm, which operates independently of
the for-profit division that contracts with UnitedHealth, hasn’t
taken a position on whether drug plans with preferred pharmacies
are better for Medicare beneficiaries or taxpayers, said Leigh
Purvis, a policy analyst for the Washington-based organization.  “There’s so little information at this point we’re not
really sure whether access or costs are going to become
issues,” she said in a phone interview. “If it’s done properly
and there are no additional costs to the Medicare program, and
it does result in savings for grandma and grandpa, that is
something we could get behind. If it’s not resulting in savings
for the program itself, that’s where it starts raising some
questions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  