-- Dubai Banks Raised at EFG as Prices ‘Attractive’ Amid Recovery
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-21T09:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/dubai-banks-raised-at-efg-as-prices-attractive-amid-recovery.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the biggest
United Arab Emirates bank, was raised to buy from neutral at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, which cited attractive valuations
boosted by a supportive economic backdrop in Dubai.  Emirates NBD’s price estimate was raised to 5 dirhams,
implying a 27 percent increase based on yesterday’s closing
price.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the country’s largest Islamic
lender, was also raised to buy with a price target of 2.8
dirhams, up from 2.1 dirhams. Emirates NBD shares rose 1 percent
to 3.99 dirhams at 12:40 p.m. in Dubai. Dubai Islamic shares
were unchanged at 2.07 dirhams.  “Dubai banks are attractively priced in both a historical
and regional context,” Dubai-based Shabbir Malik and Riyadh-
based Murad Ansari said in an e-mailed note today. “Dubai
remains committed to maintaining the economy’s growth momentum
going forward, which we believe is positive for Dubai banks.”  U.A.E. banks are showing signs of recovery after the global
credit crisis weakened lending, crimped  investment banking  and
spurred loan defaults. Emirates NBD’s  fourth-quarter profit  more
than tripled while Dubai Islamic’s  rose 85 percent.  Emirates NBD
trades at a  price-to-book value  of 0.6 times and Dubai Islamic
at  0.8 times,  compared with 1.4 times for the  Bloomberg GCC
Financial Index. (BGCCFINL)   Spending Binge  The government is projecting economic growth for Dubai,
which went on a spending binge to turn itself into the Persian
Gulf business hub before the global credit crisis, of 4 percent
this year. Dubai officials announced plans for mega projects in
November, including a district featuring the world’s biggest
shopping center, as the emirate is set to benefit from a rebound
in property prices.  Banks in the U.A.E., including Emirates NBD, have asked the
central bank for permission to free up more funds for the real
estate and construction industries as they seek to revive credit
growth. Emirates NBD shares have rallied 40 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 3 percent for Dubai Islamic and
outpacing an advance of 17 percent for the  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   Three analysts , excluding EFG, recommend investors buy the
shares of Emirates NBD, while three have a hold rating and one
says sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One analyst
recommends  buying Dubai Islamic , while one says hold the shares
and three say sell.  Commercial Bank of Dubai PSC , whose stock has rallied 28
percent this year, had its price estimate raised 35 percent to
4.2 dirhams at EFG. The investment bank maintained its hold
recommendation on the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  