-- The Republicans’ Self-Defeating War on Eyeshades
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-03-21T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/the-republicans-self-defeating-war-on-eyeshades.html
What’s with the green eyeshades?  “I can’t tell you how tired I am of Republicans who are
green-eyeshade accountants,” former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
told  Newsmax TV  last weekend. Representative  Paul Ryan ’s “new
budget road map is more vision than green-eyeshade exercise,”
Larry Kudlow wrote March 15 at  National Review Online , using
Kudlow code to suggest that the House Budget Committee chairman
has a political future.  “If Paul Ryan wanted to dispel his image as a green-
eyeshade guy obsessed with deficits, he came to CPAC with the
wrong speech,” Howard Kurtz wrote in the Daily Beast, his
way of saying that keeping Ryan will hurt the  Republican Party .  The “green eyeshade” refers to the tinted celluloid visor
worn by accountants and other desk men in the days of rubber
cement and cigarettes, the kind of people depicted in vintage
Ronald Reagan movies. It’s an odd choice of image. Few young
voters, even accountants, know what eyeshades are. Gingrich
might as well have said: “Bring me my pica pole.”  But the image’s widespread use can’t be a total mistake.
Politicians think hard about the words they choose. The
popularity of an expired metaphor among Republican leaders
betrays a flaw in the party of Reagan that could prove costly to
its future.  Reagan Era  To understand, it helps to go back to the last time the
Republicans were dropping the phrase a lot: the early years of
Reagan’s presidency. Voters elected him for his optimism and the
way he moved past niggling technicians to bring about necessary
changes. The Reagan idea was that the U.S. could outgrow its
 economic troubles  if its leaders could ignore bureaucratic
budget advisers.  The early years of the first Reagan term proved difficult,
with less growth and more budgetary shortfalls than the party
had predicted in 1980.  David Stockman , the director of the
Office of Management and Budget under Reagan, was claiming that
budgets had to be balanced before tax rates could be cut.
Republican leaders turned on Stockman as a green eyeshade who
was getting in the way of the Reagan Revolution, and who was
keeping the country in the dark of worry when it ought to be, as
in the 1984 campaign slogan, “Morning in America.”  Reagan’s re-election in 1984 permitted a  tax cut  in 1986,
and the Republicans declared victory; overall, growth under
Reagan was  stronger  than under  Jimmy Carter . Renouncing the
green eyeshade became a Republican rite of passage, code for
allegiance to Reaganomics.  In the 1980s and even the ’90s, the disparagements of
budgeting seemed warranted. The federal commitments on
entitlements were smaller. Federal debt as a share of the
economy was in the 40 percent to 50 percent range, and the U.S.
had sustained 60 percent seemingly comfortably in the 1950s.
Government debt could get in the way of growth, economists
believed, but only at higher levels. As  Carmen Reinhart  and
 Kenneth Rogoff  would later  show , debt of more than 90 percent of
the economy impedes long-term growth.  The case for de-emphasizing budgeting is harder to make
today. If Reagan, or succeeding presidents, can be faulted, it
is for allowing  deficits  to widen and debt to increase, and
failing to rewrite entitlements. Now, U.S. annual deficits are
large and the gross federal debt has passed that 90 percent of
GDP threshold.  Growing Entitlements  Entitlements seem to grow with prosperity; not only because
they are indexed to inflation or GDP but also because a
prosperous country tells itself it can afford more benefits.
This decade, the federal government does need to budget. Even
the energy sector, which is currently strengthening the  U.S.
economy , cannot offset the shortfalls caused by obligations such
as Medicare or Medicaid. As the population ages, a narrower
share of voters will be available to subsidize entitlements.  The Republicans’ reflex to reach back for an old metaphor
reveals their unwillingness to acknowledge the crucial
distinction between Reagan’s decade and this one. It also
reflects political judgment: Green-eyeshade types aren’t always
lovable, and are known more for their independence than their
warmth. They even turn on one another. Stockman, for example,
recently assailed Ryan with the  charge  that the congressman’s
work was “devoid of credible math,” the ultimate green-eyeshade
insult. Republicans tell themselves green eyeshades cannot win
elections, and hold up the loss of the Mitt Romney-Ryan ticket
as evidence.  But some of us think there should have been more green
eyeshade in the last election, and less cheery Reaganism. Party
strategists tried so hard to humanize the ticket’s eyeshade
wearer, Ryan, that he ended up looking like an investment
banker. That’s not who he is, and it isn’t attractive.  What’s more, there may come a time, especially when
 interest rates  go up, or the U.S. credit rating bumps down, when
voters will seek leaders who will focus on the numbers. They
will want budgeteers, metrics men or ladies. By then, however,
Republicans may have moved so far from the bookkeeper image that
their position will be indistinguishable from that of Democrats.  Rather than look back, the party should look ahead to
examine the shortfalls in entitlements, so much more glaring
than either party acknowledges. To handle this bright,
terrifying sight, it may even help to don eyeshades.  (Amity Shlaes, director of the Bush Center Four Percent
Growth Project, is the author of “Coolidge,” published by
HarperCollins, and a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  