-- Lead Fees Said to Drop in Europe on Slowing Batteries Demand
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-21T17:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lead-premiums-said-to-drop-in-europe-on-slowing-batteries-demand.html
Lead premiums dropped for a second
month in  Europe  as battery demand slowed, according to three
traders with direct knowledge of the market.  The fee for lead at Rotterdam is $72.50 a metric ton, the
midpoint of estimates provided by the three traders, who asked
not to be identified because they’re not authorized to speak to
the media. The fee is added to the price of metal for immediate
delivery on the London Metal Exchange. It was $80 a ton in
February and $90 a ton in January.  “The lead market is seasonally moving into a weaker
period,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in
London, said by phone today. “It happens every year.”  Lead prices have dropped 6.7 percent this year on the LME.
Lead-acid batteries account for 85 percent of global demand,
according to CHR Metals Ltd., a lead and zinc consulting company
in Godalming,  England . Downward pressure is developing in the
physical market, Duncan Hobbs, an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., said at Metal Bulletin’s conference in Istanbul yesterday.  The premium is for lead that is of 99.97 percent purity,
and doesn’t include delivery costs. For metal that is 99.99
percent pure, used in radiation shields, the premium is 190
euros ($246) a ton, according to three other traders with direct
knowledge of the market. That includes delivery costs in Europe.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  resumed output at its Portovesme
lead smelter on the Italian island of Sardinia, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. Deliveries are
expected to start in April and production this year will be
about 60,000 tons, the person said this week.  Rotterdam Fee  Premiums are the midpoint of estimates. For Rotterdam, the
range was $55 to $90 a ton, compared with $70 to $90 a ton in
February and $80 to $100 in January. The range for the 99.99
percent purity lead was 180 euros to 200 euros.  Lead stockpiles in LME-tracked warehouses in Europe are up
2.6 percent this month, data showed today. Antwerp, the world’s
biggest LME lead repository, holds 54 percent of inventory in
the region. About 90 percent of stockpiles at the location await
delivery. The Dutch port of Vlissingen holds 37 percent of
European lead stockpiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  