-- EADS CEO Sees European Military Cuts Eroding Defense Industry
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-21T11:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/eads-ceo-sees-european-military-cuts-eroding-defense-industry.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders said Europe’s
defense industry risks a prolonged erosion, with government
spending prospects in home markets bleak for years to come.  “In Europe, we face a decade with no growth and more
likely further declines in defense budgets,” Enders said today
in Brussels at a European Defence Agency conference. That
reality affects industrial planning, he said.  Enders is undertaking a major strategic review for the
Toulouse, France-based maker of Airbus SAS commercial airliners
and military equipment, and is considering a smaller role for
defense activities. The assessment comes as European government
officials prepare to meet in December to discuss defense issues
including closer cooperation.  “The clock is more than ticking,” Enders said. “It is
not about strengthening the defense industrial base. We should
talk about the further erosion that is happening and in my view
is unlikely to stop.”  Enders called for “real, credible, and tangible action
that could convince the industry that at the end of the tunnel
there is an upswing.” Exports alone won’t sustain industry,
because companies seeking business in markets such as India,
Brazil and the Middle East will face “cut-throat competition,”
Enders said.  New, large defense programs will not be funded in Europe
until at least the end of the decade, Detlef Selhausen,
Germany’s national armaments director, said at the Brussels
event. Cooperation will instead focus on support of equipment,
he said.  While Enders said he’s able to readjust resources from
military to commercial activities, the troubles in the defense
field are compounded by “a very considerable brain drain”
toward the growing commercial business.  Enders predicted more industry consolidation, even after
his effort to merge with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s largest
defense company, failed last year on German government
opposition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  