-- Egypt Brotherhood Asserts Right to Self Defense Before Protest
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-21T12:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/egypt-brotherhood-asserts-right-to-self-defense-before-protest.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood said it
has the right to protect its offices, a day before planned
protests at the organization’s Cairo headquarters.  “We have every right to defend our properties,”
Brotherhood Secretary General Mahmoud Hussein said today in a
televised news conference. He accused the opposition of
scrawling graffiti on the outside walls of its headquarters and
insulting President Mohamed Mursi during a March 16 rally that
turned into a brawl and led to riot police firing tear gas to
disperse crowds.  The opposition and journalists say the Brotherhood, which
fielded Mursi for office, attacked protesters and journalists
during the demonstration. Tensions were evident at Hussein’s
news conference, which was interrupted when journalists chanted
slogans against Mursi and shouted down officials trying to air a
video they say shows their guards had been provoked.  Mursi is facing mounting criticism over his handling of the
stumbling economy and a security void that has led to a rise in
vigilantism to combat surging crime. The Brotherhood has become
the focus of ire from secularist and youth activists, who say
Mohammed Badie, the Islamist organization’s top official known
as the Supreme Guide, is running the country behind the scenes.  During the news conference, the audience broke out into a
rhyming chant, saying the supreme guide is pulling Mursi’s
strings.  Tomorrow’s protests is the latest in what has become a
weekly show of protests and counter-protests that are crippling
the push to transition after the 2011 uprising ousted  Hosni Mubarak . It was called for by 21 political parties and groups
under the slogan, “Down with the rule of the Supreme Guide.”  Egyptian prosecutors said authorities are searching for
three individuals working in the Brotherhood’s headquarters, who
are suspected of playing a role in the attack on demonstrators
and journalists, state-run Ahram Gate reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  