-- Egypt Raises Rates for First Time Since 2011 After Pound Slides
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-03-21T17:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/egypt-raises-rates-for-first-time-since-2011-after-pound-slides.html
  Egypt ’s central bank raised
 interest rates  for the first time since 2011, after the pound’s
decline fueled a jump in inflation.  The central bank raised the benchmark  deposit rate  by half
a percentage point to 9.75 percent, and the overnight lending
rate by the same amount to 10.75 percent, according to the
Cairo-based bank’s website. Three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast an increase and four expected no change.  The bank is raising rates even as Egypt’s economy struggles
to recover after the 2011 uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , with
growth at the  slowest pace  in two decades as political
polarization and sporadic violence undermine the transition.
It’s acting to counter inflation, which almost doubled in two
months after the central bank started allowing the pound to
weaken in December.  “The hike is due to rising inflationary pressures” as
well as “some concerns about the weakening Egyptian pound,”
Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at investment bank EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Cairo who forecast an increase, said by phone
after the decision.  The pound has dropped almost 9 percent since the bank
started auctioning dollars on Dec. 30, making it the world’s
fourth-worst performer. Forward contracts show traders expect it
to extend losses by almost 8 percent in the next three months.  Egypt’s political tensions and worsening economic outlook
were emphasized by Moody’s Investors Service, which cut its
rating on the country today for the sixth time since the 2011
revolt.  Efforts to negotiate a $4.8 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  have repeatedly stalled amid the
unrest. Egypt aims to have an agreement in place by July when
the next financial year starts, the government said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  