-- Heinz Said to Cancel Plans for $2 Billion of Loans in Europe
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-03-21T16:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/heinz-said-to-cancel-plans-for-2-billion-of-loans-in-europe-1-.html
H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the ketchup maker
being acquired by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and
3G Capital Inc., canceled plans to distribute $2 billion of the
$12 billion in loans backing the purchase in euros and pounds,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Heinz may fund the portion with bonds or loans denominated
in dollars, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Debt financing for the $23 billion deal is being arranged
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Barclays Plc and
Citigroup Inc., and includes an $8.5 billion term loan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Scrapping the European
portion comes as demand for speculative-grade loans in the U.S.
is at record levels. Investors have poured $12.4 billion into
funds that target U.S. floating-rate debt this year, compared
with $12.2 billion for all of 2012, according to JPMorgan.  “There is not enough loan supply to satisfy demand,”
JPMorgan analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  wrote in a March 15
report. Subtracting about $170 billion of loans that were sold
for refinancings and debt paydowns, only $5 billion of new
money loans have been sold this year, according to the report.  Leveraged loan prices rose 0.04 cent yesterday to 98.19
cents on the dollar, the highest since July 22, 2007, according
to the  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index .  Michael Mullen , a spokesman for Pittsburgh-based Heinz,
declined to comment.  Loan Terms  The $8.5 billion term loan, which will be split into a six-
year B-1 portion and a seven-year B-2 slice, will pay interest
at 2.75 percentage points or 3 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate with a 1 percent minimum on the
lending benchmark, Bloomberg data show. Heinz may sell the debt
at 99.5 cents on the dollar.  The lending agreement also includes a $1.5 billion
revolving line of credit, Heinz said in a Feb. 15 regulatory
filing.  The company is selling $2.1 billion 7.5-year second-lien
senior notes through Hawk Acquisition Sub Inc., according to
another person with knowledge of the offering who asked not to
be identified because the terms aren’t set.  In a revolving line of credit, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a  term loan  it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 