-- Helena Morrissey Extends Equality Fight to Women’s Rowing
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-21T00:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/helena-morrissey-extends-equality-fight-to-women-s-rowing.html
Helena Morrissey, chief executive
officer of Newton Asset Management, is helping to extend the
fight for gender equality from the boardroom to the banks of the
Thames.  Newton is putting money behind a move to bring equality for
men’s and women’s rowing in the  Boat Race  between Oxford and
Cambridge universities, one of the world’s oldest collegiate
sport events dating back to 1829.  The women’s event in 2015 will be held for the first time
on the same 6.8-kilometer (4.2-mile) course on the Thames in
West  London  as the men’s race. The female crews, who will stage
this year’s race on Dorney Lake in Eton in three days, have been
receiving the same funding as the men since September.  “I realized from talking to them that the women didn’t
even have a gym,” Morrissey said in an interview in London. “I
couldn’t believe it. They had to pay for their own things. I
said this is crazy, so let’s at least try.”  In 2010, Morrissey formed the  30 Percent Club  to press
companies to hire that many female directors, up from 12 percent
at the time. Morrissey became CEO of Newton Investment
Management at age 35 when Mellon Financial Corp., now Bank of
 New York  Mellon Corp., took over. Morrissey, who turns 47
tomorrow, remains one of London’s few female CEOs.  It made sense to sponsor the women’s Boat Race beginning in
2011, when the event was “ a very poor relation” to the bigger
men’s race, Morrissey said.  Promote Diversity  “It would tie with the idea that diversity is good, and
that one should focus one’s energy on getting different types of
people involved,” she said. “At the time, it wasn’t the only
one we could afford, and there were other things that were
bigger and more established, but I liked the idea of doing
something that could possibly chance the shape of that race.”  Morrissey declined to detail how much the company spent to
sponsor the race, saying “for relatively little money to start
with, we got a huge return.” SportsBusiness.com said BNY
Mellon’s commitment is worth as much as 2 million pounds ($3
million) a year.  A women’s race on the same course and over the same
distance as the men had been talked about for years. Newton’s
involvement was a key to making it happen, according to four-
time Olympic rowing champion Matthew Pinsent.  “The men’s race has established itself as a fixture on the
sporting calendar, has a huge amount of history, and somewhere
along the line the women’s race got slightly left behind,”
Pinsent said at the first joint weigh-in for men’s and women’s
crews two weeks ago at the London offices of BNY Mellon, which
sponsors the men’s March 31 race.  “At present, they’re on a different bit of water, they
race on a different day in front of a different crowd, and it’s
only been through Newton predominantly saying, ‘We want to
sponsor the women and we want to bring them to London in 2015’
that now we can start to say they’re converging at a rate that
we’ve never seen before,” Pinsent said.  Equal Funding  Female crews have raced on the Thames at Henley just
outside of London since 1927. This year, the race will be moved
to Eton College’s Dorney Lake because of the weather, the
organizers said yesterday. They decided last year to give the
men and women’s races equal funding and billing.  Instead of competing on a 2,000-meter (1.2 mile) course in
front of a few thousand rowing fans a week before the main men’s
event, the 2015 women’s race will be staged within an hour of
the men’s event on the Thames in front of a quarter-million
people and broadcast to 200 countries. Equal funding started
last year to give the women time to build up their teams.  Getting funding for the first time has made “an incredible
difference,” to the women rowers, Cambridge University Women’s
Boat Club President Helena Schofield said. The women now have
two full-time coaches, better equipment and no longer have to
fit their training around the men’s schedule. More importantly,
the athletes no longer have to pay for transportation or their
own uniforms.  ‘More Accessible’  “We were paying hundreds of pounds to catch the train to
training, and to go away and to race,” said Schofield. “Now
it’s more accessible.”  Better funding and a more prominent race “will attract
stronger oarswomen to Oxford as well as inspiring people all
over the country,” Oxford rower Maxie Scheske said.  “It will revolutionize the way that the students train,
the results that they’re capable of and the way that the race is
being viewed by the public,” said British Rowing chairman
Annamarie Phelps, a former Olympian who rowed for Cambridge in
the 1987 Reserve Women’s Boat Race. “Now that that huge
financial burden has disappeared, that in it will be a game-
changer. It will help broaden the base of elite women’s rowing
in this country.”  Morrissey, who occasionally coxed while at Cambridge, said
she’s glad she picked rowing instead of rugby or soccer when
Newton was looking for sponsorship opportunities.  “It’s a completely different scenario,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at 
Or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Else at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  