-- EMGS Confident of Boosting Backlog After Signing Brazil Deal
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-03-21T15:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/emgs-confident-of-boosting-backlog-after-signing-brazil-deal-1-.html
Electromagnetic GeoServices ASA (EMGS) , a
Norwegian oil and gas surveyor, said it’s confident of
increasing its order backlog after signing an agreement that
expands its coverage of the waters off  Brazil .  “Towards the end of the year we will have at least one
longer-term contract communicated,” Chief Financial Officer
Svein Knudsen said in an interview in Oslo today. “We’re
promising improved backlog and we’re sticking to that promise.”  EMGS, based in Trondheim, plans to almost double its order
backlog to at least $100 million by the end of the first half,
Knudsen said in a presentation today. Shares in the company have
fallen more than 30 percent since the start of the year amid
concerns that the company’s backlog is shrinking. That’s even
after EMGS signed a three-year agreement with Royal Dutch Shell
Plc for the provision of 3D electromagnetic services globally.  EMGS, which uses electromagnetic technology to search for
oil and gas under the seabed, signed a deal with  Spectrum ASA (SPU)  to
access its multi-client 2D survey library in order to plan a
multi-client 3D survey in the Foz de Amazonas basin off Brazil,
it said in a statement today. The survey will cover blocks that
are included in the 11th licensing round, it said.  EMGS expects to agree on similar collaborations elsewhere
in the world with potential partners including  Petroleum Geo-
Services ASA (PGS)  and TGS Nopec Geophysical ASA,  Norway ’s two-largest
seismic companies, Knudsen said.  EMGS uses a method of mapping the seabed that competes with
the seismic technology employed by companies such as
Schlumberger Ltd., TGS and PGS.  Shares in EMGS gained as much as  3.3 percent  and closed
unchanged at 9 kroner in Oslo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  