-- Enel CEO Battles European Slump With Growth in Latin America
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-03-21T09:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/enel-ceo-battles-european-slump-with-growth-in-latin-america.html
Enel SpA (ENEL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Fulvio Conti  plans to battle three years of stagnant profits at
Italy’s biggest utility by shifting to faster-growing markets in
 Latin America  and Eastern Europe.  “We are adapting our strategy to adverse conditions and
the percentage of earnings from Italy and  Spain  versus our
growth markets will be 50-50 by 2017,” Conti said in an
interview in Rome.  Enel, based in Rome, gets 60 percent of  earnings  before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization from Italy and
Spain and the rest from Latin America, Eastern Europe and
renewable energy businesses. Power demand will increase 4.9
percent this year in Latin America and 1.6 percent in  Russia ,
compared with a 2 percent slump in Spain and a 0.1 percent
decline in Italy, according to Enel data.  Weak power demand and higher taxes in Italy and Spain,
which are both in recession, are putting a strain on Enel’s
earnings. The company forecast a decline in adjusted net profit
this year to 3 billion euros from 3.5 billion euros ($3.9
billion) a year ago and doesn’t expect profit to recover until
2015.  “He’s in a bind and left with few weapons to fight back,”
said Stefano Girola, a  fund manager  at Banca Albertini Syz & Co.
in Milan. “ Emerging markets  offer hope of profits but need
investments to produce. Where can he get that money if core
markets languish?”  Slovak Utility  Enel, which gained its Latin American markets when it
bought Spain’s  Endesa SA (ELE)  in 2009, is present in Chile,
Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Colombia. Other international
operations include a controlling stake in Slovak utility
Slovenske Elektrarne, a distribution network in  Romania , natural
gas fields in Russia through SeverEnergia, and a controlling
stake in Russian utility Enel OGK-5.  Conti said Enel is well positioned in Eastern Europe,
particularly on the Russian market, and is confident Latin
America will offer good opportunities for development.  “Markets like Peru, Colombia and Brazil have huge
potential electricity demand,” Conti said. “Chile for example
will need another 14 gigawatts in the next 10 years to promote
further development of their  mining industry  in the North and
industrial development in the Center and South.”  Investments outside Italy and Spain will increase 2.5
percent to 16.1 billion euros by 2017, according to the
company’s strategic plan. That’s out of a total 27 billion euros
of investments in the period.  Cost Savings  “Cost savings, efficiency, asset sales and borrowings will
all contribute to our plans for these growth markets,” Conti
said. The company is also focusing on renewables with new
projects planned in  South Africa  and Turkey.  Conti’s job is made more difficult by 42.9 billion euros of
net debt at the end of 2012, which make Enel Europe’s most
indebted energy company. He has promised to bring the number
down to 37 billion euros by 2014 through 6 billion euros in
asset sales. While he declined to indicate what will be sold,
Conti said most of the sales will likely be completed in the
next two years.  The company is also planning 4 billion euros of cost
reductions in  Italy  and Spain including job cuts and capacity
closings, and will borrow 5 billion euros in hybrid bonds.  Moody’s Investors Service said March 15 it viewed Enel’s
disposals and capital strengthening measures positively. “If
executed as planned, they should result in a deleveraging of the
company, which in turn should lead to an improvement of its
credit metrics by 2014,” the rating company said. Still,
conditions in the company’s core markets “remain very
challenging, which could slow Enel’s financial recovery.”  Enel fell 0.7 percent to 2.6 euros as of 10:12 a.m. today
in Milan trading. Shares have fallen 11 percent in the last six
months, cutting the company’s market value to 24.9 billion
euros. That compares with a 7.9 percent decline in the Stoxx 600
Utilities Index in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome   at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  