-- Merkel Taken On by Kraft as Power Costs Open Second Crisis Front
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-21T12:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/merkel-taken-on-by-kraft-as-power-costs-open-second-crisis-front.html
Hannelore Kraft,  Germany ’s most
powerful Social Democratic state leader, called on  Angela Merkel 
to use  tax revenue  to cut electricity costs for consumers,
raising pressure on the chancellor before talks in Berlin.  Kraft, the SPD prime minister of North Rhine-Westphalia,
Germany’s most populous state, called for a 25 percent reduction
in power taxes to lower consumer bills by 1.6 billion euros
($2.1 billion). The proposal runs counter to an alternative plan
set out by Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led government.  Rising electricity costs and a resurgence of the euro-area
 crisis in Cyprus  have been thrust to the forefront of Germany’s
political agenda six months before federal elections. With
Merkel seeking a third term on Sept. 22, she is under pressure
to strike a compromise with state leaders at an energy summit in
the Chancellery today. Merkel is due to hold a press conference
with the regional premiers at 4:30 p.m. Berlin time.  “We’re looking to relieve our citizens,” Kraft, whom
polls have suggested challenges Merkel in popularity, said in an
interview with broadcaster ARD. The expansion of renewable power
has helped Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  reap “windfall
profits” in additional tax income “and those can be deployed
to lighten the burden on citizens,” she said.  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler and Environment Minister
Peter Altmaier last month proposed reducing subsidies for both
existing and new renewable sites and allowing fewer exceptions
for energy-intensive companies. They estimated the measures
would save consumers 1.86 billion euros next year.  Bundesrat Block  State leaders, who can block the proposals in the
opposition-controlled upper house, have said the government’s
plan to cut funding for renewable plants would deter investors.
Kraft said the government had already dropped its plans to lower
subsidies for existing clean-energy generators as a result of
SPD pressure, and her plans would be fairer to industry.  While looking to ease the cost to consumers, “we’re also
saying very clearly that we’re not standing by when industry
jobs are threatened,” said Kraft, whose state is home to  EON
SE (EOAN) , Germany’s largest utility, and steelmaker ThyssenKrupp AG.  Merkel is working to prevent a voter backlash after costs
for Germany’s clean-energy expansion spiralled as the government
strives to more than triple the share of renewables in the power
mix by 2050 while phasing out nuclear generation. Consumers in
 Europe ’s biggest economy have seen power bills climb after a fee
they pay for renewables jumped 47 percent to a record 5.28 euro
cents a kilowatt-hour on Jan. 1.  The  Environment Ministry  wants to have legislation to limit
power-price increases before the summer recess. Merkel and state
leaders would have to agree by the end of next month at the
latest to meet that deadline, Dominik Geissler, a spokesman for
the ministry, told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  An agreement between Merkel and state leaders “is
possible, but for that the government has to move,” Kraft said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  