-- Hermes to Resist Raising Prices as Weaker Yen May Weigh on Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-21T12:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/hermes-reports-record-profitability-as-revenue-surges-in-asia.html
Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the
French maker of Kelly bags and silk scarves, will resist raising
prices significantly in 2013 even as profitability may decline
as the Japanese yen weakens against the euro.  While there may be some minor adjustments, “there won’t be
a big movement” in the amount the Paris-based company charges
customers, Chief Executive Patrick Thomas said today as Hermes
reported record profitability for 2012.  Hermes is an outlier in a sector where several companies
have lifted prices in reaction to the yen’s devaluation.  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , which owns 22.3 percent of
Hermes, in February increased some prices at its Louis Vuitton
brand in  Japan  by an average 12 percent, the most ever at the
unit in the country. Jewelers  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and  Harry Winston 
have said they plan to follow suit.  For 2013, Hermes is hedged at $1.28 per euro and 104.5 yen
per euro, Finance Director Lionel Martin-Guinard said today at a
presentation in Paris. That compares with $1.41 per euro and 112
yen per euro in 2012, he said.  Operating profit as a percentage of sales will probably
narrow in 2013 because of currency fluctuations after the weaker
euro helped boost last year’s margin to a record 32.1 percent,
Thomas said. Earnings should rise this year, he said. Hermes
makes the bulk of its products in  Europe .  ‘Damning Facts’  Separately, Hermes has found “damning facts” relating to
how LVMH amassed a stake in its rival via equity swaps, Thomas
said. Hermes filed a civil complaint last year against LVMH that
its bigger competitor rejected as baseless. The outcome of a
separate French market authority investigation is expected in
the summer.  The CEO also called for LVMH to reduce its stake in Hermes
to increase the number of shares on the open market.  Hermes rose 0.9 percent to 259.30 euros at 1:45 p.m. in
Paris. The stock has gained 15 percent this year.  The saddle maker is aiming for sales growth of about 10
percent in 2013, Thomas said, adding that “too many
unpredictable factors” called for prudence. Since the start of
the year, business has been good, with the only change being
slightly weaker sales in January because of the later timing of
Chinese new year, the CEO said.  Operating profit rose 26 percent to 1.12 billion euros
($1.45 billion) in 2012, Hermes said earlier in a statement.
Analysts predicted profit of 1.09 billion euros, according to
the average of 15  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The better-than-expected profit “once again demonstrates
the positive momentum for Hermes and for other high-end niche
brands,” said  Luca Solca , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.
“The limit for Hermes is their manufacturing capacity in
 leather goods . Given the bottleneck there, one could have
expected higher price increases than anticipated.”  Hermes proposed raising its full-year regular dividend to
2.50 euros a share from 2 euros last year. The company already
paid a 1.50 euro interim dividend and will pay the remainder
later. Last year, Hermes also paid a bonus dividend of 5 euros a
share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  