-- Ethanol Strengthens Against Gasoline on Record Stockpile Draws
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-03-21T20:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ethanol-strengthens-against-gasoline-on-record-stockpile-draws.html
Ethanol strengthened against
gasoline on speculation prices will be supported by inventories
at a record low for this time of year.  The price difference, or spread, narrowed 2.97 cents to
50.16 cents a gallon, a day after an Energy Information
Administration report showed  stockpiles  fell a seventh week, the
longest streak of declines in records going back to June 2010.  “We’ve had some plants that were idled because of poor
margins,”  Shawn McCambridge , senior grain market analyst for
Jefferies Bache LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.
“If we draw these stockpiles down a little bit, this gives the
plants an opportunity to run even if gasoline demand is down a
couple of weeks.”  Denatured ethanol for April delivery slipped 1.6 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $2.569 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices have gained 17 percent this year.  Gasoline futures for April delivery declined 4.57 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $3.0706 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract covers reformulated gasoline, which is
made to be blended with ethanol before delivery to filling
stations.  Ethanol  production  is at record lows for this time of year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, and output at 809,000 barrels a
day is down 9.4 percent from a year earlier.  Crush Spread  Plants idled operations as higher corn prices eroded
returns after drought in the Midwest wilted crops. Corn for May
delivery added 0.5 cent to $7.333 a bushel in  Chicago . One
bushel makes at least 2.75 gallons of ethanol.  The corn crush spread, representing gains or losses from
turning corn into ethanol and based on May contracts, was minus
12 cents a gallon, down from minus 11 cents yesterday. The
amount doesn’t include revenue from the sale of dried
distillers’ grains, a byproduct of ethanol production, which can
be fed to livestock.  Ethanol-blended gasoline last week accounted for a record
95 percent of total motor fuel consumption, data from the Energy
Department’s analytical arm showed.  The U.S. made foreign purchases of the fuel for the first
time three weeks as  imports  averaged 27,000 barrels a day,
according to EIA.  Brazil, which uses sugarcane to make the biofuel, is the
largest supplier of ethanol to the U.S.  Spot ethanol in Sao Paulo  fetched $2.37 a gallon last week,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In cash market trading, ethanol dropped 4 cents to $2.57 in
Chicago, 3 cents to $2.70 in  New York , 4 cents to $2.63 on the
 Gulf Coast  and 0.5 cent to $2.87 on the West Coast, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  West Coast ethanol’s premium to the Gulf Coast expanded to
24 cents, the widest since March 12, while Chicago’s discount to
New York Harbor stretched to 13 cents, the biggest since March
4.  Ethanol Renewable Identification Numbers for the  corn-based 
variety were unchanged at 70.5 cents today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The certificates peaked March 8 at $1.06.
RINs are assigned to each gallon of fuel introduced the market,
then submitted by refiners to the Environmental Protection
Agency to show compliance with the law or traded.  Advanced RINs, which include biodiesel and Brazilian
sugarcane-based ethanol, fell 1 cent to 75.5 cents.  Corn-based RINs traded at 7.1 cents on Jan. 7 and the
advanced were at 37 cents that day. The price surge for the
certificates has been a source of contention between ethanol
proponents and petroleum advocates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  