-- EU Closer to Bank Union Fails to Help Cyprus in Crisis
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2013-03-21T16:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/eu-closer-to-bank-union-fails-to-help-cyprus-in-crisis.html
On the same day Cyprus’s parliament
rejected a European Union bailout involving a tax on deposits,
political leaders in the region reached a deal bringing the  euro
zone  one step closer to a banking union.  The agreement to accept a common supervisor was the result
of an idea hatched in Brussels  in June  to enable the direct use
of EU funds to recapitalize banks without adding to a
government’s debt. It was supposed to help countries such as
Cyprus, whose failing banks threaten that nation’s solvency.  That goal is still out of reach. The EU offer that Cyprus
spurned would have forced the government to borrow 10 billion
euros ($13 billion) to recapitalize banks, pushing its debt load
to about 140 percent of gross domestic product. Similar burdens
led Ireland to seek a bailout in 2010 and Spain in 2012.  “Like Ireland, the banking system is bringing Cyprus
down,” said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre
for European Policy Studies in Brussels. “ Germany  asked for the
banking union as a condition for allowing use of direct EU funds
for banks, but the crises in Spain or Cyprus didn’t wait for the
establishment of the new regime.”  Euro zone leaders agreed in June that a common emergency
fund could be used for direct recapitalization of banks once a
central supervisory structure was in place. Irish and Spanish
politicians voiced optimism at the time that they could transfer
some of their liabilities to the fund. Since then, those hopes
have been dashed as Germany has made it clear it didn’t want
legacy loans to be covered, according to  Alberto Gallo , head of
European credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  ‘Legacy Losses’  Germany and other northern European countries have a
different vision of the banking union than their southern
neighbors, said Gallo, who’s based in  London .  “Germany,  Finland , the Netherlands first want the legacy
losses to be paid by creditors or depositors, through some sort
of bail-in, before they want to shoulder responsibility for
those banks,” he said.  Ignazio Angeloni, head of the ECB’s financial stability
directorate, repeated yesterday the June objective of breaking
the link between sovereign and banking risk once a central
supervisory mechanism is in place, Risk magazine reported on its
website. The new regulator would be set up by mid-2014, Angeloni
said at a conference organized by the magazine in London. He
acknowledged there could be conflicts between national interests
and what the central supervisor would want to do.  Burden Sharing  The EU “is composed still of very strong, powerful
national authorities -- in all dimensions, political and
financial,” Risk quoted Angeloni as saying. “We have to live
with this system.”  Politicians in Germany have said Cypriot bank depositors
need to share the burden because the island nation can’t bear
the public debt increase if it all falls on the government. When
 Greece ’s debt level exceeded 160 percent of GDP, Germany pushed
for a restructuring, billed as burden-sharing by the private
sector. German and French banks ended up losing money on their
Greek bond holdings.  Still, by delaying a default for two years, the EU gave
banks in those countries time to reduce their holdings of Greek
debt by more than half, lowering the cost to them and shifting
two-thirds of the debt to taxpayers. The EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  made loans to the Greek government,
which used the funds to recapitalize banks, which in turn paid
off their debt to German and French banks.  Russian Creditors  With Cyprus, the outside creditors aren’t German and French
banks. They’re Russian companies and individuals who keep money
in Cypriot banks to take advantage of the island’s lower tax
rates. About 21 billion euros, or one-third of total deposits,
were from non-EU residents, according to January data on the
 website  of Cyprus’s central bank.  While Germany has said depositors should share the burden,
Cyprus can’t risk alienating its best bank clients and losing a
vital source of income. Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades met
with advisers yesterday to draft a new plan, as Finance Minister
Michael Sarris held talks with Russian officials in Moscow.
Russia rebuffed a request for a bailout loan, saying it would
consider investing in Cyprus’s energy sector instead, Sarris
said in an interview broadcast today on Antenna TV.  Bank Holiday  The alternative plan may include a new version of the
deposit tax, according to an official who asked not to be
identified in line with government policy. The central bank said
lenders would remain closed until March 26, extending a bank
holiday that has been in effect all this week.  “On the one hand, the EU wants to preserve the sanctity of
deposit insurance, but on the other they don’t want to bail out
Russian millionaires,” Gallo said. “Meanwhile, Cyprus cannot
hurt foreigners too much because it needs offshore banking.”  Cyprus’s crisis is in part a side effect of the Greek debt
restructuring. The island’s three biggest publicly traded
lenders --  Bank of Cyprus Plc , Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl and
 Hellenic Bank Pcl (HB)  -- had combined losses of 6.5 billion euros in
2011 after writing down the value of their Greek bond holdings.
They also have been bleeding on their loans to Greek companies
and individuals.  The divided island’s southern part has close ties to
Greece. Bad loans accounted for 27 percent of lending by Cypriot
banks at the end of September, according to the  Institute of
International Finance , a global bank lobbying group.  Contagion Risk  Forcing losses on Cyprus depositors could have
repercussions in the rest of the euro zone. It may restart
deposit outflows from countries such as Spain and Italy that
halted in August after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  committed to unlimited purchases of  government bonds .  A total of 378 billion euros was pulled from banks in so-
called peripheral countries -- Ireland, Spain,  Portugal , Greece
and Italy -- in the 13 months through August, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There will be contagion if depositors bear some costs,”
said  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy Ltd., a London-based consulting firm specializing in
sovereign risk.  If Cyprus digs in its heels and refuses to impose fees on
depositors, the ECB could stop financing its banks as it has
threatened to do. The island’s lenders stay afloat with about 10
billion euros of ECB loans. The ECB’s governing council renewed
its threat today, saying it wouldn’t renew funding for Cypriot
banks unless a rescue program is in place by next week.  ‘Nuclear Option’  A cutoff of funds would do more than just spook depositors
in the euro zone, according to Spiro.  “That’s the nuclear option,” he said. “It would push
Cyprus out of the euro and bring into question any other
periphery country’s membership.”  The ECB provided 841 billion euros of emergency funding to
periphery banks at the end of January, according to the latest
central bank data available. That’s down from a peak of 977
billion euros in August.  “If the ECB pulls the plug on Cypriot banks, it needs to
be prepared to ring-fence the rest of the banking system in the
euro zone,” said Guntram Wolff, deputy director of Bruegel, a
Brussels-based research group. “That would mean providing more
liquidity to the banks in other countries and buying government
bonds left and right. If it’s not a bluff, the ECB had better be
prepared to prevent the fallout from such a move.”  Deposit Protection  The sanctity of deposits has mostly been preserved since
2008, even though some EU countries didn’t have  deposit
insurance  before the crisis. Governments still protected all
their depositors, mostly through bailing out failing banks. In
2008, the EU ordered all member countries to protect a minimum
of 100,000 euros.  In 2011,  Denmark  became the first EU nation to bail-in bank
depositors when it forced some Amagerbanken A/S savers and
senior creditors to share losses. While the move affected only
depositors holding more than the EU insurance limit, it left its
mark on Danish banks by increasing borrowing costs.  Outside the EU,  Iceland  decided to pay domestic depositors
only after the country allowed its banks to fail, leaving out
about $5 billion of deposits collected in the U.K. and the
Netherlands. The British and Dutch governments made depositors
in those countries whole and demanded payment from Iceland.  The almost blanket protection of depositors has been one
reason withdrawals from banks in the periphery haven’t soared.
Another is higher  interest rates  paid on deposits. Lenders in
those countries and Cyprus are paying customers 3 percent to 5
percent interest on savings, compared with about 1 percent by
German banks and 0.5 percent in Belgium, according to ECB data.  Economic Divergence  That means it’s harder for lenders in periphery countries
to make money and has contributed to economic divergence between
the north and the south as higher borrowing costs are passed on
to customers. While Cypriot banks pay 4.5 percent for deposits,
the new Greek bonds they received in last year’s debt swap pay
them about 2 percent.  Germany might have to back down from its stance against
Cyprus if it wants to keep the euro together, said Horst Loechel, an economics professor at the Frankfurt School of
Finance & Management. It would be better to use central euro
zone funds to bail out Cypriot banks as the EU promised in June
rather than risk bank runs in the rest of the region, he said.  “You can’t make Europe’s savers fret over the safety of
their funds because of just 5 billion euros,” Loechel said.
“That’s ridiculous.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @Yalman_BN.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 