-- European Stocks Drop on German Manufacturing Report
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-03-21T16:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/european-stock-futures-drop-lanxess-hermes-may-move.html
European (SXXP)  stocks dropped by the most
in three weeks as a report showed German manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted this month, while Cyprus’s President
worked on a new plan to obtain a bailout from the euro area.  Lanxess AG fell the most in 17 months after predicting
lower first-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization than in the previous year. SAP AG,
the biggest maker of business-management software, dropped 2.1
percent. Brenntag AG climbed by the most since December after
the chemical distributor reported full-year results that beat
analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 0.7 percent to 294.47 at the close
in  London . The equity benchmark has still  risen 5.3 percent  this
year as reports on U.S. payrolls and Chinese exports bolstered
confidence in the global economic recovery and central banks
continued their stimulus measures.  “Investors have come back a bit on Cyprus and the
immediate impact it may have on the broader euro zone and have
concluded that Cyprus alone isn’t enough to re-ignite a
crisis,” Norman Villamin, who helps oversee $64 billion as
European chief investment officer at Coutts & Co. in Zurich,
said. “But we look at the tools and the approach being taken
and think it’s really making any future problems much more risky
for euro-zone policy makers to handle.”  National benchmark index fell in all 18 western-European
markets. France’s CAC 40 slid 1.4 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE
100 lost 0.7 percent.  Germany ’s DAX declined 0.9 percent.  German Manufacturing  A purchasing managers’ index for  Germany’s manufacturing
industry  unexpectedly fell to 48.9 this month. The median
economist forecast had called for a reading of 50.5, according
to a Bloomberg News survey. A separate report showed that
manufacturing in France contracted more than estimated.  “The French indices disappoint again, and also the German
numbers are very unsatisfactory,” Ulrich Wortberg, an analyst
at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a
note to clients.  Cyprus’s President, Nicos Anastasiades, met advisers to
draft a new plan to avoid financial collapse after lawmakers
rejected the euro area’s proposed levy on  bank deposits .  The alternative plan may include a new version of the
deposit tax, said an official who asked not to be identified
citing government policy. The central bank declared that lenders
will remain shut for another two days, effectively preventing
Cypriots from accessing their accounts until March 26.  ECB Liquidity  The  European Central Bank  said it will withdraw Cypriot
banks’ access to emergency funds on March 26 if the government
fails to agree to a bailout from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  “The Governing Council of the European Central Bank
decided to maintain the current level of Emergency Liquidity
Assistance, ELA, until Monday, 25 March 2013,” the ECB said in
a  statement . “Thereafter, ELA could only be considered if an
EU/IMF program is in place that would ensure the solvency of the
concerned banks.”  Lanxess slumped 6 percent to 58.31 euros after predicting
that Ebitda will drop to as little as 160 million euros ($207
million) in the current quarter. The chemical maker said it has
budgeted for declining profit in 2013.  SAP dropped 2.1 percent to 62.96 euros after Oracle Corp.
reported sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates. The
U.S. enterprise software maker said its corporate customers
reduced their spending on software. Cap Gemini SA,  France ’s
biggest computer-services company, slid 3.9 percent to 36.97
euros.  Carmakers Slide  A gauge of European carmakers posted the  worst performance 
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, with Renault SA
slipping 5.1 percent to 51.04 euros and Daimler AG retreating
2.2 percent to 43.96 euros.  Brenntag increased 3.4 percent to 117.75 euros after the
chemical distributor reported full-year adjusted operating
Ebitda of 717 million euros, beating the average analyst
estimate of 712.9 million euros.  EON AG gained 4.2 percent to 13.71 euros and RWE AG added
2.9 percent to 29.73 euros after Germany’s most powerful Social
Democratic state leader called for the country’s government to
reduce the tax on electricity bills by 25 percent. Hannelore Kraft, the SPD prime minister of North Rhine-Westphalia
challenges Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for popularity in polls. A
gauge of European utilities climbed 1.1 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG rose 0.8 percent to 32.70 euros after co-
Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said the bank’s first-quarter
revenue was in line with last year, while expenses would
contribute positively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  