-- Euro Finance Heads Said to Weigh Closing Two Cyprus Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-03-22T04:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/euro-area-said-to-weigh-closing-two-cyprus-banks-asset-freeze.html
Euro-area finance chiefs,
pressuring Cyprus to shrink its banking system as the condition
for a bailout, are reviving demands they jettisoned last week as
too extreme, four European officials said.  Finance ministers for the 17 euro countries are considering
a plan to shutter the two biggest banks in Cyprus and freeze the
assets of uninsured depositors, said the four officials, who
asked not to be named because the talks are ongoing.  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB)  and the  Bank of Cyprus Plc  would be
split to create a so-called bad bank, one of the officials said.
Insured deposits -- below the European Union ceiling of 100,000
euros ($129,000) -- would go into a so-called good bank and not
sustain any losses, while uninsured deposits would go into the
bad bank and be frozen until assets could be sold, said the four
officials.  Losses to unsecured creditors, including uninsured
depositors, could reach 40 percent under the plan, which has
support from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Central Bank. The proposal, a version of which was rejected last
week, is considered a better option than taxing insured deposits
or allowing Cypriot banks to collapse in a disorderly fashion if
they lose access to ECB aid, the officials said.  ‘Serious’ Situation  “Two Cypriot banks are threatened with insolvency, the
situation is serious,” Steffen Seibert, spokesman for German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said in Berlin March 20. “A fix should
be made possible, but that can only happen through involving
investors. Insolvency and winding down would mean a far higher
loss for each investor than the (Cypriot) share that’s
envisaged. To that end, the eurogroup and the German government
see it as mandatory that investors are brought in.”  After a teleconference late yesterday, the finance
ministers called for a Cypriot proposal to unlock bailout funds
as quickly as possible.  Cyprus also is exploring other options to avoid hitting
uninsured depositors with big losses. None of the alternatives
such as a so-called solidarity fund have won support from euro
authorities, who hold the key to 10 billion euros in bailout
funds which they have said must be matched by 5.8 billion in
Cypriot funds, preferably from the banking sector.  The ECB is preparing to lower limits on cash withdrawals
from automated teller machines in Cyprus and may introduce
 capital controls  separate from any bailout accord, German
newspaper Handelsblatt reported today, citing central bank
sources it didn’t identify.  Protect Deposits  In Nicosia, Cypriot central bank Governor Panicos
Demetriades proposed bank-overhaul legislation that would
protect deposits of as much as 100,000 euros and keep Cyprus
Popular in business.  At an overnight meeting in Brussels last week, the finance
ministers backed a plan to tax all deposits -- rejected by
Cypriot lawmakers March 19 -- after the plan to shutter the
banks was deemed unacceptable by the Cypriots and too great a
risk to financial stability by  France , among others.  Cyprus’s bank assets swelled to 126.4 billion euros at the
end of January, seven times the size of the 18 billion-euro
economy, from 78 billion euros in 2007, data from the  European
Central Bank  and the EU’s statistics office show.  The ECB turned up the pressure on Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades and euro-area finance ministers to deliver a rescue
package, saying it may cut off emergency funds to Cypriot banks
after March 25 unless a plan is in place “that would ensure the
solvency of the concerned banks.”  Sustainable Outcome  The ECB referred queries to Cypriot authorities. A
spokeswoman for the Cypriot central bank could not immediately
be reached by phone or e-mail. The European Commission referred
to statements at a press conference earlier today, in which a
spokesman said the commission was waiting to hear from Cypriot
authorities and searching for a sustainable outcome for Cyprus.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter alluded to the plan
yesterday, saying France led opposition to the option of
“bailing in” depositors at the two banks.  “ Germany , the IMF and Austria would have preferred a bail-
in,” Fekter said. “A bail-in of around 38 percent, that means
a haircut at those two banks, and with this haircut we could
have moved more than 6 billion euros, as a debt cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  