-- Euro at Almost Lowest in Four Months as Cyprus Seeks Rescue Plan
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-21T21:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/euro-falls-toward-four-month-low-as-german-manufacturing-shrinks.html
The euro traded at almost the
lowest in four months versus the dollar as officials in Cyprus
worked to produce a plan to secure financial aid and avoid the
collapse of its banking system.  The 17-nation currency fell against most of its 16 major
peers as the European Central Bank said it may cut off emergency
funds to Cypriot banks after March 25 unless a plan to ensure
bank solvency is in place. Standard & Poor’s cut Cyprus’s long-
term sovereign rating by one level. The euro declined earlier
today after a report showed regional services and manufacturing
output contracted in March. The yen gained even as the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s governor vowed to pursue bold stimulus.  “Cyprus is working on plan B and struggling to come up
with it,” Greg Anderson, New York-based head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “The ECB was friendly earlier this week in saying
that they would provide liquidity, now they’re saying they might
just do that through Monday.”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2899 at 5 p.m. in New York.
It dropped to $1.2844 on March 19, the lowest since Nov. 22.
Europe’s shared currency slid 1.4 percent to 122.42 yen. Japan’s
currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 94.90 per dollar after
reaching 96.71 on March 12, the weakest since August 2009.  Koruna Weakens  The Czech Republic’s currency fell 0.5 percent against the
greenback, the fifth-most of the dollar’s 31 most-traded peers.
The koruna weakened for a fourth-straight day to 20 to its U.S.
counterpart.  Poland’s zloty depreciated to a one-month low as the
European Union and Cyprus struggled to find a solution to the
financial crisis in the Mediterranean island.  The currency declined for the fourth straight day, dropping
0.5 percent to 4.1945 per euro.  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the euro-region services and manufacturing industries fell to
46.5 from 47.9 in February, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Analysts had forecast a reading of 48.2, according to the
median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The ECB has kept its benchmark  interest-rate  unchanged at
0.75 percent since July 2012. Following the PMI figures,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Greg Fuzesi said the company cut
its 2013 euro-area economic growth forecast to a 0.6 percent
annual contraction from a 0.2 percent decline and is
“penciling” in a June borrowing-cost reduction by the central
bank.  Economy Shrinks  A similar gauge based on  purchasing managers  in Germany’s
manufacturing industry unexpectedly fell to 48.9 this month from
50.3 in February.  “The weaker PMIs, in particular the weaker German one, it
elevates European Central Bank easing risk,” Richard Franulovich, chief currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “That’s a very
powerful euro-negative story.”  S&P lowered Cyprus’s long-term sovereign credit rating to
CCC from CCC+ with a negative outlook. The ratings company cited
the rising risk of a “disorderly credit event” in absence of a
credible source of capital-fiscal financing.  The Cypriot parliament this week rejected a proposed levy
on bank deposits to raise 5.8 billion euros, which euro-area
finance ministers backed as a condition for the country’s
bailout. A bank holiday in Cyprus has been extended to March 25,
giving policy makers until Monday to find a compromise to
prevent a collapse of the country’s banks. Russia rebuffed
Cyprus’s request for a bailout loan.  Cyprus Reports  Euro-area finance chiefs, pressuring Cyprus to shrink its
banking system as the condition for a bailout, are reviving
demands they jettisoned last week as too extreme, four European
officials said.  The euro has lost 1.4 percent in the past month according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes which track the
currencies of 10 developed nations. The dollar strengthened 1.1
percent, the indexes show.  The yen has fallen 6.7 percent in 2013, according to the
indexes, amid speculation new BOJ leadership would heed Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s call for additional easing. Kuroda said
today he plans to pursue bold easing in quality and quantity.  Technical Level  Japan’s currency may decline to its weakest level in almost
four years versus its U.S. counterpart in the second quarter if
a key support level fails to hold, according to Credit Suisse
AG. It will face a test at the 96.71 level and  may depreciate
to 100, its lowest level since April 2009, if it breaches that
support level, according to David Sneddon, a technical analyst
at Credit Suisse in London.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed after the statistics bureau
said gross domestic product increased 1.5 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31 from the previous quarter, when it expanded
0.2 percent. Growth exceeded all of the estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of economists and was almost twice the central bank’s 0.8
percent forecast.  “It looks like buoyant economic activity in New Zealand
will be sustained,” said Mike Jones, a currency strategist at
Bank of New Zealand in Wellington.  The so-called kiwi advanced 1.1 percent to 83.16 U.S.
cents, touching the strongest level since March 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  