-- Euro Declines Against Yen Before Cyprus Lawmakers Debate Bailout
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-03-22T09:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/euro-trades-near-four-month-low-as-ecb-issues-deadline-to-cyprus.html
The euro fell against the yen
before a debate by Cypriot lawmakers on legislation to unlock
bailout funds as the threat of financial collapse in the island
nation undermined demand for regional assets.  Europe’s shared currency headed for its biggest weekly drop
in seven versus the dollar after the  European Central Bank  said
yesterday it may cut off emergency funds to Cyprus’s banks
unless a rescue plan is in place by March 25. The yen has risen
at least 0.3 percent against all 16 of its major peers this week
as concern that Europe’s debt turmoil may reignite spurred
investor appetite for the safest assets.  “Cyprus is the key driver of markets and there’s a lot of
uncertainty as we head into the weekend,” said  Lee Hardman , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in  London . “There are downside risks for the euro if an
acceptable agreement is not found. The Cyprus developments are
helping support demand for safe-haven currencies like the yen.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to 121.60 yen at 9:04 a.m. London
time, heading for a weekly drop of 2.4 percent, the most since
July. It was little changed at $1.2902, set for a 1.3 percent
slide since March 15. Japan’s currency rose 0.6 percent to 94.29
per dollar.  Euro-area finance ministers expect a proposal from Cyprus
“as rapidly as possible” to raise the 5.8 billion euros needed
to trigger the emergency loans, they said in a statement late
yesterday after a teleconference. The race for a compromise
comes after a week of tumult marked by Cypriot lawmakers’
rejection of a tax on  bank deposits .  In  Germany , the Ifo institute said its business climate
index fell to 106.7 this month from 107.4 in February. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for
a rise to 107.8.  Europe’s shared currency has dropped 1.3 percent this
month, making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes after Norway’s krone. The yen has fallen 0.2 percent,
while the dollar has risen 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in  Tokyo  at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 