-- Eurotunnel Says Matching 2012 Olympic Profit to Be Tough
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-21T12:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/eurotunnel-says-matching-2012-olympic-profit-to-be-tough.html
Channel Tunnel operator  Groupe
Eurotunnel SA (GET)  said it will struggle to match the traffic surge
that triggered a threefold profit increase last year given the
comparative absence of big-ticket events in 2013.  Eurotunnel’s net income rose to 34 million euros ($44
million) in 2012 from 11 million euros a year earlier as the
London Olympics and Queen Elizabeth II’s diamond jubilee lured
passengers to the U.K., the Paris-based company said today.  Almost 20 million people used the 30-mile subsea rail link
between Britain and France in 2012, with customer Eurostar Group
Ltd.’s expresses carrying 9.9 million, a gain of 2.2 percent,
and Eurotunnel’s own vehicle shuttles transporting the rest.  “It’s indisputable that 2012 was a special year, a bit
exceptional,” Chief Executive Office Jacques Gounon said in a
phone interview. “In a mild recession we don’t have any doubts
about maintaining actual results and growing modestly, but it’s
a restart of the economy that could bring a real boost.”  Gounon said it’s not clear whether the U.K. Competition
Commission’s opposition to Eurotunnel’s 65 million-euro
acquisition of ships from French rail operator SNCF’s defunct
SeaFrance ferry arm will cause the 2012 purchase to unravel.  Port Bids  Eurotunnel last week submitted a response to the British
opinion on the deal, which was cleared by French authorities. A
final ruling is due in mid-April, according to the CEO, who has
said the shipping arm -- rebranded as MyFerryLink -- complements
the shuttle by allowing vehicles to go by sea when use of the
tunnel is restricted, rather than distorting competition.  With final bids for the French ports of Calais and Boulogne
due today, Gounon said he’s not in a position to comment on
whether Eurotunnel will make an offer for the assets.  Eurotunnel’s shuttles performed well during heavy snow that
hit northern France and southern England last week, with the
services running even when Eurostar’s expresses failed, Gounon
said, adding that the trains had to stop only when roads at
either end of the tunnel became clogged with traffic.  “The tunnel was the one place where everything was
functioning in an environment where everything else had
stopped,” he said. “We’re under the sea, under the ground.”  Eurotunnel reiterated that it’s seeking earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 500 million
euros in 2015, compared with 461 million euros in 2012.  Gounon said it’s tough to make a firm prediction for 2013
because of uncertainty surrounding the future of MyFerryLink.  Eurotunnel shares  rose as much as 3.8 percent and were
trading 1.2 percent higher at 6.75 euros as of 1:56 p.m. in
Paris. The stock has gained 16 percent this year, valuing the
company at 3.71 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  