-- European Union Plans Defense Research, Financing Support Steps
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-21T18:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/european-union-plans-defense-research-financing-support-steps.html
The European Commission plans to
unveil measures to support the region’s defense industry this
summer at a time when  member states  are curtailing military
spending as part of austerity measures.  Five ideas have been identified to help support military
contractors, including aiding small companies gain access to
financing, Daniel Calleja Crespo, director-general at the
Commission’s Enterprise and Industry directorate said. More
proposals could be added, he said.  “It is important to have a strong industrial base,”
Calleja Crespo said today at a European Defence Agency
conference in Brussels. “We are ready to play a role.”  Since European rules limit the Commission’s mandate on
defense issues, Calleja Crespo said funding support will
concentrate on dual-use technologies such as satellite spending.
The Commission will not finance large projects like developing
new fighter planes, he said.  Major new equipment funding will require action by EU heads
of state when they discuss defense issues at a December summit,
Calleja Crespo said.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Enders  warned today that the region’s industry was
at risk of eroding because of lack of support and called for
programs to be started to sustain companies.  Drone System  Developing a new drone system should be one of the programs
to be backed by Europe, Eric Trappier, Chief Executive Officer
for French combat aircraft maker  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  said at
the event.  The commission will renew a push to open Europe’s internal
defense trade to greater competition to make cooperate more
closely, Calleja Crespo said. It will also try to find ways to
help militaries cut energy consumption, one of the major costs
for armed forces.  Steps to boost research and development spending are also
being examined. “ Europe  needs to do more. Our gap to the U.S.
has increased,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  