-- Exxon Says Dow LNG Export Plan Would Mean Gas Pr
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-21T19:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/exxon-says-dow-lng-export-plan-would-mean-gas-pr.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the biggest U.S.
oil producer, said efforts by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  to limit the
country’s natural gas exports would create a price cap for the
commodity.  Dow is a member of America’s Energy Advantage, a group of
manufacturers and gas distributors that says unfettered exports
of liquefied natural gas may undermine the benefits of rising
output from shale rock. Companies such as Dow want a return to
government controls on gas prices that ended in the 1980s, said
Stephen Pryor, president of Irving, Texas-based Exxon’s chemical
business.  “That’s what they are calling for,” Pryor said yesterday
in an interview in Houston. “It’s basically a price cap.”  Dow isn’t seeking a cap, said Kevin Kolevar, the Midland,
Michigan-based company’s vice president for government affairs
and public policy. The  Department of Energy  needs to consider
effects on manufacturing, consumers and energy security before
approving LNG exports, he said by telephone today. Dow isn’t
calling for gas prices to be a trigger in the decision-making
process, he said.  Exxon is considering exporting U.S. gas from LNG terminals
in Alaska and Texas. Pryor said most studies forecast exports
equal to 5 percent to 15 percent of U.S. gas demand, consistent
with Exxon’s outlook. Production will rise with exports to keep
price increases “moderate,” he said. He declined to provide a
specific price forecast.  Public Interest  “We must oppose protectionism in our home countries,”
Pryor said yesterday at the IHS World Petrochemical Conference
in Houston. “These proposals to block LNG investments,
justified by artificial price caps, represent a selective and
harmful departure from free-market and free-trade principles.”  LNG exports may contribute to a gas shortage by 2030 that
would triple prices, according to a  study  by Charles River
Associates posted on the America’s Energy Advantage website.  Export applications before the DOE would, if approved,
collectively export gas equal to more than half of current U.S.
consumption, Dow’s Kolevar said. While not all those projects
will ultimately proceed, gas demand may still exceed production
later this decade if some are approved without considering the
“public interest,” something the government is legally bound
to do, he said.  “We do have concerns that there is a tipping point at
which LNG exports turn from a net positive for this nation to a
net negative,” Kolevar said. “The problem is, once you hit
that point, it’s too late to go back.”  Dow, which plans to spend $4 billion on new chemical plants
on the  Texas  coast, uses gas to run its factories and as a raw
material for making plastics and other materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  