-- FCC Chairman Genachowski Leaving U.S. Agency Leaderless
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-03-22T22:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/fcc-chairman-genachowski-said-to-be-leaving-u-s-agency.html
Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said he’s resigning in the coming
weeks, opening a second vacancy on the five-member U.S. agency
that regulates telephone, cable and broadcast companies.  Genachowski, a Democrat in the post since 2009, announced
his departure today at an employee meeting in  Washington .  “Over the past four years, we’ve focused the FCC on
broadband, wired and wireless, working to drive economic growth
and improve the lives of all Americans,” Genachowski said. To
replace him, President  Barack Obama  could elevate either of the
agency’s two Democrats or name a chairman as one of two new
members. Both will need Senate confirmation.  Genachowski, 50, can depart without leaving behind a 2-2
partisan tie because Republican Robert McDowell on March 20
announced that he’ll resign in coming weeks. The changes will
leave Mignon Clyburn and Jessica Rosenworcel as the FCC’s
Democrats, and Ajit Pai as its sole Republican.  With two seats open on the FCC, the administration can
advance a Republican and a Democratic nominee simultaneously,
making it easier for both to win confirmation from the Senate,
Andrew Lipman, a Washington-based partner at the Bingham
McCutchen LLP law firm, said in an interview.  Wireless Focus  Genachowski’s focus on expanding access to high-speed
wireless Internet service, or mobile broadband, broke with some
priorities of his predecessors. His FCC levied no fines for
broadcast indecency, after a flurry of penalties under
Republican chairmen from 2003 to 2008, and he didn’t complete
his proposed loosening of media-ownership rules.  Innovation became the agency’s focus under Genachowski,
Obama said today in a statement.  “Because of his leadership, we have expanded high-speed
Internet access, fueled growth in the mobile sector, and
continued to protect the open Internet as a platform for
entrepreneurship and free speech,” Obama said.  Genachowski in 2010 led the agency to a 3-2 party-line vote
approving Internet rules that bar telecommunications carriers
from interfering with subscribers’ Web service. Carriers are
challenging the rules in court, and congressional Republicans
have criticized the regulations as unnecessary.  Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, faulted
Genachowski’s FCC stewardship, alleging that the agency’s
“stonewalling” when asked to turn over information on bankrupt
satellite-service provider LightSquared Inc. was “one of the
worst instances I’ve seen in 30 years of dealing with federal
agencies.”  Freeing Airwaves  The FCC acted “like a privileged organization that didn’t
have to answer basic questions about its decision-making
process,” Grassley said.  Genachowski, in correspondence in 2011, told Grassley the
FCC had “proceeded in an open, thorough, and fair way” where
LightSquared was concerned.  Tasks that await the agency’s new leader include auctioning
airwaves for use by high-speed wireless Internet services, or
mobile broadband. The sale may take place next year for parts of
the spectrum voluntarily given up by television broadcasters,
paying them for their frequencies.  Freeing airwaves is one way to relieve a shortage that
Genachowski made a touchstone of his chairmanship. In a 2009
speech he warned of a  “looming spectrum crisis”  and he
repeatedly drew attention to the need for more airwaves to help
handle increasing wireless traffic as Americans move toward
mobile computing using smartphones and tablets.  WiFi Services  Policy questions include whether to restrict participation
in the auction by the largest U.S. wireless carrier, Verizon
Wireless, and No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  to ensure smaller companies can
win enough spectrum to remain competitive. The FCC also must
decide how much to reserve for WiFi-like services that provide
Internet access without using a traditional wireless carrier.  The auction may offer 120 megahertz of airwaves for
wireless use, according to the National Broadband Plan
Genachowski guided to completion in 2010. That amount is almost
a quarter of Obama’s goal to make 500 megahertz available.  In 2011, Genachowski and the Obama administration opposed
AT&T’s bid for No. 4 U.S. mobile carrier T-Mobile USA Inc.,
saying it would curb competition, and AT&T under pressure
abandoned the $39 billion deal.  Blocking the deal helped spur wireless competition by
preserving T-Mobile as an alternative and by protecting the
third-largest carrier,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , from being
overwhelmed by a new behemoth, Reed Hundt, a former FCC
chairman, said in an interview. Tokyo-based mobile carrier
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  is seeking to buy Sprint, which wouldn’t have
otherwise happened, Hundt said.  On March 13, the FCC approved T-Mobile’s combination with
fifth-largest carrier  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  Genachowski
on March 20 said the agency’s review of Softbank’s $20 billion
bid for Sprint was on track for completion by late May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  