-- FIFA Anti-Graft Adviser Stays as Key Proposals Rejected
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-21T18:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/fifa-anti-graft-adviser-stays-on-as-body-rejects-key-proposals.html
FIFA’s anti-corruption adviser said
he won’t “rush to any decisions” about quitting his post even
though the global soccer body’s executive failed to back several
proposals he described as essential.  Law professor  Mark Pieth  was chosen two years ago to lead
the 13-member Independent Governance Committee after corruption
allegations linked to World Cup bidding in 2010 and the
organization’s presidential election a year later.  After a meeting of its executive board today, Zurich-based
FIFA unveiled changes to the way it will be governed, including
ending the right for Britain to have a vice-president, and will
ask Congress to vote on term and age limits for executives, a
measure put forward by Pieth. The group’s 209 members will vote
on the issues in May.  The board didn’t include other items recommended by the
Swiss academic such as centralized system for integrity checks,
confirmation of  FIFA’s  executive board by all its members, co-
option of independent board members and publication of executive
pay. Pieth said he’ll push for further changes before
considering his future.  “I think whether I take that decision now or at the end of
May doesn’t make so much difference because there are still a
lot of options open,” Pieth said in a telephone interview,
minutes after FIFA held a press conference to announce its
proposals. “We are still working, and theoretically it’s still
a possibility that national associations and confederations
bring aspects that have been thrown out back into play.”  ‘Counselor’  German official Theo Zwanziger, who heads FIFA’s group
responsible for changing the statues, said it was normal that
Pieth wouldn’t get his own way on everything.  “He’s just a counselor,” Zwanziger said at a press
conference today. “Since when can a counselor implement 100
percent of what he wants?”  FIFA, which today also announced revenue of $1.2 billion
for 2012 and a 7 percent increase in cash reserves to $1.4
billion, will ask members to vote on the proposals when they
attend the group’s annual meeting. They won’t have a chance to
decide on the composition of FIFA’s executive board, which has
been accused of graft dating back decades to an agreement with
former marketing partner ISL and more recently to the 2018 and
2022  World Cup  bids.  Although President Sepp Blatter, in the top job since 1998,
has often complained about the way his board is chosen, FIFA
rejected proposals that would have required each official to be
confirmed by its congress. Instead the status quo will remain,
whereby confederations host elections for seats on FIFA’s
executive, a system supported by European soccer’s governing
body UEFA.  ‘Buddies Are Elected’  “They are trying to make sure their buddies are elected,”
Pieth said, adding that the changes made by FIFA since Blatter
announced in 2011 a two-year process to reform the organization
were “middle of the road.”  Pieth said he wasn’t surprised by the pace of change, or
the resistance to it from some members.  “You can’t expect things will change from bloody bad to
bloody good in one or two years,” he said. “That would be
naïve.”  FIFA rejected calls for reform for years before finally
addressing the issue of corporate governance following criticism
in 2011 from sponsors of its $5 billion World Cup when the only
challenger to Blatter’s presidency was accused of trying to
bribe voters.  Pieth’s independent advisory group, which also includes
former U.K. attorney general Peter Goldsmith and U.S. soccer
head  Sunil Gulati , will meet April 16 for a strategy meeting.  Illicit Payments  The group will also examine the results of an investigation
by FIFA’s ethics body into whether officials other than former
President  Joao Havelange  and ex-board member  Ricardo Teixeira 
profited from payments from the now defunct ISL marketing
company. A Swiss court revealed Havelange and Teixeira, his
former son-in-law, received as much as $22 million from ISL.  Pieth said he’ll also be speaking with UEFA, and had
assurances from its president  Michel Platini  that he wasn’t
trying to block changes.  UEFA  in January issued a declaration
that rejected many of the IGC’s recommendations.  “Platini is moving away from blocking,” Pieth said.
“It’s the Spaniards, they are the problem, and the British and
Germans are siding with them.”  The UEFA declaration on FIFA reforms stated any integrity
checks on prospective FIFA officials should be done at regional
level, and that candidates for FIFA’s presidency should face no
age limits and be connected to national associations, a position
rejected by Pieth but included in the reform proposals today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  