-- Flaherty Holds Spending to Return Canada to 2015 Balance
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-21T21:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/flaherty-holds-spending-in-bid-to-return-canada-to-2015-b.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  plans to eliminate the country’s deficit before the
next election in 2015 by limiting spending growth to the slowest
pace since the 1990s and banking on an accelerated recovery.  Flaherty’s  budget  presented today projected  Canada  will
swing to a surplus of about C$800 million in the fiscal year
that begins April 2015, from a C$25.9 billion deficit in the
year ending this month. Spending growth is forecast to average
2.1 percent over the next five years, after rising about 26
percent, or 4.9 percent a year, since 2007. Revenue is projected
to grow an average 4.6 percent, more than double the current
year’s pace, as Flaherty bets the country’s  expansion  will pick
up steam.  “It’s credible, in that growth in revenue and expenditures
are very doable and realistic,” said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, even though the
“net risk is that revenues don’t live up to projection.”  Flaherty is seeking to reverse a legacy of deficits that
may reach a cumulative C$170 billion amid the slowest expansion
since the 2009 recession that is hampering revenue. He’s betting
recent efforts to restrain  government spending  will help the
country keep its status as the sole Group of Seven nation with a
stable top  credit rating .  Capital Expenses  “It requires discipline, but that discipline is being
followed and it leads to a balanced budget,” Flaherty, who has
said he hasn’t decided whether to run for office in the next
election, told reporters in Ottawa.  Canada is the only Group of Seven country with a stable AAA
debt rating from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings. Moody’s said in a statement today the budget
is in line with the government’s Aaa bond rating.  Canada’s currency extended gains after the budget was
released. It traded at C$1.0244 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:36 p.m. in
Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 97.62 U.S. cents.  Flaherty has pledged not to reduce transfers to individuals
and provinces or raise taxes, other than closing loopholes, to
spare most Canadians the brunt of deficit-cutting measures.  Instead, he is zeroing in on the C$120 billion Canada’s
government spends on operating and capital expenses, which is
less than half of total program spending.  Reducing Payrolls  The governing Conservatives lead by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  already have been working to reduce the state payroll,
pledging to fire about 12,000 workers and cut another 7,000 jobs
through attrition. Today’s fiscal plans include about C$600
million worth of additional savings from government over five
years.  Flaherty projected direct program spending excluding
payments to individuals and provinces would drop to 5.8 percent
of GDP in 2015 from 6.7 percent in 2012. That will decline
further to 5.5 percent by 2017, near the lowest in 50 years.  Flaherty’s plan also projects spending will be less than
forecast in his last  update  in November, reflecting changes to
how the government accounts for budgeted expenses that never
occur, and other factors such as weaker-than-expected inflation
that is reducing price-indexed payments.  Revenue though is being hampered by a slumping global
economy, with the government reducing its growth forecast for
this year to 1.6 percent, compared with a 2 percent November
projection. Combined with lower commodity prices, that will
reduce revenue projections by C$14.8 billion between 2012 and
2017, before new measures in the fiscal plan.  ‘Consistently Wrong’  “Stephen Harper and Jim Flaherty have consistently gotten
it wrong with regard to their budget predictions,”  Thomas Mulcair , leader of the opposition  New Democratic Party  told
reporters in Ottawa. “The deficit was higher than had been
predicted. Growth was lower. They’re making a very high
prediction for next year to come up with their under-C$20
billion deficit prediction. That will of course also have proven
to be wrong.”  One benefit from weakening global growth is lower borrowing
costs, reducing interest expenses by more than C$2 billion over
the next five years.  The government’s also eliminates tariffs on baby clothing,
imported hockey equipment and other sports equipment, a measure
that will cost C$76 million a year, budget documents show.  Revenue Measures  Today’s plan includes revenue raising measures that include
closing of loopholes and steps to reduce  tax evasion , in part to
pay for new initiatives. Closing tax loopholes will generate
another C$4.4 billion in revenue over five years, while the
government expects to generate an additional C$2.4 billion from
more aggressive efforts to catch tax evaders.  Flaherty also announced he will remove 72 “higher-income”
countries, including  South Korea  and  China , from Canada’s
preferential tariff system, which allows
goods from developing nations lower duty rates. The change will
come into effect in 2015 and raise C$333 million annually.  Measures to bolster growth will cost C$6.9 billion from
2012 to 2017, including a two-year extension on a temporary tax
break and new direct funding for manufacturers who have been
hardest hit by the global slowdown.  While total employment has increased by more than 950,000
jobs since July 2009,  manufacturing  jobs are still at near the
lowest on record as factories struggle with the Canadian
dollar’s 45 percent gain over the past decade.  Dollar Impact  The higher dollar also has had a regional impact, with
manufacturing-heavy Ontario posting above national average
jobless rates in every month since June 2006. Flaherty today
announced new funding for a regional development agency in
southern Ontario, and allocated C$1 billion for aerospace and
military manufacturers.  “It addresses the issues that are critical for the
companies that are adding value to reboot the economic
recovery,” said Jay Myers, chief executive of Canadian
Manufacturers and Exporters, an Ottawa-based advocacy group.  Much of Canada’s expansion over the next year depends on a
shift from  consumer spending , which has led growth for years, to
business investment. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said
Feb. 25 the “rotation” of demand from the country’s indebted
households to businesses “is the fundamental challenge” for
the economy.  Recent evidence suggests companies are still holding back.
Canadian investment spending will increase this year at the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, according to a Statistics
Canada survey released Feb. 27, amid sluggish global demand and
weak commodity prices.  Oil Glut  The country’s energy producers are being hampered by a glut
of supply that has constrained Canadian  oil prices , in part
because of a lack of transport routes.  The price of Western Canada Select, the benchmark heavy
crude exported from  Alberta  to the U.S., reached a record
 discount  below the price of U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil
last year.  Flaherty this year is reallocating existing funding to
begin financing grants of C$15,000 for job training, to be
jointly funded by provincial governments and employers.  The country’s job vacancy rates are the highest in Alberta,
Saskatchewan and Manitoba, according to Statistics Canada data.  “The Canadian economy certainly slowed through the second
half of last year, but is expected to gradually grind higher,”
 David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at TD Securities said
in an interview in Ottawa. “The decisions made today are
appropriate to reflect some of that uncertainty. The important
thing to take away from this is recognizing that Canada does
stand head and shoulders over many of its developed-market peers
in ensuring that its fiscal fundamentals are very sound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  