-- Flaherty Offers Training Grants to Ease Skills Shortages
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-21T20:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/flaherty-offers-training-grants-to-ease-canada-labor-shortages.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is offering grants for job training and extending
investment tax breaks to help companies in the world’s 11th
largest economy find skilled workers and boost manufacturing.  The grants of C$15,000 ($14,600) will consist of
contributions by the federal government that would be matched by
employers and provincial governments at a cost of C$500 million
a year, Flaherty said.  Canada  is also increasing funding for
 manufacturers  by extending a tax credit for investments in
factory equipment at a cost C$1.4 billion.  “There are too many jobs that go unfilled in Canada
because employers can’t find workers with the right skills,”
Flaherty said in his budget speech today in Ottawa. “Unless we
act now, this problem will be compounded as the recovery
continues.”  The longest-serving finance minister in the Group of Seven
nations highlighted the job grant in a budget focused on
boosting  growth  amid weak demand from export markets in the U.S.
and  Europe  and consumers carrying record debt levels. Flaherty
is relying on companies that are holding record amounts of cash
to drive growth with investments and exports as he seeks to
eliminate Canada’s deficit by 2015.  “Flaherty has a tricky balancing act right now to balance
the books while at the same time making some investment to
stimulate business growth,” Dan Kelly, president of the
Canadian Federation of Independent Business, said in an
interview. “We have to start doing a better job in preparing
Canadians, and we think that engaging employers is the best way
to make that happen.”  Ontario Focus  Ontario, Canada’s most-populous province and main
manufacturing region, was the focus of most of the funding.
Flaherty announced C$920 million over five years for a regional
development agency. The budget also allocated C$1 billion for
aerospace and military manufacturers and C$92 million to help
forestry companies find new markets.  The job grants depend on negotiations with the provinces to
change labor-market agreements that begin expiring next year.
Flaherty said today those agreements haven’t eased shortages of
skilled trades workers such as electricians, carpenters and
engineers. The reworked terms will offer “short-duration
training” at community colleges or union training centers, he
said.  The  skills shortage  may be overblown as wages have not
risen high enough to reflect a true shortage in some areas,
Derek Burleton, an economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in
an interview, adding the investment measures may have more
impact.  ‘More Productive’  “Canadian businesses need to step up and become more
innovative and  productive ,” Burleton said. “In our medium-term
growth forecasts, we are counting on business investment to ramp
up from the recent pace, which has been disappointing.”  The business spending incentives come amid signs that
executives are reluctant to expand. Investment spending will
increase this 1.7 percent this year, the slowest pace since the
2009 recession, a Feb. 27 survey from Statistics Canada
projected.  Non-financial companies held a record C$600 billion of
currency and deposits in the fourth quarter, up from C$434
billion in mid-2009 as the last recession ended, according to
 Statistics Canada .  Calgary-based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest
energy firm, led all companies with C$4.39 billion in cash and
marketable securities according to Bloomberg calculations.
Twenty-three companies had cash and marketable securities worth
more than C$1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  