-- Ford Says Lincoln Sales Rising on Improving MKZ Shipments
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-21T20:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ford-says-lincoln-sales-rising-on-improving-mkz-shipments.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said sales of its struggling Lincoln luxury
brand are improving after the company ended an arrangement to
ship its newest model through a second plant.  Ford’s plant in Hermosillo,  Mexico , this month began
sending MKZ sedans directly to dealers, Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s
president of the Americas, told reporters today in Dearborn,
Michigan, near the company’s headquarters. Ford had been sending
some MKZs to a plant in Michigan for additional quality
inspections and to be equipped with missing parts.  “The sales have been increasing, especially over the last
week or so, as the inventories have improved,” Hinrichs, 46,
said at an event with Michigan small businesses and suppliers.
“We’ll be certainly at normal levels in April. You’ll see a
more normal sales rate of the MKZ starting in April.”  Lincoln U.S. sales plunged 25 percent during the first two
months of the year. Ford is counting on the MKZ, which features
a chrome grille inspired by eagle wings and an optional
retractable glass roof, to help increase demand for its luxury
line and contribute more to results in North America, where the
company earned a record profit margin last year.  Ford is relying on its home market amid widening losses in
 Europe  and break-even results in Asia, where the automaker is
investing billions on new plants to take on  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The MKZ is the first of four new models Lincoln has coming
over four years. Lincoln began selling the restyled MKZ in
January at a starting price of $35,925.  ‘Shored Up’  “We’ve had some significant part availability
shortcomings,” Hinrichs said today, referring to the MKZ’s
introduction. “That’s starting to flow. Especially after
Easter, we expect that to be pretty well shored up.”  Ford still has a number of MKZs “on hold” at its plant in
Flat Rock, Michigan, that are waiting for parts or modifications
to correct problems that the company found with cars in the
early phase of the model’s build, Hinrichs said. Ford should be
close to finished working through that backlog next month, he
said, declining to give more specifics.  “I don’t want to blame the supply base for everything,”
he said. “We’ve had our own internal issues as well. As we were
ramping up, the expectations on the quality of this vehicle are
the highest that I’ve been a part of.”  This year’s Lincoln sales decline has occurred after Ford
initiated an advertising push in December to reintroduce the
“Lincoln Motor Co.” with commercials featuring vintage models
and an actor playing Abraham Lincoln.  Ford fell 0.7 percent to $13.26 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 2.4 percent this year compared with an
8.4 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  