-- Freddie Mac and Its Regulator Faulted on Servicer Complaints
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-03-21T14:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/freddie-mac-and-its-regulator-faulted-over-servicer-complaints.html
Freddie Mac  and its regulator must
do more to ensure loan servicers properly respond to complaints
over handling of mortgages held or guaranteed by the U.S.-owned
company, according to a government watchdog’s audit report.  Servicers who collect payments and deal with borrowers for
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  failed to implement Federal Housing Finance Agency
guidelines for so-called escalated complaints, the FHFA’s Office
of Inspector General said in the report released today. Freddie
Mac failed to supervise the servicers and FHFA, which oversees
the McLean, Virginia-based company and Washington-based  Fannie
Mae (FNMA) , didn’t ensure the procedures were followed.  Servicers that work with Freddie Mac, including  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , reported
few or no escalated cases -- those that may involve fraud or
regulatory violations -- despite having handled such cases,
according to the report. Overall, Freddie Mac data on its
servicers shows that about 98 percent didn’t report any
escalated cases as of December 2012.  “FHFA must take immediate action to improve servicer
reporting, which will in turn help the agency to ensure that
escalated cases are resolved,” the inspector general’s office
said in the report. “Strengthened oversight -- through actions
aimed specifically at improving servicer compliance with
escalated case requirements -- can benefit homeowners, Freddie
Mac, and ultimately taxpayers.”  Freddie Mac, which has operated under U.S. conservatorship
since it was seized along with  Fannie Mae  during the 2008 credit
crisis, by the end of 2012 owned or guaranteed about 10.6
million residential mortgages with a combined unpaid principal
balance of $1.6 trillion, according to the report.  ‘Sorry String’  “Today’s report reveals the latest in a sorry string of
failures by FHFA leadership to protect American homeowners,”
Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland said in a statement.
“After so many reports documenting the abuses homeowners have
suffered at the hands of mortgage servicers, it is
unconscionable that FHFA has failed to require mortgage
servicers to properly handle tens of thousands of homeowner
complaints.”  Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, has criticized FHFA Acting Director
Edward DeMarco and called on President Barack Obama to nominate
a new leader for the agency.  The lawmaker asked Representative  Darrell Issa , the
California Republican who leads the oversight panel, to hold a
hearing with testimony from DeMarco, FHFA Inspector General
Steve A. Linick and officials from Bank of America, Citigroup
and Wells Fargo, loan servicers singled out in the report as
disregarding reporting requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  