-- French Economy to Stay Stalled in First Half, Insee Predicts
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-21T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/french-economy-to-stay-stalled-in-first-half-insee-predicts.html
The French economy will extend two
years of stagnation in the first half as consumers hold off on
spending and companies cut investments, national statistics
office Insee predicted.  Gross domestic product  will be unchanged in the first
quarter and expand 0.1 percent in the second, Insee said
yesterday in a report. GDP hasn’t registered quarterly growth of
more than 0.2 percent since the first three months of 2011 and
has had three quarters of declines since then.  “The fact is that the French economy has been essentially
stalled for the past two years,” Cedric Audenis, head economic
forecasting at Insee, told journalists in Paris. “Whether we’re
just above or just below zero in a given quarter doesn’t really
matter.”  The forecast shows President  Francois Hollande  is unlikely
to get relief from a growth spurt in coming months as he
struggles to contain a three-decade old  budget deficit  and
overhaul the social system of  Europe ’s second-largest economy.
The deficit-cutting effort is weighing on  household income ,
meaning  consumer spending  will be unchanged in the first quarter
and rise 0.1 percent in the second, Insee said.  Unemployment is also discouraging consumers. Insee said it
expects 37,000 jobs to be lost in the private sector in the
first half, driving unemployment up to 11 percent.  Investment by non-financial companies will drop 0.5 percent
in each of the two quarters and household investment will
decline 1.4 percent and 1.6 percent, according to the forecasts.  Waning investment is set to hit the  construction industry 
particularly hard, with output dropping 0.7 percent and 0.6
percent.  Support for the economy is expected to come from a
recovering global economy, which will lift exports 0.6 percent
and 0.7 percent in the two quarters.  “We see signs of improvement in the global economy,” said
Insee economist Jean-Francois Ouvrard. “Clearly this will
generate more demand for French industry from abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  