-- Gasoline Price Inflated by Ethanol in Oil Boom: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-03-21T14:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/gasoline-price-inflated-by-ethanol-in-oil-boom-energy-markets.html
Even as the U.S. produces more oil
than at any time since 1992, gasoline remains a dollar higher
than the average for the past decade in part because of George
W. Bush-era rules that attach a 38-digit Renewable
Identification Number to every gallon of ethanol.  Gasoline prices at service stations have risen an average
12 percent this year even as benchmark West  Texas  Intermediate
crude climbed 1 percent. Part of the reason is the 10-fold
increase in the cost of credits that refiners from  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  to  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  must buy to comply with the
2007 law designed to boost ethanol consumption.  Bush’s mandate predated a boom in oil and gas production
that has helped the U.S. meet 84 percent of its energy needs in
the first 11 months of last year, government data show, the most
since 1991. Since its passage in 2007, annual gasoline  demand 
has dropped 6.3 percent, while U.S. output has soared 28
percent, making compliance by refiners more expensive and
eclipsing any benefit from replacing hydrocarbon-based fuel.  “It’s bastardized our markets off into some cosmic market
that has nothing to do with supply and demand,” Peyton Feltus,
president of Randolph Risk Management Inc., an energy-consulting
firm in  Dallas , said in a phone interview on March 5. “2007 was
a very different energy world. There was so much demand for
finished products.”  Production Jumps  Crude production  jumped to 7.16 million barrels a day as of
March 8, the highest level since July 1992, driven by increased
drilling in oilfields including  North Dakota ’s Bakken shale and
the Eagle Ford in Texas, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  Gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, has risen to
$3.691 a gallon, or 15 percent higher than its December low,
according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S.
motoring group. It has averaged $2.697 since 2003. WTI fell as
much as 1 percent to $92.57 as of 10:23 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Brent crude , the global waterborne oil that
more closely reflects prices paid by U.S. refineries, has
dropped 2.9 percent this year.  The credits that refiners must collect to show compliance
with the federal mandate are attached to each gallon of ethanol
as it’s distilled or imported into the U.S. Ethanol is a form of
alcohol indistinguishable from moonshine that’s created by
fermenting and distilling the starches from corn, sugar, wheat
and other crops. Most of the fuel in the U.S. is corn-based.  When the biofuel is combined with gasoline, the credits go
to the blenders, which can use them if they also produce
gasoline or sell them to other obligated parties if they don’t
need them or have an excess.  RINs Rise  Each credit has the Renewable Identification Number, or
RIN, which the Environmental Protection Agency tracks. The RINs,
which are traded among brokers, jumped to a record $1.06 a
gallon on March 8 from 7.1 cents on Jan. 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They cost 70.5 cents yesterday.  Complying with the mandate has become more difficult as the
government boosted the total amount of ethanol that must be
blended with gasoline by 53 percent from 2008, while motor fuel
demand has dropped 15 percent from a 2007 record, according to
refiners including Valero and Marathon. The gap means higher
pump prices, refiners say.  “A dollar a RIN is 10 cents a gallon,”  Bill Klesse , chief
executive officer of Valero, the world’s largest independent
refiner, said March 18 at the American Fuel & Petrochemical
Manufacturers Conference in San Antonio. “It’s going to get
passed on.”  Valero estimates its cost to comply with the Renewable
Fuels Standard will be $500 million to $750 million this year.  Ethanol Requirement  Gasoline  demand  is projected to average 133.5 billion
gallons in 2013 and 2014, the EIA, the statistical arm of the
Energy Department, said in its March 12 Short-Term Energy
Outlook. Under the 2007 energy law signed by Bush, the U.S. is
required to use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this year and
14.4 billion in 2014. Ethanol is typically combined with
gasoline in a 10 percent ratio, which is referred to as the
blend wall.  Some auto manufacturers won’t offer a warranty if drivers
use fuel with more than 10 percent ethanol, because of its
corrosive properties, effectively capping how much refiners can
blend at about 13.4 billion gallons for 2013,  Charles Drevna ,
president of the industry group, said March 17 at the
conference. That’s 400 million gallons less than the government
mandate, raising demand for RINs to make up the difference.  Short Squeeze  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE)  Chief Executive Officer
Todd Becker described the RINs surge as a classic short squeeze,
a situation in which a lack of supply forces up prices, and that
refiners have more room to consume ethanol without exceeding the
blend wall. Becker said higher RINs costs aren’t having a
measureable impact on gasoline and pointed toward record returns
from refining the motor fuel from crude oil.  “There’s no way that RINs would add 10 cents to every
gallon of gasoline,” Geoff Cooper, vice president of research
and analysis at the  Renewable Fuels Association , a Washington-
based trade group, said in a March 19 telephone interview.
Cooper said an additional 10 cents assumes that a RIN costs $1
and that all gasoline a refiner is selling contains no ethanol.  There are about 2.6 billion RINs carried over that can be
used to comply with the law in 2013, the EPA said in a  Federal
Register  posting on Feb. 7. As the program requires more
blending next year, it’s “more likely” that the volume of
ethanol to be blended will exceed the amount that can be mixed
with gasoline, the agency said, and the number of carryover RINs
into 2014 will “almost certainly” be lower than for 2013.  EPA Review  The agency is accepting public comments on the fuel
standards until April 7, and then will review the comments
before deciding on any potential revisions to blending
requirements next year, according to an e-mailed statement.  Refiners and importers may use another 1.6 billion stored
RINs this year and run out by 2014, Thomas Hogan, a senior vice
president at Dallas-based Turner Mason & Co., a petroleum and
refining consulting firm, said in a paper presented March 19 at
the AFPM conference in  San Antonio .  The jump in RIN prices is encouraging refiners to reduce
imports of petroleum products that would increase the amount of
credits they have to submit to the EPA and boost exports of the
fuel, tightening domestic supply, said Michael Breitenbach, an
analyst and trader at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in  New York .  Supporter Win  Ethanol supporters won a victory in January 2011 when the
EPA granted a request from producers to raise the allowable
amount of the biofuel in gasoline to 15 percent, known as E-15,
for vehicles made after 2001.  “Continued strength in the RINs market for an extended
period of time could hamper domestic supplies of refined
products and increase cost for the consumer,” Breitenbach said.
“Ethanol producers, on the other hand, are hoping that these
RIN prices will act as a catalyst to jump start adaptation of
E-15 in the retail marketplace.”  Congressional hearings may soon examine the RFS based on
developments that have occurred since 2007, said Tim Cheung, a
research associate at ClearView Energy Partners LLC in
 Washington . President  Barack Obama  in November 2011 ordered
automakers to double average  fuel economy  of vehicles to 54.5
miles per gallon by 2025, shrinking gasoline demand.  This is all driving RINs prices higher as refiners need to
purchase more of the credits, according to  John Auers , senior
vice president of Turner Mason.  “In 2014, we’re going to start hitting a wall and getting
to a point where the regulators are calling for something that
can’t physically be done,” he said. “This isn’t a short-term
trend, the high prices aren’t going away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  