-- German Stocks Fall as Manufacturing Unexpectedly Shrinks
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-03-21T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/german-stocks-fall-as-manufacturing-unexpectedly-shrinks.html
German stocks  declined for a fourth
time in five days as data showed manufacturing unexpectedly
contracted in March, while Cyprus’s President worked on a plan
to get a European Central Bank-led bailout.  Lanxess AG fell the most since September 2011 after the
chemical maker forecast a drop in quarterly profit. SAP AG lost
2.1 percent as U.S. peer Oracle Corp. reported profit that
missed analysts’ predictions. Siemens AG advanced to its highest
since July 2011 after Morgan Stanley raised its rating on
Europe’s biggest engineering company.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  retreated 0.9 percent to 7,932.51 at the
close of trading in  Frankfurt . The gauge has still gained 4.2
percent this year as reports pointed to a strengthening global
economy amid speculation that central banks will maintain
stimulus measures. The broader HDAX Index declined 0.8 percent.  “Today’s PMI figures clearly indicate that the euro-zone
economy has remained stuck in recession,” Martin van Vliet, an
economist at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam, wrote in emailed
comments. “With fiscal austerity, tight credit and high
unemployment set to keep most peripheral economies in recession,
the path back to growth will likely be slow and bumpy.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 8.7 percent higher the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  A German index based on a survey of  purchasing managers  in
the manufacturing industry declined to 48.9 this month from 50.3
in February, while a services gauge fell to 51.6 from 54.7,
London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction. Economists had forecast 50.5 for
the manufacturing index and 55.0 for the services gauge,
according to the median estimates in Bloomberg News surveys.  Euro Manufacturing  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted more
than economists estimated in March. A composite index based on a
survey of purchasing managers in both industries fell to 46.5
from 47.9 in February, Markit Economics said today. Economists
had forecast 48.2, according to the median of 23 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  “This has strongly dampened hopes of slight growth of the
euro-zone economy,”  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, wrote in an email. “The ECB will
see this as confirmation of its economic pessimism.”  In Cyprus, President Nicos Anastasiades met advisers to
draft a new plan to obtain a bailout after lawmakers in the
island nation rejected the euro area’s proposed levy on  bank
deposits . The alternative plan may include a new version of the
deposit tax, according to an official who asked not to be
identified, citing government policy.  ECB Funding  The ECB said it will cut Cypriot banks off from emergency
funds after March 25 unless the Mediterranean island agrees on a
bailout with international creditors. Euro-area finance
ministers may hold a call to discuss the situation in Cyprus
tonight or tomorrow, a European official said today on condition
of anonymity.  “Suddenly the ECB is playing a tough game and setting the
bar at a high level,” Patrick Legland, head of research at
Societe Generale SA, told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television. “We’ll see in the next few weeks that they are
clearly leading the direction. The ECB is saying either you find
a solution or we’ll not put any more liquidity in your banking
system, which is a very strict and very tough announcement.”  Lanxess AG tumbled 6 percent to 58.31 euros. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and one-time
items may fall to as low as 160 million euros ($206 million) in
the current period from last year’s 369 million euros, the
company said.  SAP Falls  SAP AG,  Germany ’s most valuable company, slipped 1.35 euros
to 62.96 euros. Oracle Corp., the world’s second-largest maker
of business applications, reported fiscal third-quarter profit
and sales that missed analysts’ predictions.  BASF SE declined 3.1 percent to 71.30 euros. The world’s
biggest chemical company lost a U.S. appeals court bid to force
Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. to stop selling a version of its
popular termite killer, a day after filing a new patent suit
against that competitor.  3W Power SA plummeted 44 percent to 64.5 cents, the lowest
price since the stock started trading in July 2008, after saying
the banking  crisis in Cyprus  may damage a key client’s ability
to pay what it owes the company’s AEG Power Solutions BV energy
control-systems division.  Siemens AG rose 1.7 percent to 86.88 euros. Morgan Stanley
upgraded the company to overweight, the equivalent of a buy
rating, and added it to its  Europe  best ideas list, citing its
potential to improve returns through disposals.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank AG added 0.8 percent to 32.70 euros. Co-Chief
Executive Officer Anshu Jain said the performance of continental
Europe’s biggest bank was “solid” in the first quarter. “We
expect our first quarter to be solid across all businesses,
driven by robust revenues similar to last year’s performance,”
Jain, 50, said at a conference in London today. Deutsche Bank
will report quarterly earnings on April 30.  RWE AG and EON SE, Germany’s largest utilities, advanced
2.9 percent to 29.73 euros, and 4.2 percent to 13.71 euros,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  