-- Getting the CIA Out of the Drone War
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-21T22:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/getting-the-cia-out-of-the-drone-war.html
Is the Central Intelligence Agency
getting an honorable discharge from the drone war?  White House officials  indicate  that the Defense Department
will eventually take over full operation of U.S. targeted
killing operations abroad, part of a wider effort by President
 Barack Obama  to set clearer standards in the campaign against
global terrorism and blunt rising criticism of unmanned
operations.  A clearer counterterrorism framework is welcome, and moving
the task of drone-targeting to the Pentagon will help. Yet this
step is unlikely to offer much solace to Americans and others
troubled by the idea that the government is killing people --
including U.S. citizens -- without due legal process in ways
that might breach other nations’ sovereignty and broaden support
for al-Qaeda.  The government currently has twin drone programs. The CIA
and its contractors focus mostly on  Pakistan , while the Pentagon
targets Yemen, Somalia and the Afghan battlefield. The CIA
operation is technically covert, although administration
officials have made such an open secret of it that a federal
judge ruled March 15 that the government can no longer deny its
existence. Putting both programs under Pentagon control would at
least end this charade.  The virtues of the change are more than superficial. The
Pentagon consolidation would have the benefit of making the
drone war subject to international military law. It would also
place it under the supervision of an institution with greater
experience in the conduct of war. The shift may also help return
the CIA, which has become much more involved in paramilitary
activities since the Sept. 11 attacks, to its traditional role
of gathering and assessing intelligence.  Like just about everything involving drone policy, there
are complications. Pentagon control might require the U.S. to
get approval from host governments for strikes. Such permission
would enhance the policy’s legitimacy. At the same time, it
could pose a problem if al-Qaeda forces take harbor in a country
with an anti-American government.  Then there’s the issue of congressional oversight. The CIA
is required by law to promptly notify the House and Senate
intelligence committees of every strike, and it has done a
commendable job. The Pentagon is under no such obligation. If
the drone switch happens, it’s essential that the congressional
armed services committees take on a strong supervisory role.  Supporters and critics alike should realize that
institutionalizing the drone program within the Pentagon sends a
strong signal that targeted killing will be a long-term fixture
of U.S. defense policy. The strikes will probably fall under the
auspices of the Joint Special Operations Command, the super-
secret overseer of the military’s clandestine operations. If the
Obama administration’s goal is to gain greater support for its
approach, shuffling operations among departments won’t cut it.
We would like to see a renewed emphasis on capturing rather than
killing all targets, and for the U.S. to take the lead
incorporating rules on drones into the law of war.  Obama is rightly removing the targeted-killing campaign
from the covert shadows. Now he has to make the case that it is
moral, legal and vital to our security.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 