-- Gillard Grit Overcomes Rivals as Labor Struggles for Traction
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-22T05:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/gillard-grit-prevails-over-rivals-as-labor-battles-for-traction.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s second win over rivals for her job in a year gave her
minority government space to assemble a budget as it struggles
to revive public support ahead of a national election.  Gillard, 51, called a leadership contest yesterday after
former leader Simon Crean urged a rematch between her and Kevin Rudd, whom she ousted in 2010 and beat again in a February 2012
party vote. After Rudd refused to run and Gillard won
uncontested, Treasurer Wayne Swan said “it’s back to work,”
with a budget due in May. Gillard fired Crean yesterday, two
other cabinet members quit, another minister resigned, and Rudd
ruled out today seeking the Labor leadership in the future.  The next set of public polls will show whether the episode
cleared the clouds overhanging Gillard, or deepened voter
disaffection ahead of the Sept. 14 election. Any further loss in
support would increase the odds of opposition Liberal-National
leader Tony Abbott pressing for a parliamentary no-confidence
motion in the government, after he lost a bid to hold one
yesterday by three votes.  “Maybe Gillard can use this as a circuit-breaker” to
restart the campaign, said Haydon Manning, a politics professor
at Flinders University in Adelaide. At the same time, “it’s
hard to imagine a scenario where she can lead the government to
victory from here. All she’s got on her side is time, and that’s
only six months and counting.”  ‘No Circumstances’  Rudd’s office today issued a  statement  saying the former
prime minister “wishes to make 100 percent clear to all members
of the parliamentary Labor Party, including his own supporters,
that there are no circumstances under which he will return to
the Labor Party leadership in the future.” Rudd reiterated that
he intends to contest the next election as a local member of
parliament, according to the statement on his website.  The political developments had little impact on stocks,
with the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  closing down 0.2 percent at
4,959.41 yesterday, little changed from where it was when former
Labor leader Simon Crean brought things to a head earlier in the
day, urging Gillard to call a leadership ballot. The Aussie
dollar traded at $1.0429 at 3:50 p.m. today and was little
changed in Sydney trading yesterday.  Gillard did lose a vote yesterday, when Abbott sought to
propose a no-confidence motion in the government in the lower
house of Parliament. A successful bid could have brought down
the administration, forcing an early election. Abbott garnered
73 to Gillard’s 71, while falling short of a majority of 76.  Key Outcome  While Abbott’s attempt failed, Tony Windsor and Rob Oakeshott -- two independents on whom Gillard relies to pass
legislation -- sided with the Liberal-National coalition’s call
to debate the no-confidence motion, underscoring Labor’s tenuous
hold on power.  A key outcome “was the confidence vote and the way in
which she lost a number of her independents,” said Peter Chen,
who teaches media politics, public policy and Australian
politics at the University of Sydney. “She’s now got a bit of a
legitimacy crisis, which is only partially assuaged by the
uncontested spill.”  Australia ’s first female leader, who was yesterday
attempting to focus attention on her government’s apology to the
victims of forced adoptions last century, threw open her
leadership to challengers after Crean’s call. Crean, who led
Labor in the early 2000s, urged Rudd to stand against her and
said he would nominate himself to take Swan’s deputy position.  Party Coup  Gillard ousted Rudd 33 months earlier in a late-night
party-room coup, leading to public discontent about how she came
to power that’s been reflected in opinion polls in which Labor
has lagged behind the opposition for almost two years.  A Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper
March 12 forecast a 52-48 percent split in favor of the
opposition on a two-party preferred basis. The poll of 1,143
people had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage
points. The two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge
which party is likely to win enough seats to form a government.  While surveys show Rudd, 55, enjoys greater support than
Gillard among the general public, he faces antipathy from
Labor’s senior ranks over his leadership style. The former
diplomat, who last year said he’d learned lessons during his
2007-2010 tenure as prime minister and would try to consult more
widely, yesterday stuck to his pledge of not mounting another
challenge to Gillard.  ‘Overwhelming Majority’  “The only circumstances under which I would consider a
return to the leadership would be if there was an overwhelming
majority of the parliamentary party requesting such a return,”
Rudd told reporters on his way to the ballot room. “Those
circumstances do not exist.”  The leadership question has hampered Gillard’s efforts to
focus voter attention on her legislative achievements, which
include levies on resource profits and carbon, and forcing
tobacco companies to brand their products in plain packaging
with graphic health warnings.  Fallout from the contest extended today when Resources
Minister Martin Ferguson and Tertiary Education Minister Chris Bowen, both cabinet members, resigned from their posts. Human
Services Minister Kim Carr also quit. Crean lost his ministry
yesterday after calling for the ballot and Richard Marles,
parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs, resigned late
yesterday, along with two government whips.  “This is all definitely over,” Gillard told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “People can be reassured that
all of this is done and dusted now so they don’t have to worry
about that anymore and we’ll just be getting on with the big
things that really matter for governing and for the future of
the country.”  Intensifying Speculation  The contest occurred after days of intensifying speculation
Rudd would seek a contest. Rudd backers raised the idea of a
leadership move with Labor colleagues, the Nine television
network reported earlier this week.  Abbott, who has promised to eliminate the carbon tax and
mining profit levy if elected, said the day’s events showed the
minority government “experiment” had failed and called on
Gillard to hold an election immediately.  “Nothing is resolved,” Abbott told reporters. “The civil
war will continue as long as Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard are in
parliament.”  Parliament now enters a seven-week hiatus, leaving the
government to prepare its May 14 budget. Gillard and Swan will
seek to reconcile a policy agenda for a third-term focused on
strengthening the education system with spending constraints
imposed by lower revenue.  Budget Deficit  Swan late last year abandoned a pledge to return the budget
to surplus this fiscal year, damaging the government’s economic
credibility. The budget fell a further A$4.6 billion ($4.8
billion) into deficit in the first four weeks of 2013, taking
the total shortfall to A$26.8 billion for the first seven months
of the financial year, according to Treasury figures released by
the government March 15.  Gillard’s government maintains that a willingness to go
into debt and not cut spending severely helped protect jobs:
Australia’s  unemployment rate  is 5.4 percent -- less than half
the level in the European Union -- and the economy added 71,500
workers last month, the biggest increase in almost 13 years.  “The only way that she can get a bump is through
campaigning, actually moving into election mode where there is a
bit more of a focus on the two parties and their policy
positions,” said Chen. “She’s good at that sort of language.
Much better than this sort of soft campaigning she’s been in for
a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  