-- Gillard Retains Labor Leadership as Rudd Declines to Contest
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-21T08:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/gillard-retains-labor-leadership-after-rudd-declines-to-contest.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillardsurvived as Labor leader today and called on the
governing party to unite before elections in six months, after
predecessor Kevin Rudd declined to challenge her in a ballot.  “The leadership of our political party, the Labor party,
has been settled, and settled in the most conclusive fashion,”
Gillard told reporters after emerging from a meeting of
colleagues aimed at resolving days of intensifying speculation
that she’d lost the support of her lawmakers.  Gillard now has the task of unifying the party as it takes
on Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition in national
elections scheduled for Sept. 14. The nation’s first female
prime minister, whose party has trailed in opinion polls for
almost two years, faces the challenge of rejuvenating support
for Labor after policy backflips and a worsening fiscal outlook
undermined her minority government’s credibility.  “Gillard’s win, while another personal triumph, may not be
able to solve the tension and the apparent dysfunction in the
government,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at
Brisbane’s Griffith University. “It’s not beyond her to
revitalize her position and refresh the party, but it’s hard to
see her being able to turn Labor around enough to win the
election.”  Party Maneuvering  Days of party maneuvering came to a head when senior Labor
lawmaker Simon Crean urged Gillard to call a leadership ballot
and said Rudd should stand. Gillard responded by ordering a vote
for 4:30 p.m. in Canberra, and then beat off an attempt at a no-
confidence motion in her government proposed by Abbott.  As lawmakers declared their positions and journalists
tweeted their predictions, early bets that Rudd was set to win
the leadership faded as the meeting neared. Rudd told reporters
he wouldn’t challenge before entering the party room.  “The only circumstances under which I would consider a
return to the leadership would be if there was an overwhelming
majority of the parliamentary party requesting such a return,”
Rudd said. “Those circumstances do not exist.”  The Australian dollar bought $1.0365 from $1.0379
yesterday. Ten-year government bond yields were 3.58 percent,
maintaining their advance from 3.51 percent. The benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slid 0.2 to close at 4,959.41.  Concerning Events  “The events of today are somewhat concerning for the
stability of the government and may still play out further,”
said Martin Whetton, an interest-rate strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “Markets have been largely unmoved by
the events taking place in Canberra. Domestic investors are
somewhat used to the nature of politics in Australia, but this
may cause some concern for international investors.”  Abbott, whose call to debate a no-confidence motion won the
support of two independent lawmakers who have backed Gillard’s
government, said the “civil war” in the Labor party was likely
to continue.  “I want to reassure people it doesn’t have to be this way,
it doesn’t have to be as bad as this,” he told reporters. “We
are currently being let down by a bad government getting
worse.”  Speculation that lawmakers would turn to Rudd, 33 months
after Gillard ousted him in a back-room party coup, intensified
after opinion polls indicated Labor would win the election with
him at the helm.  A Newspoll survey of 1,143 people published March 12 in the
Australian newspaper showed a Rudd-led Labor getting 56 percent
support on a two-party preferred basis and the opposition under
Abbott getting 44 percent.  Minority Government  The poll, with a margin of error of plus or minus three
percentage points, forecast a 52-48 percent split in favor of
the opposition with Gillard as Labor leader. The two-party
preferred measure is designed to gauge which party is likely to
win enough seats to form a government.  Gillard became prime minister in June 2010 after replacing
Rudd. After the closest election in 70 years, she formed a
minority government in September 2010, and has had to rely on
the support of the Greens and independent lawmakers to pass
legislation.  In February last year, Rudd failed to regain the leadership
when he lost a ballot by 71 votes to 31.  While Rudd, 55, enjoys greater support than Gillard among
the general public, he faces antipathy from Labor’s senior ranks
over his leadership style. Treasurer Wayne Swan last year
described him as a man of “great weakness” who had demeaned
his party colleagues during his three-year tenure as prime
minister. Rudd has remained on the backbench since resigning as
foreign minister to challenge Gillard last year.  Policy U-Turns  Support for Labor has waned after a series of policy back
flips -- including on a tax on carbon emissions. A weakening
manufacturing sector in some key Labor seats on the fringes of
major cities has sapped support for the government.  Gillard’s record in pushing through groundbreaking
legislation, including the world’s first compulsory plain
packaging for cigarettes, has been overshadowed by scandals
involving Labor lawmakers.  In one case, Craig Thomson, a former national secretary of
the Health Services Union, faces charges that he misused a union
credit card to pay for prostitutes, air travel and cash advances
between 2002 and 2007, before he entered parliament. Thomson,
who resigned from Labor last year and remains in parliament as
an independent lawmaker, denies the allegations.  Labor’s fragile support base is also evident at the state
level, where it only holds power in the two least populous of
 Australia ’s six states. Since the 2010 election, Labor has lost
109 seats at a state and territory level, where there are a
total of 598 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  