-- Ex-Goldman Employee Must Arbitrate Her Claim of Sex Bias
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/goldman-sachs-wins-appeal-in-employee-sex-discrimination-case.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  persuaded
a federal appeals court to rule that a female former managing
director must pursue a gender discrimination lawsuit through
arbitration rather than in court.  The New York-based panel yesterday ruled that Lisa Parisi,
one of three women who sued the firm in 2010 claiming they were
subjected to pay and promotion discrimination, can’t maintain
her case in federal court. Her employment contract contained a
clause requiring disputes to be resolved through arbitration.  Parisi’s lawyers argued their client had a right under
federal law to press her claim Goldman Sachs has a pattern and
practice of discriminating against managing directors who are
women, and that such claims can only be litigated in the context
of a class action, or group, case.  A lower court judge agreed, denying Goldman Sach’s request
he order Parisi’s case to arbitration.  “Because we disagree that a substantive statutory right to
pursue a pattern-or-practice claim exists, we reverse,” U.S.
Circuit Judge Barrington Parker wrote for a unanimous three-
judge panel. Joining him were Judges Gerard Lynch and Reena Raggi.  Enforcing Agreements  Citing U.S. Supreme Court precedent, the panel said the
high court has consistently interpreted the Federal Arbitration
Act as favoring the enforcement of such agreements, “even when
the claims at issue are federal statutory claims,” absent some
contrary congressional command.  The appeals court said Parisi may present to the
arbitrators any evidence of discriminatory practices or policies
at Goldman Sachs that affected her employment.  Adam Klein, an attorney for Parisi, didn’t immediately
reply yesterday to a telephone message seeking comment on the
court’s ruling.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,
in an e-mail message said the firm is pleased with the court’s
decision.  The case is Parisi v. Goldman Sachs & Co., U.S. Second
Circuit Court of Appeals ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at 
5926 or  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  