-- Google Rivals Ask Almunia to Send Complaint as Talks Continue
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-21T13:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/google-competitors-ask-eu-to-issue-antitrust-complaint-on-search.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s rivals urged European
Union regulators to send antitrust objections to the world’s
largest search-engine operator, almost two months after the
company submitted settlement concessions to end a probe.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  should issue a
statement of objections laying out antitrust concerns with the
company’s search business because a settlement might not change
Google’s conduct,  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  along with
seven other companies and two German media groups said in a
letter today.  Google is “unlikely to volunteer effective, future-proof
remedies without being formally charged with infringement,” the
companies said in the letter.  Almunia has sought a deal with Google to end the more than
two-year-old antitrust probe without imposing fines. He asked
the company last year to give him a detailed offer to address
allegations that Google promotes its own specialist search-
services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has
agreements with websites and software developers that stifle
competition in the advertising industry.  The EU’s antitrust chief said this month that regulators
prefer to use settlements to end cases in high-tech and fast-
moving markets. After he received Google’s settlement offer in
January, he said he hoped to check it with rivals and customers
“in the coming months” and finalize it later this year.  Bill Echikson, a spokesman for Google, said the company was
cooperating with regulators. Neither  Mountain View , California-
based Google nor the EU have disclosed the content of Google’s
offer.  U.S. Probe  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business in January, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  In 2010, the EU began investigating claims Google
discriminated against other services in its search results and
stopped some websites from accepting competitors’ ads. While
Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a quarter of the
U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95 percent of the
traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post in 2011, citing
data from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 