-- Greenberg Takes on AARP in Deal With Grandparents.com
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-21T18:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/greenberg-takes-on-aarp-in-deal-with-grandparents-com.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who
built American International Group Inc. into the world’s largest
insurer before his ouster in 2005, is leading an effort to help
 Grandparents.com Inc.  pitch coverage to seniors.  Greenberg, 87, is personally directing the website’s
efforts to establish deals with insurers to offer health, auto,
home and life coverage, Grandparents.com said today in a
statement. The company operates an online social media site that
rivals services offered by AARP, the organization that promotes
the interests of older people.  Greenberg pioneered the practice of selling coverage to
groups of retired teachers, according to his autobiography
published this year. The efforts paved the way for the
establishment of the AARP, the executive said in the book, “The
AIG Story.”  “Hank basically says ‘I can recreate what I did at
AARP,’” Joseph Bernstein, co-chief executive officer of New
York-based  Grandparents.com Inc. (GPCM) , said by phone. “He’s putting
in personal time and effort. He picks up the phone and he calls
the CEO of you-name-it.”  Bernstein said it took more than two years of negotiation
to reach a deal with Greenberg, who told the company it had to
assemble a top management team, hire pitchmen and raise $5
million before he’d work with them. The parties reached an
agreement in January that went into effect this month.  Grandparents.com will pay Greenberg’s Starr International
Co. $80,000 a month and commissions from future policy sales,
according to Bernstein. Starr is also in discussion with the
site to take a 25 percent stake, he said.  King, Chopra  The company has a market value of about $13 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Leilani Brown, a
spokeswoman for Greenberg, described the arrangement as a
“strategic alliance” and declined to comment further.  The website added former CNN talk-show host Larry King and
author  Deepak Chopra  as spokesmen as it seeks to build its base
of almost 2 million users. Advertising sales plunged for
Grandparents.com in 2012 amid pricing pressure, the company said
in the statement.  Revenue in the nine months ended Sept. 30 fell 30 percent
to $224,330, as advertising sales declined. Operating expenses
more than tripled to $8.85 million, fueled by increased spending
on salaries and marketing, according to a regulatory filing.  Grandparents.com said today it will “focus on developing
revenue-generating activities led by an insurance division.”  Humana, JPMorgan  The firm currently sells some insurance products from
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  Bernstein declined to mention any other insurers
that may sell through the site, citing non-disclosure
agreements. Grandparents.com also plans to offer a branded debit
card from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  AARP offers auto policies to members from  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) , life coverage from  New York  Life
Insurance Co. and long-term-care protection from Genworth
Financial Inc., according to the organization’s website.  Greenberg took AIG public in 1969 and built the firm over
four decades before his ouster amid a probe by then-New York
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. Greenberg is now chairman and
CEO of Starr Insurance Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  