-- Grillo Euro-Skeptic Party Seeks Mandate for Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-21T13:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/grillo-s-euro-skeptic-party-seeks-mandate-for-italy-government.html
Beppe Grillo asked Italian
President Giorgio Napolitano to give his party a mandate to form
a government as his deputies shunned an alliance with rivals and
restated their euro-skeptic views.  “The Five Star Movement asked for a full mandate to
present its government agenda in parliament,” Roberta Lombardi,
the party’s chief whip in the lower house of parliament, said
today after she, Grillo and an ally from the Senate met with
Napolitano in the presidential palace in  Rome .  Grillo, 64, is pushing ahead with his  campaign promise  to
wrest political power from established parties and re-evaluate
positions, like euro membership, that previously enjoyed near
universal support in Parliament. His resistance to compromise
hurts rival Pier Luigi Bersani, who was counting on some support
from Five Star to claim the premiership, and boosts Silvio
Berlusconi’s push for influence over the next government.  Napolitano, 87, is in his second day of consultations with
political leaders and needs a deal to forge a government after
inconclusive elections Feb. 24-25 left no party with a clear
path to a majority in the Senate. Berlusconi, a three-time
former premier and head of the second-biggest force in the upper
house, met Napolitano after Grillo and said it was time to cut
Five Star out of the negotiations.  Taking Responsibility  “There are three forces of an equal size, and one isn’t
available for collaboration,” Berlusconi told reporters after
seeing the head of state. His People of Liberty Party and
Bersani’s  Democratic Party  are the only ones left, “and it’s up
to us to take responsibility and give the country a
government,” he said.  Napolitano will meet with Bersani, a 61-year-old ex-
communist, at 6 p.m. in the final scheduled appointment.
Bersani, who controls the biggest Senate force and a majority in
the lower house, may fail to secure a mandate if he can’t
convince Napolitano that he has enough votes in the upper house.  Other possible candidates include Senate Speaker Pietro
Grasso, a Bersani ally and former anti-mafia prosecutor,
Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri, Bank of Italy Director
General Fabrizio Saccomanni and former European Union
commissioner Emma Bonino, daily La Repubblica reported.  Grasso said he is “ready for anything to help the
country” when asked by reporters if he was available to accept
a mandate to govern, according to newswire AGI. Alessio
Pasquini, a spokesman for Grasso, confirmed the comments and
said the Senate speaker isn’t asking for the job.  Bersani’s Choice  Bersani has repeatedly refused to renew his alliance with
Berlusconi, who was convicted of  tax fraud  in October. The pact
struck by the two leaders in November 2011, which brought Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  to power and imposed austerity on Italy,
was repudiated by recession-scarred voters in the election last
month. Bersani has instead embraced Grillo’s push to reverse
Monti’s tax increases and reduce the cost of politics.  Berlusconi, 76, is free from prison pending an appeal of
the tax-fraud conviction, which carried a four-year sentence. He
is also standing trial on unrelated charges of paying for sex
with a minor and abusing the power of his office. He has denied
the allegations in both cases.  Grillo’s deputies today reiterated Five Star’s campaign
proposals, including the call for a referendum on euro
membership. Other points in the program include expanded
 unemployment benefits , the abolition of property taxes on
primary residences and the elimination of public funding for
political parties.  Lombardi said Five Star will focus on boosting its
parliamentary influence and may seek to exert oversight of state
broadcaster RAI and  Italy ’s intelligence agency if the party
doesn’t get the government mandate from Napolitano.  “If this request isn’t accepted, the Five Star Movement in
opposition will ask for the chairmanships of the Copasir and RAI
oversight commissions,” Lombardi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  