-- Gross’s Pimco Trounced by Chilean’s Junk-Fueled 371% Gain
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-03-21T14:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/gross-trounced-by-chilean-posting-371-bond-return-andes-credit.html
Chilean fund manager Fernando Tisne
is delivering the world’s best emerging-market bond returns as
he profits from distressed and junk-rated Latin American
corporate debt.  His $980 million Moneda Deuda Latinoamericana fund returned
371 percent in the past 10 years, trouncing 439 emerging-market
debt funds with more than $100 million in assets, including the
178 percent gain for the $7.2 billion  Pimco Emerging Markets
Bond Fund (PIMEMBI) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  fund  has
also gained 14.7 percent in the past year, more than Pimco’s
10.8 percent return and higher than the 9.5 percent average.  Tisne, 42, has become the most successful debt investor in
emerging markets over the past decade because he’s been willing
to pile money into the bonds from Latin American companies that
haven’t been analyzed and graded by credit-ratings firms. While
his two  biggest holdings , in state-owned oil producer Petroleos
de Venezuela SA and Mexican cement maker Cemex SAB de CV, have
returned at least 23 percent in the past year, Tisne is also the
biggest bondholder in 21 of the 22 unrated notes that his fund
owns, according to regulatory filings.  “We have had the same team managing the fund all along,
which allows us to really get to know the companies,” Tisne,
who started the fund in February 2000 with $15 million, said in
a telephone interview on March 19. “We do have some lesser-
known and less-liquid companies. A lot of companies we have
known for 12 years and watched how they lived and survived.”  ‘Cheap Bonds’  “It allows us to make good decisions quickly,” he said.
“It’s a combination of clipping coupons and capital gains --
buying cheap bonds.”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., didn’t reply
to phone and e-mailed messages seeking comment.  Bill Gross  and
Mohamed El-Erian are co-chief investment officers of Pimco, the
world’s biggest bond fund manager.  Adjusting for price swings, the Moneda Deuda
Latinoamericana fund’s 52 percent return was also the best
globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Risk-adjusted returns
are calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the
degree of daily price variation.  Tisne joined Moneda Asset Management in 1994 as an equity
analyst after graduating with a business degree from Chile’s
Pontifical Catholic University in Santiago. The company was
founded a year earlier and ran a small- to mid-cap Chilean
equity fund before adding debt investments. As of the end of
January, the Moneda fund had 30 percent of its assets in  Brazil ,
27 percent in  Mexico  and 10 percent in  Peru .  Bond Returns  Latin American junk bonds have returned 245 percent over
the past 10 years in dollar terms, more than double the return
for the region’s investment-grade debt or emerging-market
corporate notes, according to Bank of America Corp.  “It’s one thing to be lucky and in the right assets, and
it’s something else to be the best manager of the right
assets,” said Eric Conrads, a former chief investment officer
of Chilean pension fund company AFP Capital who now manages $750
million of Latin American equities at ING Investment Management
in New York. Tisne is “very methodological and detail-oriented.
He has a process and he sticks to it.”  Average Rating  As of the end of October, the average rating of the bonds
in the fund was B, five levels below investment grade.  Bonds from PDVSA, as the Venezuelan oil company is known,
have rallied over the past year as investors piled into the
country’s debt to profit from the end of President Hugo Chavez’s
reign.  Cemex’s notes due in 2020 have returned 35 percent in the
past year as the biggest cement maker in the Americas reached an
accord to extend maturities on $6.7 billion of loans and as it
benefits from a rebound in the U.S. housing market.  Cemex’s bond yields exceeded 20 percent in October 2011 on
concern the company would fail to meet terms of a $15 billion
loan that helped it avoid a default in 2009. They have since
fallen to 7.19 percent.  Among Tisne’s biggest holdings are also bonds of Bio Pappel
SAB de CV, the Mexican paper maker that defaulted twice in the
past decade. Yields on Bio Pappel’s dollar-denominated notes due
2016 have tumbled 5.2 percentage points to 9.77 percent in the
past year as increased demand for paper and cardboard packaging
boosted earnings.  Not all of Tisne’s investments in speculative-grade
companies have panned out. He held bonds sold by Banco Cruzeiro
do Sul SA, the Brazilian lender that defaulted on $1.6 billion
after the central bank said it would be liquidated in September.  Celpa Bankruptcy  Tisne also invested in bonds issued by Centrais Eletricas
do Para SA, the Brazilian utility known as Celpa that
unexpectedly filed for bankruptcy in February 2012, and its
parent Rede Energia SA. Celpa’s notes due in 2016 have lost 86
percent in the past year, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Rede Energia defaulted after Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff ordered a takeover. Those bonds have plunged 75 percent
from their high of last year.  “We have a small participation in that restructuring and
we are very concerned about the government’s interference,”
Tisne said. “The treatment of foreign investors has been very
discriminatory.”  Tisne’s fund lost 30 percent in October 2008 as markets
plunged following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The decline was among the worst in  emerging markets ,
underperforming the JPMorgan Broad Latin American High Yield
index, which dropped 22 percent.  ‘Russian Roulette’  “The environment in Latin America has been very supportive
but there are always tail risks that can hit your holdings very
hard,” said Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $350 million of
emerging-market debt as president of Insight Securities Inc.
“In the U.S., you can diversify, but here there aren’t enough
names so there’s a Russian roulette of who will blow up and you
happen to be holding it.”  The  yield  on Chilean 10-year fixed-rate bonds in pesos
dropped two basis points, 0.02 percentage point, to 5.58 percent
at 11:51 a.m. in Santiago. The 10-year  inflation-linked  bond
yield was unchanged at 2.57 percent. The two-year swap rate
decreased two basis points to 5.20 percent.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy  Chile ’s
10-year dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose four basis
points to 92 basis points, close to the 93 basis point high
since the bonds were sold last year.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years was little changed at 65 basis points. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere
to its debt agreements.  The peso was little changed at 473.15 per dollar.  Tisne is chairman of the Chilean association of investment
funds managers, which is pressuring Congress to approve a bill
that would allow foreign investors to invest in Chile-based
funds without paying double taxation. The bill, first sent to
Congress in 2011, was approved by the finance committee of the
lower house earlier this month.  Javier Montero, who joined in 2009, is a co-portfolio
manager with Tisne, and Christopher Park, who also joined in
2009, heads structured investments. Former Chilean central bank
economist Esteban Jadresic is Moneda’s global investment
strategist and chief economist.  “‘We found a niche that wasn’t much covered, which was
high-yield credit in Latin America,” Tisne said. “We have been
doing it for 10 years, which has allowed us to have the returns
and growth we have had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  