-- IBM Works for Free to Build Relationships With African Cities
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-03-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ibm-works-for-free-to-build-relationships-with-african-cities.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , which makes most of its money from high-end technology
contracts, is betting that some of its growth will come from
customers who don’t pay anything -- yet.  The company has developed an application to track the water
system in Tshwane, South Africa, where more than half the
population lives in slums that often aren’t connected to
plumbing. IBM is letting the community use the app for free,
after it sent a team of executives to evaluate the system as
part of a corporate service project in October.  The benefit to IBM is it can use the city as a testing
ground for the application, while gaining favor with the local
government. It also may catch the attention of other cities with
similar problems. Relationships are key to building the
company’s business in  Africa , where it now has offices in more
than 20 countries, compared with just four in 2006.  “We’re not just walking in and saying, ‘Throw us our
money,’” said Perry Hartswick, an architect of IBM’s Smarter
Planet program, which tries to fix civic problems with tracking
technology. “We’re walking in to say we’re here to be a part of
Africa. That’s a very important part of the way we approach any
new geography.”  IBM has deployed almost 100 teams of employees in Africa as
part of a corporate-service program, working on everything from
infant mortality to cleanliness of water, Chief Executive
Officer Ginni Rometty said this month at the Council on Foreign
Relations. The continent is a priority for the company, which
plans to top $1 billion in African revenue by 2015, an industry
consultant who declined to be named said last month.  Wasted Water  The free application in Tshwane will let locals report
water leaks, faulty pipes and conditions of canals by sending
text messages. The city enlisted IBM for the project because
about a quarter of its water supply is unaccounted for or
wasted.  IBM expects to have invested more than $16 million in its
corporate-service projects in the region by the end of the year.  Shares of IBM , based in Armonk, New York, fell 1.3 percent
to $212.26 yesterday. The stock has climbed 11 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  