-- Libyan Lawmaker Resigns Saying Militias Threaten His Life
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-21T15:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/libyan-lawmaker-resigns-saying-militias-threaten-his-life.html
A Libyan lawmaker who chairs
parliament’s human rights committee resigned and fled to the
U.K. claiming his life is under threat from militias after he
denounced their growing power on local television.  Hassan El Amin also criticized abuses by some militiamen
against prisoners of war in Libyan jails, in a televised
interview on March 5. He spoke after the country’s parliament,
the General National Congress, was attacked by militiamen in
Tripoli this month, causing a week-long suspension.  In an interview in  London , El Amin, 53, said he received
death threats from militia leaders after the broadcast, went on
television on March 13 to resign and then returned to London,
where he spent 28 years in exile during Muammar Qaddafi’s rule.  “It is quite conceivable that Al Amin would have been
killed” and his ordeal reflects security threats faced by
prominent political figures in Libya, said Anthony Skinner, head
of  Middle East  and North Africa analysis at Maplecroft, a U.K.
risk consultancy. “It mirrors the lack of rule of law and the
fact that militias can act with impunity – a trend which is
likely to persist in the medium term.”  Libya  has more than 500 militias formed during the eight-
month civil war in 2011, when warplanes from the  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization  helped oust Qaddafi. Libya’s government
wants militiamen to disarm and integrate into the armed forces,
a call many fighters have ignored.  ’Gangsters’  “The good revolutionaries went back to their jobs and
studies, what we have left is gangsters,” El Amin said. “They
are running the show. They have to be disbanded.”  Lawmaker Mohammed Toumi, who was with El Amin during the
siege of parliament, resigned as chairman of the congressional
19 Committee, which proposed legislation barring Qaddafi era
officials from office and that triggered the militia attack on
parliament. Speaker Mohammed Magarief’s armored car was also hit
by 12 machine gun bullets and its tires shredded.  About 30 militiamen attempted to storm the office of Prime
Minister Ali Zaidan late yesterday and were thwarted by interior
ministry security forces, spokesman Moftah Belied said in a
phone interview in Tripoli.  El Amin is the first person to resign from congress
altogether.  “His departure is certainly a big loss for Libya, which is
struggling through this transitional phase,” Hanan Salah, Libya
researcher at  Human Rights Watch , said of El Amin. The New York-
based group has worked with El Amin since 2005 when he was
campaigning against Qaddafi abuses in exile, she said.  ‘Clear Targets’  El Amin was elected as an independent lawmaker in his
native Misrata last July, Libya’s first free vote in more than
50 years, which returned the 200-strong congress. As a
transitional legislature, its main task is to oversee the
drafting of a constitution and organize elections for a
permanent government. A timetable is outlined in the so-called
road map, a declaration drawn-up during the war to chart the
country’s transition to democracy.  The process has been beset by delays, hampering the foreign
investment needed for reconstruction and economic development.
El Amin described the road map as dead.  “I wanted my resignation to be a message to the congress
to have a new road map,” he said. “It should be a road map
with clear targets.”  El Amin said his job in Libya was hampered by his inability
to speak out about human-rights violations, with some Misratan
militia leaders threatening him after he demanded that families
be allowed to visit relatives in jail.  About 8,000 prisoners from the 2011 war continue to be held
in jails under government or militia control,  Human Rights Watch 
says.  “I went back to Libya with tears of hope in my eyes,” El
Amin said. “Now, I have had to run away again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  