-- ICE Asks EU to Take NYSE Euronext Deal to Avoid Multiple Probes
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-21T12:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ice-asks-eu-to-take-nyse-euronext-deal-to-avoid-multiple-probes.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  asked
the European Union to review its plans to buy NYSE Euronext to
avoid separate probes in three countries.  ICE made the request March 18 and intends to formally ask
for EU approval at a later date, the company said in a
regulatory filing today. The U.K. Office of Fair Trading and
competition authorities in Spain and  Portugal  have 15 working
days to object to the EU taking jurisdiction over the deal after
the European Commission receives the company’s request.  “If no such national competition authority objects to the
request, the European Commission will accept jurisdiction to
review the mergers,” ICE said in the filing.  ICE, the 12-year-old energy and commodity futures bourse,
agreed on Dec. 21 to acquire NYSE Euronext for cash and stock
worth $8.2 billion. EU regulators blocked Deutsche Boerse AG’s
purchase of NYSE last year, citing concern over competition in
derivatives and clearing.  ICE said in January that it was required to file for
approval in the U.K., Spain and Portugal.  The U.K. competition authority last year successfully
blocked the EU from taking over the review of  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s takeover bid for LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  “If the U.K. wants to review the deal, they will find a
reason,” said Peter Lenardos, an exchange analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in  London .  Elliott Ball, a press officer for the OFT in London, said
companies that make more 70 million pounds ($106 million) in
Britain or have a U.K. market share of more than 25 percent are
usually subject to a U.K. review. He declined to comment on
whether the regulator would object to an EU review.  ‘Fairly Sure’  Companies won’t typically ask the EU to take on a deal
unless they were “fairly sure that these authorities would not
object to the commission’s taking jurisdiction,” said Emanuela
Lecchi, a lawyer at Watson, Farley & Williams LLP in London.  The EU regulator said it refused requests by France, Spain
and Portugal for it to take jurisdiction of the LSE deal from
the OFT last year because of the U.K. stance and the advanced
stage of talks between British regulators and the companies.  Claire Miller, a spokeswoman for ICE in London, said the
company had no additional comment to make on its filing today.
Caroline Nico, a spokeswoman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , also declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 