-- Micron’s Revenue Beats Estimates on Higher Chip Shipments
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-03-22T20:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/micron-technology-revenue-rises-on-higher-memory-shipments.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of memory chips, rose the most in more than a year
after reporting fiscal second-quarter revenue that exceeded
estimates amid a rebound in chip shipments.  Sales rose 3.4 percent to $2.08 billion from $2.01 billion
a year earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts on average  estimated  revenue of
$1.91 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market prices for memory chips, which store information in
computers and mobile devices, have surged this year as
manufacturers such as Micron,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  SK
Hynix Inc. (000660)  have kept production steady. Micron, which today
reported its seventh consecutive quarterly loss, plans to
strengthen its industry position by acquiring  Japan ’s Elpida
Memory Inc. in a deal scheduled to close in the first half.  “There is no doubt that fundamentals in the business are
changing,”  Doug Freedman , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 San Francisco , said in an interview. He has an outperform rating
on the company’s shares.  Micron  climbed  11 percent to $10.04 at the close in New
York, for the biggest gain since December 2011. The shares have
advanced 58 percent this year on optimism that chip prices will
rebound.  Limited Supply  While demand for personal computers isn’t growing, supply
of memory chips is limited and some customers are “on
allocation,” meaning they can’t get all that they order,
according to  Mark Adams , Micron’s president.  “Even though PC growth is relatively flat, the supply is
actually reflecting that and right now it’s actually tight,”
Adams said in an interview. “We continue to feel better about
the operating environment, and the business. We think we’re on
the path to profitability.”  The  net  loss for the period ended Feb. 28 widened to $286
million, or 28 cents a share, from $282 million, or 29 cents, in
the same period a year earlier. Analysts on average estimated a
loss of 20 cents.  Micron makes dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, which
provides the main memory in PCs. It also makes Nand  flash
memory , chips that provide the storage in mobile devices such as
smartphones and tablets.  Elpida Acquisition  DRAM revenue rose 24 percent in the quarter compared with
the prior period. While prices on average dropped 10 percent, it
sold 38 percent more chips, the company said. Nand unit sales
increased 13 percent from the first quarter’s, providing an 8
percent increase in revenue.  In July, Micron agreed to acquire bankrupt Elpida for 200
billion yen ($2.11 billion). The transaction is aimed at
grabbing control of more supply and bolstering a challenge to
industry leader Samsung Electronics. Elpida, the last Japanese
maker of computer-memory chips, sought  bankruptcy protection 
last year after losses left it unable to pay debts.  On Feb. 28, Elpida said it won Tokyo District Court
approval for the sale to Micron, clearing the last major hurdle
in the takeover. The required majority of creditors backed the
plan, according to a statement from the trustees of the Tokyo-
based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  