-- High Salt Consumption Tied to 2.3 Million Heart Deaths
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-03-21T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/high-salt-consumption-tied-to-2-3-million-heart-deaths.html
Eating too much salt contributed to
2.3 million heart-related deaths worldwide in 2010, and 40
percent of those deaths were premature, researchers said.  Fifteen percent of all deaths from heart attacks, stroke
and other cardiovascular disease were caused by excessive salt,
and most were in lower-income countries, according to a study
presented today at an  American Heart Association  meeting in  New
Orleans . The U.S. ranked 19th of the 30 largest countries
studied for deaths due to excess salt.  Excess sodium consumption is a global problem: Seventy-five
percent of the world’s population eats nearly twice the daily
recommended amount of salt, according to a separate  study  of 187
countries presented at the meeting.  The American Heart
Association  advises limiting sodium to no more than 1,500
milligrams a day.  “National and global public-health measures, such as
comprehensive sodium reduction programs, could potentially save
millions of lives,” said Dariush Mozaffarian, one of the
study’s lead researchers and associate professor of medicine and
epidemiology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and  Harvard Medical
School .  In the study linking salt and heart deaths, researchers
analyzed 247 surveys on sodium consumption by adults from 1990
to 2010 and determined how the levels of salt people were eating
affected cardiovascular disease risks. No more than 1,000
milligrams per day of salt was considered ideal.  Premature Deaths  Nearly 1 million of the deaths, or 40 percent of the total,
happened in people who were 69 years old or younger, according
to the study. Sixty percent of the deaths were in men and 40
percent were in women.  Eighty-four percent of the deaths were in low- and middle-
income countries. Those with the highest death rates were
Ukraine, Russia and  Egypt , and the lowest were in Qatar, Kenya
and  United Arab Emirates .  Global sodium intake from various sources such as prepared
food and soy sauce averaged nearly 4,000 milligrams a day in
2010, according to Saman Fahimi, lead author and a visiting
scientist at the Harvard School of  Public Health . In the U.S.,
the average intake was about 3,600 milligrams a day.  While the  World Health Organization  recommends sodium
intake of fewer than 2,000 milligrams a day, 181 of 187
countries representing 99 percent of the world’s population
exceeded the recommended level.  Toddler Meals  Consumption of salt starts at a young age. In the U.S.,
nearly 75 percent of commercial pre-packaged meals and savory
snacks for toddlers are high in sodium, according to additional
 research  presented at the meeting. A product was determined to
be high in sodium if it had more than 210 milligrams of salt per
serving.  Some toddler meals had as much as 630 milligrams per
serving -- about 40 percent of the 1,500 daily limit recommended
by the heart association.  “The less sodium in an infant’s or toddler’s diet, the
less he or she may want it when older,” Joyce Maalouf, lead
author and fellow at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta, said in a press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  