-- Immofinanz Expects to Raise $904 Million From Buwog Share Sale
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-03-21T14:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/immofinanz-expects-to-raise-904-million-from-buwog-share-sale.html
Immofinanz AG (IIA) , the Austrian
developer trying to change itself into a commercial landlord,
expects to raise 700 million euros ($904 million) in the planned
sale of its residential business.  The initial public offering of the Buwog unit will improve
the company’s rental yield and reduce debt, according to  slides 
prepared for an analyst call later today. The IPO would take
place in the autumn at the earliest, spokeswoman Bettina Schragl
said by telephone, adding that no decision has been made.  Immofinanz, based in Vienna, seeks to add about 10,000
German apartments and sell homes in  Austria  to boost the Buwog
unit’s value before a possible sale. The company has 10.5
billion euros of properties and development projects in eastern
 Europe , Austria and Germany. Most of its assets are offices,
stores and warehouses.  “The Buwog Group will be strengthened through further
property acquisitions on the German market,” Immofinanz said in
its quarterly report today. The company also plans to bolster
its business through “specially designed development
activities.”  Chief Executive Officer Eduard Zehetner has said he plans
to spin off the homes business to sharpen the company’s focus on
commercial properties and on eastern Europe and to make the
company more profitable.  Higher Yield  Rental income excluding Buwog was equal to 7.8 percent of
the company’s property value, compared with 7 percent including
the unit, according to the presentation. The company would lower
its loan-to-value ratio to 46 percent from 54 percent if it
meets a target of raising 700 million euros in the Buwog IPO.  Immofinanz was among the bidders in the 2.4 billion-euro
sale of Bayerische Landesbank’s GBW unit, which owns apartments
in southern  Germany ’s Bavaria. It dropped out of the auction in
February, saying it didn’t see a way to form a listed German-
Austrian company out of Buwog and GBW in time. BayernLB expects
to complete the sale this spring, the lender said today.  Net income soared to 106.1 million euros in the third
fiscal quarter through January, from 6.32 million euros a year
earlier, Immofinanz said in a statement late yesterday. Earnings
were helped by asset sales including that of the Kempinski Grand
Hotel des Bains in the ski resort of St. Moritz,  Switzerland .  Immofinanz rose as much as 4.3 percent in Vienna trading,
the biggest gain since July 26. The shares were up 4.2 percent
at 3.24 euros as of 2:57 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  