-- Indeks Eyes Balkan Investments on Stake Sale, Chairman Says
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-03-21T16:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/indeks-eyes-balkan-investments-on-stake-sale-chairman-says-1-.html
The sale of a minority stake in
 Turkey ’s  Indeks Bilgisayar Sistemleri Muhendislik Sanayi ve
Ticaret AS  to a Polish fund may pave the way for new
investments, the company’s chairman and main shareholder said.  Erol Bilecik, chairman of the Istanbul-based technology
company, agreed to sell a 20 percent stake to Warsaw-listed  MCI
Management SA (MCI)  at 4.35 liras a share, according to a filing with
the  Istanbul Stock Exchange  today. The sale, at a 4.4 percent
discount to yesterday’s closing price, values the company at
243.6 million liras ($134 million).  “There’s a high possibility for Indeks and  ABC Data SA (ABC)  to
jointly invest in the Balkans,” Bilecik said in a phone
interview today, referring to a Warsaw-based technology company
which is majority-owned by MCI. Such investments could be in
Greece, Romania, Bulgaria and also in  Lithuania , he said.  Indeks (INDES)  shares fell 3.7 percent to 4.38 liras at the close
in Istanbul, the lowest level since Jan. 28. Shares traded were
2.5 times the stock’s daily three-month average volume,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drop pared this
year’s gain to 2.1 percent.  The sale price is “fair,” Bilecik said. “The benefits of
synergies, with MCI being an international player and us knowing
the core business well, will contribute greatly to investors.”
MCI offered to buy shares, seeing Indeks as “probably a five to
10 year investment,” he said. Bilecik’s stake in the company
will drop to 35.9 percent after the sale.  Indeks and ABC Data may “join forces to grow at under-
penetrated markets,” Basak Dinckoc, an analyst at Is Investment
in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note today. “We believe that
the partnership will create new opportunities for Indeks in the
long-term.”  Indeks trades at seven times estimated 12-month earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
multiple of 7.2 for ABC Data and 9.7 for South Africa’s  DataTec
Ltd. (DTC)  Indeks’s third-quarter net income fell to 4.37 million
liras from 7.93 million liras in the same period in 2011,
according to its filing to the Istanbul bourse on Nov. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  