-- Index of Leading Economic Indicators in the U.S. Increases 0.5%
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-03-21T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/index-of-leading-economic-indicators-in-the-u-s-increases-0-5-.html
The index of U.S. leading
indicators rose more than forecast in February, indicating the
world’s largest economy is strengthening.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the  outlook  for the next
three to six months climbed 0.5 percent for the second straight
month, the New York-based group said today. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase of
0.4 percent.  Declining claims for jobless benefits and more hiring add
to evidence that the labor market is improving, while housing
continues to recover and rising stock prices have boosted
household wealth. The gains signal consumers will sustain their
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “The economy is picking up,” Sam Coffin, an economist for
UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the
report. UBS ranked third among forecasters of the leading
indicators index over the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “The improvement in the labor market is
a driver. The housing recovery is going along. The stock market
is adding quite a bit” to the gain in the index.  Estimates of 47 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from an increase of 0.8 percent to no change. The February
reading was the same as the January gain, which was revised up
from 0.2 percent.  Eight of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, helped by more building permits, fewer jobless
claims and higher stock prices.  Increases Hope  “This reading increases hope that it may pick up some
momentum in the second half of the year,”  Ken Goldstein , an
economist at the Conference Board, said in a statement today,
referring to the economy.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.2 percent in February
after falling 1 percent in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of  lagging  indicators advanced 0.1 percent after
a 1.6 percent gain in January.  A separate report from the Labor Department today showed
the labor market is maintaining its recent progress. Fewer
Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for  unemployment
insurance  last week. Applications for jobless benefits increased
by 2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended March 16. Economists
projected 340,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The monthly average, a less volatile measure,
fell to the lowest level since February 2008.  United Technologies  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Otis elevators, is among companies that expect the
economic expansion to continue even as cuts in U.S. military
spending trim its profits.  “The  U.S. economy  is better and it is going to continue to
get better,” Gregory Hayes, chief financial officer at
Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies , said at a March
14 analyst meeting. “We’ve got another year and a half or so
probably of low interest-rate environment, which we could hope
to capitalize on.”  Federal Reserve policy makers said they will continue with
bond buying at a pace of $85 billion a month to spur economic
growth and trim unemployment.  Recent data suggest “a return to moderate economic growth
following a pause late last year,” the policy makers said in a
statement yesterday following a two-day meeting in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  