-- India’s Rupee Gains Most in a Week on Global Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-21T05:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/india-s-rupee-gains-most-in-a-week-on-global-stimulus-optimism.html
India’s rupee gained the most in
almost a week on optimism policy makers in the world’s largest
economies will maintain loose monetary policies to support
growth, potentially boosting inflows into  emerging markets .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
stimulus won’t be reduced until U.S. unemployment drops, while
Haruhiko Kuroda will discuss policy today at his first press
conference as  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor. The rupee’s gains will be
limited as importers will look to buy dollars to pay month-end
bills, according to Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd.  “There is greater comfort now on the sustainability of
offshore flows into Indian debt and equity,” said J. Moses Harding, executive vice president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)  in
Mumbai. “The undertone on the rupee is bullish.”  The rupee advanced 0.1 percent to 54.305 per dollar as of
10:15 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest gain since March 15, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, fell 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to 8.98
percent.  Foreign investors yesterday bought permits to buy 162.4
billion rupees ($3 billion) of local-currency debt, according to
two people familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified as they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.
Overseas’ funds  holdings of the notes  rose to a record $35.3
billion on March 15 and purchases of stocks climbed a net $1.6
billion in this month through March 19, exchange data show.  Dollar-based investors will earn 10.2 percent including
interest, the most in  Asia , by holding rupees until the end of
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on the
median estimate in surveys and prevailing deposit rates.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.37 per
dollar, compared with 55.44 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.34 versus 55.37. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  