-- India’s Nifty Futures Climb on Outlook for Reforms, Fed Stimulus
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-03-21T02:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/india-s-nifty-futures-climb-on-outlook-for-reforms-fed-stimulus.html
India stock futures rose, signaling
shares may snap a four-day slump, on speculation the impact of a
rift in the ruling coalition may be limited, and as the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it will maintain its stimulus program.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery gained 0.4
percent to 5,738.5 at 10:22 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index sank 0.9 percent to 5,694.40 yesterday, the
lowest close since Feb. 28. The S&P BSE Sensex index fell 0.7
percent to 18,884.19. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares rose 0.4 percent.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said yesterday the
government will continue to pursue its economic reform agenda to
bolster the economy, even after the withdrawal of its biggest
ally on March 19 left it as many as 44 seats short of the
halfway mark in the lower house of parliament. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index gained today after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the Federal Reserve won’t reduce its record monetary stimulus
until unemployment drops further.  “At the moment there seems to be no danger to the survival
of the government,” Manishi Raychaudhuri and Gautam Mehta,
analysts at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a note today. “It’s
premature to conclude that the reform momentum will come to a
complete standstill.”  Reform Agenda  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is battling to refocus the
government on its reform agenda amid slowing growth and after
two years of criticism over alleged corruption. The withdrawal
of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party adds to the challenge of
implementing policies to accelerate foreign investment, boost
capital inflows and cut subsidies to spur an economy forecast to
grow at the lowest pace in a decade this fiscal year.  “While administrative measures relating to boosting
investment may continue, some politically difficult measures,
such as a gradual increase in diesel and urea prices, may be
affected by political uncertainty,” Raychaudhuri wrote.  Shares of  Steel Authority of India , the nation’s second-
biggest producer, may be active today, when the floor price is
expected to be set for the government’s sale of 240 million
shares tomorrow.  The  Sensex (SENSEX)  has slid 2.8 percent this year, the second
worst-performing benchmark index among emerging Asian countries
after  Malaysia . The gauge declined 5.2 percent in February, its
biggest monthly loss since May, as more company earnings  missed
estimates  compared with the previous quarter and growth slowed.  The index trades at 12.8 times  projected 12-month profits ,
compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.5 times.  Overseas funds bought a net $27 million of local stocks on
March 19, data from the regulator show. Foreign investors have
purchased a net $9.81 billion of local equities this year, a
record for the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They
bought a net $24.5 billion worth of shares last year, the most
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  