-- Indonesia’s Star Energy and Alam Sutera Realty Plan Dollar Debt
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-21T05:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/indonesia-s-star-energy-and-alam-sutera-realty-plan-dollar-debt.html
Star Energy Geothermal (Wayang
Windu) Ltd., PT Alam Sutera Realty, PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia  and
 Filinvest Development Corp. (FDC)  are marketing dollar-denominated
bonds. Debt risk in Asia fell.  Star Energy, an operator of geothermal power stations in
Indonesia, is offering seven-year notes at a yield of about
6.625 percent, said a person familiar with the matter, asking
not to be identified because the matter is private. Bank Rakyat
is planning a five-year bond at a yield of around 3.375 percent
and Alam Sutera, the Jakarta-based property developer, is
selling a seven-year security at about 7.625 percent, other
people said. The cost of insuring bonds in Asia from non-payment
with credit-default swaps dropped, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices.  The Indonesian borrowers are marketing the notes after the
country’s government announced that it had hired three banks to
arrange a dollar note sale in February, according to Robert
Pakpahan, a director general at the Finance Ministry’s debt
management office. Dollar borrowing costs in Asia outside  Japan 
fell 14 basis points to  3.59 percent  on March 20 from this
year’s high of 3.73 percent on Feb. 6, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc indexes.  “Like most corporates globally, many Indonesian issuers
are finding the current U.S. dollar funding conditions too hard
to resist,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit desk
analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. “Corporates throughout the
region are rushing to lock in funding ahead of the Easter break
and Indonesian corporates are no exception”  Filinvest Development  Filinvest, the Manila-based holding company with
investments in property and banking, is in the market with a
seven-year note at a yield of about 4.5 percent.  SmarTone Telecommunications Holdings Ltd., the wireless
carrier controlled by Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., and Hong
Kong-based Yuexiu Real Estate Investment Trust are both planning
debut public bonds in the U.S. currency, according to a company
statement and a person familiar with the matter.  The latest version of the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan fell 2 basis points to
118 as of 8:21 a.m. in Hong Kong, RBS prices show.  The new Series 19 Markit iTraxx Japan series, which started
trading today, was at 100 basis points as of 9:26 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Citigroup Inc. prices. That compares with a closing
price of 105.84 basis points for the previous series on March
19, before a public holiday in the country yesterday, according
to data provider CMA. Series 18 was at 103.5 basis points today,
according to Citigroup.  Japan Roll  Contracts on Ricoh Co. and Sumitomo Chemical Co. were added
to the Japan series, with Sharp Corp. and Mitsui & Co. removed,
Markit said in a statement on its website.  Fresh versions of the benchmarks are created every six
months when companies are added or dropped depending on their
ratings, cost of protection and ease of trading. The maturity
date of the new indexes is June 2018, compared with December
2017 on the Series 18 versions.  The new Markit iTraxx Australia series fell 3.5 basis
points to 119.25 as of 11:26 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. prices. That compares with a closing price
of 106.97 basis points for the previous series yesterday,
according to data provider CMA. Series 18 was at 104.75 basis
points today, according to Westpac.  The previous Markit iTraxx Asia series was at 102 basis
points today, RBS prices show, after closing at 103.2 basis
points yesterday, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  