-- Minerva Plans Debt Cut and Output Expansion Amid Cheap Cattle
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-03-21T00:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/minerva-plans-debt-cut-and-output-expansion-amid-cheap-cattle.html
Minerva SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest
beef producer, will invest 400 million reais ($201 million) in
the next three years to expand output as it bets cheap cattle
will help it cut debt to a record low.  Minerva is “looking into opportunities” to buy or lease
beef plants in  South America , especially Brazil, Chief Executive
Officer Fernando Galletti de Queiroz told reporters
today/yesterday in  Sao Paulo . The Barretos, Brazil-based company
also seeks to add six distribution centers and double output at
its food processing unit by 2015, he said.  “The positive cattle cycle in Brazil will allow us to
expand and at the same time generate free cash flow to help us
reduce debt,” he said. “We are strongly committed to invest
with discipline.” Galletti declined to say by how much he seeks
to increase beef output capacity.  Minerva will use proceeds from a November share sale and
cash generation amid cheap cattle to pay for the investments, he
said. Cattle prices in Brazil, the world’s second-largest beef
producer after the U.S., have dropped 15 percent since a
November 2010 peak, as ranchers that expanded herds over the
profitable 2007-2011 period are sending the adult animals to be
slaughtered, increasing supplies.  The meatpacker plans to cut net debt to 2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
first half of 2015, from 2.8 times now, Chief Financial Officer
Edison Ticle said. The company generated free  cash flow  for a
fifth straight quarter, of 63.9 million reais in the three
months ended Dec. 31.  The company is increasing usage at its plants amid cheap
cattle prices, Galletti said. Minerva used 71.2 percent of its
capacity in the fourth quarter, up from 69.8 percent in the
third quarter. The meatpacker plans to increase usage to about
80 percent by year-end, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  