-- Iran Leader Says Tel Aviv at Risk If Israel Makes Mistake
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-21T15:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/iran-leader-says-tel-aviv-at-risk-if-israel-makes-mistake.html
Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said his country will raze Tel Aviv and Haifa if
Israel makes “any mistake,” after President  Barack Obama  and
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met to discuss the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program.  “The heads of the Zionist regime should know that in case
of any mistake against Iran, Iran will level down Tel Aviv and
Haifa,” Khamenei said in a message from the city of Mashhad
aired on state television to mark the Nowrouz festival, the
start of the Iranian new year.  Israel has the right to “defend itself, by itself,”
Netanyahu said yesterday, the latest warning that his country
may launch a military strike against Iran. The U.S. will do
whatever is necessary to prevent Iran from gaining a nuclear
weapon, Obama said.  Khamenei, the highest authority in the Islamic Republic,
spoke as international sanctions spearheaded by the U.S. are
targeting Iran’s trade, banking and energy industry. While the
U.S. administration has argued that the sanctions should be
given time to work, Obama said yesterday that there was “not a
lot of daylight” between the U.S. and Israel on the issue.  The Iranian leader mixed hostile rhetoric with more
conciliatory language, saying that while he did not oppose
direct talks with the U.S., he wasn’t optimistic about the
possible outcome. The country’s enemies sought to paralyze it
through sanctions, though the policy would fail if Iran managed
to cut its dependence on oil, Khamenei said.  Possible Breakthrough  Iran sees for the first time a possible breakthrough in
negotiations with six world powers next month over its nuclear
program, its United Nations ambassador, Mohammad Khazaee, said
in an interview March 18 at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters.  Talks in Kazakhstan with the U.S., the U.K., France, China,
Germany and Russia marked a “turning point” where the U.S. and
five other world powers seemed “more realistic” about Iran’s
bottom-line position that it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful use, he said.  Netanyahu said yesterday he was “absolutely convinced” of
Obama’s resolve in preventing Iran from building a nuclear bomb,
adding that diplomatic and economic pressure must be backed up
by a “clear and credible threat of military action.” The two
leaders said they were in accord on the timeline of about a year
for Iran’s progress toward being able to build a nuclear weapon.  Obama arrived in Tel Aviv yesterday for his first visit to
Israel as president and the first foreign trip of his second
term. By visiting Israel, the U.S. president is seeking to
reassure Israelis about his commitment to their country’s
security following tension with Netanyahu over Jewish
settlements, the peace process and dealing with Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  