-- Ireland’s Economy Unexpectedly Stagnates in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-03-21T11:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ireland-s-economy-unexpectedly-stagnates-in-fourth-quarter.html
Ireland’s economy unexpectedly
stagnated in the fourth quarter, as government and investment
spending dropped.  Gross domestic product was unchanged from the third
quarter, when it contracted a revised 0.4 percent, the  Central
Statistics Office  said in Dublin today. Economists had forecast
the economy to expand 0.2 percent, according to the median of
nine estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. GDP was also
unchanged from a year earlier.  Ireland’s economy expanded 0.9 percent in 2012, the
second consecutive year of growth since the country’s real
estate bubble collapsed in 2008. Irish employment rose for the
first time in four years in the fourth quarter, a sign
that the economy may be stabilizing.  “The Irish economy is managing to stay afloat in very
stormy waters,” said  Austin Hughes , Dublin-based chief
economist at KBC Bank in Ireland. “It is stagnating at a time
when  Europe  is declining and to achieve that is quite
positive.”  The yield on Ireland’s security due in March
2023 was unchanged at 4.18 percent today. Ireland’s debt agency
sold 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) this month, in its first 10-
year debt issuance since its international rescue in 2010. The
country is “well on its way” to exiting its bailout by the end
of the year, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has said.  Spending Rises  Consumer spending  increased 1 percent, growing for the
second straight quarter after declining for five of the previous
six quarters. Exports rose 0.5 percent, while imports gained 0.8
percent. Investment fell 0.1 percent, while  government spending 
dropped 0.7 percent.  Gross national product, a separate gauge of economic
activity, rose 3.4 percent last year. The difference between GDP
and GNP is partly due to net factor outflows.  “On the positive side, it looks as if domestic spending
is possibly bottoming out,” Daniel McLaughlin, an economist at
Dublin-based Bank of Ireland Plc said. “The external
environment is clearly a big downside risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  