-- Italy President Meeting Draws Grillo to Government Talks
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-21T08:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/italy-president-meeting-draws-grillo-to-government-talks.html
Beppe Grillo, the ex-comic and
anti-austerity crusader, is being drawn into talks over the
formation of an Italian government after three weeks in which
the country’s political vacuum gave his influence room to grow.  Grillo and other leaders of his Five Star Movement arrived
shortly after 9 a.m. at the presidential palace in Rome for
their turn with President Giorgio Napolitano, who is seeking to
build consensus in a divided parliament.  The grizzled entertainer, who punctuated campaign speeches
with jokes and profanity, has kept his distance from rivals even
as they adjust their programs to win his backing. Grillo will be
asked once more to submit to an alliance during his meeting with
Napolitano.  “He will behave properly, but he will say no,” said
Giovanni Orsina, a history professor at Luiss Guido Carli
University in Rome.  Napolitano, 87, is sounding out Grillo on the last day of
consultations aimed at picking a replacement for Prime Minister
 Mario Monti . The president needs a compromise with some
combination of the top four political forces to secure a
majority in both houses of parliament. After meeting Grillo, he
will speak with former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  and Pier Luigi Bersani, who controls the largest number of lawmakers.  Reaching Outside  Italy is under pressure to come up with an administration
as borrowing costs rise and the  crisis in Cyprus  renews
speculation on a euro breakup. Napolitano, whose seven-year term
ends in May, turned to academia the last time Italy needed a
premier. In November 2011, he appointed Monti, then president of
Milan’s  Bocconi University , with a mandate to tame the deficit
and shield  Italy  from the debt crisis.  Napolitano is preparing a limited agenda for a new
government should Bersani fail to muster the needed support and
may offer a leader acceptable to Grillo the post of premier,
newspaper La Repubblica reported today, without citing anyone.
The five-point program would focus on reducing the costs of
politics, dealing with European affairs, reimbursing companies
owed money by the government, boosting employment and revamping
the election law, the newspaper said.  Grasso, Cancellieri  Possible leaders include Pietro Grasso, the country’s top
anti-mafia prosecutor who was elected speaker of the Senate last
week, Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri, Bank of Italy
Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni, former European Union
commissioner Emma Bonino, and Valerio Onida, former president 
of Italy’s  Constitutional Court .  This time with a deepening recession and fractured base of
voters, Napolitano needs a government capable of stimulating the
economy and reforming the electoral law to make it easier for
one party to garner a majority in parliament. The president met
yesterday with the speakers of the two houses of parliament and
leaders of smaller parties.  “We need to be able to respond to those who want to drag
the country into a never-ending election campaign,” Nichi Vendola, an ally of Bersani’s and leader of the Left, Ecology
and Freedom party, said after meeting Napolitano.  Grillo’s Surge  Grillo’s program, which calls for a repudiation of Monti’s
tax increases and a reduction in lawmaker salaries and
privileges, proved popular. His party, which had no presence in
the last legislature, overturned the balance of power that
defined Italy’s parliament since 1994 and by winning a quarter
of the votes in the inconclusive Feb. 24-25 general election.  Grillo’s influence has been on display since the vote as
his rivals tear up their campaign programs and formulate new
plans. Bersani, 61, reversed his previous commitment to budget
rigor and vowed to slash the cost of politics. Senate Speaker
Grasso and his counterpart in the Chamber of Deputies, Laura Boldrini, said this week they would take 30 percent pay cuts and
impose savings measures on other officials.  “We need to give the country an innovative and courageous
government capable of taking on issues like the cost of politics
and reforming the state,” Andrea Olivero, representative of
Monti’s Civic Choice party, said yesterday after his appointment
with Napolitano.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  