-- Italian Marines Return to India in Bid to End Diplomatic Rift
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-21T19:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/italian-marines-return-to-india-in-bid-to-end-diplomatic-rift.html
Two Italian marines charged with
killing fishermen will return to  India  to stand trial in a bid
to defuse a diplomatic rift between the two countries over the
case.  “The Italian government has requested and obtained from
the Indian authorities written assurances as to the treatment of
the marines and the protection of their fundamental rights,”
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s office said in a statement.  As a result of the assurances, the marines agreed to leave
Italy tonight to return to India by tomorrow, the original
deadline for their four-week home-leave. The Italian government
said on March 11 that the two would remain in Italy, because
India failed to respond to a request to negotiate a diplomatic
solution.  India responded by preventing Italy’s ambassador, Daniele
Mancini, from leaving, alerting airports nationwide to block the
diplomat from departing. Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said last week that there would be “consequences” for
bilateral ties if Italian authorities in  Rome  don’t “keep their
word.”  The Indian government has assured the Monti administration
that the two marines won’t face the death penalty if convicted,
news agency Ansa reported, citing Staffan De Mistura,
undersecretary for foreign affairs. Upon arriving in India, the
two marines will remain in the Italian embassy in  New Delhi ,
Ansa cited De Mistura as saying.  Suspected Pirates  The men at the center of the case are charged with shooting
dead two fishermen in February 2012, while they were guarding an
Italian-flagged tanker from pirate attacks. Italy has argued
that the men shot the two fishermen in self-defense, suspecting
them to be pirates, and that the marines should be tried in
their own country because the incident occurred in seas outside
of India’s jurisdiction. India says the attack happened in its
territorial waters off the southern state of Kerala.  The attempted prosecution of the Italians is the first to
hold armed maritime guards accountable for the deaths of
innocent people in an anti-piracy operation. Relations between
the two countries were further strained by allegations in
February that bribes were paid by AgustaWestland, a unit of
Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , to secure a contract to supply 12
civilian helicopters to the Indian government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net  