-- Titan Shares Rise After FDA Panel Backs Opioid Implant
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-22T20:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/titan-implant-to-treat-opioid-addiction-wins-panel-backing-1-.html
Titan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TTNP)  rose the
most in almost four years after U.S. regulatory advisers
recommended approval for the company’s experimental implant to
treat addiction to heroin and prescription painkillers.  Titan  increased  36 percent to $1.67 at the close in New
York, its biggest single-day gain since May 7, 2009. The Food
and Drug Administration is scheduled to decide by April 30
whether to approve the treatment.  Titan’s clinical trial data on the matchstick-size implant,
called Probuphine, supports approval, the FDA advisory panel
said yesterday in a 10-4 vote with one abstention. Probuphine
may generate $360 million in sales in 2018, Michael Higgins, a
Brinson Patrick Securities Corp. analyst in New York, estimates.  “Opioid dependence is a rapidly growing public health
concern and we remain committed to expanding the treatment
options available to physicians and patients to manage this
chronic condition,” South San Francisco, California-based Titan
said in a statement.  Titan, which licensed the U.S. and Canadian rights to Apple
Tree Partners’ Braeburn Pharmaceuticals, has the potential to
receive a $50 million milestone payment if the drug is approved.  The FDA panel voted that the drug is safe and effective,
while questioning whether the dose of the active ingredient,
buprenorphine, was appropriate to help addicts. The advisers
supported a risk-mitigation plan though some questioned the
adequacy of the company’s training and distribution programs.  ‘Incremental Step’  “This is at least an incremental step forward in a disease
that can have very tragic consequences,” said  Christopher
Kratochvil , a panel member and associate vice chancellor for
clinical research at the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
“More data is needed on the safety, but at least it’s a step.”  Addicts now can use Slough, England-based  Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc (RB/) ’s Suboxone tablets and dissolvable film that combine
buprenorphine with the drug naloxone, which is used to reverse
the effects of overdose.  Orexo AB (ORX) , a Swedish biotechnology
company, said in November it’s awaiting an FDA decision in July
on its experimental film Zubsolv for opioid dependence.  At the meeting, the FDA advisers voted 5-4 with six
abstentions that a plan to mitigate the risk of Titan’s drug
that using a physician training program and a restricted
distribution program is adequate.  Titan’s original risk mitigation proposal is inadequate,
and the agency said it’s reviewing a new plan that conforms to
federal standards for controlled substances.  Proper Dosing  “We still have time,” Bob Rappaport, director of the
FDA’s Division of Anesthesia, Analgesia, and Addiction Products,
said, referring to the agency’s April 30 decision date. “It’s
going to be difficult.”  The panel voted 10-5 that Probuphine is effective. FDA
staff had questioned whether the dose was high enough to have an
adequate effect on drug abuse even though the implant met preset
clinical trial goals on effectiveness. Panel members agreed more
work is needed to determine the proper dose.  “Overall, the need for a product such as this exceeded
those deficiencies,” said  Edward Covington , chairman of the
panel and director of the Neurological Center for Pain at the
Cleveland Clinic in Ohio who voted against approval, summing up
the final vote.  The panel also voted 12-2 with one abstention that Titan
had shown the implant is safe. FDA staff questioned whether a
one-time training program for physicians would be adequate to
avoid potential complications from the procedure to put the
implant in place.  “One of our jobs is to be as conservative as possible and
to look for all the potential problems of a drug,” Rappaport
told the panel. “This is a deadly disease. This is a seriously
life-threatening disorder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  