-- Lithuania Premier Plans Energy Accord as Nuclear Not a Priority
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-21T14:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lithuania-premier-plans-energy-accord-as-nuclear-not-a-priority.html
Lithuania’s government will seek an
accord on  energy policy  from across the Baltic nation’s
political spectrum as it nears a decision on whether to build a
nuclear plant, Prime MinisterAlgirdas Butkevicius said.  The agreement would cement the shared goals of energy
autonomy from  Russia  and integration into European Union power
and natural gas markets, Butkevicius told reporters today in the
capital, Vilnius.  Lithuania, which isn’t connected to EU energy grids, relies
on imports of Russian power and gas, particularly since closing
the Soviet-built Ignalina nuclear plant in 2009. The Cabinet,
which took office in December, must propose an energy-
independence strategy to Parliament by May 15.  “One can see from the debates and programs that there is
in fact a common underlying vision,” Energy Minister Jaroslav Neverovic said, speaking at the same news conference. “An
accord is key for energy-policy stability and project continuity
over the longer term, even when governments change.”  Earlier in the day, Butkevicius said he didn’t think
building a new nuclear plant to replace Ignalina was a priority.  Multiple Projects  “We’re already working on several hugely expensive energy
projects and there are limits to how much we can manage,”
Butkevicius said on Ziniu radio. “I lean to prioritizing other
efforts that offer bigger benefits relative to the cost.”  The government’s priorities are to complete by 2015 the
construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal on the  Baltic
Sea  and power links to Sweden and  Poland , Butkevicius said.  Also needed are efficiency improvements in systems for
heating homes, schools and other buildings, which cause a large
portion of annual energy costs, he said.  In a referendum in October, voters rejected the previous
government’s plan to hire  Japan ’s  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  to build a 1,300-
megawatt reactor in the town of Visaginas.  A final decision on whether and when to build a possible
new nuclear plant will be taken based on detailed cost-benefit
calculations that a working group will present by May, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  