-- Livesense May Raise Fees as Japanese Job Market Improves
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-03-22T07:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/livesense-may-raise-fees-as-japanese-job-market-improves.html
Livesense Inc. (6054) , the jobs portal led
by the youngest president of a company on  Japan ’s top bourse,
may raise fees for its information service as the nation’s labor
market improves, sending its stock up the most in five months.  “The number of  job openings  is increasing, as money is
starting to circulate” in the world’s third-largest economy,
Taichi Murakami, Livesense’s president and founder, said in an
interview in  Tokyo . Japan’s  jobless  rate dropped to 4.2 percent
in January from 4.3 percent in December in an indication that
newly elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s drive to boost the
economy with anti-deflation policies may be paying off.  “We still have room to raise charges,” said Murakami. The
26-year-old owns a 54 percent stake in Livesense now worth more
than $170 million, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Employers who hire staff through Livesense’s portal pay the
company at least 10 percent of the worker’s annual salary as a
fee, compared with about 30 percent for competing agencies,
Murakami said.  Livesense, whose  sales  have quadrupled since 2009, is
forecasting a 40 percent increase in net income this year as it
adds clients. Employers pay fees only when they hire someone
through ads on the website and Murakami is still considering how
much to increase prices, he said.  Value Doubled  Livesense rose 8.2 percent to 4,430 yen at the close of
trade in Tokyo, the biggest gain since Oct. 22. The benchmark
 Nikkei 225  Stock Average dropped 2.4 percent.  The company, which first sold shares in the exchange’s
Mothers section for startups in 2011 and moved to the main
section in October, has seen its market value rise 34 percent
this year after doubling in 2012.  “The economy is getting better, and that boosts demand for
companies like Livesense,”  Makoto Sengoku , a Tokyo-based market
analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., said by phone. “Lowering
the jobless rate is crucial to meet Abe’s plan to raise consumer
prices.  The Tokyo-based company plans to boost its own staff
numbers by hiring 60  people  this year, including part-time
workers, to increase its headcount to 160. The company may need
to get more space near its headquarters that can accommodate 200
people, Murakami said.  The Nikkei 225 has jumped 19 percent this year, boosted by
the yen’s decline to the weakest level since 2009 earlier this
month. The currency’s slide improves Japan’s competitiveness
versus its trading partners, a key goal of Abe’s administration.  Emulating Softbank  Clients can put up ads for free on Livesense’s portal and
pay fees when someone is hired through the service.  Livesense, whose client numbers more than doubled to 27,000
last year, is hiring engineers to improve web-marketing and
develop new businesses. The company  expects  net income to rise
to 834 million yen ($8.7 million) in 2013 from 597 million yen a
year earlier. Sales may jump 46 percent to 3.3 billion yen, it
said Feb. 14.  Livesense was  founded  in 2006 when Murakami was a 19-year-
old student at  Waseda University  in Tokyo. He won a business-
plan contest at the school and his prize included a free office
inside Waseda’s new business incubation center for a year.  The unmarried Tokyo-born entrepreneur said he doesn’t own a
refrigerator as he never cooks, and prefers to live within
walking distance of his office. Murakami said his hobby is
surfing the Internet.  Murakami said his goal is to transform Livesense in a way
that emulates changes at  Softbank Corp. (9984) , whose billionaire
founder Masayoshi Son built a software distributor into a mobile
carrier. Softbank is now Japan’s fastest-growing cellular phone
company.  Livesense’s reliance on the job-information business, which
accounts for more than 80 percent of sales, may be reduced in
the next five years as the company add new businesses, Murakami
said.  Japan’s development of new players in the technology
industry still lags behind peers in  California , Murakami said.  ‘‘In Japan, entrepreneurship finally finished the first lap
when the Silicon Valley already completed two,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  