-- JA Solar Says It’s Prepared Money to Pay Bonds Due in May
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-21T09:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ja-solar-says-it-s-prepared-money-to-pay-bonds-due-in-may.html
JA Solar Holdings (JASO)  Co., China’s
largest solar-cell maker, said it’s prepared to repay debt
maturing in May as the price of its bonds fell after Suntech
Power Holdings Co. said it won’t resist a bankruptcy petition.  “Our bonds don’t have default risks,”  Chief Operating
Officer Xie Jian said in an interview in  Shanghai  today. The
money needed to repay about $120 million of its convertible
notes maturing on May 15 has been prepared, he said.  Suntech, the world’s largest solar panel maker in 2010 and
2011, said yesterday that eight Chinese banks are seeking a
restructuring of its main solar manufacturing unit under a court
insolvency process and that it won’t object. That announcement
and Suntech’s default on $541 million of bonds last week sparked
concern that other Chinese solar companies may have trouble
repaying debt and will make financing “more difficult” for
others producers, JA Solar’s Xie said.  There will be “negative effects on solar companies from
public opinion to bank recognition,” Xie said of Suntech, based
in Wuxi, in the eastern province of Jiangsu. “I believe
Jiangsu-based banks or even all domestic banks will be very
nervous of whether other solar companies will also have risks.”  The price of JA Solar’s convertible bonds due in May fell
to 95.5 cents on the dollar yesterday. Xie said he expects banks
will reduce financing for solar companies to reduce risk. “Even
if solar companies can get financing, their costs will be
higher,” he said.  State Support  China  has supported solar companies through credit lines
from state-backed lenders such as China Development Bank Corp.,
prompting panel makers to expand factories. Suntech more than
quadrupled its annual production capacity to 2,400 megawatts in
2011 from 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Four of the world’s six biggest panel manufacturers are
based in China. Suntech fell to fifth in production capacity
last year behind China’s Trina Solar Ltd. and Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co., Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar Inc. and
Canadian Solar Inc., according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “We should learn how to maintain sustainable and stable
operations rather than pursue shipments,” Xie said.  JA Solar will maintain its market share this year and keep
its solar module production capacity at 2.1 gigawatts annually,
Xie said. The company will seek to improve gross profit margins
and  cash flow  in 2013, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net ;
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  