-- Japan Posts Longest Run of Trade Deficits in Three Decades
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-03-21T09:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/japan-february-exports-fall-2-9-with-yen-effect-yet-to-kick-in.html
Japan  posted its longest run of
trade deficits in three decades as exports fell in February,
underscoring challenges for  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda in reviving the world’s third-biggest economy.  Shipments dropped 2.9 percent from a year earlier, the
 Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 22
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a 1.7 percent
decrease. Imports rose 11.9 percent, leaving a trade  shortfall 
of 777.5 billion yen ($8.1 billion).  Kuroda is scheduled to give his first press conference from
6 p.m. in Tokyo today, with news from Bank of Japan briefings
usually embargoed until after they finish. The new central bank
chief has pledged more aggressive monetary easing that may
further weaken a yen down about 10 percent against the dollar
this year, a move that’s already swelling the nation’s import
bill as nuclear-plant shutdowns force bigger imports of fossil
fuels.  “There’s a time lag until the weakening yen will push up
exports,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at Itochu
Corp. in Tokyo, who said that imports of oil and liquefied
natural gas drove the biggest gain in inbound shipments since
October 2011.  February’s deficit was the eighth consecutive monthly trade
shortfall,  the longest stretch since 1980 .  The yen strengthened 0.6 percent to 95.41 per dollar as of
6:37 p.m. in Tokyo.  China Holiday  Exports to  China  fell 15.8 percent as Asia’s largest
economy celebrated the week-long Lunar New Year holiday in
February, while shipments to Asia dropped 5.2 percent. Exports
to the U.S. rose 5.7 percent, while those to the European Union
fell 9.6 percent.  Extra easing by the Bank of Japan is “likely to weaken the
yen, boosting import costs and expanding the trade deficit,”
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo and a former central bank official, said before the
release. “The positive impact of the declining yen has yet to
be seen.”  Kuroda will speak on monetary policy at the press
conference, he told reporters in Tokyo today. Deputy Governors
Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso will also speak to the press, the
BOJ said in a statement today.  Analysts at banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Barclays Plc
expect the BOJ to add stimulus as soon as the next policy
meeting on April 3-4.  Kubota Corp. (6326) , a tractor maker, said last week that the
weakening yen will push sales to a record in the fiscal year
starting April. Other exporters including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Nintendo Co. (7974)  have raised profit estimates as the yen’s slide
raises the value of their foreign revenue.  Goldman’s Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on March 18 raised its forecast
for Japan’s economic growth in fiscal 2013 to 2.3 percent from
2.1 percent. “Typically, a weak yen is swiftly reflected in
higher import prices and a rise in the value of imports, but
export growth usually comes with a lag, meaning the trade
deficit could persist,” Goldman economists wrote in a note.  Obstacles to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to revive
the economy include an aging population, the world’s biggest
government debt burden, and restrictions on labor-market
flexibility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  