-- Japan Land Prices Fall at Slower Rate on Lower Borrowing Costs
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-03-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/japan-land-prices-fall-at-slower-rate-on-lower-borrowing-costs.html
Japan’s land prices dropped at a
slower pace for the third year as low  interest rates  and buying
by real estate investment trusts spurred demand.  Nationwide land prices on average fell 1.8 percent as of
Jan. 1, compared with a 2.6 percent decline a year earlier, the
 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism  said in
a report yesterday. The drop was the smallest since prices
posted a gain in 2008, the data showed.  Japan’s land prices, which only rose twice in the past 22
years, are still less than half of the peak in the late 1980s.
R eal estate investment trusts  acquired 1.03 trillion yen ($10.8
billion) last year, the most since 2007, according to a report
by the Association for Real Estate Securitization. The low cost
of housing loans has also helped demand for residential
properties, according to the government report.  “There are stronger signs of prices bottoming out,” Akira Mori, chief executive officer of Mori Trust Co.,  Japan ’s most
profitable closely held developer, said in a statement. “Mid-
sized, high-quality properties are starting to be traded in the
market, reflecting increased appetite and expectations for
easing policies. REITs also have strong appetite to buy and we
can see how that’s starting to revive the market.”  Average residential land prices nationwide fell 1.6 percent
last year, compared with a 2.3 percent slide a year earlier, the
report showed. Commercial land values declined 2.1 percent in
2012 after dropping 3.1 percent in 2011.  Metropolitan Areas  The decline in average land prices in Japan’s three-biggest
metropolitan cities -- Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya -- narrowed to
0.6 percent in 2012 from 1.5 percent a year earlier.  Land prices in the northeastern region damaged by the March
11 earthquake and tsunami in 2011 gained the most last year as
residents sought to relocate inland or to elevated areas, the
government said. Eight out of 10 residential sites that had the
biggest gains where in Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima prefectures,
where the coast was hit by the tsunami.  The biggest increase was in the Shirasagidai area in the
city of Ishinomaki, where land prices rose 24 percent to 27,800
yen ($291) per square meter (10.76 square foot).  Seven out of 10 commercial sites that had the biggest
increases were in the greater  Tokyo  area, including locations in
Kawasaki City in Kanagawa Prefecture and in Asakusa area in the
east of Tokyo near Tokyo Skytree, the world’s tallest tower.  The most expensive piece of residential property was in
Rokubancho in Chiyoda ward, where the Imperial Palace is
located, with land costing 2.78 million yen per square meter,
the report showed. Marunouchi Building, also in Chiyoda ward,
and a patch in Ginza’s shopping district, had the priciest
commercial real estate at 27 million yen per square meter, the
report showed.  “The real estate market has finally started to show signs
of recovery,” said Keiji Kimura, chairman of Mitsubishi Estate
Co., Japan’s biggest developer, in a statement. “The decline in
residential and commercial land prices has narrowed while
revival in some areas can be seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  