-- Jewell’s Interior Nomination Clears Senate Energy Panel 19-3
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-21T17:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/jewell-s-interior-nomination-clears-senate-energy-panel-19-3-1-.html
Interior secretary nominee Sally Jewell was backed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee today in a  bipartisan  19-3 vote that sends her
nomination to the full Senate for confirmation.  Jewell won support of the panel’s top Republican,  Alaska ’s
 Lisa Murkowski , after the Interior Department agreed to revisit
a decision about whether to allow construction of a road across
a wildlife refuge in rural Alaska.  Even as they backed her nomination, Murkowski and other
lawmakers said they needed pledges from Jewell about how she
would handle the conflicting demands over federal  land use , and
questioned her ties to environmental groups that had opposed oil
and coal use near national parks or on government lands.  “I am going to go back on some of these questions and try
to get more clarity,” Murkowski told reporters after the vote
today. The Senate hasn’t scheduled a confirmation vote.  Jewell, 57, will replace  Ken Salazar  if confirmed by the
Senate. Jewell, a former petroleum engineer and commercial
banker, is the chief executive officer of Recreational Equipment
Inc.  As head of the company, Jewell, an accomplished mountain
climber, expert skier and longtime bicycle commuter, helped lead
groups such as the National Parks Conservation Association that
pushed the government to curb fossil-fuel mining in or near
public lands. Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican, cited
that tie for opposing Jewell today.  Road Review  After late-night negotiations yesterday among Murkowski,
panel chairman  Ron Wyden  of Oregon and Salazar, Interior agreed
to take another look at the proposal to build a 10-mile road
across the wildlife refuge near King Cove, Alaska. Murkowski
said that road is necessary to allow residents there to get to
an airport in an emergency.  “I believe that additional steps and dialogue are
appropriate before a final decision is made,” Salazar said in a
statement today. Murkowski said in a statement that Jewell would
be making the trip to King Cove with her, which assumes that she
will be confirmed by the full Senate.  Jewell also faces hurdles tied to more parochial issues.  Senator  James Inhofe , an  Oklahoma  Republican, said this
week that he’ll delay a Senate vote on Jewell’s nomination until
he gets assurances that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will
ease restrictions on oil-and-gas development in eastern Oklahoma
tied to the presence of an endangered species, the American
Burying Beetle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  