-- Jindal Steel & Power Hires Banks for $400 Million Loan
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-03-21T11:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/jindal-steel-power-hires-banks-for-400-million-five-year-loan.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) ,  India ’s
second-biggest steelmaker, hired banks to arrange a $400 million
loan, four people familiar with the matter said.  The five-year term facility may pay an all-in rate, which
includes interest margin and fees, of as much as 350 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private.  Ravi Muthreja, a New Delhi-based spokesman for the company,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and two telephone calls
seeking comment on the financing.  Jindal Steel plans to raise as much as 120 billion rupees
($2.2 billion) of debt in the coming two years to expand
capacity and sate demand arising from federal infrastructure
spending, Group Chief Financial Officer Sushil Maroo said in a
March 6 interview. That includes $300 million of foreign-
currency bond sales, he said.  Shares in Jindal Steel rose as much as 4.8 percent in
Mumbai before closing 1.2 percent higher at 341.7 rupees. The
company has about $3.3 billion-equivalent of bonds and loans
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc will help arrange the borrowing, the people said
today.  The 120 billion rupee debt is part of Jindal Steel’s 200
billion rupee capital expenditure program for the two years
ending March 31, 2015, by which time it plans to double
steelmaking capacity and triple electricity generation capacity.
The spending also includes expanding steel capacity in Oman and
buying iron ore and coal assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  