-- Jonathan Pollard and the Myth of the Israeli Spy
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-03-21T22:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/jonathan-pollard-and-the-myth-of-the-israeli-spy.html
A Jewish boy in the northeastern
U.S., I was raised on tales of the brilliant exploits of the
Israeli intelligence agencies. So whenever Jonathan Pollard
returns to the headlines -- as he has with President  Barack Obama ’s visit to Israel -- I can still remember my horror when
he was arrested for passing secrets along to Israel in 1985. The
teenage me could hardly believe that the  Mossad  might steal my
own country’s secrets as well as  Syria ’s battle plans.  It wasn’t naivete on my part, either, or not exactly: The
admiring books I devoured that propagated the myth of Israeli
espionage were always accompanied by the assurance that Israel
never employed the Jewish residents of the target country, lest
they all come to be suspected of harboring dual loyalties.  In retrospect, even a brief lifetime of reading spy novels
should have told me that such a rule was made to be broken -- 
but such are the vicissitudes of the young mind.  My childish shock turned to post-adolescent concern the
first time I sought a security clearance, for a summer
internship in the U.S. Consulate General in  Jerusalem . I
realized that any rational background check would want to know
where my sympathies lay. Pollard, a civilian employee of naval
intelligence acting at the behest of Israel, really had
inflicted a harm on loyal Americans who wanted to serve their
government. Even if no one was ever impolite enough to question
my loyalties, I felt they really ought to -- and that the
question would be justifiable.  Return Sought  Those old feelings stir in me every time the request for
Pollard’s release is renewed, whether by Israel or by prominent
Jewish Americans. The Israelis, of course, are completely
justified in seeking that their spy be returned to them -- their
chutzpah lay in spying on their closest ally and in doing so
without any plausible deniability.  For Americans to insist loudly that a traitor to their
country be released has always seemed a more, shall we say,
doubtful proposition. My law-school colleague Alan Dershowitz --
whom I was raised to revere as a civil libertarian -- has been
on the case for years. He argues primarily that the government
pulled a bait and switch: The Justice Department offered a plea
bargain in return for Pollard’s cooperation while the Pentagon
submitted a separate letter demanding the longest sentence the
law would allow. (He is serving a life sentence.)  Even granting Dershowitz his argument -- that the U.S.
government perverted justice by deceiving a spy -- it still
seems strange to focus on this injustice in particular among the
innumerable wrongs that plea bargaining visits daily. Everyone
deserves a defense. But Pollard was guilty, and surely the
Defense Department was in a good position to know just how much
harm his spying inflicted. No president has taken any steps to
release him. It is hard to avoid the conclusion that Jewish-
American efforts on his behalf are the product of an
understandable desire to deny that dual loyalty could ever pose
a problem for anyone -- the very proposition Pollard’s crimes
refute.  So what should our attitude be toward Pollard? It would be
a mistake, I now believe, to insist that he be treated more
harshly than any other spy just because he made all Jewish
Americans look potentially suspect. (This would be the inverse
of the impulse to forgive him so as to minimize the impact of
his betrayal.) Nor is there any reason to think that someone who
spies for an ally is any worse than someone who spies for an
enemy. Each is destructive (and repulsive) in his own special
way.  Trade Possibility  Two more serious concerns counsel against Pollard’s
release. One is that he seems to have refused to offer
authorities a full account of what he stole. Reticence is I
suppose laudable in a captured spy, but when he has spied on our
country, we have a strong interest in making him bear the costs
for it. If he were a Russian spy in a John le Carre novel, he
could have been traded to the Soviets -- but it seems the
Israelis have nothing worth trading him for. That is a risk you
take when you spy for one ally against another.  Then there is the question of Pollard’s motive, which is
certainly relevant. Although he took some money, he seems to
have been driven mostly by a sense of duty to the Jewish state,
suitably played on by his handlers. (He thought the Ronald Reagan administration was withholding important intelligence
from  Israel .) His continued intransigence over decades seems to
underscore this ideological motive.  Morally speaking, it may be true that a spy motivated by
his beliefs is less blameworthy than one impelled by greed. But
from the standpoint of the country being spied on, the practical
consequences are far worse. Bank accounts can be monitored, and
(gasp!) we might even try compensating our own public officials
enough that they are less likely to be tempted to betray their
country for money. But as the British traitors Anthony Blunt,
Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean and Kim Philby showed, it is
extremely difficult to protect against a hidden love of another
country or system. The only sure means would require litmus
tests that a democracy rightly wants to avoid.  If Obama thinks he can get something worthwhile from Israel
in exchange for Pollard, I have no objection to treating him as
a pawn, as the Israelis did when they recruited him. If not,
then the president can leave him where he is -- a warning to
others that betraying your oath of loyalty to the United States
is a crime we take seriously.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
 Twitter . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 