-- Journal Register Approved to Sell Assets in Bankruptcy Court
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-21T21:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/journal-register-approved-to-sell-assets-in-bankruptcy-court-1-.html
Journal Register Co., a newspaper
publisher in bankruptcy for a second time, won court approval to
sell its assets to an affiliate of its current owner in exchange
for $114 million in secured debt and about $6 million in cash.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in  New York  today
overruled a union, part of the  Communications Workers of
America , that had objected the deal with the buyer, 21st CMH
Acquisition Corp.  “In light of fact that the transaction will not close
until after the termination of the collective bargaining
agreements, the court overrules the unions’ objection,”
Bernstein said in his written ruling. The union contract expires
on March 31.  The sale moves Journal Register a step closer to winding
down and resolving the Chapter 11 case it started in September.
The company, which publishes the New Haven Register in
 Connecticut  and other regional titles, delivers local news and
other information to about 1,000 communities in 10 states and
reaches 21 million people a month, according to its website.  Auction Canceled  Journal Register chose CMH as the buyer because it was the
company’s only “stalking-horse” bidder. A February auction was
canceled due to a lack of other potential buyers and objections
by most other union groups were resolved before the hearing, the
company said in court papers.  CMH is an affiliate of funds managed by Alden Global
Capital Ltd., which acquired two Journal Register loans totaling
$152 million in the previous bankruptcy in 2009. The debt
exchange is called a credit bid, in which buyers offer the value
of the secured debt they are owed in exchange for assets.  The company’s sale agreement includes severance and paid
time off for employees who lose their jobs as a result of the
deal, the assumption of liabilities totaling $22.8 million and
other costs, according to an amended sale agreement filed with
the court on March 15. The deal’s total value wasn’t cited.  The company won court approval last year to borrow as much
as $25 million from  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to fund operations while
in court protection.  Assets, Debt  Journal Register, based in Yardley,  Pennsylvania , listed
assets of $235 million and debt of $268.6 million in its Chapter
11 papers last year. The debt included about $13.2 million on a
revolving credit owing to Wells Fargo, according to court papers
filed at the time.  The company’s newspapers include the Delaware County Times
and the Trentonian near Philadelphia, the Oakland Press in
 Michigan , the Daily Freeman in Kingston, New York, the Register
Citizen in Connecticut and the News-Herald outside of  Cleveland .  The publisher previously sought court protection in
February 2009, at the time listing debt of as much as $1
billion. Journal Register exited bankruptcy about six months
later under the terms of a prenegotiated reorganization plan.  The case is In Re Journal Register Co., 12-13774, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  