-- JPMorgan Silent Partner Revealed in Whale Fiasco
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-03-21T22:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/jpmorgan-silent-partner-revealed-in-whale-fiasco.html
One of the best parts about last
week’s Senate hearing on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s London Whale
trades is that we finally got a clear picture of whose side the
regulators were on during the early days while the bank’s
executives tried to contain the unfolding debacle.  Even when officials at the U.S. Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency knew that JPMorgan had misled the public, they
did nothing to make the company set the record straight. The
 regulators  didn’t merely keep quiet while JPMorgan spread
falsehoods. Their silence made them complicit.  Last April, when Douglas Braunstein was still JPMorgan’s
chief financial officer, he said the bank’s regulators were
fully aware of what the  credit-derivatives  traders at its chief
investment office had been doing. His assurances came a week
after the first stories about the London Whale scandal broke in
the press. This was before JPMorgan’s acknowledgement in May
that it had a serious problem, which eventually added up to more
than $6 billion in trading losses.  “We are very comfortable with our positions as they are
held today, and I would add that all of those positions are
fully transparent to the regulators,” Braunstein said on
JPMorgan’s April 13 quarterly earnings conference call. “They
review them, have access to them at any point in time” and
“get the information on those positions on a regular and
recurring basis as part of our normalized reporting.”  Knowing Better  The world knows better now. At last week’s  hearing  by the
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, Senator  Carl Levin 
asked Scott Waterhouse, the OCC examiner-in-charge for JPMorgan,
if Braunstein’s statement was true. “That is not true,”
Waterhouse said. Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the panel’s
chairman, next asked if it was true that regulators got “the
information on those positions on a regular basis.” Waterhouse
answered: “No, we didn’t.”  This was the first time anyone from the OCC had said
publicly that Braunstein’s statement was false. Why did it take
almost a year? The agency doesn’t have any good answers.  Waterhouse and others at the agency were in a unique
position to know the truth when Braunstein told his whopper.
They knew what was  transparent  to them and what wasn’t. They
knew what information JPMorgan had given the OCC and what it
hadn’t. But they didn’t alert the public or make JPMorgan issue
a correction.  They didn’t see it as their job to care if the public was
misled. Behind the scenes, in conversations among themselves,
OCC officials said the information JPMorgan initially provided
the agency about its credit derivatives was useless, according
to the Senate panel’s  report .  There’s no law or regulation that prevented the OCC from
telling the public that Braunstein’s comments weren’t true. The
head of the OCC,  Thomas Curry , could have approved a news
release in rebuttal. An OCC spokesman, Robert Garsson, confirmed
this much. Garsson said it wasn’t the agency’s responsibility to
tell the public. He declined to say if the OCC gave a heads-up
to other regulators, such as the Securities and Exchange
Commission. There has been no indication it did.  “Our mission is safety and soundness, and we don’t divulge
confidential exam information,” Garsson said. Never mind that
Braunstein had been speaking on a public conference call. There
wasn’t anything confidential about it. Plus, information can’t
be confidential if it isn’t true -- because it’s made-up and
doesn’t exist.  Here we had JPMorgan’s CFO using OCC employees as human
shields in an effort to calm the public, and the agency didn’t
even seem to care. His message was clear: Don’t worry, because
our government minders know everything -- and if you are going
to come after us, well, they’re fine with what we’re doing.  Wasn’t True  Braunstein, now a JPMorgan vice chairman, acknowledged to
Levin that his April statement wasn’t true. “On the 13th, I
believed it to be accurate based on the information that I had
received,” Braunstein said. It’s still far from obvious what
basis he had for believing what he said. JPMorgan didn’t address
the subject in the internal investigative  report  it released in
January.  Levin told him: “I have a lot of trouble -- a lot of
trouble, I gotta tell you, Mr. Braunstein -- believing that
those statements were anything other than an effort to calm the
seas. Because they all were exaggerations or inaccurate.”  It’s true that OCC officials had no legal duty to make
JPMorgan come clean. The question is whether they had a moral
obligation, especially given the stakes. This is the U.S.’s
largest bank by assets, and one that has taken taxpayer bailout
money before and would take it again in a pinch.  Here’s what the OCC should have done back in April: Send a
letter, signed by Curry, to Braunstein, JPMorgan Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  and the bank’s board, telling them that
JPMorgan had 24 hours to publicly correct the record about what
it had told the OCC. Then, if JPMorgan failed to do so, the
agency should have released the letter.  That way Curry at least could have said the OCC didn’t
participate in this conspiracy of silence. He can’t say that
now.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  