-- Keystone Pipeline Foes Should Face Reality
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   R .   K n i t t e l
-- 2013-03-21T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/keystone-pipeline-foes-should-face-reality.html
Opponents of the Keystone XL oil
pipeline warn of its potentially catastrophic consequences.
Building it, climate scientist  James Hansen  says, would mean
“game over” for the climate.  New York  Times columnist  Thomas Friedman  hopes that, if
it’s given a green light, “ Bill McKibben  and his 350.org
coalition go crazy.” And he means “chain-themselves-to-the-
White-House-fence-stop-traffic-at-the-Capitol kind of crazy.”  Are they all just crying wolf and using Keystone XL as a
proxy battle against oil?  I hope so, because the economics behind laying a pipeline
from  Alberta ,  Canada , to the U.S. Gulf Coast would make it
difficult for the pipeline to have any effect on greenhouse-gas
emissions. I trust that if opponents dug a little deeper into
the issues and the market for oil, they would agree -- at least
privately.  Three things would need to be true for Keystone to lead to
more emissions. Otherwise, the pipeline could actually reduce
them.  First, in the absence of this pipeline, Canada would need
to not build an alternative one (and not use rail) to transport
crude from the Alberta  tar sands . Two western-route pipeline
proposals exist: one would lead from the tar sands to southern
British Columbia, the other would take a more northern route. A
pipeline to eastern Canada has also been discussed.  Pipeline Profits  Perhaps environmentalists believe that if they win the
fight against Keystone, they would have the momentum to defeat
all three Canadian alternatives as well. But let’s calculate how
much such a pipeline is worth to tar-sands producers, a major
Canadian industry. Considering that just more than 1.6 million
barrels of tar-sands crude is extracted each day, and that a
pipeline would add roughly $20 a barrel to the price of that oil
(without a pipeline, tar sands crude has to be sold at a
discount ), a pipeline would bring producers $32 million dollars
a day. That is a very large incentive to get pipes in the
ground. Good luck stopping them.  Second, Keystone’s existence would have to cause a
significant increase in production from the tar sands. The
question here is, would that extra $20 a barrel cause producers
to extract a lot more crude? Normally, when the price of
something rises, the amount companies are willing to produce
also increases. In the case of oil, however, this supply
response is often fairly small. So any production increase in
response to Keystone would probably be minimal.  Finally, the oil displaced by crude from the pipeline would
need to be cleaner than what comes from the tar sands. We’ve all
heard how dirty tar-sands crude is. Measured throughout the
well-to-wheels life of the oil, greenhouse-gas emissions from
tar-sands crude are  14 percent to 20 percent  greater than those
from the average type of oil used in the U.S. What really
matters, however, are the emissions from the kind of oil that
tar-sands crude would replace.  There is good reason to think that the tar-sands oil would
displace additional extra-heavy oil coming from  Venezuela . If
this is the case, tar sands might actually be good for the
climate. A recent Cambridge Energy Research Associates study
found that gasoline refined from the average tar-sands crude
sold to the U.S. is actually cleaner than that refined from
either Venezuelan Petrozuata oil or California Kern River oil.
There is no tar-sands oil dirtier than Venezuelan Petrozuata
oil.  It may very well be that any additional tar-sands oil
brought to the U.S. via Keystone XL -- again, assuming there is
additional oil -- would be significantly dirtier than what is
sold to the U.S. now. But this possibility is what the debate
should focus on, not unsubstantiated talk of doom and gloom.  Maybe the opponents of Keystone XL understand all of this
and oppose the pipeline merely for symbolic reasons. Maybe the
politics of  climate change  require hyperbole. My hope, however,
is that policy will be driven by facts.  (Christopher R. Knittel is a professor of energy economics
at the  Sloan School of Management  and the co-director of the
Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Christopher Knittel at  knittel@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 