-- Kuroda Rebuts Reflation Naysayers as BOJ Action Looms: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-22T04:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/kuroda-confident-in-getting-2-inflation-as-boj-readies-stimulus.html
     March 22 (Bloomberg) ---  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said he’s confident in achieving a 2 percent inflation
target, rebutting doubters who predict his efforts will fail as
he prepares to strengthen monetary stimulus.  “We will do whatever we can to achieve the 2 percent price
target at the earliest time possible,” Kuroda said yesterday in
his inaugural press conference after taking the helm of the BOJ
this week. Kikuo Iwata, one of two new deputies, told reporters
the bank should commit to achieving the goal for consumer-price
increases within two years.  Kuroda’s anti-deflation campaign came under criticism even
before it began, reflecting debate over whether monetary policy
is capable of lifting  Japan  out of economic stagnation. Eisuke Sakakibara, an ex-Finance Ministry colleague of Kuroda’s, said
he’d fail to achieve the price goal, and former BOJ board member
Atsushi Mizuno said he’d hit a “wall of reality” because more
bond purchases would escalate risks of a market bubble.  The new governor rebutted those views yesterday, saying
that there’s no sign of an asset bubble, and restating that the
BOJ could bring forward open-ended asset purchases, due to begin
next year. Kuroda declined to comment on whether he would call
an emergency meeting, before the gathering due for April 3-4.
The yen gained on the absence of any extra commitments.  “Facing sky-high expectations, the BOJ will likely
announce fresh easing measures at Kuroda’s first monetary policy
meeting,” said HSBC Holdings Plc analyst Izumi Devalier in  Hong
Kong , forecasting bond buys and risk-asset purchases.  Yen Strengthens  Devalier said that Kuroda may want to give Masayoshi Amamiya, the monetary policy planner brought back from running
the bank’s Osaka branch, time to work on measures, rather than
calling an immediate meeting.  The yen extended gains against the dollar after the
briefing by Kuroda, Iwata and the other new deputy governor,
Hiroshi Nakaso. The currency traded at 94.94 per dollar as of
1:12 p.m. in Tokyo today, little changed after a 1.2 percent
increase yesterday. The 10-year government bond yield today hit
the lowest since June 2003.  Opinions within the government are divided on the BOJ’s
stimulus. Economy Minister Akira Amari said today that he hoped
the price target will be achieved within two years, adding that
the new central bank leadership has a good understanding of
“Abenomics,” a term for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies.
Finance Minister Taro Aso was more cautious, saying that it will
take a “considerable” time to achieve the goal and the task
doesn’t belong to the central bank alone.  ‘Decisive’ Steps  Kuroda said he was confident that “decisive monetary
easing” would lead to 2 percent inflation, adding that the
nation’s biggest task is to end 15 years of deflation. His
stance contrasted with that of former Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who cautioned at his first press conference in 2008
that too much short-term stimulus could hurt long-term growth.  Consumer-price gains “will never reach 2 percent,”
Sakakibara, Kuroda’s direct predecessor as vice finance minister
in charge of currency policy in the 1990s, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview last week.  “This deflation is structural.
It’s a result of the integration of the Japanese economy with
the rest of east  Asia  and it has taken place for the last 20
years.”  Former board member Mizuno, vice chairman at Credit Suisse
AG in Tokyo, said March 6 that excessive Japanese government
bond purchases by the central bank could lead to a bubble in the
securities.  Debt Burden  Obstacles to efforts by Kuroda and Abe to revive the
economy include an aging population, the world’s biggest
government debt burden, and restrictions on labor-market
flexibility. Japan yesterday reported its longest run of  trade
deficits  in three decades as exports fell in February and import
costs rose on a weaker yen and an extra reliance on fossil fuels
because of nuclear-plant shutdowns.  “We must attain the price goal within two years,” Iwata
said yesterday.  The confidence of the new policy makers is yet to be
reflected by economists, who predict a failure to achieve the
price target within two years, according to a Bloomberg News
survey this month.  The central bank currently buys  government bonds  with
maturities of up to three years, as well as exchange-traded
funds, real-estate investment trusts and other risk assets,
through a fund targeted to reach 76 trillion yen ($801 billion)
by the end of this year.  Kim’s Concerns  Elsewhere in Asia today, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said that central bankers globally are concerned at the
risks associated with keeping  interest rates  low for too long,
adding that policy makers need to fuel recovery while staying on
guard for possible bubbles in the long term.  Around the world,  Germany  is set to announce business
confidence data today, while Cypriot lawmakers will begin
debating legislation to unlock bailout funds and prevent a
financial collapse. Euro-area finance ministers say they expect
a new proposal from Cyprus “as rapidly as possible” on how the
government plans to raise the 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion)
needed to trigger emergency loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  