-- N.Y. Dairy Farm With Gas Leases Urges End to Drill Ban
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a n i e l l e   S a n z o n e
-- 2013-03-21T21:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/n-y-dairy-farm-with-gas-leases-urges-end-to-drill-ban.html
A  New York  dairy farm and a
Norwegian energy company asked an appeals court to throw out
drilling bans imposed by two towns as a five-year moratorium on
hydraulic fracturing in the state nears an end.  Attorneys for the dairy farm, Cooperstown Holstein Corp.,
and  Norse Energy Corp. (NEC)  urged the four-judge state appellate
panel in Albany, New York, to overturn lower-court rulings that
upheld drilling bans instituted in the towns of Dryden and
Middlefield, saying state regulations of the oil and gas
industry supersede local zoning laws.  Thomas West, an attorney for Norse Energy, argued state
regulations can pre-empt local laws, especially if for “the
greater good.” Municipalities can still have some say in the
process through the Department of Environmental Conservation, he
said.  “Nothing limits local government from choosing where to
permit it,” West said.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, is poised to decide
whether to allow the practice, known as fracking, in the next
few weeks as the moratorium draws to an end. Fracking already is
 banned  in more than 50 New York towns, while dozens more have
moratoriums in place or are considering bans, according to Karen
Edelstein, a geographic information-systems consultant in
Ithaca.  Local Concerns  The cases and others like them are arising as matters
traditionally regulated by the state intersect with local
concerns, said Shaun Goho, a staff attorney and clinical
instructor at the Emmett Environmental Law and Policy Clinic at
 Harvard Law School .  “On the one hand, states have an interest in how their
natural resources including oil and gas are developed,” Goho
said. “On the other, local governments usually take the lead on
 land use  and zoning issues. They obviously have a strong
interest in things that will significantly affect the character
of their communities.”  The dairy farm, which executed two oil and gas leases in
2007 with Elexco Land Services Inc. to explore and develop
natural gas resources under the property, said in a September
2011 lawsuit that Middlefield, a town of about 2,000 people
about 50 miles west of Albany, had no authority to enact a ban
because the activity is governed by state law.  Denver-based Anschutz Exploration Corp., an affiliate of
billionaire  Philip Anschutz ’s closely held company, sued Dryden,
a town of 14,000 people about 75 miles west of Middlefield, the
same month.  Dryden’s Ban  Justice Phillip Rumsey in Cortland upheld Dryden’s ban on
Feb. 21, 2012, and Justice Donald Cerio Jr. in Wampsville ruled
four days later that Middlefield’s was also legal. The cases
have been consolidated for appeal, and Norse Energy, an Oslo-
based explorer whose U.S. unit filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection  in December, replaced Anschutz Exploration in the
Dryden appeal.  Last week, a third New York town, Avon, won a lawsuit
challenging its natural gas drilling ban, according to the
 Associated Press .  The fracking bans are aimed at involves forcing millions of
gallons of chemically treated water underground to break up rock
and free trapped natural gas. The practice has sparked
environmental concerns and lawsuits across the U.S.  Marcellus Shale  Parts of New York sit atop the gas-rich Marcellus Shale
formation, and the governor must balance prospects for the
booming economic development seen in  Ohio  and  Pennsylvania 
against environmentalists’ warnings that fracking may damage
water supplies and make farmland unusable.  The Marcellus Shale beneath parts of New York, Ohio,  West
Virginia , Pennsylvania,  Maryland  and  Virginia  has an estimated
400 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, one of the largest such
formations in the world, according to trade groups that
represent companies with natural gas-leases in New York state.  Last month, Cuomo’s appointed environmental commissioner,
Joseph Martens, threw out a lengthy regulation-making process,
saying the state will start issuing fracking permits if Health
Commissioner Nirav Shah gives his approval. Shah said March 11
that he’s a few weeks from a decision. In the interim,
environmentalists and lawmakers who oppose fracking have joined
to press for bills banning the drilling practice.  Cuomo appeared close to a decision before. In June,
administration officials floated a plan that would have allowed
fracking to move forward in five gas-rich counties in the
Southern Tier, a mostly rural region along the Pennsylvania
border. Instead, Cuomo asked Shah in September to conduct the
health review and determine the outcome, a decision he
reiterated on March 11.  Suit Dismissed  U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis in  Brooklyn  in
September threw out a lawsuit by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman seeking a full environmental review of hydraulic
fracturing. Garaufis granted a motion by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency to dismiss the case, finding that the
development plans are in the early stages and the threat of harm
is speculative.  Schneiderman sued the  Delaware  River Basin Commission, the
EPA and other federal agencies in May 2011 to force a fuller
assessment of the environmental impact that gas development
could have on the state’s water supply.  The river commission, created in 1961, is a compact among
New York, Delaware,  New Jersey , Pennsylvania and the federal
government. It is responsible for water quality in the Delaware
River Basin, which supplies drinking water to the four states.  Permitted Fracking  Schneiderman said in the lawsuit that the commission’s
proposed regulations would allow fracking at 15,000 to 18,000
gas wells without a full environmental review. If the
regulations are issued, New York’s moratorium will be lifted.  New York said it has shown that fracking generates millions
of gallons of wastewater contaminated with toxic metals and
radioactive substances, and that companies using the process in
Pennsylvania have violated the law 1,600 times, harming the
state’s water.  West argued today that it’s prudent to develop all
resources in the state, and that there’s a difference between
the horizontal holes used in drilling now and the vertical holes
used in the past.  “If a hole is made one mile under the earth, there’s no
effect on the surface,” West said.  Alan Knauf, an attorney with Knauf Shaw LLP representing
the Dryden Resources Awareness Coalition, a group formed by
residents concerned about the impact of fracking, argued that
local zoning is the “heart of industry” in New York and that
nothing says it “doesn’t apply below the earth.”  Finger Lakes  “The appellant is stating that no one will allow this but
plenty of communities will, near the Finger Lakes and the
Southern Tier,” Knauf said.  Deborah Goldberg, an attorney for the San Francisco-based
environmental group Earthjustice that is representing Dryden,
said the town acknowledges that drillers could go to the border
of the municipality and frack below.  “They have that ability,” Goldberg said.  John J. Henry, a lawyer with Whiteman Osterman & Hanna LLP
who is representing the town of Middlefield, said a company has
no rights to take resources from the land, while Scott R.
Kurkoski, an attorney with Levene Gouldin & Thompson LLP
representing the dairy farm, said he is trying to protect the
rights of his client, owner Jennifer Huntington.  Client’s Resources  “We have to protect my client’s correlative rights to
utilize the resources on her property,” Kurkoski said.
“Middlefield is trying to take that away.”  Local ordinances related to oil and gas drilling, which
have existed throughout the U.S. for more than a century, are
getting increased attention as fracking brings gas drilling into
places unfamiliar with mineral rights issues, Goho said.  Such ordinances face attacks from the industry in court and
in state legislatures, Goho said. In Pennsylvania, the state has
appealed a court ruling invalidating parts of a law easing
energy development of the Marcellus Shale, and in  Colorado ,
where the city of Longmont was sued over its fracking ban, there
are plans to introduce a bill in the state legislature to limit
local control, he said.  The legal question the legislature of New York intended,
Goho said. While the answer won’t bind on other states, it can
still help “throw down a marker” in terms of both fracking and
traditional zoning powers.  “And in that sense, cities and towns all across the
country will be watching the outcome of this case,” he said.  The appeals court in  Albany  typically issues decisions
within four to six weeks, Goldberg said. West said he expects a
ruling within six to eight weeks and said he was confident the
panel will overturn the bans and the towns will appeal, sending
the case to the state’s highest court.  The cases are Anschutz Exploration Corp. v. Dryden,
902/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Tompkins County
(Ithaca); and Cooperstown Holstein Corp. v. Town of Middlefield,
1700930/2011, New York Civil Supreme Court, Otsego County
(Cooperstown).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Sanzone in New York State Supreme Court in Albany at
 dmsanz01@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  