-- N.Y. Gun Groups Sue Over Law as Maryland Permits Upheld
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-22T13:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/new-york-gun-groups-sue-governor-cuomo-over-arms-limits.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  was
sued by gun advocacy groups who claim new state laws regulating
the sale and possession of firearms and ammunition are
unconstitutional.  Organizations led by the New York State Rifle & Pistol
Association are seeking to enjoin the law to “vindicate the
right of the people of the state of New York to keep and bear
arms under the Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution,”
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Buffalo.  The lawsuit came as a  federal appeals court  in  Virginia 
upheld  Maryland ’s limits on seeking a permit to carry a gun
outside the home. That law, requiring a person who wants such a
permit to show “good and substantial reason,” was affirmed by
the U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond. The court held that the
statute was a constitutional public-safety measure.  In  Washington , U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
he is preparing federal gun legislation for next month. The
measure will be a narrower version of laws meant to curb gun
violence approved by the Judiciary Committee. The bill will
include federal aid for school safety, stronger penalties for
gun trafficking and broader background checks for purchases,
Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said in a statement yesterday.  Following the school massacre last year in Newtown,
 Connecticut , New York’s Cuomo pushed his state’s law through the
legislature in weeks, making it the first state to respond to
the killings. The measure tightens restrictions on sales and
closes gaps in a 2000 ban on assault weapons.  ‘Criminal Penalties’  “The act creates new offenses with criminal penalties for
previously lawful activities involving the acquisition and
possession of rifles, handguns, shotguns, ammunition magazines
and ammunition,” the groups challenging the law said in the
complaint. “The act severely and adversely affects plaintiffs
and millions of other law-abiding gun owners in New York.”  It also bans the sale of ammunition magazines that hold
more than seven rounds. A drawback to the law is that “there is
no such thing as a seven-bullet magazine,” Cuomo said at a
March 20 press briefing in  Albany . That left him with no option
other than to roll back the law and again allow the sale of 10-
round holders while keeping it illegal for them to contain more
than seven at a time.  Maryland Law  In upholding Maryland’s law, the three-judge panel in
Richmond reversed a lower-court judge, who had ruled the Second
Amendment right to keep and bear arms extends beyond the home
and that the state’s standard for granting a carry permit
infringed on that right.  “The state has demonstrated that the good-and-substantial-
reason requirement is reasonably adapted to Maryland’s
significant interests in protecting public safety and preventing
crime,” U.S. Circuit Judge Robert King wrote in a 33-page
opinion.  Under Maryland’s law, residents who wish to carry a gun
outside their home must demonstrate they need it for personal
protection because of a specific threat or their business
activities or because they belong to a high-risk profession.  Active Assignment  Law enforcement  and military personnel on active assignment
and people traveling to shooting ranges are exempt from the
requirement.  “It’s not much of a right if the police can demand that
you satisfy their vision of a ‘good and substantial reason’ to
exercise it,” Alan Gura, an attorney for the plaintiffs in the
case, said in a statement released by the Second Amendment
Foundation. “The next step is for courts to tell Americans that
they need a ’good and substantial reason’ to speak, worship or
be secure from unreasonable searches.”  Gura said the decision will be appealed to the U.S. Supreme
Court if it isn’t reversed.  Seven Bullets  New York Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan
Democrat, said yesterday that the state will suspend the April
15 effective date of  New York ’s law banning the sale of
magazines with more than seven bullets to give lawmakers time to
change the statute.  The changes are happening as Cuomo, 55, has been attacked
by pro-gun groups who claim the law was rushed through. In
January, Cuomo, a Democrat, waived a requirement for a three-day
waiting period between a bill’s introduction and vote.  The legislature approved the measure within 24 hours of its
introduction. Rich Azzopardi, a spokesman for Cuomo, didn’t
respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The cases are New York State Rifle and Pistol Association
Inc. v. Cuomo, 1:13-cv-00291, U.S. District Court, Western
District of New York (Buffalo); The Maryland case is Woollard v.
Gallagher, 12-1437,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  Fourth Circuit 
(Richmond, Virginia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at   azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 