-- Newtown Parents Join Biden, Bloomberg Calling for Wider Gun Laws
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-21T18:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/newtown-parents-join-biden-bloomberg-calling-for-wider-gun-laws.html
U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden
joined New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and some of the families
who lost 26 children and adults in the December attack on a
Connecticut elementary school in demanding Congress enact
stricter regulations on guns.  Biden, Bloomberg and the families of two children and a
teacher killed by a gunman armed with an assault rifle called on
Congress to ban sales of such weapons. They also asked for a
prohibition on ammunition magazines holding more than 10 rounds,
and to require background checks on all gun purchasers.  “They all have a positive impact on public safety,” said
Biden, 70, who as a U.S. senator from  Delaware  sponsored an
assault-weapon ban that became law in 1994 and expired a decade
later. “These are common-sense approaches that the American
people already think are in place.”  About 3,000 people have been killed with guns since the
Dec. 14 shootings inside the Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown that left 20 children and six adults shot dead, said
Bloomberg, 71. The founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, he is also a co-founder of Mayors Against
Illegal Guns, which counts more than 900 municipal chief
executives among its members.  U.S. Senate Democratic leaders have dropped an assault
weapons ban from proposed gun legislation. A ban on high-
capacity ammunition magazines used in a number of U.S. mass
shootings also faces strong opposition in Congress.  “I’m really ashamed to see Congress doesn’t have the guts
to stand up and make a change,” said Neil Heslin, whose first-
grader son, Jesse Lewis, died in the Newtown massacre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  