-- Nike Surges Most Since 2011 as Margins, China Rebound
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-03-22T20:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/nike-profit-tops-estimates-amid-footwear-demand-in-north-america.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, surged the most in more than four years
after easing investors’ concerns that its profitability and
business in China were weakening.  The shares  rose  11 percent to $59.53 at the close in  New
York  for the largest gain since Oct. 28, 2008. Nike has advanced
15 percent this year, compared with a 9.1 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Price increases enacted last year finally paid off for the
Beaverton, Oregon-based company as its gross margin widened for
the first time in nine quarters. Meanwhile, the company reported
that orders for the Nike brand in China, excluding changes in
currency exchange rates, gained after sales there sank 10
percent last quarter for a second straight decline.  “Nike is firing on all cylinders right now,” said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , who
has a hold rating on the shares. “They’ve been talking about,
for several years now, expecting gross margins to eventually
turn. And now it looks like that has played out.”  The gain in gross margin came in the fiscal third quarter
ended Feb. 28, when earnings from continuing operations rose 16
percent to $662 million, or 73 cents a share, from $569 million,
or 61 cents, a year earlier, Nike said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts  projected  67 cents a share, the average of 20 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  2014 Forecast  The company gave an initial forecast for fiscal 2014 that
was in line with analysts’  estimates . Sales will increase in the
mid-single-digit percentage range, and adjusted earnings per
share will advance a mid-teen percentage. Analysts projected
gains on average of 7 percent for revenue and 14 percent for
earnings per share.  Several analysts raised their price estimates for Nike
following the results. Those included Citigroup Inc.’s Kate McShane, who raised her estimate from $65 to $62. Nike is
showing earlier signs of improvement in gross margin and  China 
than expected, McShane said yesterday in a note to clients. She
has a buy rating on Nike shares.  Orders for the Nike brand in all regions from March to
July, excluding currency exchange-rate changes, advanced 7
percent. Analysts projected a gain of 4.7 percent, the average
of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A year ago, orders
surged 18 percent. The 3 percent gain in orders from China
topped estimates for a decline of 4.3 percent, which would have
been the third straight drop.  While the increase in China orders is a sign the company is
on the right track, sales growth in that region in the current
quarter will be slower than growth in orders, Chief Financial
Officer Don Blair said on a call with analysts.  Inventory Clearing  The company has blamed its declining sales in China on a
glut of apparel and a slowing economy. To revive growth, Nike
has been clearing old items with discounts and designing new
wares for the market. Because the clearing of inventory will
continue and it plans to reduce the amount of clothes shipped
into the country, orders won’t reflect sales, Blair said.  “While we’re making progress, we’re not done yet,” Blair
said. “It’s going to take a couple of quarters to work this
out.”  Revenue last quarter rose 9.4 percent to $6.2 billion,
meeting estimates. While sales declined in China and  Japan ,
Nike’s largest market of  North America  remained a strength, with
revenue gaining 18 percent.  Sales in this quarter will increase at a mid-single-digit
percentage rate. Analysts projected a gain of 2 percent.  Nike’s plan to improve profitability, which included
raising prices to counter higher costs for labor and materials,
worked as gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, widened to 44.2 percent from
43.9 percent a year earlier. It forecast an expansion of 0.5
percentage points in this quarter.  Net income in the quarter of $866 million included a gain
of $204 million from the sale of Cole Haan to  Apax Partners .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  