-- Norwegian Salmon Production Decline Spurs Jump in Fish Prices
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-21T13:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/norwegian-salmon-production-decline-spurs-jump-in-fish-prices.html
Salmon prices are heading for a
record this year as colder sea temperatures in  Norway , the
world’s biggest producer, spur the first decline in output in 12
years, according to Rabobank International.  Norway’s Atlantic salmon production will probably drop by
about 4 percent from 2012 to 1.15 million metric tons, after
output more than doubled in the past seven years, said Gorjan
Nikolik, a senior industry analyst at Rabobank in Utrecht,
 Netherlands . Export  prices  were 37.70 kroner a kilogram ($3.23 a
pound) as of March 17, near a 22-month high and 30 percent more
expensive than at the same time last year, Statistics Norway
data show. Prices may climb to 45 kroner by the end of June,
topping a record 43.61 kroner in April 2011, Nikolik said.  Warm sea temperatures in winter 2011 sped up fish growth
rates and spurred a 19 percent jump in Norway’s Atlantic salmon
output in 2012, Nikolik said. That sent prices to an 11-month
low at the end of September and encouraged grocers to discount
salmon, ultimately boosting consumer demand, he said. Prices
have surged 57 percent since then, helping the country’s exports
achieve a  record  value in February of 2.5 billion kroner,
according to data from the Norwegian Seafood Council.  “There is no expected growth in salmon production in
Norway in 2013, and there has been a very high demand for
salmon,” Egil Sundheim, the director of market information for
the Norwegian Seafood Council in Tromso, said by telephone
today. “Prices will remain fairly high throughout the year.”  Sea temperatures have normalized at a cooler level this
year, slowing growth rates, Nikolik said by phone on March 12.  Chilean Output  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s largest publicly traded
salmon farmer, said in a Feb. 6 report that it expects Norwegian
salmon  supplies  to decline 3 percent to 6 percent this year,
while output in  Chile , the world’s second-biggest producer,
climbs as much as 36 percent. Chile’s production is rebounding
after an infectious anemia virus sickened fish and ravaged its
farms in 2007.  Consumer prices for farmed salmon in  France ,  Europe ’s
biggest import market, were 10.71 euros a kilogram ($6.29 a
pound) in February, 13 percent higher than a year earlier,
according to the  National Institute of Statistics  and Economic
Studies. Norwegian exports of whole, fresh or chilled salmon
rose to a record 83,506 tons in November, a time when production
usually reaches a peak before declining seasonally, Sundheim
said.  “This high-price environment will stay for a while,
certainly for most of this year, although the highest jumps will
be in the first half,” Rabobank’s Nikolik said. “We could
easily break previous records.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  