-- Obama Stresses Agreement Over Differences With Netanyahu
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-03-21T07:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/obama-stresses-agreement-over-differences-with-netanyahu.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  sought to project a
united front yesterday, affirming an unbreakable alliance
between their two countries even as differences persist on Iran
and restarting peace talks with Palestinians.  The two leaders used a news conference in  Jerusalem  to
deliver a joint message that even as they pursue sanctions to
cripple Iran’s nuclear ambitions, the military threat against
that country remains real. Both said they shared the concern
that  Syria ’s chemical weapons might fall into the hands of
terrorists.  From the moment Obama touched down on Israeli soil, the two
leaders used their public statements and repeated embraces to
demonstrate that their sometimes tense relationship over the
past four years won’t interfere with a shared approach to what
they see as the region’s most urgent issues.  Netanyahu said he was “absolutely convinced” of Obama’s
resolve in preventing  Iran  from building a nuclear bomb. Obama
said  Israel  must be able to “defend itself, by itself” against
any threat.  Iran’s nuclear program and the turmoil in Syria were two of
the main topics for Obama, 51, and Netanyahu, 63, as they met
for several hours at the prime minister’s residence. Obama, on
his first visit to Israel as president and the first foreign
trip of his second term, is emphasizing the close cultural and
policy links between the U.S. and Israel as well as his personal
commitment to the country’s security.  Rockets Fired  Two rockets fired from the Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  hit
Israel near the southern town of Sderot early today, Israel
police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by phone. One rocket
caused damage to a courtyard, he added.  Obama yesterday recalled his visit to Sderot as senator,
saying he met there “children who simply want to grow up free
from fear.”  On Iran, Netanyahu said his government’s intelligence backs
the Obama administration assessment that it would take about a
year for the Islamic Republic to build a nuclear bomb. Obama
said there are “not a lot” of differences between the U.S. and
Israel on that timetable.  ‘Credible Threat’  Netanyahu indicated some differences in approach to Iran.
While thanking Obama for mobilizing international support for
diplomatic and economic pressure on the country, he said those
measures “so far have not stopped  Iran’s nuclear program ,” and
must be backed by “a clear and credible threat of military
action.”  Israel is concerned that Iran may reach a point with
 uranium enrichment  that it enters “an immunity zone,” after
which stopping the Islamic republic from building a weapon would
be much more difficult and require military action, he said.  Obama repeated that “all options are on the table,” and
that the U.S. would do whatever is necessary to prevent Iran
from building a nuclear weapon.  “We prefer to resolve this diplomatically, and there’s
still time to do so,” the president said.  Iran was the No. 6 producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries in February and sanctions have
been aimed at squeezing its exports. Rising tensions would hit
oil markets. West Texas Intermediate oil for May delivery was at
$93.33 a barrel, down 17 cents, in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 10:21 a.m. Sydney time.  ‘Deeply Skeptical’  Obama said he is “deeply skeptical” of claims by Bashar al-Assad’s government in Syria that rebels fighting against it
used a chemical weapon this week. The U.S. intends to
“investigate thoroughly” what happened.  “We know the Syrian government has the capacity to carry
out chemical weapons attacks,” Obama said. “Once we establish
the facts, I have made clear that the use of chemical weapons is
a game-changer.”  He declined to specify what action the U.S. might take as a
response.  The other major topic the two leaders discussed was stalled
peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians. Obama is
scheduled to meet with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas today and Jordan’s King Abdullah II tomorrow.  Netanyahu said his government is “fully committed to peace
and to the solution of two states for two peoples.”  Obama said his goal was to spend time listening to regional
leaders, to help understand how the U.S. can play a role in
restarting negotiations.  Occupied Territory  Neither man mentioned the expansion of Jewish settlements
in Israeli-occupied Palestinian areas, one of the main points of
contention between Israel and the U.S. in dealing with the
Palestinian issue. Netanyahu instituted a partial settlement
freeze that expired in 2010 and he has refused to stop
construction since.  Since then, “we haven’t gone forward,” Obama said. “We
haven’t seen the kind of progress that we would like to see.”  Obama’s program in Israel includes visits to the Israel
Museum housing the Dead Sea Scrolls, and Yad Vashem, Israel’s
Holocaust memorial. The centerpiece of the trip will be a speech
today, primarily to young Israelis, at the Jerusalem
International Convention Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  