-- OCI Tax Debacle in Egypt Stokes Concern Over Who Might Be Next
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-03-21T14:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/oci-tax-debacle-in-egypt-stokes-concern-over-who-might-be-next.html
Egypt ’s decision to go after its
biggest publicly traded company on a tax-evasion claim is
deterring investors that regard the case as a possible precedent
setter, EFG-Hermes Holding SAE’s head researcher said.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , which accounts for a
quarter of the value of the benchmark EGX 30 Index, has been in
talks with tax officials to settle a 14 billion Egyptian-pound
($2 billion) claim stemming from the 2007 sale of its cement
business. The company didn’t pay taxes on the transaction
because it listed the business on the bourse two months prior to
the sale, it said in a March 8 statement. Egypt didn’t have a
capital gains tax at the time, which remains the case today.  Egypt aims to “take more measures to improve the
investment environment” by developing the legislative
framework, providing new incentives for investment and
developing vocational training and education, the Cabinet said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The government wants to
increase economic growth to 4.1 percent next year from 3 percent
this year, including a 59 percent contribution from the private
sector to its 291 billion-pound investment target.  “The government is talking about attracting foreign
investment but its actions aren’t consistent with that,”  Wael Ziada , head of research at the Cairo-based investment bank, said
by phone. “A settlement would be a positive development in the
medium term, but it doesn’t mean we won’t see similar cases in
the future, which is what concerns potential investors.”  The case of  Orascom Construction , or OCI, is the latest in
a series of charges brought against investors that thrived under
the rule of former President  Hosni Mubarak .  ‘Bumpy Road’  Damac Properties Co., a Dubai-based developer, filed for
international arbitration in 2011 after Egypt seized land the
company purchased in 2006 and sentenced its chairman to five
years in prison with hard labor.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) ’s former chairman
Ahmed Ezz received a 37-year prison sentence this month for
profiteering and squandering of public funds in his company’s
acquisition of another steelmaker,  El Ezz Aldekhela Steel. (IRAX)   “The government is making some mistakes,” said Muhammed
El Demerdash, board member of prominent Islamist businessman
Hassan Malek’s Egyptian Business Development Association.
“However, the challenge is not that easy: to create a business-
friendly investment environment, while applying social justice
and the rule of law. The short-term is really challenging. It’s
a bumpy road, and that’s a by product of the democratic
transition.”  OCI Offer  OCI offered the Egyptian Tax Authority 7 billion pounds to
settle the dispute, Ahmed Abdel Rahman, head of the authority’s
tax-evasion unit said in a phone interview today. Officials will
study the offer once the company files necessary documentation
to support its proposal, he said. Omar Darwazah, OCI’s head of
 investor relations , declined to comment.  OCI’s chief executive officer Nassef Sawiris and his father
Onsi have been placed on a travel ban/arrivals watch list by
Egypt’s public prosecutor. The company is seeking Egyptian
market regulator approval to relocate its base from Cairo to
Amsterdam.  The  shares gained  3.5 percent, the most in more than three
months, to 238.27 pounds at the close in Cairo. The stock is
down 8.1 percent since the public prosecutor placed Sawiris on
the watch list. That dragged the  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  down by 5 percent
over the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  