-- Ohio Approves Turnpike Bonding Plan to Fund Transportation Work
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-03-21T18:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ohio-approves-turnpike-bonding-plan-to-fund-transportation-work.html
The Ohio House of Representatives
sent Governor  John Kasich  a plan to have the Ohio Turnpike
borrow $1.5 billion for transportation projects.  The House today voted 62-27 for the measure, which was
included in a transportation budget bill. It allows the Ohio
Turnpike Commission to issue $1 billion in bonds this year and
$500 million in about five years backed by tolls to pay for
highway and bridge construction. The Senate passed the bill
yesterday.  As U.S. states seek ways to pay for infrastructure, Kasich,
a 60-year-old Republican, proposed the move in December to help
cover a $1 billion shortfall in transportation funding after
rejecting a plan to lease the highway to raise as much as $4
billion over 50 years.  “This is about jobs, pure and simple,”  Representative
Ross McGregor, a Republican from Springfield and chairman of the
House Transportation Subcommittee, said during debate in
Columbus. “ This is about helping our economy to recover.”  Kasich has called the plan conservative, and  Fitch Ratings 
said in a Jan. 4 report it probably wouldn’t affect grades on
existing toll-road bonds. Opponents counter that it’s a bad idea
to quadruple the agency’s debt to pay for work beyond the 241-
mile (388-kilometer) turnpike.  Popularity Predicted  The bill requires that at least 90 percent of the proceeds
be spent within 75 miles of the road, though it did not include
language that some Democrats wanted limiting toll increases to
the rate of inflation for 10 years.  Toll receipts reached a record $252.5 million in 2012, up
from $231 million in 2011, according to the Turnpike Commission.
Liabilities as of Dec. 31 were $623.3 million, including $566.3
million of revenue bonds, the agency said.  The Ohio Turnpike is rated AA by Fitch Ratings, third-
highest, and Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, fourth-highest.
Investors in the new debt may have lower priority for repayment
than current bondholders, and those securities would be
structured to provide for a rating level of A, according a Dec.
12 study by KPMG Corporate Finance LLC.  The commission is looking to go to the  bond market  in the
third quarter, spokeswoman Lauren Hakos said by e-mail.  There should be investor interest because the underlying
credit is strong, said Howard Cure, director of municipal
research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC in  New York . Still,
the state must be careful, he said.  “Does the legislature and the governor have the discipline
not to drain the financial resources of the Turnpike?” Cure
said.  -- Editors: Stephen Merelman,  Justin Blum   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  