-- Oil Falls as German Manufacturing Output Contracts
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-03-21T19:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/oil-falls-as-german-manufacturing-output-contracts.html
Oil dropped as German manufacturing
output unexpectedly contracted in March, signaling the  euro-zone 
debt crisis is slowing growth in the region’s biggest economy.  Futures fell 1.1 percent after a purchasing managers’ index
for  Germany’s manufacturing  slipped to 48.9 this month. The
median forecast by economists called for a reading of 50.5,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The  European Central Bank  said
today it may cut Cypriot banks off from emergency funds after
March 25 as the country’s president worked on a new plan to
obtain a European bailout.  “The concerns about  Europe  continue to weigh on the
market,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market research at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “This is a risk-off day across
the board. This move has nothing to do with the fundamentals of
the oil market.”  Crude oil for May delivery declined $1.05 to settle at
$92.45 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The April
contract expired yesterday at $92.96. The volume of all futures
traded was 21 percent below the 100-day average at 3:37 p.m.  Brent oil for May settlement fell $1.25 to end the session
at $107.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 7.2 percent lower
than the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade ended the day at a $15.02
premium to West Texas Intermediate crude traded in New York. The
gap narrowed to $14.93 on March 19, the lowest level at
settlement since July.  German Industry  “The German PMI data is clearly bearish for the oil
market,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If the Germans
aren’t making things, where’s European demand going to come
from? It’s the most important economy on the continent.”  Total  euro-area services and manufacturing output  slipped
more than economists estimated in March. A composite index based
on a survey of purchasing managers in both industries fell to
46.5 from 47.9 in February, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Economists had forecast a reading of 48.2, according to
the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades is trying to forge an
agreement on how to stave off financial collapse. The island
country’s government may propose a revamped bank-deposit levy to
raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) after lawmakers rejected
a previous measure, a Cypriot official said.  Every Development  “We’re going to continue to follow every development of
the Cyprus story,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .
“Cyprus is an example of what ails the euro zone. Some of the
concern seems overdone because the collapse of Cyprus isn’t
going to bring Europe’s economy crashing down.”  The country’s central bank declared that banks would stay
shut for another two days, effectively barring Cypriots from
access to their accounts until March 26, when lenders are
scheduled to reopen after a local holiday.  “There’s broad-based concern about Cyprus and the euro-
zone as a whole,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “They
will probably find a solution to the problems on Cyprus but it
might not be neat or quick.”  Fewer Americans than forecast filed  jobless claims  last
week. Other reports showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes
rose to the highest level in more than three years in February
and a gauge of leading economic indicators topped estimates for
last month.  Falling Euro  The dollar rose as much as 0.4 percent to $1.288 per euro,
curbing the appeal of raw materials denominated in the U.S.
currency as an investment. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 0.6 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slipped
0.4 percent.  “The euro is selling off and oil is going along for the
ride,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc.
in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Total U.S.  fuel demand  dropped 0.9 percent to 18.4 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ended March 15, an Energy
Information Administration report showed yesterday. Gasoline
consumption fell 0.3 percent over the period to 8.48 million
barrels a day.  “There is growing evidence that the  U.S. economy  is
improving,” Lynch said. “The market is still stuck in a range
and won’t rise much higher until we see evidence that the U.S.
economic upturn is having an impact on demand.”  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude supplies dropped by  1.31 million barrels  to
382.7 million last week, the first decline in two months, the
EIA report showed. Crude production fell 9,000 barrels a day to
7.15 million in the seven days ended March 15. Output reached
7.16 million barrels a day in the week ended March 8, the
highest level since July 1992.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI crude options
expiring in May was at 18.3 percent, an increase from 17.99
percent yesterday. The figures have slipped from 24.7 percent on
Feb. 21.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 372,840
contracts as of 3:37 p.m. It totaled 450,878 contracts
yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.64 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  