-- Homex Bonds Extend Losses After Moody’s Outlook Cut to Negative
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-03-21T20:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/homex-bonds-extend-losses-after-moody-s-outlook-cut-to-negative.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  bond
yields rose, extending their biggest weekly increase on record,
after Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook for its
 credit rating  on Mexico’s biggest homebuilder.  The yield on the company’s 2020 bonds rose 93 basis points,
or 0.93 percentage point, to a record 15.13 percent, as the
price fell 3.42 cents to 77.25 cents on the dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s yield has soared 466
basis points over the past week.  Moody’s cut the outlook on Homex’s rating to negative from
stable, signaling an increased likelihood of a downgrade,
according to a statement yesterday after markets closed. The
Culiacan-based company currently is rated Ba3, three levels
below investment grade.  “The negative rating outlook reflects our expectation that
Homex  sales  and earnings will be challenged at least through the
end of 2013,” Moody’s said in the statement.  Investors this year have punished securities of the
country’s homebuilders amid disappointing earnings, negative
cash flow reports and changes in government housing policy to
promote more capital-intensive apartment construction.  Homex  shares  fell 2.8 percent to 19.11 pesos at the close
of trading in Mexico City, extending their losing streak to 10
days. Corp. Geo SAB rose 2.3 percent to 7.04 pesos today, while
 Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  added 2.7 percent to 3.08 pesos.  Moody’s cut Urbi’s credit rating one level yesterday to B2,
four levels below investment grade, under review for possible
downgrades. The company also cut Corp. Geo’s credit rating
outlook to negative from stable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  