-- London Mining CEO Says Sierra Leone Mine Partner Talks Continue
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-21T12:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/london-mining-ceo-says-sierra-leone-mine-partner-talks-continue.html
London Mining Plc (LOND) , the second-
largest iron ore producer in  Sierra Leone , said talks to find a
partner to help fund a planned expansion of its Marampa mine are
continuing.  “Our assets have substantial additional potential but they
do require large capex to unlock,” Chief Executive Officer
Graeme Hossie told reporters today on a conference call.
“Whether and how quickly that strategic partnership funding
plan will be realized is difficult to predict.”  Mining companies globally are facing rising construction
costs and lower prices, prompting some to shelve expansions and
sell assets. London Mining, which started production in December
2011, has estimated a cost of $860 million for the next planned
expansion of Marampa.  The next expansion plan is to increase capacity from 5
million metric tons a year to 9 million tons. A planned second
expansion phase to more than 16 million tons a year may cost
$1.3 billion, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  New  iron-ore  supplies and slower growth in steel demand
will weigh on prices in the second half of this year, Greg
Lilleyman, Rio Tinto Group’s president of Pilbara operations in
 Australia , said this week. Steel demand growth in China slowed
from 20 percent in 2010 to 2.1 percent last year, according to
Citigroup Inc.  “The fundamentals of the iron ore market will see
continued demand,” Hossie said.  Iron ore has peaked and will decline over the rest of the
year, Morgan Stanley said March 7, joining analysts from
Deutsche Bank AG to Credit Suisse Group AG in forecasting lower
prices.  London Mining today reported a net loss of $107.8 million
for the year ended Dec. 31. That compared with a net loss of $60
million a year earlier. It also increased a corporate debt
facility from $90 million to $165 million.  The stock dropped 1.7 percent to 132.25 pence at 11:13 a.m.
London time, valuing the company at 183 million pounds ($278
million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  