-- Moody’s Pushes Egypt Lower Into Junk on Political Divide
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-03-21T16:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/moody-s-pushes-egypt-rating-lower-into-junk-on-political-divide.html
Egypt’s sovereign rating was cut to
seven levels below investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said political stalemate was hindering an
economic recovery. Egyptian dollar bonds plunged.  The Arab country’s government bonds were reduced by one
level to Caa1 with a negative outlook, the New York-based
ratings company said in a statement. That’s the sixth cut in
Egypt’s rating since the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni
Mubarak , taking it to the same level as  Pakistan  and one level
below  Argentina .  The cut reflects “deep polarization” of the country’s
politics with “repeated episodes of violent civil unrest,”
 Thomas Byrne , a Moody’s analyst, said in the report. “This
polarization is in turn impeding the government’s ability to
govern effectively, restore social stability and avert a
worsening of the already severe disruption to the economy.”  The yield on the government’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75
percent dollar-denominated bonds maturing in April 2020 surged
44 basis points, or 0.44 percentage point, to 7.87 percent at
5:46 p.m. in Cairo, heading for a record high.  Egypt has been in loan talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  for more than two years and its foreign reserves
 have plunged  more than 60 percent since the 2011 uprising. The
government is “exerting the utmost effort” to complete a $4.8
billion IMF agreement by the start of next fiscal year in July,
Planning and International Cooperation Minister Ashraf el-Arabi
said yesterday.  Budget Target  The government has been forced to scale back its economic
program amid political unrest that has rocked the country for
more than four months, sparking nation-wide demonstrations where
dozens have been killed. A revised plan announced last month
sets the budget deficit target at 9.5 percent of economic output
in the year that ends in June 2014, compared with an 8.5 percent
goal announced in November.  The Moody’s rating decision reflects the pricing of
existing debt, according to Said Hirsh, an independent London-
based Middle East economist.  “It would be a problem if it was to reissue,” he said by
phone. “There isn’t much foreign money coming to the country in
any case. So, the downgrades are just a reflection of the poor
condition that  Egypt  is in and how the rest of the world views
it at the moment.”  ‘Bad Start’  Lawmakers yesterday approved the country’s first sukuk law,
paving the way for the government to take part in a market that
hit a record $46 billion of debt sales last year.  The rating cut “will definitely get them off on a bad
start,” Hirsh said, referring to a possible Islamic bond sale.
“There is definitely demand for sukuk, but it doesn’t mean that
investors are taking it at any price.”  Egypt’s rating “indicates that the probability of default
has risen materially but that the risk of default is not
necessarily imminent,” Moody’s Byrne wrote in the report. At
Caa1, the average cumulative default rate over one-year is close
to 10 percent and slightly under 40 percent over five-years, he
added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  