-- Oracle Sinks Mellanox as Hardware Drops: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-21T22:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/oracle-sinks-mellanox-as-hardware-drops-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  slid in
New York as the prospect of slowing sales to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  added
to concern that the Israeli company will record its first ever
revenue drop this year.  Shares of Mellanox, which makes technology used to transfer
and store data, slipped 1 percent to $54.66 in the U.S., after
slumping to a two-week low in Tel Aviv. The  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest Israeli companies in New York
retreated 0.2 percent to 90.73, while  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) 
surged the most since March 6.  Oracle, a Redwood City, California-based maker of business
applications, said March 20 that hardware sales will plunge as
much as 23 percent in the current quarter as companies move to
Web-based programs. The U.S. company buys Mellanox’s InfiniBand
product and accounted for 5.6 percent of 2012 sales, Piper
Jaffray Cos. estimates. Revenue for Mellanox, set for its second
straight quarterly decline, will drop 10 percent this year,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The entire hardware revenue that they report is
correlated to Mellanox,” Andrew Nowinski, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray who has rated Mellanox the equivalent of buy since
January, said by phone from Minneapolis yesterday. “We could
see disappointments in the first half of the year, unless they
land some large deals to offset weakness at Oracle.”  Fiscal third-quarter profit excluding some items was 65
cents a share on adjusted sales of $8.97 billion, the company
said in a statement yesterday. That compares with analysts’
average projection for profit of 66 cents on sales of $9.37
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the
hardware segment declined 23 percent to $671 million, the
company said.  CEO Confidence  Orders of technology products and services, such as
hardware upgrades, may be hampered by corporate managers who
remain reluctant to spend, according to Bloomberg Industries.
Chief executive officer confidence fell 1.4 percent in March,
the first decline since November, an index compiled by Chief
Executive magazine showed.  Sales at Mellanox will decline to $450.7 million in 2013,
according to the consensus of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Mellanox forecast Jan. 23 first-quarter sales that trailed
analysts’ estimates by as much as 48 percent amid a build-up in
inventory by one of its customers. Sales for the three months
ending March 31 will reach $83 million at most, the company
said. Earlier in January, Mellanox cut its fourth-quarter
revenue forecast on weaker demand and a product glitch. Until
that quarter, Mellanox had surpassed analysts’ sales estimates
every reporting period since its initial public offering in
2007.  Mellanox Customers  Ashley Paula, of public relations firm Waggener Edstrom,
which represents Mellanox, said in an e-mail yesterday that the
company declined to comment.  Customers use the InfiniBand product in their hardware to
connect storage, big data and cloud computing. Sales to Hewlett-
Packard Co. accounted for 20 percent of Mellanox’s total revenue
in 2012, while International Business Machines Corp. made up 19
percent, the Israeli company said in its annual report filed
Feb. 25.  “Oracle is a less than 10 percent customer for Mellanox,
so it’s not the most important driver,” Alex Gauna, an analyst
at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco, said by telephone
yesterday. He raised his recommendation to the equivalent of buy
on Mellanox on March 7. “There’s more volatility in store for
this stock because we think things are improving and the cycle
is turning in tech spending, but it’s not going to be a clean
turn.”  MagicJack, EZchip  Oracle, in addition to being a customer of Mellanox, holds
an  8.8 percent  stake, according to a filing March 19.  Mellanox retreated 3.4 percent in Tel Aviv to 197 shekels,
or $53.74, for a sixth day of declines, the longest stretch
since October. Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index fell 0.8 percent
to 1,239.09, the most in a month.  MagicJack rallied 6 percent to $13.04, rising for a third
day in New York. It was the biggest gainer on the Bloomberg
Israel-US Index.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  slid 2 percent to $24.82, the
first retreat in New York since March 12. Shares in Tel Aviv
slipped 3.6 percent to 90.68 shekels, or $24.73.  American depositary receipts of  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE)  gained
1.6 percent to $37.20. Imperial Capital Group Inc. analyst
Jeffrey Kessler re-initiated coverage of the maker of analytical
telecommunications products with the equivalent of buy and a
price target of $43. In Tel Aviv, Nice added 0.1 percent to
134.70 shekels, or $36.74.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  