-- Horse-Slaughter Advocate’s Video Spurs Dismissal
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-22T20:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/horse-slaughter-advocate-s-video-spurrs-investigation.html
A New Mexico company seeking to
open a slaughterhouse for horses fired an employee after a video
he made showing him killing one of the animals while taunting
animal welfare advocates triggered an outcry.  Tim Sappington, 54, will no longer work for Valley Meat Co.
because of his unprofessional conduct, said A. Blair Dunn, a
company lawyer. The plant’s owners received threats and “don’t
want to add fuel to the fire,” he said.  Sappington also may face animal cruelty charges over the
video, said Bobby Pierce, the deputy director of the  New Mexico
Livestock Board , an Albuquerque-based law enforcement agency.
Sappington was the only employee of Valley Meat, near Roswell,
which is seeking to become the first company to run a horse-
slaughter plant in the U.S. since 2007.  “It’s extreme cruelty, a penalty, to maliciously kill an
animal,” said Pierce, who said he believes charges will
probably result from the investigation, which began yesterday.  Posted on the Internet several months ago, the video was
widely circulated among animal-welfare activists this week after
a March 19 Bloomberg News story on Valley Meat that featured
Sappington. The video shows Sappington looking into the camera,
addressing an expletive to animal-welfare activists and then
firing a pistol-like device between the eyes of the horse, which
falls to the ground trembling.  Group ‘Horrified’  “We’re horrified by the video, and we are glad to hear
that there’s an investigation going on,” said Keith Dane,
director of equine protection for the  Humane Society of the U.S. 
in Washington. “It appears this was made for publicity’s sake
and to taunt animal lovers.”  Sappington, who said he eats horse meat two to three times
a week, said he killed the animal for food. The full video,
which wasn’t posted online, shows him skinning and gutting the
animal, too, he said in a telephone interview before the company
fired him.  “I killed that animal for my consumption,” Sappington
said, before referring calls to an attorney. “If I had shot
that thing in the guts or the legs or beat it and left it in the
pasture for the coyotes to get at, it’d be a different
discussion. I shot that for my human, my personal,
consumption.” Sappington didn’t respond to phone calls and an
e-mail seeking comment about his firing.  It is legal to kill livestock for food, Pierce said.  ‘Different Turn’  “If he claims he was killing it for his own food, the
investigation would take a different turn,” Pierce said.  Dane, whose organization opposes horse slaughter and is
supporting a bill in Congress to ban the practice, said the
video shows “a callous disregard for the life of an animal.”
Horse slaughter is cruel and unnecessary and the meat from the
animals may not be safe because of drugs given to horses during
their lives, he said.  “If it indicates the type of person who will work at
Valley Meat, we are seriously concerned,” Dane said of the
video.  The company, which previously processed cattle at its
facility about 8 miles from downtown Roswell, could begin
slaughtering horses and shipping the meat to other countries as
soon as three weeks, Dunn said March 15. He said today that he
does not believe the incident with Sappington will effect Valley
Meat’s progress.  The company is one of several that have asked the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to provide inspectors so that they can
begin operating. A federal law barring funding for the
inspections lapsed in 2011.  Emotional Issue  Horse slaughter has been an emotional issue among animal-
welfare advocates in the U.S., where eating of horse meat is
rare and surveys show most Americans oppose the practice. Still,
many farmers and ranchers say humane slaughter is necessary to
dispose of unwanted animals.  Without legal slaughter, horses are being abandoned once
they lose their economic value, making slaughterhouses a
practical necessity, said Robert Stallman, president of the
 American Farm Bureau Federation , the largest U.S. farmer group.  Disposing of horses without slaughter as an option can be a
burden to farmers and ranchers, Stallman told reporters at a
briefing in Washington.  ‘Heavenly Pasture’  “People who feel that horses should have this nice
heavenly pasture” and be fed and cared for past their useful
lives, he said, “please put up the money and take care of
that.”  While Sappington’s comments were “crass and
unacceptable,” the video doesn’t show anything illegal and
should not change plans at Valley Meat, Dunn said.  “He’s not associated with Valley Meat in this instance,”
Dunn said. “Our understanding is that this was on his own time
and on his own property.”  Dunn said the owners of the company have received bomb and
death threats since it became known that they planned to open a
horse-slaughter plant. The FBI is investigating, he said.  “Making threats doesn’t work; making stupid videos doesn’t
work either,” Dunn said. “This adds nothing to any discussion
of horse slaughter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  