-- Osborne Opens Door to 9 Billion-Pound Tax Increase, IFS Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-21T17:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/osborne-opens-door-to-9-billion-pound-tax-increase-ifs-says.html
Britain’s voters may face higher
taxes after the 2015 election if spending cuts outlined by
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne become too difficult
to implement.  The Institute for Fiscal Studies said maintaining the
spending restraint in place since 2010 would require a 9
billion-pound ($13.6 billion) squeeze mid-way through the next
Parliament. In this Parliament, Osborne will borrow 70 billion
pounds more that he predicted when he took office in May 2010,
it said.  “It is quite possible that a future government would
increase taxes in order to afford higher spending,” Rowena
Crawford, an economist at the London-based group, said at a
briefing today. “A fiscal consolidation has been expressed
through spending but it would of course be possible to do it
through tax instead.”  Osborne held firm to his austerity plan as the economy
continues to stagnate, saying government spending cuts will
carry on for three years after the next election. The IFS today
cited a Treasury paper saying it would be possible to “do more
of this consolidation through tax instead.”  The Office for Budget Responsibility, Osborne’s fiscal
watchdog, yesterday said the economy will grow just 0.6 percent
this year, half the pace it forecast in December. IFS Director
Paul Johnson said that the Treasury had managed “by hook or by
crook” to prevent borrowing from rising this year by deferring
some spending commitments. As a result, the picture for future
years had “deteriorated significantly,” he said.  “All this is desperately disappointing for a chancellor
focused on reducing the deficit,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  