-- Emerging Stocks Drop to 3-Month Low on Euro Area Concerns
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-03-21T21:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-china-manufacturing-tencent-slumps.html
Emerging stocks fell to a three-
month low, led by energy and consumer companies, as concern the
euro area is struggling to emerge from a recession overshadowed
an expansion in China’s manufacturing. Brazil’s real dropped to
2 per dollar for the first time since January.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , which gets 17 percent of its revenue
from  Germany , led declines in Warsaw. Indian automakers Bajaj
Auto Ltd. and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  fell at least 4.2 percent.
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s largest Internet company, slumped
in Hong Kong as analysts cut share price forecasts. Brazil’s
Bovespa Index fell to a four-month low as miner MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA dropped a seventh day.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.4 percent to
1,022.43 in New York, the lowest since Dec. 6. Manufacturing
output in Germany unexpectedly fell this month while services
and factory output in the euro area contracted more than
forecast. China’s manufacturing expanded at a faster-than-
forecast pace.  “Euro-zone growth,  budget deficit  and debt burden are
still major concerns,” Martial Godet, head of emerging-markets
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. Attention is “shifting to
financial issues, to default issues -- all negative for
equities,” he said.  The  European Central Bank  said it will cut Cypriot banks
off from emergency funds after March 25 unless the nation agrees
on a bailout with the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund . Standard & Poor’s cut Cyprus’s long-term sovereign rating
by one level. Stocks fell even as data showed fewer Americans
than forecast filed first-time claims for  unemployment
insurance .  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund fell 1 percent to $41.80. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 11 percent to 20.15.  Nine out of 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  fell, led by energy companies. Phone shares  rose  as
America Movil SAB jumped 4.3 percent in Mexico City. The broader
measure has slipped 3.1 percent this year, trailing a 6.6
percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country
stocks. The developing-nations measure trades at 10.7 times
 estimated  12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 14.1
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil’s Bovespa fell 0.8 percent as MMX dropped 7 percent,
leading commodity exporters lower amid concern that slower
growth in Europe will sap demand for raw materials. The real
slid 0.9 percent versus the dollar on speculation government
intervention in the economy to spur growth is prompting
investors to withdraw money from the country.  Russia, Poland  Russia ’s Micex Index was little changed. OAO Rostelecom,
Russia’s dominant fixed-line and long-distance phone operator,
surged 3.5 percent before the board meets to decide on a buyout
price March 27. KGHM, Poland’s sole copper producer, slipped 2.5
percent. The WIG20 Index fell 1.1 percent.  Indian equities fell for the fifth day, with the benchmark
index retreating to its lowest level in four months. Automakers
and energy companies paced the decline that gathered momentum in
the last hour of trade. Tata Motors, the owner of Jaguar Land
Rover, retreated to the lowest level since Dec. 4.  Chinese stocks rose, extending the biggest one-day gain in
two months. The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.3 percent. FAW
Car Co. gained 3.2 percent after rallying by the daily 10
percent limit yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 299 basis points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  