-- House Prices Rose 6.5% in Year Through January, FHFA Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-03-21T13:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/house-prices-rose-6-5-in-12-months-through-january-fhfa-says.html
U.S. house  prices   rose  6.5 percent
in the year through January, the biggest jump since 2006, as
values surged on the West Coast and in the area including Nevada
and Arizona, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  said.  Prices  increased  0.6 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis
from December, the FHFA said in a report today from Washington.
The average economist estimate was for a 0.7 percent gain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home prices  are rising as low borrowing costs and improving
employment bolster demand and the  inventory  of properties for
sale shrinks. Prices haven’t declined on a monthly basis since
January 2012, the FHFA said, indicating that the recovery has
solidified.  “Pretty much across the board, prices are rising,”
 Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts, said in a phone interview today.
“That will be the trend in all 50 states by the end of the
year. The forces that are driving up prices are national ones.”  Prices jumped 14.1 percent from a year earlier in the
Mountain area, which includes Arizona, Nevada, Montana and New
Mexico. In the Pacific region, including California and
Washington, the gain was 13.7 percent, the FHFA said. The Middle
Atlantic area -- New York,  New Jersey  and Pennsylvania -- had
the smallest increase, at 0.4 percent.  Higher Estimates  Morgan Stanley expects U.S. home prices to rise as much as
8 percent this year, up from previous estimates of 4 percent to
6 percent, analysts led by Vishwanath Tirupattur said in a note
two days ago. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
have also raised their home-price forecasts this month.  Rising values are helping homeowners to regain equity. At
the end of the fourth quarter, 10.4 million homes, or 21.5
percent of all residential properties with a mortgage, were
underwater, with owners owing more than the property was worth,
CoreLogic Inc. reported this week. That was down from 10.6
million homes, or 22 percent, at the end of September.  The FHFA report is based on changes in real estate values
using purchases of properties with mortgages backed by  Fannie
Mae  or  Freddie Mac . It doesn’t provide a specific price for
homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  