-- How Franklin Roosevelt Secretly Ended the Gold Standard
-- B y   E r i c   R a u c h w a y
-- 2013-03-21T14:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/how-franklin-roosevelt-secretly-ended-the-gold-standard.html
On March 4, 1933,  Franklin D. Roosevelt  became president for the first time, promising an
“adequate but sound” currency. The next day, a Sunday, he closed
the nation’s banks. “We are now off the gold standard,” he
privately declared to a group of advisers. Goldbugs in the
president’s circle immediately began prophesying doom. One of
his aides, Lewis Douglas, proclaimed “the end of Western
civilization.”  How Roosevelt took this fateful step has been the subject
of debate among historians, many of whom believe that the
president flailed his way through his first weeks in office, and
only gradually came to the decision to take the country off gold
that April. But the evidence suggests that Roosevelt intended to
do so from Day One for very specific reasons, although he
delayed letting the rest of the country in on his plans.  Minutes after FDR had made his unsettling private
disclosure, a secretary told him that reporters were clamoring
to know if the U.S. had left the gold standard. “Tell them to
ask a banker,” Roosevelt said. He clearly did not yet wish to
say the truth publicly. First, he needed depositors to return
the gold they had withdrawn in panic in the weeks preceding his
inauguration.  Shame, Fear  By Tuesday, Americans had begun to bring gold in large
quantities back to the banks. Perhaps they were shamed by the
president’s identifying hoarding as the source of the panic, or
maybe they feared prosecution under new penalties, including a
tax on hoarding, then being discussed in  Washington  as ways of
ensuring that gold came back to the Treasury. The Federal
Reserve announced that it had the names of those who had taken
out gold.  On Wednesday, Roosevelt convened his first press
conference. More than 100 reporters crowded into a small office
he had chosen to ensure intimacy, clustering at his desk. Then
FDR said cheerfully, “As long as nobody asks me whether we are
off the gold standard or gold basis, that is all right” -- which
is to say, by professing he didn’t want to talk about the gold
standard, Roosevelt artfully steered the conversation to the
gold standard, and then discussed it at length, if obliquely.  First, FDR ran through various requirements for being on
the gold standard. He made clear that  paper money  was no longer
convertible into gold, nor was the metal available for export.
But he declared that so far as buying gold back with other
currency, “we are still on the gold standard.” When pressed as
to whether these measures were a temporary expedient or
permanent policy, Roosevelt said the U.S. would have a
permanently “managed currency” and that “it may expand one week
and it may contract another week. That part is all off the
record.”  Thus did the reporters learn Roosevelt’s intentions. The
U.S. was no longer on the gold standard, except so far as
receiving gold was concerned, and he meant to adopt a permanent
policy of managing the quantity of the currency. This way, he
could bring commodity prices back up and maintain them at a
level that would ensure producers a higher standard of living.
But he didn’t want to announce the policy too abruptly, lest he
induce panic.  War Chest  Meanwhile, the  Federal Reserve  continued to take in gold.
Guards, many of them former Marines armed with machine guns,
oversaw the trucks bringing back the treasure, which would never
again leave. “I am keeping my finger on gold,” Roosevelt said
that Friday, and he did.  It would take the next nine months for Roosevelt’s program
to take shape in law, but when it had, he controlled the value
of the dollar, and had a war chest full of gold to defend it on
international markets. He had the power to adjust the value of
the currency in keeping with domestic economic needs, and he
used it to drive commodity prices back up. In time, the new
dollar -- managed to promote prosperity, a paper promise of gold
stored, but always unavailable -- would become the basis for a
world of such currencies defined by the  Bretton Woods 
agreements.  Though some contemporary critics of Roosevelt never forgave
him -- gold retained an alchemical power to turn nonsense into
received wisdom -- others eventually endorsed his policy. The
banker James Warburg initially complained that “sacred cows were
being slaughtered,” but later reversed himself, as he said in an
oral history he gave decades later. “I had to learn through
being wrong that none of these things worked by the book,” he
said. “A man can do idiotic things, but if the man in the street
thinks the fellow is all right and going in the right direction,
they don’t notice the idiotic things,” Warburg reflected. “So
all you do is scare a bunch of orthodox economists and bankers,
and they’re scared anyway, so it doesn’t make any difference.”  The recovery from the Great Depression began instantly with
Roosevelt’s policy shift, in March 1933. He had changed
expectations, and begun an administration that would use money
as a tool to bring widespread prosperity -- rather than serve as
a tool of moneyed interests.  ( Eric Rauchway  is a professor of history at the  University
of California , Davis, and the author of the forthcoming “The
Money-Makers: The Invention of Prosperity From Bullion to
Bretton Woods” and “The Great Depression and the New Deal: A
Very Short Introduction.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Eric Rauchway at  earauchway@ucdavis.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 