-- How the News Media Mismanages the News
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-03-21T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/how-the-news-media-mismanages-the-news.html
Thirty-odd years ago, in between
college and law school, I spent a summer as a reporter at the
Atlanta Journal. For three weeks, I was assigned to the police
beat. Each morning I’d arrive at the station house about 6
o’clock and go through the reports of the previous night’s
calls, to decide which ones looked newsworthy. If I needed more
information, I’d go find it. My editor upbraided me only once:
when I interviewed the department spokesman rather than one of
the officers.  This bit of memory is stirred by the irony that during the
same week the news media were gushing about the  100th
anniversary  of the presidential press conference, the office of
Vice President Joseph Biden was  forced to apologize  for making a
college journalist delete photographs of an event where Biden
spoke, because the reporter wasn’t sitting in the press section.
The irony arises because the actions of the vice president’s
staff represent the apotheosis of what the press conference,
too, is for: managing news coverage.  There’s nothing new, of course, in the efforts of White
House officials -- or anybody else -- to influence what
journalists write. The fascinating part is how controversial the
practice once was. There was a time when it was thought
unseemly, and perhaps unconstitutional, for the federal
government to try to manage the news -- so unseemly, in fact,
that Congress tried to make it illegal.  ‘Publicity Experts’  An almost forgotten provision of the U.S. Code is also
celebrating its 100th anniversary this year. Enacted in 1913,
and still on the books, the statute  reads , in its entirety:
“Appropriated funds may not be used to pay a publicity expert
unless specifically appropriated for that purpose.” The law was
adopted for a simple purpose: to keep the White House from
managing the news.  Oops.  There was a time, in living memory, when journalists
instinctively regarded press secretaries and their ilk as
untrustworthy. That was my editor’s point: If you want
information, go to the person who has it. Many reporters used to
follow this custom, priding themselves on avoiding official
spokesmen at all costs. (John le Carre builds a lovely scene
around this resistance in  his novel  “The Honourable Schoolboy.”)  In the U.S., press secretaries appear to have been first
employed by local civic groups seeking coverage in the
newspaper. As recently as the middle of the 20th century, the
press aide was regarded as a sort of unscrupulous hanger-on
hired mainly by theatrical producers and companies selling
worthless products. Certainly such a post was beneath the
dignity of the federal government.  In  Abraham Lincoln ’s day, for example, the entire process
was quite civilized. A reporter with a question would write it
out and hand it to one of the president’s secretaries. If
Lincoln wanted to talk about the matter, the reporter would be
invited into his office for a chat. If not, there was no
official statement, because there was nobody to get a statement
from.  According to W. Dale Nelson’s  history  “Who Speaks for the
President?”, there was no White House press corps to speak of
until the end of Grover Cleveland’s administration in the 1890s.
Naturally one of the White House secretaries soon had to be
detailed to cope with the crush of journalists. There is some
debate over who should be considered the first White House press
secretary. The title wasn’t used until Dwight Eisenhower’s
presidency, but the function existed long before.  Indeed, the 1913 statute banning “publicity experts” was
adopted by a Congress that had come to worry after seeing how
skillfully  Theodore Roosevelt  and his assistants coddled and
cajoled (and occasionally paid) reporters, who responded by
writing puff pieces about the president -- and nasty attacks on
his political enemies. Not that the law did a blind bit of good.
As press historian Stephen Ponder  notes , subsequent
administrations easily got around the ban by choosing another
name for the position.  Press Secretaries  But the White House press corps for a long time resisted
getting answers from an aide. Eisenhower’s assistant James
Hagerty, the first White House aide actually called a press
secretary, was viewed by journalists as dangerous,  says  the
social historian Michael Schudson, because of his “bag of tricks
for getting the administration reported in the most favorable
light.” When a missile test was successful, for instance, it was
announced from the White House. Announcements of failed tests
were made from the proving grounds.  Nowadays the notion of managing the time and place of
announcements is seen only as part of the job. That journalists
who cover government so willingly go along is, like the
willingness to quote the press secretary, simply a sign of how
thoroughly the White House has routed its traditional
adversaries in the Fourth Estate.  Schudson points to another common practice once viewed as
problematic: the creation of what the historian Daniel Boorstin
famously labeled the “pseudo-event” -- a staged moment of
negligible news value but great advantage to the White House,
such as a presidential speech that offers nothing new but still
must be covered because of who’s giving it.  Journalists once abhorred the pseudo-event. But Boorstin
was on to something. The news, he wrote in his book “The Image,”
used to be intermittent: “We used to believe there were only so
many ‘events’ in the world. If there were not many intriguing or
startling occurrences, it was no fault of the reporter.” The
White House recognized long before the press did that the
ubiquity of news reporting was creating a demand for a constant
stream of events. From that moment on -- and we are speaking of
the 1950s -- control of coverage began to shift from journalists
to press secretaries.  Thus the Biden aide who ordered the reporter to dump his
camera was only doing what press aides do: showing who’s in
control. Her only error was doing it so directly.  Numerous Flacks  It isn’t too late for the press to fight back. One good way
to start would be to apply afresh to the federal government --
especially the White House -- the standard journalists used to
apply to those in authority: “If you want me to include your
side in my piece, provide someone with substantive
responsibilities. I won’t quote a public relations flack.”
Another idea would be to relegate pseudo-events -- including
pro-forma speeches -- to the inside pages, or their digital
equivalent.  Years ago, a friend who was a business reporter bragged to
me about how his newspaper refused to publish statements from
corporate public relations departments, insisting instead on
quoting a knowledgeable executive. Those days of fierce
journalistic independence are long gone, even in the business
press. Coverage of the government is the right place to start
bringing them back.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 