-- Lloyds to Finance Two U.K. Wind Deals Under $500 Million Program
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-03-21T11:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lloyds-to-finance-two-u-k-wind-deals-under-500-million-program.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  expects to
close two deals to fund Scottish wind farms this month as the
lender bailed out by U.K. taxpayers in 2008 plans to offer 330
million pounds ($500 million) for renewables projects this year.  The state-backed company is among five banks lending money
to Fred Olsen Renewables Ltd. for two onshore facilities of 117
megawatts, said Richard Simon-Lewis, senior director in Lloyds’
project-finance renewable energy team. The second deal is for a
39-megawatt wind farm, he said, without disclosing their values.  While Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s budget
yesterday sought to spur lending to try to revive the economy,
he opposes a carbon target for the power industry that companies
say would promote green investment. Developers such as PNE Wind
U.K. shifted focus to  Scotland , which gets as much as 35 percent
of its power from renewables, against 9 percent in  England .  Lloyds plans to lend about the same to renewables this year
as 2012, subject to support from the so-called U.K. Electricity
Market Reform, with a price for low-carbon power due in July.  “Our sense is that the government will get it right,”
Simon-Lewis said in an interview in  London . “The EMR has the
ability to be the catalyst for institutional investment on a
grand scale, fusing the twin disciplines of structured finance
and capital markets. The art in EMR is to set it up in such a
way that it attracts institutional investors, keeps attracting
commercial banks and the rating agencies understand it.”  The London-based bank will keep its focus on offshore and
onshore wind, solar photovoltaic projects and biomass, he said.
Lloyds aims to close a biomass deal in the “near future.”  Helius Energy Plc (HEGY) , a U.K. biomass developer, said on Feb.
18 that it was talking to Lloyds and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
to help fund a 100-megawatt power station in Avonmouth.  Both banks supported Helius’s previous operation.  Lloyds sees growing interest in U.K. energy from sovereign
wealth funds, insurance companies and pension funds, while the
nation is “very attractive” for Asian investors keen to enter
as equipment suppliers or equity holders, Simon-Lewis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  