-- Parallels Nears IPO While Advancing in $40 Billion Cloud Market
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-21T09:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/parallels-nears-ipo-while-advancing-in-40-billion-cloud-market.html
Parallels Inc. , a U.S. software
developer seeking growth in cloud-computing services, is nearing
an initial public offering after selling a stake to  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  this year, Chairman Serguei Beloussov said.  “While an IPO definitely won’t be in the first half of
this year, it may happen sometime later, depending on market
conditions,” Beloussov, Parallels’ co-founder, said in an
interview in Moscow. The company may use proceeds to expand in
the growing market for cloud services, he said.  Parallels, based in Renton,  Washington , and with
programmers in  Russia , supplies Web hosters and
telecommunications operators with a standardized platform to
provide cloud services to small and medium-sized businesses. Its
clients include  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,  America Movil SAB (AMX) ,  Telenor
ASA (TEL) ,  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  and  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX)   Businesses are shifting toward accessing information
technologies remotely via the Internet, or “the cloud,”
reducing the need for hardware on their premises. Cloud services
exceeded $40 billion last year and are set to approach $100
billion in 2016, according to market researcher  IDC .  “This market is growing as there are roughly 1 billion
people globally employed in small business, which may boost
productivity by using information technologies,” said Russian-born Beloussov, who now holds Singaporean citizenship. “A
business with 10 employees can’t afford to hire a systems
administrator, while it can use applications from the cloud.”  Rapid Growth  Parallels had $100 million in revenue in 2009 and has been
growing “very rapidly” since then, Beloussov said, declining
to disclose recent figures. In a report in February last year,
IDC said the company had more than 5,000 customers and partners,
which could ultimately reach into 12 million small and medium-sized businesses worldwide, directly or through resellers.  “Parallels is definitely on the upswing these days,”
Melanie Posey, research vice president at IDC, said by e-mail
March 19. “They’ve picked up big technology partners such as
IBM and Cisco, which is helping Parallels get into bigger deals,
particularly with telcos.”  Parallels, founded by Beloussov and his partner Ilya Zubarev 13 years ago, attracted venture financing in 2005 and
2009. Its  investors  include Intel Capital and Bessemer Venture
Partners. In January, Cisco acquired a stake of about 1 percent
in Parallels.  Acquisition Strategy  “Our biggest competitors are in-house developers of cloud
service providers,” Beloussov said. “This was the case with
enterprise-resource planning systems earlier: Everyone was
trying to develop an ERP for himself until SAP AG came and
offered a standardized solution, displacing all these in-house
projects.”  Parallels has acquired 12 software makers since 2003,
including U.S.-Russian company Plesk Inc. and German business
Yippi-Yeah E-Business GmbH with its Confixx software. Parallels
sees a dozen more development teams it can buy to speed its
progress and consolidate the market, Beloussov said.  “The Wall Street bankers have been talking to us since
2006, viewing us as a peer of  VMware Inc. (VMW) ,” Beloussov said.
“In reality, we are different: VMware supplies large corporates
with cloud platform for in-house use, while our software enables
telecom operators and hosters to offer services for small
business.”  Beloussov declined to name the banks that Parallels is
working with. Alexander Galitsky, a partner at Almaz Capital,
which holds a stake in Parallels, also declined to comment on
revenue or banks that could potentially manage the share sale.  Parallels employs more than 900 people in 16 countries,
more than half of whom are Russian engineers. Parallels Chief
Executive Officer Birger Steen and Chief Technical Officer
Michael Toutonghi come from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Jim Herman, head of
worldwide sales, worked for 11 years at  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  Bertrand Serlet, who used to work at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , where he led development
of the Mac OS X system, serves on Parallels board of directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  