-- Parkinson’s Patients May Be Harmed by Novel Treatment
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/parkinson-s-patients-may-be-harmed-by-novel-treatment.html
One of the most promising new
approaches to treating Parkinson’s disease hit a snag after
researchers found early evidence it may make people worse.  The experimental technique involves reducing levels of
alpha-synuclein, a  protein  found in clumps in the brains of
people with Parkinson’s that increases the risk of the disease.
Research presented at the  American Academy of Neurology  meeting
in San Diego shows the condition progresses more rapidly in
patients with naturally low levels of the protein.  Companies including Elan Corp.,  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ALNY) , NeuroPhage Pharmaceuticals Inc. and  Prana Biotechnology
Ltd. (PBT)  have early-stage efforts under way to develop drugs aimed
at alpha-synuclein. The Michael J. Fox Foundation has put more
than $47 million into research targeting the protein. The
results suggest patients in clinical trials to lower alpha-
synuclein may be at risk, said  Demetrius Maraganore , a study
author.  “There is a sense of urgency related to their safety,”
Maraganore, who is chairman of neurology at NorthShore
University Health System in Evanston,  Illinois , said in a
telephone interview. “If this work is reproducible and our
interpretation of the findings is correct, this has immediate
relevance to people with Parkinson’s.”  The study released yesterday found patients with a genetic
variant that led to the lowest production of alpha-synuclein
were 23 percent more likely to develop dementia or need a
wheelchair than those who made the most of it.  Lewy Bodies  Alpha-synuclein is the main component of protein clumps,
called Lewy bodies, found in everyone with Parkinson’s.
Researchers have been scrambling to find ways to block the
alpha-synuclein protein since 1997, when scientists from the
 U.S. National Institutes of Health  showed it caused an inherited
form of the disease.  Affiris GmbH, a closely held company based in Vienna, last
year began the first trial for a vaccine against alpha-synuclein
in 32 patients. The vaccine, dubbed PD01A, was touted for its
potential to yield the first treatment for the cause of
Parkinson’s disease.  Drugmakers may want to slow their development efforts while
other researchers examine and try to replicate the new findings,
said Maraganore. His brother, John Maraganore, is the chief
executive officer of Alnylam, which funded the $140,000 trial
with the NIH and Medtronic Inc.  The study examined the progression of 1,098 patients who
had their DNA sequenced at the Mayo Clinic and were contacted as
many as 15 years later to determine how they were faring.  Alnylam Approach  Alnylam, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , licensed alpha-
synuclein technology from the Mayo Clinic and is developing a
product that would be delivered directly into the brains of
patients. Animal studies showed the approach silenced the target
gene and cut protein levels 40 percent to 50 percent.  Parkinson’s is a progressive neurological disorder that
causes body tremors, the loss of muscle control and impaired
movement, according to the NIH. There is no cure. A variety of
medicines provide relief from symptoms for the estimated 10
million people worldwide with the disease.  The results of the study in patients with low levels of
alpha-synuclein were stunning because they were the opposite of
what was expected, Maraganore said. Earlier work found people
who were genetically programmed to make more of the protein had
twice the risk of developing Parkinson’s disease. Once they have
the disease, making less of the protein seems to speed up their
demise, Maraganore said.  Like other compounds, including blood sugar, the amount
needed for optimal health probably varies over time, he said.
The protein may play a critical role in maintaining and
repairing connections in the brain, though a surge of it coming
after an injury may overwhelm the brain cells, he said.  “It’s a protein that is probably critical for healthy
nerve function, so that too little or too much at different
points in time can be harmful,” he said. “We may be saving a
lot of patients from harm and pharmaceutical companies from
wasting their money on a failed treatment strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  