-- Patients Should Be Told of Unexpected Gene Test Results
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-03-21T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/patients-should-be-told-of-unexpected-gene-test-results.html
Patients who undergo broad DNA
testing to explain a specific medical condition also should be
told about chance findings that indicate risk for other serious
diseases, a group of genetic specialists said.  Laboratories that conduct complete  gene sequencing  on
patients should analyze and report on about 60 genes with known
links to potentially grave conditions, such as hereditary
cancers and heart conditions that can be prevented and treated,
according to a report released today by a working group of the
 American College of Medical Genetics .  As the price of DNA analysis drops, doctors more often turn
to analyzing the genome, an individual’s complete genetic code,
for mutations that might explain a patient’s illness. These
wider searches increase the likelihood of discovering unexpected
disease-linked genes, often called “incidental findings,” said
 Robert Green , a  Harvard Medical School  geneticist and chairman
of the panel.  “The disruptive technology of sequencing is calling for us
to respond,” said Green, who is also a researcher at Brigham
and Women’s Hospital in Boston. “These are all gene variants
that could make an enormous difference in a patient’s future
medical health.”  The guidelines apply to children and adults, the report
said.  Cheaper Sequencing  Faster, cheaper DNA analyzers made by  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE)  and  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  have dropped the price of sequencing a
single human genome to about $4,000 from more than $2 billion in
2001. Government projects in the U.S., U.K., and the  Faroe
Islands  in the North Atlantic are planning to sequence the
genomes of millions of people for research and treatment.  Mutations listed in the guidelines include those that raise
the risk of breast and  colon cancer , heart conditions such as
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and blood disorders such as  familial
hypercholesterolemia . These mutations should be reported to
doctors, who can decide when and how to discuss the information
with patients and families, the panel said.  “In most of these cases, if these mutations appear in a
patient’s report, it’s going to be pretty difficult for the
doctor to avoid discussing it,” Green said.  Many of the diseases on the list, such as inherited
cancers, are likely to arise later in life. The guidelines
recommend that when mutations tied to those diseases occur in
children, they should be put in the patient’s file and shared
with parents, just like any other sign of disease risk.  “An incidental finding relevant to adult disease that is
discovered and reported through clinical sequencing of a child
may be the only way in which that variant will come to light for
the parent,” the panel’s report said.  Childhood Diseases  Children with rare or previously unseen medical conditions
are often candidates for genome sequencing, because their
conditions may be caused by unique or unfamiliar mutations.
Sifting through these patients’ genomes for genes that may raise
the risk of disease decades later is unnecessary and unfair to
children, who have no way to determine their own preferences at
the time, said  Stephen Kingsmore , a pediatric geneticist at
Children’s Mercy Hospital in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Kingsmore has established a service for children with rare
diseases that can sequence and analyze their genomes in about a
week, far faster than ever before. He says he deliberately
leaves unanalyzed any portions of their genomes that may relate
to adult conditions.  “The parents want to know something that’s relevant to
acute illness in the child,” he said in a telephone interview.
“The risk that the child may have elevated cholesterol at age
30 is irrelevant.”  Not Listed  Mutations linked to genetic diseases that can’t be treated
or prevented, such as  Huntington’s disease , a progressive
neurological disorder, aren’t on the list. Neither are many
genetic mutations that are only loosely connected to diseases.  The recommendations, especially those relating to children,
are likely to remain controversial, Green said. The working
group recommended that the guidelines undergo review at least
annually as the health impact of the mutations, the use of the
guidelines, and patients’ reactions become better understood, he
said.  “If the implementation of these recommendations
demonstrated results in discomfort or harm, I’d be the first one
to suggest changing them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  