-- Pernod Plunges as China Extravagance Crackdown Softens Sales
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-21T17:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/pernod-plunges-as-china-crackdown-on-extravagance-softens-sales.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , France’s biggest
distiller, slumped in Paris trading after reporting “softness”
in revenue over Chinese New Year, an important festival for
sales of high-priced cognacs and whiskies.  Pernod shares fell 4.4 percent, the most  since  Sept. 5,
2011, after Pierre Coppere, who heads the Paris-based company’s
Asian unit, said he expected Chinese sales in the nine months
through March to show “double-digit growth, albeit at the lower
end.” The maker of Martell cognac reported that first-half
organic sales gained 18 percent in  China .  Coppere, speaking today on a  webcast  with analysts, said
the distiller still saw “high single-digit volume growth” over
Chinese New Year for Martell cognac, but that demand for whisky
was affected by measures implemented by China’s new government
to limit excessive gift-giving and banqueting.  Distillers including Pernod and  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  have
benefited from demand for their higher-priced spirits in China,
particularly cognac, as sales growth becomes tougher to achieve
in the straitened economies of  Europe . Chinese President Xi
Jinping has been cracking down on extravagant gift-giving and
feasting by businessmen and government officials.  Pernod shares declined 4.43 euros to 95.57 euros. Remy, the
maker of Remy Martin cognac, declined 2.2 percent.  Diageo Plc (DGE) ,
which has an alcohol joint venture in China with  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , slid 1 percent in London.  ‘Great Potential’  “Asia offers great mid-term growth potential, but China’s
recovery could actually take a little bit more time than the
market expects,” Laetitia Delaye, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Paris, wrote today in a note. “We think this could
continue to weigh on Pernod’s business trends for a few months
before seeing volumes -- and more importantly, pricing power --
coming back.” Delaye has a hold rating on Pernod.  Pernod, which claims it’s the biggest seller of cognac in
China, said it can still raise the price of the spirit in the
country, even as the decline in gifts and banquets drags on
sales of higher-end alcohols. Cognac suffered less than whisky
over Chinese New Year as it has a “much deeper, larger
penetration” in the country, Coppere said. Whisky sales
declined by a “double-digit” percentage, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  