-- PetroChina Turns Overseas as Home Market’s Appeal Wanes
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-03-21T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/petrochina-profit-misses-estimates-on-widening-refining-losses.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  will lift overseas
output to 60 percent of its total in the next eight years as the
nation’s biggest energy producer copes with mounting import
costs, price controls and refining losses at home.  “Over the next three years, we’ll expand our presence in
overseas markets,” Vice President Sun Longde said at a media
conference yesterday in Hong Kong, after announcing lower-than-
expected full-year earnings. “Our target by the end of 2015 is
to have 50 percent of our output come from overseas projects and
by the end of 2020, 60 percent.” Overseas production accounts
for 10 percent now, the company said.  State-owned PetroChina, which plans to invest at least $60
billion this decade in global energy assets, said its overseas
focus will stretch from the Middle East and Central Asia to the
Americas and Asia-Pacific. The company has spent about $5
billion with parent China National Petroleum Corp. this year to
add oil and gas fields in Australia and  Africa  as the world’s
second-biggest economy capped fuel prices to contain inflation,
resulting in losses for its major refiners.  “Over time, consistent production growth will help offset
most of PetroChina’s losses from imported gas and refining, even
if the Chinese government only gradually reforms natural gas
pricing,” Laban Yu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc., said yesterday by phone. “In the immediate future,
PetroChina’s earnings will still hinge on whether the government
allows the company to raise prices on natural gas imported from
Central Asia.”  Gas production will rise to as much as 120 billion cubic
meters by 2015 from 72 billion cubic meters now, Sun said.  Profit Falls  PetroChina fell 0.6 percent to HK$10.38 at the close in
Hong Kong yesterday, before the earnings announcement. The
shares have dropped 7 percent in the past year, compared with a
6.6 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Net income dropped 13 percent to 115.3 billion  yuan  ($18.6
billion) last year, the company said in a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange yesterday. That compared with the 119.8
billion yuan mean of 27 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 9.6 percent to 2.2 trillion yuan.  China increased fuel prices for first time since September
on Feb. 25, raising gasoline by 300 yuan a metric ton and diesel
by 290 yuan a ton. Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the
National Development and Reform Commission under a system that
tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of crudes,
comprising Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The commission
plans to shorten the fuel price adjustment window, former NDRC
Chairman Zhang Ping said on March 6, without providing details.  Refining Loss  PetroChina’s refining business posted an operating loss of
43.5 billion yuan in 2012, compared with a loss of 60.1 billion
in 2011, according to the statement. Operating expenses in the
refining and chemical segment rose 1.9 percent.  The company refined 1 billion barrels of crude in 2012, 2.8
percent more than a year earlier. Output rose 3.4 percent to
916.5 million barrels, while gas production increased 6.8
percent to 2.6 trillion cubic feet, according to the statement.  Fourth-quarter profit fell 4 percent to 28.4 billion yuan,
according figures derived from full-year earnings. That compares
with the mean estimate of 28.2 billion yuan in a Bloomberg
survey of seven analysts.  PetroChina agreed to pay  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  $1.63 billion in
December for a stake in the proposed Browse liquefied natural
gas venture in Western Australia. Its state-owned parent CNPC
announced it will spend $4.2 billion to buy a stake in  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s
African natural gas assets in  Mozambique  on March 14, Asia’s
biggest acquisition this year. Jiang Jiemin, former chairman of
both companies, said on March 5 that the company “is now
studying investments in the U.S.”  Unconventional Resources  PetroChina plans to spend 239.6 billion yuan on exploration
and production this year, an increase of 5.5 percent, and “more
efforts will be devoted” to unconventional resources
exploration such as shale gas and coal-bed methane, it said in
the statement. Output of unconventional gas was 18.2 billion
cubic meters last year, Sun said, adding shale gas is still in a
study and experimental phase.  PetroChina expects to spend 32.4 billion yuan on refinery
construction and upgrades as record pollution in Beijing has
been partially blamed on fuel standards. Refining capacity will
increase to 200 million tons by 2015, Sun said.  Spending this year will focus on Guangdong, Yunnan and
Sichuan provinces as well as “construction of quality
enhancement projects for gasoline and diesel products,”
according to the statement. The company is working to improve
fuel grades to clean up Beijing’s toxic air, Sun said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  