-- TPG Capital Said to Hire GSO’s Paolillo to Run New CLO Group
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-03-21T19:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/tpg-capital-said-to-hire-gso-s-paolillo-to-run-new-clo-business.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity
firm run by David Bonderman and James Coulter, hired Douglas Paolillo to run a new group that will manage collateralized loan
obligations, according to four people with knowledge of the
matter.  Paolillo, previously a managing director at Blackstone
Group LP-owned GSO Capital Partners LP, will be based in New
York, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the hiring hasn’t been announced publicly.  Owen Blicksilver , a
spokesman for TPG with Blicksilver Public Relations Inc., and
Paolillo declined to comment. Christine Anderson, a Blackstone
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  TPG, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , joins Apollo Global
Management LP and Blackstone Group in diversifying away from
leveraged buyouts and into managing CLOs. Sales of the funds
quadrupled to $55.4 billion in 2012 and issuance is forecasted
by Wells Fargo & Co. to reach $80 billion this year.  Paolillo joined Blackstone in 2002 and helped develop the
New York-based private-equity firm’s corporate debt group,
according to his profile on the Blackstone  website .  Leon Black’s New York-based Apollo was the largest U.S. CLO
manager by assets with $14 billion as of December, according to
a Feb. 28 report from Standard & Poor’s. New York-based GSO, the
credit investment arm of Blackstone, was the fourth largest in
the U.S. with $11.5 billion under management.  Direct Lending  Found in 1992, TPG has invested in companies including
Avaya Inc.,  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and Energy Future
Holdings Corp. It formed a business development company in July
2010, TPG Specialty Lending Inc., which had $1.5 billion of
committed equity capital as of Jan. 31, according to a March 15
regulatory filing.  The fund makes direct investments in senior secured and
mezzanine loans made to U.S. companies that have earnings before
interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization between
$10 million and $250 million, according to the filing.  Investors have been buying portions of CLOs, a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return,
which offer better yields than comparably-rated products.
Spreads on existing AAA CLO pieces were 130 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate Feb. 21, according to
Morgan Stanley data.  That compares with 25 basis points for credit-card debt
Jan. 17. Libor is a rate at which banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  