-- Poland’s Zloty Weakens to Month-Low on Cyprus Debt Concern
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-21T10:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/poland-s-zloty-weakens-to-month-low-on-cyprus-debt-concern.html
Poland ’s zloty depreciated to a
one-month low as the European Union and Cyprus struggled to find
a solution to the financial crisis in the Mediterranean island.  The currency declined for the fourth straight day, dropping
0.1 percent to 4.1793 per euro at 11:06 a.m. in Warsaw, the
weakest intra-day level since Feb. 21. Yields on Poland’s 10-
year bonds rose for a third day, adding three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.98 percent.  “The disarray around Cyprus pushed the zloty beyond the
higher end of the 4.12-4.16 range,” ING Bank Slaski economists,
led by  Rafal Benecki , wrote in a note. They expect the euro to
weaken further against the dollar in the case of lack of
progress on Cyprus, which “may cause the euro-zloty rate to
rise to 4.20,” the economists wrote.  Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades met advisers to draft a
new plan to stave off financial collapse after lawmakers
rejected the euro area’s proposed levy on  bank deposits . The
 European Central Bank  said it will cut Cypriot off from
emergency funds after March 25 unless the country agrees on a
bailout with international creditors.  Poland is not seeing foreign investors exiting its bonds
and short-term fluctuations in the zloty’s exchange rate are not
a cause for concern, Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk
was quoted as saying by PAP newswire today.  Poland’s central bank will release today minutes from the
Monetary Policy Council’s meeting in March, at which  interest
rates  were unexpectedly cut 50 basis points to a record-low 3.25
percent. The minutes will be published at 2 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  