-- Pound Advances to Three-Week High as Retail Sales Beat Forecasts
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-21T16:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/pound-strengthens-against-dollar-before-u-k-retail-sales-data.html
The pound rose to a three-week high
against the dollar after a government report showed U.K. retail
sales increased more in February than economists forecast.  Sterling appreciated versus all but three of its 16 major
counterparts as the data damped speculation the  Bank of England 
will add to monetary stimulus that tends to debase a currency.
The pound climbed to the strongest in five weeks against the
euro as a contraction in German manufacturing and an impasse
over a bailout for Cyprus spurred demand for alternatives to the
single currency. U.K. government bonds advanced.  “It’s certainly good news for the pound bulls,” said
Kathleen Brooks, research director in  London  at Forex.com, a
unit of online currency-trading company  Gain Capital Holdings
Inc. (GCAP)  “The retail sales were much better than expected. It
really was very positive.”  The pound advanced 0.5 percent to $1.5171 at 4:37 p.m.
London time after rising to $1.5210, the highest level since
Feb. 28. The U.K. currency gained 0.6 percent to 85.12 pence per
euro.  Retail sales including fuel jumped 2.1 percent from
January, the  Office for National Statistics  said, exceeding the
0.4 percent median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . The U.K. had its smallest February budget deficit since
2008, a separate government report showed.  ‘Unwarranted Depreciation’  Minutes of the central bank’s March 6-7 meeting published
yesterday showed some policy makers saying further monetary
easing may cause an “unwarranted depreciation of sterling.”
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  kept the central
bank’s inflation target at 2 percent in his budget yesterday.  “The minutes were less dovish than expected, which
suggests that further quantitative easing is not imminent,”
said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “We are seeing a modest
pick-up in safe-haven demand for the pound given the renewed
uncertainty in  Europe .”  The pound appreciated to the strongest since Feb. 11 versus
the euro as a German index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the manufacturing industry dropped.  It also rose as the  European Central Bank  said it may cut
Cyprus’s banks off from emergency funds after March 25 unless
the nation agrees on a bailout with international creditors.
Russia rebuffed a request for aid, the island nation’s Finance
Minister, Michael Sarris, said in an interview on Antenna TV.  ‘Big Wave’  The yield on the 10-year gilt rose two basis points to 1.86
percent after rising as much as three basis points. The 1.75
percent bond due in September 2022 gained 0.15, or 1.50 pounds
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 99.07.  U.K. government bonds returned 1 percent this month through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds gained 0.4 percent and Treasuries fell 0.4 percent.  The pound may encounter “another big wave of resistance”
at $1.5280 should it climb above $1.5220, Forex.com’s Brooks
said. Sterling hasn’t traded above $1.5280 since Feb. 22. In
technical analysis, resistance refers to an area on a chart
where sell orders may be clustered.  Sterling has still weakened 4.6 percent this year, the
second-worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro gained 0.7 percent and the dollar rose 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  