-- Prudential Hires McLaughlin to Run Asia Real Estate Unit
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-03-21T19:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/prudential-says-laughlin-to-run-8-billion-asia-real-estate-unit.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, hired Morgan Laughlin to run
its real-estate investment business in Asia as the company
builds operations outside the U.S.  Laughlin joins from Grosvenor Fund Management, according to
a statement today from Prudential Real Estate Investors, which
had about $8 billion in gross assets under management in Asia as
of Dec. 31. He’ll be based in  Tokyo .  Morgan brings “deep experience in building businesses in
emerging and developed markets in Asia and a track record that
includes managing real estate debt, direct real estate
investing, client engagement and regional management,” Allen Smith, chief executive officer of PREI, said in the statement.  Prudential has been bolstering real estate operations in
Asia, Europe and Latin America after last year naming Eric Adler
to oversee global investment and risk-management processes. The
Newark, New Jersey-based insurer’s real estate business in
January hired Adriana Drulla Rossi from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to work
in Brazil and promoted Raimondo Amabile and Andrew Radkiewicz to
co-heads of the European unit.  PREI managed $51.2 billion in gross real estate assets on
behalf of about 500 clients worldwide as of Sept. 30, up from
$48.6 billion a year earlier. The business has been investing in
the commercial real estate markets of nations including  Japan ,
China, India and Australvictoria since 1994.  Laughlin was most recently a regional director for the
Asia-Pacific area at Grosvenor. He previously worked at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc and Deutsche Bank AG. He received a
bachelor’s degree in Latin American studies from Columbia
College. He has lived and worked in the U.S., Japan, Thailand,
Singapore and  Hong Kong .  He replaces Victoria Shigehira Sharpe who has taken a new
role with the global institutional relationship group and will
be based in Singapore where she’ll focus on expanding client
relationships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  