-- Raj Rajaratnam’s Brother Charged With Insider Trading
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/raj-rajaratnam-s-brother-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Rengan Rajaratnam, the younger
brother of imprisoned hedge-fund founder Raj Rajaratnam, was
indicted by a federal grand jury on charges he took part in an
 insider-trading  scheme tied to Galleon Group LLC.  Rengan Rajaratnam, 42, is accused of conspiring with his
brother to trade on material nonpublic information about
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  in 2008,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday.  Prosecutors alleged that Rengan, while working as a  fund
manager  at Galleon, made almost $1.2 million from trades that
occurred on March 24 and March 25 of that year based on tips
provided by his brother and his Rolodex of insiders. He was
implicated during his brother’s trial, where wiretapped
conversations between the two men were played in court.  “Rengan Rajaratnam and his brother shared more than DNA,”
Bharara said in a statement. “Along with his brother Raj,
Rengan Rajaratnam was allegedly at the heart of an insider-
trading scheme that swept up an unprecedented number of people
in its web of corruption.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also filed a
parallel insider-trading suit against Rengan Rajaratnam,
describing a conspiracy that the agency said began in 2006 and
lasted until 2008. Rajaratnam reaped more than $3 million in
illicit gains for Galleon and Sedna, the SEC alleged. The SEC
said its investigation is continuing.  Federal Indictment  Rengan Rajaratnam was named in a federal indictment
unsealed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan that charges
him with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and
six counts of securities fraud. Conspiracy carries a maximum
five-year prison sentence, while fraud carries a 20-year
maximum. He’s not in U.S. custody, Bharara said.  The criminal case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald while the SEC case was assigned to U.S. District
Judge  John Koeltl .  David Tobin, an attorney for Rengan Rajaratnam, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the charges.  Rengan Rajaratnam co-founded Sedna Capital Management LLC,
a hedge fund advisory firm, after leaving SAC Capital Advisors
LP where he worked as an analyst from May 2003 to January 2004.  A graduate of the  University of Pennsylvania  and  Stanford
University ’s business school, he has also worked at  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  The SEC alleges that after Rengan Rajaratnam closed
down Sedna he worked for as a portfolio manager at Galleon from
2007 to 2009 when the fund closed after his brother’s arrest on
insider-trading charges.  ‘Sad Tale’  Raj Rajaratnam, 55, is serving an 11-year prison sentence
after being convicted on 14 counts of conspiracy and  securities
fraud  in 2011 in the largest crackdown on insider trading at
 hedge funds  in U.S. history. Dozens of people have been
convicted as part of the probe being handled by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  in New York and Bharara’s office.  “Rengan Rajaratnam’s career arc paralleled his
brother’s,” FBI Assistant Director George Venizelos said in a
statement. “He followed in Raj’s footsteps by obtaining an MBA
from a top-flight business school. He went to work for Raj at
Galleon. As alleged in the indictment, Rengan also engaged in
the same illegal conduct as Raj.”  Rengan Rajaratnam took illicit tips from his brother and
traded on AMD, Clearwire,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , Hilton Hotels Corp. and
 Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , regulators said.  Secret Tips  The indictment filed yesterday quotes from telephone calls
that were secretly recorded by agents with the FBI and played
during  Raj Rajaratnam ’s 2011 trial. The case was the first to
make extensive use of wiretaps, a tactic used in organized-crime
investigations. At his trial, jurors heard more than 40
recordings of Rajaratnam made by FBI agents in New York, in
which the fund manager can be heard gathering secret tips from
his sources.  Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  who pleaded guilty to
insider trading with Raj Rajaratnam, testified that he told the
Galleon co-founder Intel would invest $1 billion in a new
wireless network company formed by Clearwire and Sprint Nextel
Corp. Goel was a friend of Raj Rajaratnam’s and his former
business school classmate.  The U.S. alleged that Raj passed the tip about Clearwire to
Rengan in March 2008 so the two could execute trades on Goel’s
tip. On March 25, 2008, six days after Goel and Raj spoke, the
FBI recorded the brothers discussing a newspaper article
describing the deal.  ‘Gonna Rip’  “It’s all over the Wall Street Journal,” Rengan told his
brother at 8:22 p.m., according to the wiretapped recording
played for jurors in Manhattan federal court. “They’re short on
details, but they kind of say, you know, they’re looking to
raise as much as $3 billion.”  “OK, sh-t,” Raj Rajaratnam replied. “But I think
Clearwire’s share price is gonna rip tomorrow.”  A day later, Clearwire’s price rose sharply in response to
the article, prosecutors said. The U.S. said that Rengan made
$101,000 trading on Clearwire in his own personal brokerage
account, that he and his his brother made more than $231,000 for
a Galleon fund and that Raj took in more than $851,000 for a
Galleon technology fund, according to prosecutors.  Prosecutors also described trading in AMD based on tips
provided by  Anil Kumar , then a director at McKinsey & Co., that
the chipmaker was getting a multibillion-dollar investment from
Mubadala Development Co. of  Abu Dhabi . Kumar was also a friend
of Raj Rajaratnam and had been a business school classmate of
the fund manager.  AMD Stock  “I just heard that ... AMD had a handshake with the ...
Arabs to put in six billion dollars,” Raj Rajaratnam told his
brother on an Aug. 15, 2008, call, which was cited by
prosecutors in yesterday’s indictment.  Later that day, Rengan Rajaratnam called his brother to
tell him he had conferred with David Palecek, a former Stanford
classmate who was in charge of semiconductors for McKinsey.
Rengan Rajaratnam said he asked Palecek about buying AMD stock
and the proposed deal.  Rengan later called his brother that day and told him
Palecek had “spilled his beans” about the deal.  “He’s like, ‘Buy it, buy as much as you can as soon as you
can,’” Rengan Rajaratnam told his brother on the call.  In a later conversation that was also wiretapped, Rengan
told Raj that his former Stanford friend was “a little dirty”
and that he was “definitely, you know, thinking about playing
ball” with Galleon.  No Money  “‘He said my best ideas are inside information,’” Rengan
quoted Palecek as telling him. Rengan told his brother during a
later call and later said referring to Palecek, “Scumbag,
everybody is a scumbag.”  Palecek died in 2010 of a virulent staph infection, his
lawyer, Catherine Redlich, said during Rajaratnam’s 2011 trial.  “What the tape does not reflect is that Mr. Palecek never
agreed to ‘play ball’ with the Rajaratnams, never received money
from them, and never agreed to put his wife on Galleon’s
payroll,” Redlich said.  Prosecutors said that neither Rengan nor Raj Rajaratnam
made any money on the AMD tip because of an overall decline in
technology stocks, prosecutors said.  During a 2010 pretrial hearing in Raj Rajaratnam’s case,
prosecutors and regulators said they were first drawn to focus
on insider trading by Rengan Rajaratnam in 2006.  An earlier investigation by the SEC and U.S. prosecutors in
San Francisco in 1999 had only resulted in the prosecution of
former Intel employee  Roomy Khan . She pleaded guilty in April
2001 to wire fraud and agreed to cooperate with the U.S.  ‘Nonpublic Information’  Andrew Michaelson, one of the principal SEC lawyers
investigating Galleon in the later probe testified that in
September 2006 the agency opened an insider-trading probe
focusing on Galleon because Raj and Rengan Rajaratnam “appeared
to be exchanging nonpublic information.”  Michaelson, who would later be a prosecutor on the Raj
Rajaratnam’s trial team, said the SEC questioned Sedna and
Galleon employees under oath, reviewed millions of pages of
documents and looked at every one of Rengan Rajaratnam’s e-mails
and instant messages for 2006. Soon regulators had another
target: Raj Rajaratnam, Rengan’s older brother, he said.  Prosecutors said that after they “hit a wall” in the
criminal investigation of Raj Rajaratnam, they decided to employ
court-authorized wiretaps against the fund manager.  The recordings would eventually also ensnare  Rajat Gupta ,
the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director who was caught on
wiretapped calls talking to Rajaratnam.  33 Defendants  Gupta, 64, who also sat on the board of  Cincinnati-based
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Co.
from 1994 to 2003, was convicted in June of passing insider tips
to Rajaratnam in a conspiracy that ran from 2007 to January
2009.  Gupta, who was sentenced to two years in prison, is free
pending his appeal.  Bharara’s office has charged and won convictions against
more than 75 people with insider trading since August 2009,
including more than two dozen people tied to the Galleon probe.  The SEC said yesterday that it has sued 33 defendants in
its Galleon-related enforcement actions, with insider-trading
reaping more than $96 million in illicit profits by trading in
stock of more than 15 companies.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 13-cr-00211, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
civil case is SEC v. Regan Rajaratnam, 13-cv-01894, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  