-- Rajat Gupta Sues New Silk Route Chief Saxena
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/rajat-gupta-sues-new-silk-route-chief-saxena-in-manhattan.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Director  Rajat Gupta , convicted last year on  insider-trading 
charges, filed a breach-of-contract lawsuit against Parag Saxena, chief executive officer of  New Silk Route LLC .  Gupta agreed in February 2012 to step down from New Silk
Route NSR’s board of directors in response to Saxena’s request
that he distance himself from the the company while securities
charges were pending against him, according to his complaint
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Gupta, 64, said he transferred his voting shares in NSR, an
investment firm he co-founded, to Saxena, his partner in the
venture. Gupta claims Saxena breached the agreement by
improperly removing Gupta’s designee to the board and refusing
to permit NSR to acquire directors and officers’ insurance.  “Saxena is seeking to thwart Gupta’s contractual right to
designate one member” of the company’s board, Gupta said in the
complaint.  Gupta sat on the board of New York-based Goldman Sachs and
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and ran the consulting
firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003. He was convicted in June
of passing insider tips to Galleon Group LLC founder Raj Rajaratnam in a sprawling conspiracy that ran from 2007 to
January 2009. Gupta, sentenced to two years in prison, is free
pending his appeal.  Private Equity  New Silk Route, a $1.4 billion  private-equity  firm that
focuses on South  Asia  and the  Middle East , said in a statement
that the lawsuit is without merit.  “Since Mr. Gupta’s conviction of conspiracy and securities
fraud in June of 2012, the firm has been actively working to
sever all ties with him including offering to buy his remaining
investment stake,” the firm said. “New Silk Route’s team of
over 25 professionals continues to focus on the business and
remains excited about opportunities in Asia and India and
realizing value from its existing portfolio of investments for
its investors and stakeholders.”  Yesterday, Rajaratnam’s younger brother Rengan was indicted
by a federal grand jury for allegedly taking part in an insider-
trading scheme tied to Galleon.  Rengan Rajaratnam, 42, is accused of conspiring with his
brother to trade on material nonpublic information about
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  in 2008,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.  Trial, Wiretaps  Prosecutors alleged that Rengan, while working as a  fund
manager  at Galleon, made almost $1.2 million from trades that
occurred on March 24 and March 25 of that year based on tips
provided by his brother and his Rolodex of insiders. He was
implicated during his brother’s trial, where wiretapped
conversations between the two men were played in court.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also filed a
parallel insider-trading suit against Rengan Rajaratnam,
describing a conspiracy that the agency said began in 2006 and
lasted until 2008. Rajaratnam reaped more than $3 million in
illicit gains for Galleon and Sedna Capital Management LLC, 
the SEC alleged.  David Tobin, an attorney for Rengan Rajaratnam, didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment on the
charges.  Rajaratnam isn’t in U.S. custody, Bharara said.  Gupta said that he and Saxena agreed that Anil Sood, the
manager of NSR-H, would assume Gupta’s place on the board.  Saxena informed Gupta on Dec. 26 that he intended to remove
Sood without obtaining support of the holders of the firm’s
voting majority, Gupta said in the complaint.  D&O Insurance  Gupta also alleged that Saxena moved to thwart his proposal
that Sood be replaced by  Herbert Henzler (HOT) , a former chairman of
McKinsey & Co. ( Europe ), by refusing to buy directors’ and
officers’ insurance.  Henzler informed Gupta that in becoming a director of New
Silk Route, he would “not accept any legal liabilities” until
directors and officers’ insurance for “past and current
activities/legal suits has been made out,” Gupta said.  Saxena’s lawyers sent a letter to Gupta on March 14 stating
that Henzler’s request for the insurance constituted a refusal
to serve as director.  “By refusing to exercise his power as a shareholder of the
company to cause director and officer insurance to be obtained
and thereby trying to thwart the appointment or election of
Henzler, Saxena breached the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing inherent in the voting agreement,” Gupta said.  Sood hasn’t resigned from the board, he said.  Declaratory Judgment  The suit includes claims of breach of contract and asks for
a declaratory judgment that the voting agreement is “valid and
binding” under  New York  law. Gupta also seeks court orders
requiring Saxena to place Gupta’s designee on New Silk Route’s
board.  New Silk Route, based in New York, has offices in Mumbai,
Dubai and Bangalore,  India , according to its website. Gupta, who
was chairman, led the firm with Saxena and senior adviser Victor Menezes.  Gupta took a voluntary leave of absence from the firm in
March 2011 to “avoid any distraction and ensure New Silk
Route’s continued focus on the execution of its investment
strategy,” the firm said in a statement.  Saxena said at the time that the matters involving Gupta
had nothing to do with New Silk Route.  Trial Testimony  Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey & Co. partner and former
classmate of Rajaratnam’s, testified last year at Gupta’s trial
that his former mentor approached him in 2006 saying he wanted
to start an investment fund after his scheduled retirement from
McKinsey in 2007.  Gupta “wanted to create the best  asset management company 
in Asia, as good as the ones in America, but this would be
focused on India,” Kumar said. “He wanted it to be widely
based.”  Gupta and Rajaratnam planned to have one unit dedicated to
making private-equity investments and another that would operate
as a hedge fund focusing on  South Asia , Kumar said. The fund
that Gupta and Rajaratnam opened as Taj Capital was later re-
named New Silk Route LLC, Kumar testified.  Kumar pleaded guilty to insider trading with Rajaratnam,
who is serving an 11-year prison sentence after being convicted
at trial.  The case is Gupta v. Saxena, 13-cv-01891, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  Manhattan  federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 