-- Range Resources Paid $750,000 in Fracking Accord
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-21T22:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/range-resources-paid-750-000-in-fracking-accord.html
Range Resources Corp. and other
natural-gas drillers paid a  Pennsylvania  family $750,000 to
settle claims the companies were contaminating their water,
according to unsealed court records.  MarkWest Energy Partners LP (MWE)  and  Williams Cos. (WMB) ’s Williams
Gas unit joined in the June 2011 agreement, which included the
transfer of Chris and Stephanie Hallowich’s home in Hickory,
Pennsylvania, and payment of $750,000, according to court
records unsealed in Common Pleas Court in  Washington  County.  The settlement terms were included among more than 900
pages of documents Common Pleas Court Judge Debbie O’Dell-Seneca
ordered unsealed yesterday after rejecting the companies’
arguments that such a move threatened their right to privacy.  In resolving disputes with homeowners from  Texas  to
Pennsylvania, gas drillers have often demanded secrecy in
exchange for buying their properties, delivering fresh water or
paying out a settlement.  Environmental groups such as Earthjustice praised O’Dell-
Seneca’s ruling, saying it would help to shed light on the
health risks of fracking. Range Resources, which fought the
release, said yesterday through a spokesman that it welcomed the
disclosure.  Energy Production  Fracking, in which water, sand and chemicals are shot
underground to break apart rock and free trapped natural gas,
has brought a boom in energy production to Pennsylvania, Texas
and  Colorado , and lowered natural  gas prices .  The process has been the target of complaints from
landowners and farmers, who say leaks from holding ponds, spills
and underground ruptures have led to contamination of their
water.  The Hallowichs filed notice to sue Range and other gas
drillers in 2010, claiming the drilling operators and gas-
processing facilities failed to ahere to Pennsylvania
environmental law for air, water and soil, according to court
documents.  Drilling on land adjacent to their property polluted their
well and caused them to suffer burning eyes, sore throats,
severe headaches and other symptoms from toxic gas, according to
the records.  The Hallowichs reached the settlement in 2011 and agreed
with the gas drillers to keep the records confidential. Unlike
most settlements, the deal required court approval because their
minor children were parties to the case. That put the settlement
in court, where newspapers and public interest groups challenged
an order sealing the case.  Under the terms of the agreement, the Hallowichs received
$544,820. Their two children got $10,000 apiece with the rest
going to attorneys’ fees, according to court documents.  The case is Hallowich v.  Range Resources Corp. (RRC) , 2010-3954,
Court of Common Pleas of Washington County, Pennsylvania
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  