-- Travis Perkins Rises on U.K. Home Buying Measures: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2013-03-21T17:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/travis-perkins-rises-on-u-k-home-buying-measures-london-mover.html
Travis Perkins Plc (TPK)  rose for a sixth
day, the longest streak in more than five months, after analysts
said the builders merchant may profit most among its peers from
new U.K. initiatives to assist home purchases.  Travis Perkins “stands to benefit most from any increase
in activity” because it has about “25 percent exposure to the
new residential sector,” analysts at Goodbody said today. The
company gets all of its revenue in Britain and will also reap
more rewards than some U.K. businesses from a lowering of the
corporation tax rate, the Dublin-based stockbroker said.  Travis Perkins  shares rose  2.4 percent to 1,443 pence at
the close in  London . That extended the gain over six days to
8.7 percent in the longest streak since early October.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, whose
popularity has plunged while the government pursues austerity
measures, pledged 3.5 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) yesterday to
help buyers of new homes with loans. He also announced a plan to
guarantee as much as 130 billion pounds of new mortgages to help
purchasers with limited cash for deposits. The Bloomberg EMEA
Homebuilders Index climbed to the highest in almost five years.  Among companies that serve the building industry, the
“Help to Buy” measures for existing homes will benefit Travis
Perkins because “repair, maintenance and improvement activity
in the secondary market is a key driver of sales,” Davy
Stockbrokers said today in a note.  Howden, SIG  Travis Perkins has gained 33 percent this year, the fourth-
biggest advance among the 31 companies on the FTSE 350 Support
Services Index.  Howden Joinery Group Plc (HWDN) , a maker of fitted
kitchens that may benefit from the U.K. housing measures, has
also risen almost 33 percent.  SIG Plc (SHI) , a distributor of building
products such as insulation, is up 34 percent.  Goldman Sachs added Travis Perkins to its “conviction
buy” list on March 15 and predicted the shares will rise to
1,708 pence, or almost 29 percent higher than the closing price
on the previous day.  The building materials supplier said Feb. 20 that while
2013 market volumes may be lower than in 2012, the rate of
decrease will lessen to 1 percent to 2 percent as construction
picks up. Pretax profit excluding some items in 2012 beat
analyst estimates and the Northampton-based company raised its
final dividend more than predicted.  Gradual Recovery  “A gradual recovery in our markets, together with targeted
like-for-like volume outperformance and tight control of costs
should deliver an expansion of our operating margins,” Chief
Executive Officer Geoff Cooper, said at the time.  Of 23  analysts  who report their predictions on Travis
Perkins to Bloomberg, 10 rate the stock buy, while nine favor
holding the shares and four recommend selling.  The U.K. measures are also significant for  Grafton Group
Plc (GN5)  and  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , as well as Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA of
 France , according to Davy analysts led by Robert Gardiner.  Grafton rose 2.8 percent in Dublin trading, while Wolseley
retreated 1.9 percent in London from a five-year high reached
yesterday. Saint-Gobain fell 2.3 percent in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  