-- Treasuries Advance as Concern on Cyprus Fuels Demand for Safety
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-21T21:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/treasuries-remain-lower-before-u-s-home-data-as-fed-stimulates.html
Treasuries climbed, with 10-year
notes poised for a second weekly gain, as concern that Cyprus’s
banking crisis will worsen the euro area’s sovereign-debt
turmoil stoked demand for the refuge of U.S. government debt.  Bonds rose even after data showed the U.S. economy is
improving. The U.S. sold 10-year inflation-linked notes at a
negative yield for an eighth straight time amid skepticism that
monetary stimulus by the Federal Reserve under Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke won’t fuel inflation. Treasuries gained as the European
Central Bank threatened to cut Cypriot banks off from funds
unless the nation agrees on a bailout.  “Cyprus is a small country, but it’s big enough where it is
a concern for the euro zone,” said Sean Murphy, a trader at
Societe Generale SA in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “You listen to Bernanke and nothing
has changed, and now with the euro-zone situation outcome
uncertain, investors have been unsettled enough to keep
Treasuries well bid.”  The 10-year  yield  dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.91 percent at 5 p.m. in New York after
climbing six basis points yesterday, the biggest increase since
March 7. It has fallen eight basis points this week. The price
of the 2 percent note due in February 2023 rose 13/32, or $4.06
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 25/32.  Moving Average  Benchmark 10-year yields fell below their 50-day moving
average for a fourth straight day. Moving averages, which
indicate momentum, are seen by some traders as potential turning
points. The yield has traded on a closing basis this month
within a 22 basis-point  range , from 1.84 percent on March 1 to
2.06 percent on March 11.  Thirty-year bond  yields dropped seven basis points to 3.13
percent after a seven basis-point jump yesterday.  Treasuries lost 0.6 percent this year through yesterday,
poised for the biggest quarterly drop since the three months
ended March 2012, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index showed.  U.S. government securities due in a decade or more have
been trading at almost the cheapest level since 2011 relative to
global peers with comparable maturities, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Yields on the Treasuries reached
54 basis points higher than those in an index of other sovereign
debt on March 14, near the most since August 2011, the data
showed. The spread was 53 basis points yesterday.  Cyprus Deadlock  Cyprus is seeking to overcome a deadlock after lawmakers
rejected a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) levy on bank deposits
imposed by the European Union as a condition for a 10 billion-
euro rescue. The ECB’s Governing Council decided to maintain its
current level of Emergency Liquidity Assistance for Cyprus only
until March 25, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  Standard & Poor’s cut Cyprus’s credit rating to CCC with a
negative outlook, from CCC+. The nation’s parliament speaker
said new banking-reform measures will be discussed tomorrow.  “The longer Cyprus is not dealt with, the more fear
festers in the market about contagion, which continues to
support Treasuries,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “You can’t fight the
market right now.”  Treasuries briefly trimmed their advance after sales of
previously owned  U.S. homes  rose 0.8 percent in February to a
4.98 million annualized rate, the most since November 2009, data
from the National Association of Realtors showed today.  Labor Department figures showed applications for jobless
benefits increased by 2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended March
16. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected 340,000 claims.
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly expanded
in March, the Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index showed.  Fed Commitment  Treasuries fell yesterday as the Fed reiterated its
commitment to bond buying to spur economic growth, sustaining
demand for higher-yielding assets. It said after a two-day
meeting it would keep buying $85 billion of bonds each month to
cap borrowing costs until “the outlook for the labor market has
improved substantially in a context of price stability.”
Inflation has been “relatively low,” Bernanke said.  The yield gap between 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities and nominal U.S. notes, which signals  traders’
outlook  for consumer prices over the life of the debt, narrowed
to 2.53 percentage points today, from 2.55 yesterday. While the
figure, called the 10-year break-even rate, was less than a
closing-basis high this year of 2.59 percentage points on March
14, it has averaged 2.36 percent over the past year.  TIPS Auction  The U.S. sold $13 billion today in 10-year TIPS, drawing a
yield of negative 0.602 percent. The forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of nine primary dealers was negative 0.603 percent. The
auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.74, versus an
average of 2.68 for the past 10 sales.  “The negative yield is a result of the Fed policy,” Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in New York at the primary
dealer BNP Paribas SA, said before the sale. “It’s a sign, on a
longer horizon, to get inflation protection because the Fed is
still very accommodative.”  The Fed bought $1.46 billion of Treasuries today maturing
from February 2036 to February 2043 under the stimulus program.  The Treasury said it will auction $99 billion of notes next
week: $35 billion of two-year debt on March 26, the same amount
of five-year securities the next day and $29 billion of seven-
years on March 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  