-- Treasury Sells TIPS at Negative Yields as Buyers Doubt Bernanke
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-21T17:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/treasury-sells-tips-at-negative-yields-as-buyers-doubt-bernanke.html
The Treasury auctioned 10-year
inflation-indexed notes at a negative yield for an eighth
consecutive time as investors remain skeptical that Federal
Reserve measures won’t lead to a resurgence in consumer prices.  The $13 billion in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
which mature in January 2023, yielded negative 0.602 percent,
versus the average forecast of negative 0.603 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers
that are required to bid on U.S. debt sales. Holders of TIPS
receive an adjustment to the principal value of the securities
equal to the change in the  consumer price index , in addition to
a fixed rate of interest that’s smaller than the interest paid
to a holder of conventional debt.  “The negative yield is a result of the Fed policy,” Aaron Kohli, an  interest-rate  strategist in  New York  at the primary
dealer BNP Paribas SA, said before the auction. “It’s a sign,
on a longer horizon, to get inflation protection because the Fed
is still very accommodative and that drives significant demand
from investors.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that further
gains in the U.S. labor market are needed for the central bank
to consider reducing its record monetary easing. The Fed,
seeking to boost the pace of growth and heal a job market still
scarred by the deepest recession since the Great Depression,
also said it will leave its key interest rate near zero as long
as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation is less than 2.5 percent.  Break-Even Rate  The benchmark 10-year yield increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.94 at 1:08 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices after climbing six
basis points yesterday, the biggest increase since March 7.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year bonds and TIPS, a
gauge of what traders expect for inflation, has risen this year,
touching 2.54 percentage points today, up from 2.45 percentage
points in January.  The gap, known as the break-even rate, is above the 200-day
moving average of 2.39. It touched 2.73 percentage points on
Sept. 17 after the Federal Open Markets Committee said it would
begin a third round of quantitative-easing stimulus.  The auction’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.74,
compared to an average of 2.68 for the past ten sales.  The consumer-price index rose 0.7 percent in February, the
first increase in four months and the biggest since June 2009, a
Labor Department report showed March 15. A surge in gasoline
accounted for almost 75 percent of the total price advance.  “There is a big  risk premium  as every significant central
bank is very accommodative,” BNP Paribas’s Kohli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  