-- Reid to Unveil Gun Legislation for Senate Action in April
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-21T22:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/reid-to-unveil-gun-legislation-for-senate-action-in-april.html
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
said he is preparing gun legislation for floor action in April
that will be a slimmed-down version of measures to curb gun
violence approved by the Judiciary Committee.  The bill will include additional federal aid for school
safety, tougher penalties for gun trafficking and expanded
background checks for gun purchases, Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
said in a statement today in Washington.  He said supporters of a proposed ban on assault-weapon
sales will be given the chance to offer it as an amendment. Reid
said earlier this week that the proposal by Democratic Senator
Dianne Feinstein of  California  lacked the votes to advance in
the chamber and wouldn’t be included in the bill.  Congress is considering tighter gun regulations following
the Dec. 14 mass shooting at a Connecticut elementary school
that killed 20 children and six school employees.  Reid said he hopes negotiators will reach a compromise on a
plan to expand background checks during the congressional recess
that starts March 23. If so, he would consider including the
language in the measure, he said.  A proposal to expand background checks for gun purchases to
include sales at gun shows is opposed by the National Rifle
Association and a number of Republicans in Congress. Polls show
a majority of Americans endorse mandatory gun background checks.  “The bill I advance tonight will serve as the basis for
opening debate,” Reid said in his statement. “Once debate
begins, I will ensure that a ban on assault weapons, limits to
high-capacity magazines” and other amendments will receive
votes, he said.  Assault Weapons  Earlier this week, Reid said he wouldn’t include the
assault-weapons ban in the legislation because fewer than 40
senators support it. Including it would make it impossible to
start debate as Republicans would block the measure, he said.  The provision to impose a maximum 15-year sentence for
“straw purchases” of guns is “the most likely bill to pass”
the Senate this year, second-ranking Senate Democrat Dick Durbin
of Illinois told reporters yesterday at a Wall Street Journal
breakfast.  Feinstein’s proposed assault-weapons ban is “the toughest
one and the hottest politically,” Durbin said. Feinstein’s
proposal to limit the size of large-capacity ammunition
magazines “has a better chance of passage” with the odds
“maybe over 50” percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  