-- ResCap Told to Seek New Foreclosure-Review Deal With U.S.
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-21T16:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/rescap-told-to-seek-new-foreclosure-review-deal-with-u-s-.html
Residential Capital LLC should try
to negotiate a new foreclosure-review process with federal
regulators before seeking a bankruptcy court order to halt the
$300 million program, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  told ResCap
today he wouldn’t rule immediately on the company’s request to
suspend its obligation to find any damages suffered by borrowers
who went through foreclosure. ResCap, through its GMAC Mortgage
unit, agreed to the review under a settlement with U.S.
regulators before filing for bankruptcy last year.  The review, which may cost about $300 million, is a waste
of money because a new federal policy allows a lump-sum payment
to be split among borrowers, a lawyer for ResCap said today.
That would be cheaper than paying PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
conduct the review, the company said.  “You have to negotiate with the Fed and then come back to
me,” Glenn said, referring to the U.S. Federal Reserve, which
is requiring the review. “I’m not ruling today, I’m making that
crystal clear.”  The review may yield $35 million to $60 million to
homeowners who have been harmed, the official committee of
ResCap creditors said in court papers.  The company has asked Glenn to declare that costs of paying
damages found by the review are unsecured claims, which would
give them a lower repayment priority than other company debts.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell most of its assets and resolve legal claims
related to residential mortgage-backed securities.  Last year, in what the U.S. called the largest federal-
state civil settlement its history, the nation’s five largest
mortgage servicers committed $20 billion in relief for borrowers
plus payments of $5 billion to governments.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  