-- Rothschild Sees Several ‘Big’ German IPOs After Equities Rally
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-03-21T14:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/rothschild-sees-several-big-german-ipos-after-equities-rally.html
Rothschild expects a rally in
European equities to drive share sales in the continent’s 
biggest economy.  “It is a good market for IPOs in  Germany  this year,”
Martin Reitz, head of the financial advisory firm for Germany,
Austria and  Switzerland , told reporters in the town of
Koenigstein im Taunus, located about 20 kilometers northwest of
Frankfurt, late yesterday. “I expect that several big initial
public offerings will happen.”  Germany’s benchmark  DAX (DAX)  index climbed to 8,074.47 earlier
this month, the highest level since 2007, as the  European
Central Bank  maintained its forecast that the region will
gradually recover. Germany was the second-biggest market in
 Europe  for initial public offerings after the U.K. last year,
with 2.1 billion euros ($2.7 billion) of sales, according to a
report by consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “The current level of valuations will trigger
transactions,” Reitz said.  More than 7.4 billion euros of new shares were sold to the
public in Germany in 2007, the year before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mergers Outlook  Reitz said he also expected volume in mergers and
acquisitions to at least equal the level of last year, even
though 2013 has begun slowly.  More than 700 companies or stakes in companies were sold in
Germany in 2012 with a total volume of $65 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rothschild ranked third in advising on mergers and
acquisitions in Germany last year after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , with a market share of 29 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The main risk to a recovery in Europe is currently the
 crisis in Cyprus , Reitz said.  “No one can define the contagion risk if Cyprus should go
bust,” he said. “It would be wrong just to write a check
without exerting pressure to reform. What we see now is a normal
negotiating game.”  Reitz said banks in Europe are having difficulty finding
buyers for the assets they’re offering for sale, as they seek to
increase capital and bolster profit.  “There is a massive over-supply of bank assets in Europe
for which there are no buyers,” he said.  While 45 percent of the world’s banking assets are in
Europe, they generate just 7 percent of profits in the industry
globally, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  