-- Royal Bank of Canada Chief’s Pay Tops Dimon at JPMorgan
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-21T20:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/royal-bank-of-canada-chief-s-pay-tops-dimon-at-jpmorgan.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  Chief
Executive Officer Gordon Nixon was paid more than his
counterparts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  as record earnings last year helped most Canadian
bank CEOs narrow the pay gap with the U.S.  Nixon was awarded C$12.6 million ($12.3 million) in salary,
stock and bonuses for fiscal 2012, his biggest pay raise since
2006, making him the highest-paid bank CEO in Canada. Bank of
America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, was awarded $12 million,
while Jamie Dimon, 57, at JPMorgan saw his pay halved to $11.5
million. Citigroup paid its new CEO, 52-year-old  Michael Corbat ,
$11.5 million.  “It’s probably one of the first examples ever of a
Canadian bank CEO being abreast of a mighty U.S. bank,” said
Michael Smedley, who helps manage C$1 billion at Morgan Meighen
& Associates in Toronto. “There seems to be some justification
for seeing a parallel.”  Canadian bank CEO pay is moving closer to U.S. rivals --
and in some cases surpassing them -- after the world’s soundest
banks withstood the global financial crisis and several posted
record earnings in 2012.  “Royal Bank, in particular, has done an extremely good job
at aligning the movement of CEO pay with the movement of
shareholder performance over the past eight years,” said Matt
Fullbrook, research manager at the  Clarkson Centre for Business
Ethics and Board Effectiveness , part of the Rotman School of
Management at the University of Toronto.  Aligning Pay  Banks have been better than most Canadian companies at
aligning CEO pay to shareholder returns, said Fullbrook, who
published a  report  in January examining CEO pay and performance
for 52 companies between 2004 and 2011.  Royal Bank was the top performing stock among  Canada ’s
largest lenders last year, surging 15 percent to lead the eight-
company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Industry  Index. (STCBNK) 
The banks  index (SPTSX)  rose 11 percent in 2012, outpacing the 4 percent
return of Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index. Royal Bank
reached a record high of C$64.49 on Feb. 20, before declining to
C$60.74 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. During the past five years, Royal
Bank has returned 60 percent, including dividends, compared with
a 17 percent gain for JPMorgan and a 68 percent drop at Bank of
America. Citigroup fell 79 percent over the period.  Canadian Laggards  Still, Royal Bank and other Canadian lenders are laggards
compared with large U.S. banks in the past year. The 24-company
 KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rose 30 percent last year. Royal Bank’s 1.4
percent stock rise since January has trailed Citigroup’s 14
percent gain, JPMorgan’s 10 percent advance and the 8.3 percent
increase of Bank of America.  Nixon, 56, was given a 25 percent increase in total
compensation from a year earlier, according to a filing to
Canadian securities regulators last month. The figures exclude
costs to service his pension.  The country’s largest bank posted  record net income  of
C$7.54 billion in the year ended Oct. 31 and reached internal
targets after selling its unprofitable U.S. retail lender RBC
Bank to  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)   Bank of Nova Scotia , Canada’s third-largest bank, awarded
CEO Richard Waugh C$11.1 million, a 4.6 percent increase. The
top executives at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Montreal  and
Canadian Imperial  Bank of Commerce  weren’t far behind even after
having their pay cut. Combined, the five bank heads were awarded
about C$53 million.  ‘Massive Profits’  “In the context of the size of the operations and the
massive profits the banks make, it would not seem to be
overpayment,” Morgan Meighen’s Smedley said. “In terms of what
human beings should actually be paid, whatever they do, it
probably is.”  While Nixon’s pay exceeded domestic peers, it still lags
behind some larger U.S. banks.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  awarded 59-
year-old CEO John Stumpf $19.3 million for 2012, a 7.8 percent
increase from the previous year. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
awarded $21 million to CEO Lloyd Blankfein, 58, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in January.  At JPMorgan, Dimon’s pay was cut 50 percent as a penalty
for his role in the so-called London Whale episode that led to a
trading loss of more than $6.2 billion at his New York-based
company.  ‘Excessive’ Pay  Canadian bank CEO compensation is “excessive” and should
be limited to no more than 30 times the median pay of non-
management employees, said Mouvement d’education et de defense
des actionnaires, a shareholder advocacy group.  “The comparison of a CEO salary with American or  England 
or other bankers in the world is not correct,” Daniel Thouin, a
board member of the Montreal-based  organization , said in an
interview. “There’s no real obligation to give this kind of
salary in Canada.”  Royal Bank met or exceeded its financial targets for 2012,
including diluted earnings per-share growth of at least 7
percent and a return on equity of more than 18 percent. The bank
said it also took steps to “de-risk” its balance sheet and
extended its leadership position in Canada.  “Through consistent execution of our diversified business
strategy, and a balanced focus on the interests of all
stakeholders including shareholders, clients, employees and
communities, Mr. Nixon has continued to position RBC to deliver
our long-term strategy and generate sustainable value,” the
bank wrote in its management proxy circular.  Nixon has led the bank since 2001. While his compensation
has increased since then, the bank cut his pay for 2004 after
annual profit that year declined for the first time in five
years. After profit fell again in 2008, Nixon chose to forfeit a
C$4.95 million bonus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  