-- Rubber Rises Most in Six Weeks on Fed, BOJ Stimulus, Export Cut
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-03-21T02:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/rubber-rises-most-in-six-weeks-on-fed-boj-stimulus-export-cut.html
Rubber advanced the most in six
weeks on optimism that economic stimulus in the U.S. would
improve demand and as Thailand mulled extending export cuts.  The contract for delivery in August rose as much as 3.6
percent to 283 yen a kilogram ($2,950 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, the biggest gain for a most-active future
since Feb. 4. Rubber traded at 282.8 yen at 11:07 a.m. local
time, paring this year’s loss to 6.5 percent.  The Japanese currency remained weak, boosting the appeal of
the yen-denominated contract, after Nikkei reported that the new
 Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda would announce a policy
shift at his first press conference. Asian stocks rose as the
Federal Reserve said it would continue buying bonds to stimulate
the U.S. economy, and data showed manufacturing in China
expanded.  “The rubber market is bolstered by positive sentiment from
Fed stimulus measures, the weakening yen and better-than-
expected data in China, raising optimism demand
for tires may increase,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at
Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co. “Speculation that
top producers will extend price support measures by another year
also gives a boost.”  Thailand, the biggest rubber producer, will propose
extending a reduction in shipments from top suppliers for a
further year to curb a price slump, said Deputy Farm Minister
Yuttapong Charasathien. Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, who
represent 70 percent of global output, will meet in Phuket on
April 10-12, Yuttapong said.  The contract for September delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange gained 0.8 percent to 22,985  yuan  ($3,699) a ton. Thai
rubber free-on-board remained unchanged for a third day at 85.60
baht ($2.93) a kilogram yesterday, the Rubber Research Institute
of Thailand said on its website. That was the lowest level since
November 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  