-- Ruble Declines to Basket as Oil Dips, Cyprus Talks Continue
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-21T15:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/ruble-declines-to-basket-as-oil-dips-cyprus-talks-continue.html
The ruble declined against the
central bank’s target dollar-euro basket as oil declined and
talks between  Russia  and Cyprus on aid for the Mediterranean
island continued.  The Russian currency fell 0.2 percent against the basket to
34.9794 by 7 p.m. in Moscow and weakened 0.3 percent against the
dollar to 30.9385. The yield on OFZ bonds due February 2027
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.42
percent.  Brent oil retreated as much as 0.8 percent to $107.82 per
barrel in  London . Crude and natural gas contribute about 50
percent of Russia’s government revenue. Cyprus is offering
Russia “opportunities” including banking and natural gas
assets after lawmakers rejected a levy on  bank deposits  imposed
by euro-area finance ministers, Finance Minister Michael Sarris
said today in Moscow.  “Everything’s in line with global markets,” Igor Akinshin, a foreign exchange trader at OAO Alfa Bank in Moscow,
said by phone. “The basket stays in the tight range, in which
it has been trading for quite a long time.”  The ruble has lost 0.4 percent against the basket since the
start of the year, while 30-day implied volatility has almost
halved and reached 3.25 during this period.  The local tax period, which supports the currency as
companies convert dollars and euros to rubles, continues March
25 with mineral extraction and excise taxes.  Russia needs “a global move, a change in views, because
there is a feeling, that -- apart from bonds - the Russian
market is not interesting as an asset class,” Akinshin added.  Sell on Strength  Investors should use periods of ruble strength in the tax
period to open long positions in the dollar and basket against
the ruble, according to VTB Capital in Moscow. Global risk
sentiment and oil prices are unsupportive for emerging-market
currencies, while rate cuts aimed at bolstering the economy may
start in April, hurting the ruble, VTB analysts Maxim Korovin
and Anton Nikitin said in a note to clients.  Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Russia was
seeing a “fragile” economic trend, with seasonally adjusted
gross domestic product in February declining 0.1 percent on the
previous month.  Russian retail sales rose 2.5 percent in February, the
state statistics service said yesterday, missing a 3.3 percent
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Industrial
investment also missed estimates, rising by 0.3 percent compared
with a 1 percent forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  