-- Russia Stocks Climb Second Day as Rosneft Gains on TNK-BP Deal
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-03-21T16:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/russian-stocks-fluctuate-on-china-manufacturing-cyprus-concern.html
Russian equities  climbed for a
second day as OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil company,
sealed its acquisition of TNK-BP, offsetting a drop in crude.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose as much as 0.5 percent before
declining prices for oil, Russia’s main export earner, pared the
gain to less than 0.1 percent by the close at 1,459.22. The
dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  fell 0.2 percent to 1,485.73.
Rosneft added 2.1 percent and OAO Gazprom, the natural gas
export monopoly and the biggest stock in the index by weighting,
increased 0.2 percent.  Rosneft’s $55 billion deal to buy TNK-BP, makes the state-
controlled company the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer by output. Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter,
will consider making investments in the Cypriot energy industry
as it is unable to provide loans, the island nation’s Finance
Minister Michael Sarris said today in an interview broadcast on
Antenna TV.  “There’s an idea in the market that the deposit levy won’t
happen and that  Russia  will save Cyprus eventually,” Andrey Vashevnik, who manages $25 million as chief investment officer
at R&B Investment Fund Ltd. in Moscow, said by phone from
Moscow.  A plan to tax deposits in Cyprus drove  Russian shares  to a
three-month low on March 18. Sarris said he will have a  meeting
later with his Russian counterpart, Anton Siluanov.  The Micex pared gains as Brent oil fell as much as 0.8
percent to $107.82 a barrel in  London  after German manufacturing
output unexpectedly contracted in March, signaling the euro-zone
debt crisis is slowing growth in the region’s biggest economy.  VTB, Rostelecom  Russian lenders and companies had about $31 billion placed
in Cypriot banks or their own units at the end of 2012,
according to a report from Moody’s March 13. At least $30
billion in further exposure comes in bank loans to Cypriot
companies of Russian origin, the ratings company said.  VTB Group, Russia’s second largest lender which has a
subsidiary in Cyprus, slid 1.3 percent to 5.17 kopeks.  OAO Rostelecom’s ordinary shares rallied 3.5 percent, while
the fixed-line operator’s preferred stock was the biggest
decliner on the Micex with a 3.6 percent drop.  The company’s board may recommend buying common shares at
136.05 rubles apiece, based on a valuation by Ernst & Young,
Interfax reported yesterday. The telecom operator may also buy
preferred shares at 95.24 rubles, Vedomosti reported today,
citing unidentified directors on the proposals for a March 27
board meeting.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, gained 0.5 percent to $27.96. The
RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, fell 1.3 percent to 21.39.  ETF Puts  Puts protecting against a 10 percent retreat in the Market
Vectors Russia exchange-traded fund cost 7.5 points more than
calls betting on a rally of the same magnitude, one-month data
compiled by Bloomberg showed yesterday.  The Micex trades at about 5.5 times  estimated earnings  and
has lost 1.1 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10.7 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which dropped
3.1 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  