-- Russia Fears Iran Nuclear-Talks Progress Not Irreversible
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-03-21T10:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/russia-fears-iran-nuclear-talks-progress-not-irreversible.html
Russia is concerned that recent
progress in talks over Iran’s disputed nuclear program isn’t
“irreversible,” Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.  “There is real progress, but it isn’t sufficient to talk
about an irreversible trend,” Ryabkov, Russia’s chief
negotiator at the Iran talks, told reporters in Moscow today.  Iran sees for the first time the “possibility for a
breakthrough” in negotiations next month over its atomic
program, the Islamic Republic’s ambassador to the  United
Nations ,  Mohammad Khazaee , said in a March 18 interview.  President  Barack Obama , who is visiting  Israel , has
supported giving more time for economic sanctions to persuade
Iran to make nuclear concessions. Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  has repeatedly said a military strike may be
the only way to stop Iran from producing an atomic bomb that
could threaten his country.  At a two-day meeting last month in Kazakhstan, the U.S.,
the U.K., France, Germany, China and Russia proposed easing
sanctions on Iran’s petrochemicals and gold trade in exchange
for Iran ceasing production of medium-enriched uranium,
according to officials involved in the talks. Those discussions
marked a “turning point” where the so-called P5+1 seemed
“more realistic” about Iran’s bottom-line position that it has
a right to enrich uranium for peaceful use, Khazaee said.  Technical experts from Iran and the P5+1 held talks in
Istanbul on March 18 to discuss details of the plan. A Western
diplomat, who asked not to be named because of the sensitivity
of the negotiations, said on March 19 the Istanbul technical
discussions were genuine and businesslike.  Talks among senior political representatives are to resume
April 5 in Almaty, the commercial capital of  Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  