-- Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Probably Climbed to Three-Year High
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-to-three-year-high.html
Sales of  previously owned  U.S.
homes probably rose in February to the highest level in more
than three years, sustaining a rebound that is bolstering
growth, economists said before a report today.  Purchases increased 1.6 percent to a 5 million annualized
rate, the most since November 2009, according to the  median 
forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Other data may
show an index of leading economic indicators advanced for a
third straight month.  Growing demand for homes combined with limited supply is
pushing property values up, leading to gains in household
confidence and  wealth  that are helping propel consumer spending.
Easier access to credit and bigger gains in employment may be
needed to give the housing market an additional boost and ensure
it will keep contributing to the economy.  Housing “is finally in recovery mode,” said Carl Riccadonna, a senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. in New York. “Housing as a share of the economy is small,
but the roots are very deep and very broad.”  The Realtors’ report is due at 10 a.m. in Washington.
Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from 4.85 million to 5.15
million.  Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday said they will
continue to buy securities at a pace of $85 billion a month to
spur economic growth and reduce unemployment.  The central bank said it “continues to see downside risks
to the economic outlook,” according to the statement. It also
said “the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal
policy has become somewhat more restrictive,” acknowledging
that the  federal budget  cuts triggered at the start of the month
may restrain growth.  Market Peak  Existing-home sales are counted when a contract closes and
have rebounded since reaching a 13-year low of 4.11 million  in
2008 . The market peaked at a record 7.08 million in 2005.  Resales accounted for about 93 percent of the residential
market in 2012, and a total of  4.66 million  previously owned
houses were sold last year. That was the most since 2007 and up
9.4 percent from 2011.  Company results suggest the improvement in residential real
estate will continue.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilders by revenue, said earnings and orders rose in the
fiscal first quarter.  “Current market conditions are driven by strong demand
resulting from low interest rates and attractive home prices,
which have led to very affordable monthly payments, compared to
increasing rental rates,” Chief Executive Officer Stuart Miller
said in a statement yesterday. New orders, deliveries and
backlog have “shown strong increases,” he said.  Housing Starts  Housing starts climbed 0.8 percent last month to a 917,000
annualized pace, Commerce Department data showed this week.
Permits for future construction rose 4.6 percent to a 946,000
rate, the most since June 2008. The gains are filtering through
to related companies and industries such as  Plum Creek Timber
Co. Inc. (PCL)  in Seattle.  “A year ago, people would have been in the room wondering,
when will housing starts recover and boy, what a difference a
year makes,” David Lambert, chief financial officer for Plum
Creek, said in a March 5 presentation. “Right now, we see
housing is kind of the one growth engine in the U.S. economy.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has
surged 71.6 percent in the 12 months through yesterday,
outpacing an 10.9 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Building permits are one of the 10 components of the
Conference Board’s index of leading indicators. Figures due at
10 a.m. from the New York-based research group may show the
gauge climbed 0.4 percent in February, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The gain, following a 0.2 percent
increase in January, suggests the world’s largest economy will
keep expanding this year.  Jobless Claims  Another report may show claims for  jobless benefits  rose
last week after unexpectedly falling to the lowest level in
almost two months in the prior period, economists forecast ahead
of 8:30 a.m. data from the Labor Department.  Also today, 10 a.m.  figures  from the Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia may show manufacturing in the region shrank at a
slower pace in March.  The real-estate agents’ group reported last month that the
median price of an existing home was $173,600 in January, up
12.3 percent from the same month in 2012. It was the  biggest 
year-over-year gain since November 2005.  Rising property values last year pulled 1.7 million
households out of negative equity, meaning owners no longer owe
more on their mortgage than the house is worth, according to
CoreLogic Inc., a data provider based in Irvine, California.
Nonetheless, more than 10 million homes, or 21.5 percent of all
residential properties with a mortgage, remain underwater,
CoreLogic reported this week.  Household wealth rose in the fourth quarter to the highest
level in five years, propelled by rebounding home prices, Fed
figures also showed this month.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  