-- New Mexico Same-Sex Couples Sue Seeking Right to Marry
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/same-sex-couples-in-new-mexico-sue-for-right-to-marry-aclu-says.html
Two New Mexico same-sex couples
sued for the right to marry after being denied licenses to do so
by the office of the Albuquerque-based Bernalillo County Clerk,
the  American Civil Liberties Union  said.  “The defendant’s employee, acting upon behalf and under
the authority of defendant, stated that he or she could not
issue them a license because the couple was of the same sex or
because of the sexual orientation of each couple,” according to
a copy of the complaint provided by the New York-based ACLU.  Micah McCoy, a spokeswoman for the ACLU, said the complaint
was filed yesterday. The filing couldn’t immediately be
confirmed in state court in  Albuquerque .  New Mexico has no law or constitutional prohibition to the
marriage of same-sex couples, according to the complaint. The
couples argue the state’s constitution requires New Mexico to
provide every person with due process and equal protection of
state laws.  “Although the United States Constitution’s equal
protection provisions have been construed to limit the extent to
which federal and state governments can discriminate on the
basis of sex, that Constitution contains no analog to the  New
Mexico  equal rights amendment,” according to the complaint.  Male, Female  Maggie Oliver, named as the defendant in the case in her
role as clerk of Bernalillo County, said in a phone interview
that while she supports same-sex marriage, the constitutional
right cited by the plaintiffs conflicts with a provision of New
Mexico law that requires a male and a female to complete a
marriage license.  “That’s been the basis of why I and my fellow clerks have
not issued them,” and must continue denying same-sex marriage
applications “until there’s some legal resolution to the
matter,” Oliver said. “There’s a conflict in the law and it
needs to be resolved,” either through the courts or the
legislature, she said.  The state’s previous attorney general, Patricia  Madrid , in
2004 issued a restraining order against a clerk in neighboring
Sandoval County who issued marriage licenses to 64 same-sex
couples, known as the “Sandoval 64” and whose marriages are
considered legal, Oliver said.  Marriage licenses to same-sex couples ceased after the
restraining order was issued, according to Oliver.  The plaintiffs in the case are Rose Griego, 47, and
Kimberly Kiel, 44, of  Santa Fe , and Miriam Rand, 63, and Ona
Lara Porter, 66, of Albuquerque. They seek a court order that
it’s unlawful to deny same-sex couples the right to marry.  California Initiative  The filing comes less than a week before the U.S.  Supreme
Court  is scheduled to hear arguments on  Proposition 8 , the 2008
 California  ballot initiative that halted gay marriage after it
was allowed for five months following a state Supreme Court
decision.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, in a court filing
this month, urged the U.S. Supreme Court to reinstate same-sex
marriage in California, calling for broad constitutional
protections that ultimately could let gays marry nationwide.  The case is Griego v. Oliver, New Mexico Second Judicial
District Court, County of Bernalillo (Albuquerque).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  