-- San Francisco’s Sulky Strikers Deserve Ridicule: Comment
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/san-francisco-s-sulky-strikers-deserve-ridicule-comment.html
I want 10 weeks of vacation and if I
don’t get what I want, I’m going on strike.  I’m just not going to commit any writing for a while!
Writing is an annoying way to make a living. You have to write
and when you do that for a few hours every day, you know what?
Your fingers hurt.  I think I’ll go to  San Francisco  for company.  One hundred and three people there are sulking and
striking.  They are the players of the San Francisco Symphony who have
stopped working because they don’t like doing what they are
meant to be doing.  For instance: play the viola or the bassoon for an average
yearly salary $165,000 plus excellent health benefits and a
guaranteed pension.  That a bassoonist could actually make a nice living playing
oompah-oompah is thrilling to know. I begrudge bassoonists
nothing.  Long ago, I played second bassoon in the Nyack High School
Band. That I might wish to continue playing oompah-oompah filled
my parents with dread (so here I am in another endangered
profession).  Normally, the San Francisco Symphony isn’t a topic of
conversation for me or most New Yorkers.  Comic Search  We have other leitmotifs. There’s the promised resurrection
of  James Levine , the ailing Metropolitan Opera maestro, who is
scheduled to make a motorized appearance in May.  And for humor, of course, there’s always the Boston
Symphony Orchestra, whose ditzy inability to hire a new
conductor (to replace Levine who left two years ago) is the
stuff of comedy. I hear a Latvian may rescue them from their
self-inflicted paralysis.  But the San Francisco Symphony was meant to be in  New York 
this week playing Beethoven, Brahms, Mahler and a new piece by
Samuel Carl Adams called “Drift and Providence” -- an
unintentionally appropriate description of an entire orchestra
jumping into the bay.  The tour included  Newark ’s  New Jersey Performing Arts
Center  and the Kennedy Center in  Washington . They were to have
been led by Michael Tilson Thomas, the music director who has
sprinkled star dust on his players since arriving in 1995.  For this he gets paid a lot -- $2.4 million annually.
That’s around twice the salary of the Los Angeles Philharmonic’s
Gustavo Dudamel, for instance, and about $1 million more than
New York Philharmonic’s  Alan Gilbert .  New Audiences  But they’re younger by far. Tilson Thomas is the dean of
American conductors. An energetic 68, MTT has broadened the
orchestra’s repertoire, attracted new audiences, signed rare
recording deals and made his band a centerpiece of West Coast
cultural life.  You can’t visit San Francisco without MTT looking down
from a poster.  So nice to thank him by striking.  Perhaps the union thought the board would cave so as to
save a costly tour to the grand music palaces of the eastern
seaboard.  Oops. Wrong call, folks! Time for a reality check.  We Want More  Look around. Orchestras are endangered, expensive cultural
artifacts in our towns. A month-long lockout at the  Atlanta
Symphony Orchestra  ended in September after players accepted
$5.2 million of concessions over two years. The  Indianapolis
Symphony Orchestra  musicians took a pay cut to end a four-week
lockout there.  Yesterday, after 11 frustrating months spent assuaging its
union, the board of the  Minnesota Orchestra  canceled
performances through April 27.  The offer in San Francisco was generous: A pay freeze until
September and then a 1 percent raise for the first year and 2
percent for the second. The players even had options that would
continue their paid-for health-insurance costs, which is
unusual.  Instead of slobbering all over Brent Assink, the  executive
director  who brought them this deal from heaven, there’s been
grousing about his $250,000 “longevity” bonus, a reward for 14
years running the orchestra.  At around $600,000 a year, he’s still making about a
million less than Deborah Borda, the star CEO of the L.A.
Philharmonic.  Tough Job  Running an orchestra is actually a tough job. You don’t
just rehearse, play and go home. You’re on call day and night
raising money, planning, traveling.  My sense is that unions have long run out of legitimate
demands and are becoming ever more preposterous. A bone of
contention is now  retirement age .  The board would like to raise the retirement age from 62 to
65. You might think people who chose music for a living would be
thrilled by a few more opportunities to play, say, “Death and
Transfiguration.” But apparently you would be wrong.  So why doesn’t the board offer really early retirement to
everyone right now?  Why wait? Juilliard and other fine music schools churn out
excess musicians every year who would be delighted to have a
job.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. The opinions are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy in New York at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 