-- Sanofi’s Lemtrada MS Drug Effective in Extension Trial
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-03-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sanofi-s-lemtrada-ms-drug-effective-in-extension-trial.html
Sanofi (SAN) ,  France ’s biggest drugmaker,
said its experimental medicine Lemtrada remained effective in
patients suffering from multiple sclerosis during the first year
of an extension study.  Relapse rates and sustained accumulation of disability
remained low among patients who had been administered the
treatment in previous clinical trials, Paris-based Sanofi said
in an e-mailed statement today. More than 80 percent of patients
did not receive a further course of Lemtrada during the first
year of the extension study, the company said.  Lemtrada, also known as alemtuzumab, is a so-called
monoclonal antibody administered to patients through infusions
in two cycles at a 12-month interval. Sanofi obtained the
medicine through its $20.1 billion purchase of U.S.
biotechnology company Genzyme Corp. in 2011. Sanofi last year
introduced its first MS therapy, the pill Aubagio, in a bid to
build up its MS business.  “It’s another confirmation of the benefit a product like
this can bring,” Bill Sibold, Genzyme’s head of MS, said in a
telephone interview from  San Diego ,  California . The latest data
is evidence of Lemtrada’s “durable effect,” he added.  In more than 70 percent of patients, disability scores
improved or remained stable, according to Sanofi.  Disease Modification  The interim data, presented today at the annual meeting of
the  American Academy  of Neurology in San Diego, “really speaks
to Lemtrada’s unique approach to disease modification, where you
have this rebalancing of the immune system after these two
courses of treatment,” Michael Panzara, Genzyme’s therapeutic
area head for MS and neurology, said during the same interview.  The  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  accepted Sanofi’s
application for approval of Lemtrada, five months after
rejecting an initial filing because of the way data was
formatted, Sanofi said Jan. 28. It expects a decision by U.S.
regulators in the second half of the year.  Late-stage clinical trials published previously showed
Lemtrada slowed the progression of disability, although it led
to infections and an autoimmune thyroid-related side effect in
some patients. Side effects during the one-year extension period
were “very consistent” with what already has been reported,
Panzara said.  “We’re not seeing any new signals,” he said. “In fact,
we would anticipate that since so few patients actually require
additional courses of therapy that the overall profile will
continue to improve.”  Generic Competition  Sanofi needs new drugs such as Aubagio to help offset
revenue losses from generic competition to best-sellers
including the blood thinner Plavix. The French company still
plans to beef up its MS pipeline through partnerships and
acquisitions, Panzara and Sibold said.  Multiple sclerosis  is caused by an abnormal immune response
that attacks the protective covering that surrounds nerve cells
in the brain and spinal cord. The assault stops nerve cells from
sending signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision
and slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.  The market for MS drugs will grow to $19.6 billion annually
by 2022 from $13.8 billion at present, Ravi Mehrotra and other
Credit Suisse analysts forecast in an Oct. 8 note.  Aubagio and Lemtrada will have to make inroads in a market
flooded by new products, such as Novartis AG’s pill Gilenya and
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s BG-12, which is awaiting a decision from U.S.
regulators this month.  “What happens or doesn’t happen with BG-12 really isn’t
relevant to what we are seeing here,” Panzara said. Lemtrada
“approaches the disease in such a different way” that it’s
“in a different category.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  