-- SAP Co-CEOs’ Pay Rises 41%, Beating VW’s Winterkorn
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-03-22T14:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sap-to-change-legal-form-to-se-to-accelerate-decision-making.html
SAP AG (SAP) , Germany’s most valuable
company, is paying its co-chief executive officers 17 million
euros ($22 million) for 2012, a 41 percent increase from a year
earlier, after the business-management software maker boosted
revenue and its stock.  Bill McDermott  is getting 8.78 million euros, while Jim Hagemann Snabe’s compensation totals 8.25 million euros, SAP
said in its annual report today. While about half of the amount
is a stock-based bonus to be paid out in 2016, the two
executives’ combined remuneration for last year exceeds the 14.5
million-euro for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  CEO Martin Winterkorn.  SAP’s shares rose about 50 percent last year, pushing its
market value beyond Siemens AG and Volkswagen. Analysts expect
net income to grow to 3.7 billion euros this year, more than
double the 2010 figure, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
world’s largest enterprise software maker is betting on Web-
based programs, applications for mobile devices and its Hana
database to beat rival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, earmarked a total of 32
million euros for its top executives for 2012. The company has a
target to increase sales beyond 20 billion euros by 2015,
compared with 16.2 billion euros last year.  Volkswagen’s Winterkorn, the highest-paid executive among
CEOs on Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) , took a cut of almost 3 million
euros last year.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Dieter Zetsche made 8.2 million
euros, while Siemens’s  Peter Loescher  received 7.9 million
euros.  Corporation Change  SAP shares fell 0.7 percent to 62.51 euros at 3:32 p.m. in
Frankfurt, valuing the company at 77 billion euros. SAP missed
its profit target for 2012 as it hired thousands of programmers
and salespeople, prompting a decline in Snabe and McDermott’s
non-share-based compensation for the year.  Yesterday, SAP said it will ask shareholders to approve a
change of its legal status from an Aktiengesellschaft to a
Societas Europaea, or SE, at next year’s annual meeting. One aim
is to speed up decisions on the supervisory board, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private.  The SE structure, already adopted by  companies  including
 BASF SE (BAS) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Puma SE (PUM) , was created by the European
Commission to simplify regulatory and legal requirements for
companies with subsidiaries in more than one European country.
Previously, multinationals had to follow each of the EU members’
own legal system where they had a subsidiary.  The change could pave the way for a leaner supervisory
board. While SAP has 16 people on that governing body, Allianz
and BASF each has 12 members.  Board System  The change is of particular interest to German companies as
the SE status allows them to choose between the German two-tier
system of management board and supervisory board and the single-
tier system adopted elsewhere in  Europe  with only one board. The
legal form also simplifies cross-border mergers and
acquisitions.  The move also reflects the growing internationalization of
SAP’s business. The German market last year made up 15 percent
of SAP’s  revenue , compared with 19 percent in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  SAP yesterday proposed to lift its 2012  dividend  to 85 euro
cents from 75 cents a year earlier, when the company also
announced a special dividend to commemorate its 40th
anniversary.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, on March 20
reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates as sales from
hardware and new software licenses fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  