-- Schaeffler Says North America, Asia to Push Sales Growth
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-03-21T11:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/schaeffler-says-north-america-to-push-2013-sales-growth.html
Schaeffler AG, the industrial-
bearing maker that’s the biggest investor in car-parts producer
 Continental AG (CON) , said demand in North America and Asia will more
than make up for a drop in  Europe  to allow sales growth in 2013.  Revenue this year will rise by about 4 percent, while
global auto production will increase about 2 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger said today at a press
conference at the company’s headquarters in Herzogenaurach,
 Germany . The margin of earnings before interest and taxes will
amount to about 13 percent of sales.  “We will continue to grow faster than our core markets,”
Geissinger said. Even with a decline in the Ebit margin last
year, Schaeffler’s “profitability is still uniquely high for
our sector.”  Europe’s car-sales contraction accelerated in February,
with a 10 percent drop to 829,359 vehicles, as a steepening
decline in Germany, the region’s biggest market, hurt previously
resilient  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Daimler
AG. (DAI)  The three German carmakers are key customers for both
Schaeffler and Continental, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
supplier and its No. 2 tiremaker.  Industry Forecasts  U.S. auto sales may rise 4.1 percent this year to 15.1
million vehicles, according to the average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in January. That contrasts with
predictions of a drop of as much as 5 percent in Europe’s car
market by industry executives in the region. The state-backed
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers is forecasting
passenger-car sales this year will rise 8.5 percent to 16.8
million vehicles.  The two component manufacturers are involved in more than
30 joint industrial projects, including turbo chargers and an
electronic parking brake, and have teamed up in purchasing.
Cooperation stems from Schaeffler’s failed effort more than four
years ago to combine with Hanover, Germany-based Continental.  Geissinger said he is “very satisfied” with the
cooperation efforts and projects are “on a really good way.”  Closely held Schaeffler, whose roller-bearings are used in
the London Eye Ferris wheel and  Airbus SAS (EAD) ’s double-decker A380
airliner, now owns 49.9 percent of Continental after gradually
reducing the holding from more than 90 percent. The most recent
disposal was a 10 percent stake sold in September that raised
the amount of freely traded stock, supporting Continental’s
return to Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  after a 45-month
absence.  2008 Bid  Schaeffler offered to buy Continental in July 2008, two
months before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Co. The
manufacturer’s plan only to seek a 49.99 percent stake backfired
when more investors than it expected accepted the bid as markets
tanked in the global credit crunch. Following the bid and
Continental’s earlier purchase of  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s VDO parts
division, combined debt totaled 22 billion euros.  Net debt at Schaeffler narrowed to 6.8 billion euros at the
end of 2012 from 7.1 billion euros a year earlier, Schaeffler
said today. The company will work to reduce financing costs
further in 2013, Chief Financial Officer Klaus Rosenfeld said at
the news conference.  Asked about plans to open Schaeffler for other investors
outside the owner family, Rosenfeld said the company “will
comment on this once we’re ready” and a decision on the future
strategy has been made.  Continental said on March 7 that net debt was reduced
almost 22 percent to 5.3 billion euros in 2012.  Earnings Decline  Schaeffler’s revenue last year increased 4 percent to 11.1
billion euros, led by 7.1 percent growth at the automotive
division. Ebit fell 16 percent to 1.41 billion euros, amounting
to 12.7 percent of sales, narrower than the 15.8 percent posted
in 2011.  “The Ebit margin decreased last year mainly because of the
market weakness in Europe and slowing growth in  emerging
markets ,” Geissinger said.  The company was initially targeting a sales increase of
more than 5 percent to about 11.2 billion euros for 2012, with
the Ebit margin exceeding 13 percent. Schaeffler cut its
forecast in the second half of the year as the European car
market deteriorated.  The manufacturer is building plants or expanding existing
factories at 17 sites worldwide in the two years through 2014,
with Asia and eastern Europe accounting for the majority of the
push, Geissinger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Herzogenaurach at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  