-- Scotland Sets Independence Referendum Date of Sept. 18, 2014
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-03-21T14:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/scotland-sets-independence-referendum-date-of-sept-18-2014-1-.html
Voters in Scotland will decide on
Sept. 18, 2014, whether to pursue independence after First
Minister  Alex Salmond  set the date for a referendum he hopes
will spell the end of the United Kingdom.  “The choice becomes clear with each passing day,”
Salmond, 58, said today in the Scottish Parliament. He had
previously said the vote would take place in the fall of next
year. “I believe the people of Scotland will vote yes to create
a better country than we have now.”  The question “Should Scotland be an independent country?
Yes/No” was agreed on in January. The Scottish government said
earlier this month it will extend the voting age for the
referendum to include 16 and 17 year-olds.  The date gives Salmond 547 days to convince a population
that polls show hasn’t embraced the prospect of independence in
the way it backed his  Scottish National Party , which has a
majority in the  Edinburgh legislature . The SNP argues that
separation would allow Scotland to become a more prosperous
country backed by North Sea oil revenue, while keeping the pound
and the  Bank of England  as lender of last resort.  Opponents of independence, who include U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron , say Scotland should stay part of the union to
safeguard its economy and finances. The “Better Together”
campaign is being led by Labour’s  Alistair Darling , chancellor
of the exchequer in the previous government.  A  survey  by TNS BRMB published on March 13 found 52 percent
of the 1,001 respondents would vote against independence with 33
percent in favor. It didn’t give a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  