-- Second Tunisian Woman Posts Topless Photo on Facebook in Protest
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-03-21T09:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/second-tunisian-woman-posts-topless-photo-on-facebook-in-protest.html
A Tunisian woman posted a  photo  of
her naked torso on Facebook, in a campaign activists say is
intended to protect women’s rights against ascendant Islamist
parties.  “My body belongs to me, and is not the source of anyone’s
honor,” reads an Arabic statement in thick black pen across the
woman’s chest. She identified herself only as Meriam in the
caption, saying she is from  Tunisia  and a supporter of Amina
Tyler, founder of the  Tunisian branch of Femen , an international
women’s rights protest group.  Women rallied alongside men to bring down autocratic rulers
in countries such as Tunisia and  Egypt  two years ago. Many now
say their rights are under threat from Islamist movements, the
main political beneficiaries of the change.  Aliaa Magda El-Mahdy, founder of  Femen Egypt , uploaded nude
photos of herself on her blog in 2011. She then sought political
asylum in  Sweden , where she took part in a Femen protest against
Egypt’s Islamist-drafted constitution outside the embassy in
 Stockholm  in December. El-Mahdy is under investigation for
committing immoral acts and insulting religion.  Nineteen year-old Tyler became the first Tunisian activist
to post a topless  photo  of herself on Facebook after e-mailing
it to Femen in last month. She told Tunisian online newspaper
Jadal that her goal was to “make the voice of Tunisian women
heard and protect them from suppression.”  The posting provoked a backlash from officials and her
family, many of whom disowned her. President of the Commission
for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice Adel Almi
said that under Islamic law she deserves to be lashed and maybe
even stoned to death, according to Tunisian newspaper Assabah.  Other Tunisian  women’s rights  groups have held
demonstrations and rallies in Tunis calling for the protection
of their rights, and denouncing an article in the draft
constitution that describes them as “complementary to men.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  