-- Serb Economics Foundation Urges Gradual Decline in Dinar
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-21T14:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/serb-economics-foundation-urges-gradual-decline-in-dinar.html
Serbia ’s central bank should start
cutting the benchmark  interest rate  and allow the dinar to
weaken gradually to avoid a riskier plunge if capital flows dry
up, a Belgrade economics foundation said.  Slowing inflation, reluctance to lower rates, a wide
current-account deficit and stagnant or declining industries
point to the need for a weaker national currency, the Foundation
for Advancement of Economics, or FREN, said in a report in
Belgrade today.  “A gradual dinar depreciation as a result of less
restrictive monetary policy would be aimed at preventing a
drastic dinar depreciation in the case of declining foreign
capital inflows,” FREN Chief Economist Milojko Arsic said.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s eight-month old Cabinet,
dominated by former nationalists and Socialists once led by late
Serbian strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , is struggling to balance
the economy.  Authorities are trying to keep the dinar stable, bring
inflation down to no higher than 5.5 percent from 12.2 percent
at the end of 2012 and narrow this year’s fiscal gap to 3.6
percent of gross domestic product from 6.7 percent last year.  The dinar has strengthened 3.2 percent against the euro
during the past six months, the top gainer in  Europe , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The period covers Serbian
borrowing of $3.25 billion in three Eurobond sales to finance
the budget gap and service maturing debts.  ‘Not Sustainable’  The three Eurobonds improved Serbia’s balance of payments,
pushing the capital account into a surplus, though that “is not
sustainable,” said Arsic, a former central bank vice governor
and a member of the Council of the Governor.  Expected private capital inflows won’t exceed 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) this year, he said.  Government borrowing will push the public debt-to-GDP ratio
to 62 percent or 63 percent this year, he said.  The external debt, approaching 90 percent of GDP, threatens
“a balance of payments crisis,” which a weaker dinar would
help avoid, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  