-- Shoppers’ ‘Mobile Blinders’ Force Checkout-Aisle Changes
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/shoppers-mobile-blinders-force-checkout-aisle-changes.html
For years, publishers could count
on bored shoppers waiting in the checkout line to pick up a
magazine, get engrossed in an article, and toss it into their
cart alongside the milk and eggs. Then came “mobile blinders.”  These days, consumers are more likely to send a quick text
and check their Facebook feed than to read a magazine or develop
a momentary craving for the gum or candy on display. That has
spurred companies such as Hearst Corp. and the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to
reconsider how they showcase their wares in supermarkets.  Hearst, which sells 15 percent of its U.S. magazines at
retailers, is adding cardboard displays in places other than the
checkout line. And consulting firm Leo Burnett/Arc Worldwide
says it has worked with Coca-Cola to add soft drink coolers to
locations like the supermarket deli.  “We avoid the dreaded cell phone at checkout,” said John Loughlin, general manager of Hearst’s magazine unit, which
includes  titles  such as Cosmopolitan, Seventeen and Esquire.
“Magazines are an impulse purchase, so we have more than one
opportunity to capture the consumer’s attention.”  The problem has worsened in the past 18 months, as more
than  half  of all Americans now carry smartphones, Loughlin said.
Single-copy sales of U.S. consumer magazines fell  8.2 percent  in
the second half of 2012 from the year-earlier period, according
to the industry group Alliance for Audited Media.  Unexpected Combinations  The gum category also “has been challenged” and declined
5.5. percent last year, Hershey Co. Chief Executive Officer John Bilbrey said during a conference call in January.  The problem of “mobile blinders is a huge factor,” said
Marshal Cohen, an analyst at NPD Group. “Companies have to
rethink the in-store experience.”  To catch consumers by surprise, companies are setting up
more temporary cardboard displays around stores, sometimes
offering unexpected combinations of products. Shoppers browsing
the aisles of 1,500 Kroger Co. supermarkets may stumble upon a
display offering a $3 discount on a six-pack of Diet Coke and an
issue of Cosmopolitan.  Similar promotions will appear in CVS Caremark Corp.
pharmacies and Target Corp. stores this year. Hearst is
preparing 20 in-store campaigns with the likes of Coke and
L’Oreal SA, up from four in 2012, Loughlin said.  Last October, Hearst put together a display with coupons,
the Food Network magazine, and bottles of wine and set it up in
200 Harris Teeter Supermarkets Inc. locations. Magazine sales in
those stores rose 50 percent, Loughlin said. Even so, Hearst
isn’t abandoning the checkout aisle: The company continues to
offer its magazines in wire pockets near the register since
that’s where shoppers are used to seeing them.  No Gum  Not all companies are making changes, said Artemis Berry,
senior director for content and community at the National Retail
Federation’s digital  division , Shop.org. Stores selling shoes or
accessories, which rely less on impulse sales at checkout,
aren’t suffering as much from mobile blinders.  “It’s retailers with more traditional checkout experience,
with a lot of impulse purchases displayed and long line times,”
Berry said.  Mark Peterson, vice president of newsstand sales at
Meredith Corp.,  publisher  of Better Homes and Gardens, Family
Circle and Eating Well, says he’s seen anecdotal information
about mobile blinders, though no empirical data. He suspects
that other trends are hurting sales of checkout items as well,
including higher taxes, commodity prices and gasoline costs.  Some products could leave stores altogether, said Nick
Jones, executive vice president at the retail practice of Leo
Burnett. Gum, for instance, may need to move from the checkout
display to a vending machine at restaurants, he said.  Cooking Class  Leo Burnett worked with Coke on adding new single-serve
drink coolers away from the front of the stores. It’s natural
for companies to look for alternatives to impulse-buying at the
checkout counter, Jones said. Marketers placed magazines and
candy there in the first place, he notes, when they saw an
opportunity for making extra sales.  “The smartest marketers are looking at user behavior” and
adapting, he said. “People will have to find those kinds of
insights for the 21st century.”  The checkout process itself may change radically in the
next few years, and again, mobile phones are to blame. Soon,
shoppers could simply scan their items and pay with their
phones, with no waiting in lines, Jones said.  “You might see magazines in produce or the meat
department, in the context of cooking,” Jones said. “It’s one
of those situations where you could look at technology as your
nemesis or salvation.”  Texting Cosmo  Retailers and consumer-goods makers can also use
smartphones to boost sales. When a shopper buys steak, for
instance, a company could send him a mobile coupon for a bottle
of red wine, prompting an extra purchase, Jones suggested.  Hearst is teaming up with Realtime Media and Prizelogic to
offer consumers in-store prizes. Consumers may be able to text
“Cosmo” to win prizes like a Prada bag or cash -- and get a
coupon to purchase a magazine on the spot.  Such offers, Loughlin said, are “a way of using the mobile
device to our advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  