-- Singapore’s OUE in Talks With Banks to Set Up Real Estate Trust
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-03-21T05:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/singapore-s-oue-in-talks-with-banks-to-set-up-real-estate-trust.html
Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) ,
which is buying California’s tallest building, said it’s in
talks with banks to set up a real estate investment trust in the
city-state.  The  Singapore  real estate company “is always examining
opportunities to improve  shareholder value ,” OUE said in a
statement to the city’s stock exchange. The properties for the
REIT, the size, timing and terms of the share sale are under
review, the company said.  The shares, which were halted for trading pending this
announcement, resumed trading at 1 p.m. in Singapore. The stock
climbed 2 percent to S$3.06 as of 1:12 p.m., the highest since
June 2011.  Singapore’s property trusts, were the best performers in
 Asia  in the past year after  Japan . Singapore REITs were the
biggest fundraisers in the city’s initial public offering market
in the past year, raising S$3.4 billion ($2.7 billion), or 68
percent, of the S$5 billion of stock sold in Singapore IPOs in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The biggest share sale was the S$1.6 billion raised by
 Mapletree (MAGIC)  Greater China Commercial Trust, a REIT that owns
assets including the Festival Walk shopping mall in  Hong Kong 
and an office complex in Beijing. The trust, which was also
Asia’s biggest share sale this year, surged 12 percent from its
IPO price.  REIT Returns  Singapore REITs posted a one-year total return of 45
percent, trailing Japan’s 66 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  measure  tracking REITs in Singapore climbed 29
percent in the past year, compared with the 8.8 percent increase
in the Singapore benchmark Straits Times Index.  OUE intends to turn its hospitality assets into a REIT and
estimated S$1 billion valuation surplus in hotel assets, Maybank
Kim Eng analyst Ong Kian Lin said in a client note dated March 5,
citing the company.  The Business Times reported earlier today that OUE chose
Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Standard
Chartered Plc to advise on the $800 million hospitality REIT
listing, citing a Reuters report that didn’t identify its
sources.  OUE said earlier this month it’s buying the U.S. Bank Tower
in  Los Angeles , the tallest in the West Coast state, for $367.5
million as it expands beyond its base in Singapore.  OUE is controlled by Executive Chairman Stephen Riady, a
son of Mochtar Riady, who controls Indonesia’s Lippo Group, with
businesses ranging from real estate and financial services to
food across Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  