-- Slovenian Bailout Looms as Political Risk Persists, Nomura Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-21T12:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/slovenian-bailout-looms-as-political-risk-persists-nomura-says.html
Slovenia’s new government may be
forced to ask for international aid to prop up its banks because
of increased political risk, economists at Nomura International
Plc said.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s Cabinet, approved by
Parliament yesterday, has signaled “a push onto pro-growth
policies and against austerity,” which will slow fiscal
consolidation, boost debt and possibly prompt a credit-rating
cut, economists Peter Attard Montalto and James Burton in  London 
wrote in a note to clients today.  “Slovenia has a path through the crisis, albeit an
extremely risk-laden one,” they said. “The market’s waterfall-
like contagion focus and limitations of funding could however
combine with political difficulties and downgrades to create a
perfect storm and become a self-fulfilling crisis.”  The government pledged to continue with a bank
recapitalization plan of as much as 4 billion euros ($5.2
billion), though with unspecified modifications, as surging bad
loans at the country’s banks like Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.
fuel investor concern the Adriatic nation may follow Cyprus,
Greece and other peripheral countries to ask for a bailout.  Market Attention  “Slovenia seems to be to the fore” in the market’s
attention, Montalto and Burton wrote after contagion fears from
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  flowed to Cyprus with investors
asking who may be next.  Both Slovenia and Cyprus have problems tied to their banks
even though banking assets in the Mediterranean island represent
about 710 percent of the country’s output compared to Slovenia’s
135 percent to GDP, according to the Banka Slovenije.  “Slovenia has a difficult fiscal balancing act and a very
tight funding program path to negotiate,” the economists said.  The former Yugoslav nation needs about 3 billion euros of
funding this year with financing requirements due in June, the
International Monetary Fund said in a report yesterday. Banks in
Slovenia would also need 1 billion euros of fresh capital, the
IMF said.  “If we consider that some 7 billion euros of bad debt or
at-risk debt has been identified by the central bank,” then the
bailout sum is estimated at 4 billion euros, the Nomura
economists said. The critical issue is the banks’ tier 1 capital
ratio being below the required 10 percent, “hence the need for
bailouts is just as great.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Slovenia’s credit rating on Feb. 13
one level to A-, citing the government’s announced support for
state-owned banks. Fitch Ratings rates the country an equivalent
A-, while Moody’s Investors Service assesses the country at
Baa2, its second-lowest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  