-- Smithfield Seen Unlocking 23% Gain With Breakup: Real M&A
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-03-21T14:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/smithfield-seen-unlocking-23-gain-with-breakup-real-m-a.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  risks missing
out on a 23 percent gain for shareholders by ignoring demands to
sell its hog farms.  While Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope says selling
the farms would be a mistake, Credit Suisse Group AG expects
increasing pressure from investors for a breakup to enhance
Smithfield’s focus on packaged meats. A split would lift its
 value  to $32.45 a share from $26.43 yesterday, the average of
six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Hormel Foods
Corp. (HRL) , which sells pork while raising far fewer hogs, has a
price-earnings ratio that’s 68 percent higher than Smithfield’s.  “It’s time for the management to return value to
shareholders,” Ann Gurkin, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst
at Davenport & Co., said in a telephone interview. In a report
this month arguing that a split was more likely, she gave a $48-
a-share value for Smithfield following a breakup.  Smithfield should consider splitting into three businesses
-- one selling pork and packaged meats, another that runs hog
farms, and a third based outside the U.S. -- because the
unprofitable hog-raising unit hurts returns, Continental Grain
Co. said in a letter this month. The shareholder’s request came
after Smithfield’s shares trailed Hormel and  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) ’s
in the prior year.  Stock Rallies  Shares of Smithfield, whose brands include Eckrich sausage,
surged 11 percent on March 7 after the Smithfield, Virginia-
based company  beat  third-quarter earnings estimates and a
breakup was brought up on a conference call with analysts.
Following the close of trading, Continental Grain released its
letter, fueling a 4.5 percent advance the next day.  Before the two-day rally, Smithfield shares had lagged
behind rivals Hormel, Tyson,  JBS SA (JBSS3)  and  Hillshire Brands Co. (HSH) 
since June 29, the first trading session after Hillshire
completed its transformation to being almost entirely a
packaged-meats company.  Lyndsey Estin, a spokeswoman for Smithfield who works at
Kekst & Co. in  New York , declined to comment on the company’s
plans and referred back to a statement on March 8, when
Smithfield said its board received a memo from Continental Grain
and will review it with its financial and legal advisers.  Higher feed costs have made it more difficult to make money
raising hogs. Expenses have risen since 2006 and the worst U.S.
drought since the 1930s pushed prices for the main components,
corn and soybeans, to record highs last year.  Meanwhile,  hog  prices have slumped because of lower exports
and concern that U.S. demand is weakening.  Not Comfortable  Davenport’s Gurkin sees more than a 50 percent chance that
Smithfield, a  supplier  to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and McDonald’s
Corp., will have to work more “aggressively” to boost returns.  While Farha Aslam, a New York-based analyst for Stephens
Inc., now recommends buying Smithfield shares because
shareholders may succeed in spurring change at the company, she
reduced her 2014 earnings estimate to $2.48 a share this month
from $2.55 because of lower hog profitability.  “There’s tremendous volatility on the production side,”
Peter Fleiss, a Boston-based analyst for shareholder Highfields
Capital Management LP, said during Smithfield’s earnings
conference call on March 7. “The usual investors who get
involved in packaged meats just aren’t comfortable taking on
that type of volatility.”  He asked Smithfield  executives  during the call how many
more years “we have to hold on for the hog production ride” to
pay off.  ‘Very Pleased’  Pope responded to questions about the hog-raising business
by saying “patient investors” will be “very pleased” because
the unit helps increase relationships with major customers.  Smithfield, unlike competitors that don’t raise as many
animals, can tailor conditions for hogs to meet customer
demands, Pope said. In the U.S., Smithfield has been working
since 2007 to convert sow housing to open pens from gestation
crates, which retailers, grocery chains and restaurants are
asking suppliers to phase out amid consumer backlash.  Broken up, Smithfield’s value would rise to $32.45 a share,
according to the average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. They range from $26 at KeyCorp to $48 at Davenport.
The other forecasts are $29.67 at Miller Tabak & Co.; $30 at
Stephens and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which called the figure its
base-case scenario; and a minimum of $31 at Credit Suisse.  Today, Smithfield shares fell 1.3 percent to $26.08 at
10:15 a.m. in New York.  “Packaged meats is the golden goose,”  Vicki Bryan , a New
York-based analyst at Gimme Credit LLC, said in a phone
interview. “Packaged meats is the most valuable and the hog
production is the least desirable.”  Potential Buyers  Asian investors might be interested in Smithfield’s hog
farms and processing plants that serve export markets,
Continental Grain said in its letter. Continental Grain could
seek to combine the hog business with the pork unit of  Seaboard
Corp. (SEB) , which has joint ventures with Continental Grain, Credit
Suisse analyst  Robert Moskow  said in a March 12 report.  A representative of Continental Grain declined to comment.  Smithfield as a whole may attract meat companies that raise
and process poultry and livestock, Bryan said. That includes Sao
Paulo-based JBS SA, which bought Smithfield’s beef operations
five years ago, she said. The unit included a ranching operation
that was partly owned by Continental Grain.  Rosemary Geelan, a spokeswoman for JBS USA, declined to
comment on whether the parent company would be interested in
buying Smithfield assets.  Cargill Deal  Two years ago, Smithfield sold a 21,500-acre (87 square
kilometers) hog production site in  Texas  to Minneapolis-based
Cargill Inc., the third-largest U.S. meat processor, for $33
million. Mike Martin, a spokesman for Cargill, declined to
comment on Smithfield.  While the packaged meat unit could attract competitors like
Tyson and Hormel, any investor looking for a cheap asset may
also be attracted,  Gimme Credit ’s Bryan said. The decision by
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G Capital last month to buy  H.J.
Heinz Co. (HNZ) , a ketchup and packaged food manufacturer, highlights
the interest value investors may have in the industry, she said.  “I wouldn’t just look at major producers,” Bryan said.
“There is a lot of embedded value in this sector that is
brimming to be revealed. It’s an exciting time for food.”  Worth Sparkman, a spokesman for Springdale, Arkansas-based
Tyson, and Rick Williamson of Austin, Minnesota-based Hormel
declined to comment.  Consumer Meats  Smithfield started transforming itself into more of a
consumer-meats company in 2009. Pope has been trying to increase
profit per pound of pork that Smithfield processes by developing
new dishes and boosting market share of brands such as Armour
and John Morrell.  Even with greater pressure from investors, some analysts
say they don’t expect Smithfield to break up. KeyCorp’s Akshay Jagdale and JPMorgan’s  Ken Goldman  said they don’t see a high
likelihood of change. A transaction is “unlikely,”  Tim Ramey ,
a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst for D.A. Davidson & Co. who
has a buy rating on the shares, said in a phone interview.  Still, the board and management should consider their
options and explore whether the current company structure is
best, Bryan Agbabian, a San Francisco-based sector head of
agricultural equities for Smithfield shareholder Allianz Global
Investors, said in a phone interview. In the short term, not
owning farms would be better for the shares, while there could
be a long-term advantage to retaining them, he said.  “If they were to break up, they would get more value,”
Agbabian said. “These are questions the board and the officers
of the company need to address, revisit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  