-- Smith Barney Shareholder Class Approved in Fund Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-21T19:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/smith-barney-shareholder-class-approved-in-fund-lawsuit-1-.html
Investors in  Smith Barney  mutual
funds can sue as a group over claims that shareholders were
harmed by a kickback scheme in which  Citigroup Inc. (C)  pocketed fee
savings, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan certified a
class of Smith Barney mutual fund investors who bought or
redeemed shares from Sept. 11, 2000 to June 24, 2004, according
to a decision filed today.  A class action allows plaintiffs’ to share the costs of
gathering evidence and pursuing claims. When cases are bundled
together, plaintiffs have greater leverage in trying to persuade
defendants to settle.  The lawsuit was filed against Smith Barney Fund Management
LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in 2005, after Citigroup
agreed to pay $208 million to settle claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that its subsidiaries kept
fees that should have been turned over to Smith Barney’s mutual
funds.  Citigroup replaced a stock transfer agent with an in-house
transfer agent and subcontracted with the original company at
lower rates than it had previously charged, according to court
papers.  Controlling Stake  Investors are suing Lewis Daidone, who was a senior vice
president and director of Smith Barney Fund Management and a
managing director of Citigroup Global Markets. He resigned in
2004, according to the shareholder complaint.  In 2009,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  bought a controlling stake in a
joint venture that combined Smith Barney with its own brokerage.
The New York-based bank has said it plans to buy the rest of the
venture from Citigroup this year.  The case is In re Smith Barney Transfer Agent Litigation,
05-cv-07583, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  