-- SNB Says FX Trades Never Exceeded 1.5% of Daily Volume
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-22T07:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/snb-says-fx-trades-never-exceeded-1-5-of-daily-volume.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  said its
foreign currency trades never exceeded 1.5 percent of the total
daily volume in a single currency, avoiding market distortions.  “We were prudent and market-friendly and distributed
transactions over time,” Alternate Governing Board Member Dewet Moser said in a speech in Zurich late yesterday. “Based on data
from the Bank for International Settlements, we estimate that
the share of the SNB in the foreign-exchange trading volume
never exceeded 1.5 percent on any day in any currency.”  The central bank spent 188 billion francs ($199 billion) in
2012 to enforce its 1.20 franc-per-euro cap, which was
introduced in 2011 to help shield Switzerland from a downturn.
That has inflated  foreign-currency reserves  to 427.2 million
francs at the end of December. Euros accounted for 49 percent of
reserves at the end of last year, down from 60 percent in June.  “The interventions changed the weightings, in particular
the euro significantly increased in the short term,” forcing
the central bank to “cautiously” rearrange balances to the
desired levels, Moser said. “Since these were substantial
amounts, it seems reasonable to question whether our
rearrangements affected the exchange rates. This was not the
case.”  Strong Currency  The SNB has repeatedly warned that a return of the euro
crisis could again cause the franc to strengthen against the
euro. It has also pledged to buy unlimited amounts of foreign
currency to defend its limit of currency cap.  “We believe that at the current time the franc is still
highly valued” and models suggest a range of 7 percent to 20
percent, Zurbruegg said.  Earlier this week, concerns about the Cyprus bailout sent
the franc to a near three-week peak against the euro. The franc
traded at 1.2208 against the euro at 8:22 a.m. in Zurich, while
the dollar stood at 94.61 centimes.  The franc’s strength is a test for Switzerland, Zurbruegg
said. “Swiss companies are very innovative and competitive,”
he said. “But they still are challenged because the franc is
highly valued, international competition is increasing and
production costs are high.”  “The minimum exchange rate of 1.20 against the euro
remains the central measure to ensure appropriate monetary
conditions,” Zurbruegg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  