-- Solar Will Be Second-Biggest Source of U.S. Power Added in 2013
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-03-21T19:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/solar-will-be-second-biggest-source-of-u-s-power-added-in-2013.html
Solar power will be the second-
biggest source of generating capacity added to the U.S. electric
grid this year, according to  Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s Recurrent Energy
unit.  “Solar is going to move into the No. 2 position in terms
of new build, second only to gas,” Recurrent Chief Executive
Officer Arno Harris said in an interview yesterday at the
company’s main office in San Francisco.  Rooftop solar systems can be installed for about $4 a watt
and utility-scale systems for $2 a watt, Harris said. “We can
see our way to $1.50,” he said. “At those kinds of costs,
we’re competitive in the Southwest with conventional
electricity.”  Panel  prices  have fallen almost 69 percent in the past two
years, benefiting companies such as Recurrent that purchase and
install the equipment and sell electricity from the systems to
utilities. Falling costs also have enabled developers to accept
lower-priced contracts.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  has signed a power
purchase agreement for a project in  New Mexico  that will sell
electricity at a lower rate than new coal plants earn.  “Solar has clearly landed in a place where it’s a very
bankable asset class and is widely accepted and sought after,”
Harris said. “It’s going to follow the same path that other
asset classes have followed, which is now a move to public
 capital markets ,” and that may include real estate investment
trusts, master limited partnerships or other structures that
enable shares of project portfolios to be publicly traded, he
said.  Buffett’s Role  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. and
 NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  are the largest U.S. owners of photovoltaic
projects, including all stages of development from planning and
permitting to commercial operations, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The U.S. in 2013 may add about 4.2 gigawatts of solar
generating capacity using photovoltaic technology, according to
data from the Solar Energy Industries Association, for which
Harris serves as board chairman.  Photovoltaic systems totaling about 3.3 gigawatts were
added in 2012, which was 76 percent more than in 2011. The
amount of wind generating capacity added last year exceeded that
of all other sources, including gas-fired power.  “Solar has moved alongside wind now as one of the three
technologies -- solar, wind and gas -- that are going to be part
of our nation’s energy build-out no matter what,” Harris said.  Sharp in 2010 bought then-closely held Recurrent for $305
million, and it plans to sell the unit as part of a
restructuring plan that may include the sale of three television
factories. Harris wouldn’t comment on the potential sale of his
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  