-- Spain Softens Austerity for Regions Anticipating EU Leeway
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-03-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/spain-softens-austerity-for-regions-anticipating-eu-leeway.html
Spain  is preparing to ease
austerity for its most cash-strapped regions in anticipation
that European Union peers will grant the government more time to
reorder public finances in the second year of a recession.  “All options have to be studied given how much the range
of regional deficits has widened,” Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro told reporters in Madrid following a three-hour meeting
with regional budget chiefs last night. A  task force  has been
created to study how individual debt and deficit goals could be
set for the 17 semi-autonomous regions, Montoro said.  Montoro said the government would ease regions’ combined
deficit goal of 0.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2013 if
the European Commission relaxes Spain’s target. “The earlier we
get new targets, the earlier we’ll all be set,” he said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  this week started backtracking
on his pledge to haul the euro region’s fourth-largest economy
out of a six-year  slump  in the second half, saying the
government may forecast a greater contraction than its current
prediction of 0.5 percent. The  International Monetary Fund 
estimates the economy will shrink 1.5 percent.  Forecasts must be conservative to make budget-deficit
projections credible, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
March 20. Spain is waiting for the commission to update its
budget-deficit targets before submitting a new budget plan
through 2014 this month. Spain’s current limits, as set by the
European Union, are a 2013 deficit of 4.5 percent of GDP for all
levels of government and of 2.8 percent for 2014.  Rajoy claims he cut the nation’s total shortfall by about
25 percent to 6.4 percent of GDP last year, excluding European
aid to the banking sector. The central government accounted for
more than half of the gap, while the regions’ deficits
represented 1.7 percent of GDP, down from 3.3 percent in 2011.
The rest was generated by Spain’s tax-funded pensions and
unemployment benefits system and its more than 8,000 town halls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  