-- SSE Halts Plants, Delays Investment as CO2 Costs Hurt Profit
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-21T16:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sse-halts-power-plants-delays-spending-as-co2-costs-hurt-profit.html
SSE Plc (SSE)  will halt some coal-fired
power stations, cut jobs and delay investment in gas-fueled
plants as soaring costs for  carbon emissions  weigh on profit.  The U.K.’s second-biggest energy supplier will curb thermal
generation capacity by about 2,000 megawatts in the fiscal year
starting April, affecting its Ferrybridge, Keadby, Peterhead,
Slough and Uskmouth plants, the company said in a statement. It
postponed investment in new gas plants until at least 2015.  The decision lends urgency to government plans to introduce
energy-market changes. A draft law under consideration in
parliament is aimed at attracting 110 billion pounds ($167
billion) of investment in new power stations and grid upgrades
by 2020. Regulator Ofgem has said Britain faces a squeeze on
energy supplies and higher bills as aging plants close.  “It appears the government is significantly
underestimating the scale of the capacity crunch facing the U.K.
in the next three years,” SSE Chief Executive Officer Ian Marchant said in today’s statement. “There is a very real risk
of the lights going out as a result.”  A government plan to pay generators to make plants
available during peak-demand periods should start in 2014 rather
than 2018 as planned in the energy bill, Marchant said. A lack
of clarity on the so-called capacity mechanism is delaying
investments, according to SSE, which said no new gas-fired
plants will come online until 2017 at the earliest.  Spare Capacity  The government is studying how and when the measure can
best be used to ensure balance in supply and demand, Energy
Minister  John Hayes  said in a statement, responding to SSE.  “We’re alive to the challenge facing us,” he said. “The
bill before parliament will set the conditions for the
investment needed to keep Britain’s lights on in the long
term.” The amount of spare power currently available is
“comfortable” and the government will ensure any reduction in
that capacity is manageable, he said.  The U.K. is seeking to expand output of low-carbon power
such as wind and nuclear by making it more costly to run fossil-
fuel stations. It will demand utilities pay 18.08 pounds to emit
1 metric ton of carbon dioxide in the year through March 2016,
the Treasury said in its budget yesterday. That compares with
4.94 pounds a ton when the program starts next month.  The “unexpectedly high” carbon price, combined with
European Union rules requiring the most polluting power stations
to close, prompted SSE’s review of its operations, it said.  Plant Shutdowns  The changes, leading to job losses, will include shutting
two units at the Ferrybridge coal plant. SSE also postponed a
plan to bring the Keadby gas-fed station back into operation
after an upgrade, mothballing the site for at least two years.
It will halt units at its Slough biomass facility and Uskmouth
coal plant, and curb output at the Peterhead gas-fired station.  The utility delayed investment decisions on a 470-megawatt
gas facility at Abernedd, South Wales, a second unit at Keadby
and the Seabank-3 gas station in Bristol.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest household energy supplier,
said last month it was looking overseas for expansion as
Britain’s stagnant economy holds back demand. The company has
opted out of a plan to build nuclear reactors at two  power
plants  in the U.K. with Electricite de France SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  