-- Standard Chartered Forced to Apologize for Iran Statement
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-21T16:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/standard-chartered-chairman-apologizes-for-sanctions-claim-1-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  Chairman
John Peace was forced by U.S. regulators to apologize for
claiming breaches of sanctions on Iran that led to a $667
million fine were unintentional.  Peace, who told reporters at a March 5 press conference
that the firm had no “willful” intention to dodge U.S. rules,
said in a statement today that earlier claim was “wrong.”  Under the settlement it reached with U.S. regulators last
year, the bank entered into a deferred prosecution agreement
with the  Department of Justice . As part of that deal, the U.S.
charged the bank with conspiring to violate the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act, a charge that will be dismissed
after two years as long as the bank abides by the agreement.  “As part of these agreements, we rigorously monitor the
banks for continued compliance, and subsequently addressed this
violation by  Standard Chartered  for not accepting responsibility
for its misconduct,” Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for the
Manhattan  District Attorney , said by e-mail. “We demanded a
public repudiation and they complied.”  Peace, 64, said his original comment “directly contradicts
Standard Chartered’s acceptance of responsibility in the
deferred prosecution agreement.” The firm “unequivocally
acknowledges and accepts responsibility, on behalf of the bank
and its employees, for past knowing and willful criminal conduct
in violating U.S. economic sanctions.”  The shares slipped 0.4 percent to 1,724.5 pence in  London 
trading, valuing the lender at 42 billion pounds ($63 billion).
The bank has risen 9.6 percent this year. A spokesman for the
London-based company declined to comment beyond the statement.  Placating Regulators  “They tried to play hardball with the U.S. regulators and
lost,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at Olivetree Securities
Ltd. in London. “The apology is to placate the regulators, the
wider public via the media and some shareholders. However, most
of the latter supported management through the difficult times
and will pay no attention to this statement.”  The bank was fined $340 million by  New York ’s Department of
Financial Services, $100 million by the U.S. Federal Reserve and
$227 million by the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the District
Attorney for New York County. The lender was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the Department of Financial Services, of helping
Iran launder about $250 billion, keeping false records and
handling wire transfers for Iranian clients. The firm sent them
through its New York unit in so-called U-turn transactions with
client names omitted to hide their provenance, Lawsky said.  “U.S. regulators take the settlements very seriously and
do track how management refer to them once they have been
agreed,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based financials
analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “I don’t think it will have
repercussions for the rest of the management team.”  While the bank has clawed back bonuses from employees for
wrongdoing before, it didn’t recall any payments from staff over
the U.S. sanctions breach, Peace said at the March 5 press
conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  