-- Stimulus Spending Only Delays Chronic Deflation
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-03-21T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/stimulus-spending-only-delays-chronic-deflation.html
The huge fiscal and monetary
stimulus dispensed in recent years has staved off the onset of
chronic deflation. For now.  The  deficits  created by this spending would be inflationary
only if the measures occurred in a period of full employment and
created excess demand. That isn’t the case in the U.S., where
the large budget shortfalls are a response to private-sector
weakness that has depleted  tax revenue .  Indeed, even with persistent trillion-dollar deficits and
huge monetary-easing programs, the slack we see in the economy
reflects the huge size and scope of the offsetting deleveraging
in the private sector that I noted in yesterday’s column.  Monetary Stimulus: The  Federal Reserve  and other central
banks have been extremely aggressive. First, the Fed pushed the
short-term rates they control to almost zero -- with little
effect. Then it turned to quantitative easing, the enormous
purchases of  government bonds  and other securities that have
been tried by the Bank of  Japan  for years without notable
success. The Fed, with its dual mandate to promote full
employment as well as  price stability , is using a very blunt
instrument to try to create jobs.  The central bank can raise or lower short-term interest
rates, and buy or sell securities. Those actions have little to
do with creating more jobs. In contrast, fiscal policy can be
surgically precise, aiding the jobless by extending and
expanding  unemployment benefits .  Mortgage Rates  The Fed is now  buying  residential mortgage-related
securities as a way to push down  mortgage rates  and spur
housing. But the effect of these measures has been largely
neutralized by a number of negative forces, including tight
lending standards, low credit scores, “underwater”  mortgages ,
uncertain job security or unemployment and the awareness of
consumers that for the first time since the 1930s on a
nationwide basis,  house prices  have dropped substantially and
could do so again.  Nevertheless, the Fed is relying on five interlocking steps
to increase job creation: First, the central bank buys
Treasuries or mortgage-related securities. Second, the sellers
reinvest the proceeds in assets such as stocks, commodities and
real estate, pushing up prices. Third, higher asset prices have
a real wealth effect by making investors feel richer. This, in
turn, leads people to spend on consumer goods and services, as
well as capital equipment. And last, that spending spurs
production and demand for labor.  So far, it hasn’t worked as planned. Despite recent
improvements, the U.S.  unemployment rate , at 7.7 percent,
remains very high by historical standards, particularly more
than 3 1/2 years after the trough of a recession.  And cautious
employers have turned to temporary workers who generally are
paid less and are easier to dismiss than full-time ones.  Temporary, Limited Effects: Every round of easing by the
Fed has been accompanied by a jump in stocks that lasted only
until the next crisis in  Europe  or the U.S. In addition, the
gross-domestic-product bang per buck of new debt isn’t what it
used to be. From 1947 to 1952, each dollar in additional debt
was associated with $4.61 in additional real gross national
product. From 2001 through the second quarter of 2012, it was a
mere $0.08.  Furthermore, the Fed’s expansion of member bank  reserves 
through QE has had virtually no effect. When the Fed buys
securities, the proceeds clear the seller’s bank and end up as
additions to that bank’s reserves at the Fed.  Relending Multiplier  In normal times, those  reserves  are lent out by the bank
with successive relending in the fractional reserve system. That
meant each dollar in reserves turned into $70 of  M2 money . But
since August 2008, when the crisis started, the multiplier has
only been 1.8. As a result, the unused reserves are piling up in
the Fed’s member bank accounts, and the excess reserves, the
difference between total and required reserves, are now more
than $1.5 trillion.  Note that the  Bank of Japan , which pioneered QE years ago,
hasn’t had outstanding success, either. Japanese M2 money supply
has been growing at about a 3 percent annual rate for the last
two decades. Nonetheless, that economy has been subject to
deflation more times than not in those years. Yet the  Bank of
Japan  increased its purchases of government and corporate bonds
as well as equities to $1.2 trillion by December last year from
$168 billion at the start of 2012.  Perhaps out of desperation, central banks’ QE programs are
now open-ended, for the first time. The European Central Bank
program to buy one- to three-year sovereign debt is unlimited
once countries, such as  Spain , apply to participate and accept
the related austerity conditions. The Bank of Japan plans to
start its unlimited-lending program to banks in June 2013. It
expects to disburse more than $175 billion in 15 months and is
under extreme pressure from the newly installed government of
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to do even more.  The Fed’s latest programs are open-ended, too. Operation
Twist involved buying $45 billion per month in long-term
Treasuries while selling $45 billion in short-term
obligations. The short-term selling has ended and the $45
billion purchases add to the Fed’s $40 billion per month buying
of mortgage-backed securities, the second round of easing. This
means QE2 creates $85 billion per month in additional reserves
for the Fed’s member banks.  In addition, the Fed says it will keep the short-term
 interest rate  it controls close to zero until the unemployment
rate drops to 6.5 percent, and long-run inflation remains close
to 2 percent. The central bank doesn’t expect these conditions
to be met until 2015.  Radical Openness  This is transparency at its extreme. Where’s the mystery
left in monetary policy, the uncertainty over Fed actions that
keeps markets honest and participants on their best behavior? Of
course, the Fed can always redefine or wriggle away from its
targets, but wouldn’t doing so impair its credibility?  The experimental, almost desperate, reaction by major
central banks to the 2008-2009 global financial crisis,
subsequent recession and continuing weak recovery resembles the
fiscal responses to the Great Depression in the 1930s. In that
era, policy makers realized that the collapse in demand relative
to supply had spawned major deflation, but they initially tried
to close the gap by reducing production.  Nevertheless, supply-reducing efforts, such as the mandated
killing of pigs and other livestock, led to negative press
attention. So the New Dealers switched to demand-enhancement
efforts such  government spending  on public works and  job
creation .  Some researchers say, however, that the benefit of those
actions was offset by the uncertainty among businesspeople that
was created by these novel approaches, along with a lack of
clear plans and regulation. For many, the New Deal didn’t end
the Great Depression -- rearmament and the high government
outlays to fight World War II did.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the second in a five-
part series. Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  