-- Structured Notes Tied to Brazilian Real Sell Most in 18 Months
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-03-21T17:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/structured-notes-tied-to-brazilian-real-sell-most-in-18-months.html
U.S. investors bought $23.8 million
of notes this month betting on the Brazilian real to strengthen
against the dollar, the most in a year and a half.  The currency has gained 3.1 percent this year to 1.9899 per
dollar yesterday in  New York , the second-biggest increase among
the world’s 16 most-traded currencies against the greenback.
Banks sold $50.5 million of U.S. notes tied to the real and
dollar in September 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Investors expect that  Brazil ’s central bank will raise
interest rates, bolstering the currency, said  Win Thin , global
head of  emerging markets  strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. The country’s overnight rate has stayed at 7.25
percent since October.  “The markets right now are giving the central bank the
benefit of the doubt, saying ‘OK, the targets are hawkish,
they’ll hike when the time comes,”’ Thin said in a telephone
interview. “If inflation is going up and we don’t see any
action by May, I think people will start bailing on Brazil
again.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sold $5.95 million of one-year notes tied
to the real against the dollar on March 13, the largest offering
this year. The securities yield 28.5 percent if the currency
strengthens more than 3 percent and pay 5 percent if the value
doesn’t fall, with 15 percent of losses protected and all
capital at risk, according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The bank distributed the
notes for a 1 percent fee.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  