-- Sweaty Boxers Jostle War Horror, Native Americans in U.K.
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-03-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sweaty-boxers-jostle-war-horror-native-americans-in-u-k-.html
F. Scott Fitzgerald famously 
remarked that there are no second acts in American lives.  On the evidence of an exhibition at the  Royal Academy  in
London (until June 9), the painter George Bellows (1882-1925)
didn’t really manage more than some splendid opening scenes.  When poor Bellows died of peritonitis at only 42, he hadn’t
produced a good picture for at least a decade. But he started
out really well. Although he had essentially one subject, it was
a big one:  New York , pulsating with life, energy, squalor and
violence.  While still in his 20s, Bellows painted images that sum up
a great deal about the city. Best known are his boxing
paintings, particularly “Stag at Sharkey’s” (1909), and “Both
Members of the Club” (1909). These have drama, razzmatazz and
violence. The audience stares in from the darkness around the
ring at the spectacle in the center: ferocious, Darwinian
competition between two almost naked figures, glistening with
sweat.  Just as good are Bellows’s pictures of construction sites,
such as “Pennsylvania Station Excavation” (1909), depicting
enormous, muddy, ice-bound holes in the ground from which mighty
buildings would rise. These make you think he might have been an
Edwardian-era equivalent to Frank Auerbach.  Then you walk into the next room, and it all begins to go
wrong. Bellows’s pictures of the middle classes at leisure
(“Love of Winter”, 1914) are a bit post-card-like. Then the
images of German atrocities in World War I are horrible in every
way: vulgar, grotesque, and crude. The works of his last years
are conventionally dull.  Catlin’s Portraits  Another American painter with a big subject was  George
Catlin  (1796-1872). His life was changed by seeing a group of
Native Americans passing through Philadelphia. Impressed by
their “silent and stoic dignity,” he eventually traveled west to
document the lives of their peoples. The results of his journeys
are on display in “American Indian Portraits” at the  National
Portrait Gallery  (until June 23).  Catlin was a self-taught artist -- he originally trained as
a lawyer -- and was a long way from being a great painter. But,
though repetitive in format, his images have enormous
documentary value. They give a powerful sense of being in the
presence of these people at the very moment when their
traditional way of life was being destroyed.  Just as the French painter Delacroix saw North Africans as
living equivalents to ancient Greeks and Romans, Catlin had
similar feelings about warriors such as “Wee-Sheet, Sturgeon’s
Head” (1832), with their “gigantic and symmetrical figures,”
reclining “rather like statues from some master hand.”  Catlin exhibited his “Indian Gallery” around the U.S., and
in  London  and Paris among other places. He still failed
financially and at one point was imprisoned for debt.  Church’s Landscapes  A much more successful American painter is featured in
“Through American Eyes:  Frederic Church  and the Landscape Oil
Sketch” at the National Gallery (until April 28). This is a
small display consisting of a number of little studies and one
great big painting (of Niagara Falls).  Church (1826-1900) was one of the great stars of 19th-
century landscape painting, winning fame with huge canvases of
the West and the Andes. To my eye, those are too slick: glossy
and photographic. Some of the little sketches, though, suggest a
more interesting artist, with a livelier touch and a melancholy
sense of solitude (a very American feeling). With some artists,
smaller really is more beautiful.  George Bellows at the Royal Academy is supported by JTI,
Edwards Wildman and the Terra Foundation for American Art.
Burlington House, Piccadilly, W1J 0BD. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk , +44-20-7300-8000.  National Portrait Gallery, 2 St. Martin’s Place, London
WC2H 0HE. Information: +20-7306-0055 or  http://www.npg.org.uk. .  National Gallery,  Trafalgar Square , WC2N 5DN. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk  or +44-20-7747-2423.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Jason
Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Jeremy Gerard 
on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 