-- Sweden’s Banks Find Ally in FSA Warning on Risk-Weight Race
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-03-22T12:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/swedish-banks-find-ally-in-fsa-warning-against-risk-weight-race.html
Sweden ’s financial watchdog
cautioned against a central bank proposal to consider raising
risk weights from levels announced less than half a year ago.  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said earlier this week
Sweden should consider increasing risk weights on mortgage
assets to more than the 15 percent proposed by the regulator in
November. The Financial Supervisory Authority’s target, which is
three times existing levels, is due to become effective later
this year.  “We don’t today see any reason to immediately touch
these,”  Martin Andersson , director-general at the FSA, said in
an interview in Stockholm. “To make lots of changes and then
make changes to the changes before anyone has had a chance to
evaluate them and before we’ve even had time to implement these
I think is to run a bit too fast.”  The watchdog, which has argued against proposals to hand
over macro-prudential supervision to the central bank, has
defended stricter capital standards than those set elsewhere as
Sweden tries to shield taxpayers from the risk of losses. The
biggest Swedish banks, whose combined assets are four times the
size of the economy, must set aside at least 12 percent core
Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted assets by 2015.  Loan Cap  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , Sweden’s largest mortgage lender, rose 1
percent to 148.7 kronor as of 1:18 p.m. in Stockholm. The bank
was the second-best performer in the 40-member Bloomberg index
of European financial stocks. Shares in  Svenska Handelsbanken
AB (SHBA) , the nation’s second-biggest mortgage lender, gained 0.5
percent to 275.5 kronor.  The FSA in 2010 reacted to signs of excessive credit growth
by imposing an 85 percent cap on loan-to-value ratios. The
regulator has also warned it is ready to do more should the need
arise. Measures to date have started to work and credit growth
slowed to 4.5 percent in January, compared with a peak of 13.2
percent in March 2006.  “There is no reason right now, I think, to say that
something has happened that suggests an increased worry about”
a housing bubble, Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said today in
an interview in Stockholm. “Rather on the contrary, the
tendency has been that prices have stabilized.”  Basel Chairman  Yet Ingves, who is also the chairman of the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision , says Sweden’s housing market is showing
signs of overheating as his bank estimates  household debt  will
reach a 173 percent of disposable incomes this year.  “The Riksbank supports the proposal for a risk-weight
floor of 15 percent,” Ingves said in a March 20 speech. “We
also believe that there are good reasons for analyzing whether
this floor needs to be raised even further.”  Raising risk weights to 15 percent “is a reasonable
measure” and “we want to stop there right now,” Andersson
said. “This is not a whacky level and we have nothing that
suggests otherwise at the moment.”  Though the real estate market has cooled in the past two
years, property prices have soared about 25 percent since 2006.  That has fanned speculation the market may be
overstretched, making households vulnerable to interest rate
increases. Ingves signaled last month his bank may start raising
rates next year. Swedish  home prices  could fall by as much as 10
percent in the next 18 to 24 months, Jens Hallen, director for
financial institutions at  Fitch Ratings , said last month.  Ingves has also discussed introducing other measures to
cool the housing market, including requiring borrowers to
amortize their mortgages. A March report by the FSA showed that
the average Swedish household needs 140 years to pay down its
home loan.  ‘Very Skeptical’  As Sweden’s mortgage market shows signs of possible
overheating, the Riksbank has argued it needs to take on more
regulatory tasks.  First Deputy Governor Kerstin af Jochnick in January
proposed a “functioning framework for macro-prudential policy”
that would either hand responsibility for oversight to the
central bank, or allow the bank to have a supervisory role over
a number of institutions. Such a system, based on the German
model, would give the Riksbank a veto right or the power to
select a chairman.  Andersson has criticized talk of splitting financial
oversight with the central bank, arguing such a step would
weaken the FSA.  “I’m very skeptical to the idea that we pick out certain
aspects of the capital requirement regulatory framework and give
that to someone else and say that they get to handle that part
because then we can no longer have a discussion with the banks
about their collective capital,” Andersson said. “We have our
tools. The Riksbank has its tools.”  Foreign Funding  The government has identified additional areas in banking
it says require further measures to rein in risk.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  in an interview last month
said he wants to introduce “fairly quickly” rules that would
force banks to pay a fee or set aside reserves to cover the
central bank’s costs associated with holding foreign currency.
Here the regulator and the central bank agree.  The Riksbank is raising its currency reserve by the
equivalent of 100 billion kronor ($15.4 billion) to about 400
billion kronor to provide banks with extra liquidity should the
crisis in debt-stricken  Europe  deepen further.  Of the total securities issued by Swedish banks as of the
end of December, including certificates and bonds, 76 percent
were in foreign currencies, according to  Statistics Sweden .  “When you’re talking about increasing something that’s
costing money to create protection for the banks, it’s not
unreasonable that they pay in the same way, that it’s the banks
and not the taxpayers that are actually paying for
supervision,” Andersson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  