-- Sweden, Norway to Raise Rates as Growth Returns, Danske Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-03-21T12:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sweden-norway-to-raise-rates-as-growth-returns-danske-says.html
Norwegian and Swedish policy makers
will boost  interest rates  in the next 12 months as domestic
demand rises and exports revive amid a global recovery,  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said.  Sweden’s Riksbank will raise its main  rate  by a quarter
point in December to 1.25 percent, the Copenhagen-based lender
said today.  Norway ’s  central bank  will wait until March 2014 to
boost its deposit rate by 25 basis points to 1.75 percent, while
Denmark’s key rate will be 20 basis points higher at 0.5 percent
in a year, Denmark’s biggest bank predicted.  “We feel that the economic key should be set to change
from minor to major,” Danske said in a  report  today. “For the
first time in many years we also see some upside risks” from a
stronger U.S. housing market, an improved financial  market
sentiment  and loose monetary policy, the bank said.  Consumer spending  will drive the economic expansion across
the three Scandinavian countries in 2013. Danske estimates that
Norwegian gross domestic product excluding oil and shipping will
advance 2.8 percent, while Swedish output will be 1.7 percent
and Danish growth is seen at 0.4 percent.  Danske cut its forecast for the Finnish economy to expand
0.3 percent this year from a previous 0.5 percent forecast. The
2014 outlook was cut to 2 percent from 2.2 percent. The Finnish
and Danish economies both contracted in 2012.  The global economy will expand 3.6 percent this year and 4
percent in 2014 as growth accelerates in the U.S.,  China  and
Japan and the euro crisis abates, helping Nordic exports, the
bank said.  “The main risk is still a renewed flare-up of the euro
crisis which could be triggered by a severe slowdown in France
or chaos in Italy and Spain,” Danske said. “But the
probability of such a development has been reduced by the ECB’s
back-stop” and years of fiscal consolidation in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  