-- Sweden’s Banks, Freddie Libor Suit, Cyprus: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-21T13:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/sweden-s-banks-freddie-libor-suit-cyprus-compliance.html
Swedish regulators should consider
raising risk weights on mortgage assets above the 15 percent
proposed last year to help the industry pad itself against
potential losses, Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said.  While existing plans to impose stricter bank rules have
strengthened Sweden’s financial system, there remain “several
areas that require further examination,” Ingves said yesterday
in a speech in Stockholm. These include banks’ ability to meet
short-term liquidity needs, as well as whether lenders should
cover costs incurred by the central bank to hold foreign
reserves needed to shield the industry from currency risks, he
said.  Sweden’s financial regulator last year proposed tripling
risk weights applied to mortgage assets as part of a broader
drive to stem imbalances in the housing market. In 2010, Sweden
capped new mortgages at 85 percent of property values. Though
the measures helped slow borrowing growth, property prices are
still rising and  household debt  will hit a record 173 percent of
disposable incomes this year, the central bank estimates.  Raising risk weights to 15 percent would require Sweden’s
largest banks to set aside an additional 20 billion kronor ($3.1
billion) in capital, led by 7.2 billion kronor at Swedbank AB
and 5.5 billion kronor for Svenska Handelsbanken AB, the
regulator said Nov. 26.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Banker Bonus Curbs Sealed as EU Clinches Deal on Basel Law  Bankers may feel the pinch from European Union bonus curbs
starting in 2015, after Britain failed to water down a tentative
agreement from last month aimed at reining in excessive risk-
taking.  European Parliament lawmakers and Ireland, which holds the
rotating presidency of the EU, kept bonus restrictions
unchanged, as they sealed a deal yesterday overhauling bank
capital and liquidity rules for the 27-nation EU.  The bid to ban bonuses more than twice fixed pay is part of
EU legislation to apply international bank capital and liquidity
rules, known as Basel III, drawn up following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. While yesterday’s accord paves the
way for the EU to start phasing in the Basel law by next
January, it comes too late to limit 2014 bonus awards.  Talks on the rules had dragged on for a year and a half
before the Irish presidency and lawmakers negotiated the bonus
agreement. The parliament had insisted that the legislation
include restraints on pay to curb excessive awards and
irresponsible behavior.  The bonus rules would apply to EU banks, including overseas
units. They would also apply to EU-based units of banks from
beyond the bloc’s borders.  The European Banking Authority will work out the details of
the discounting method, said an EU official who asked not to be
identified citing government policy.  EU lawmakers on the economic and monetary affairs committee
today backed legislation that would extend similar bonus caps to
fund managers.  For more, click here.  Wall Street Wins in Swap-Rule Revisions Moving in U.S. House  U.S. House lawmakers advanced legislation that would ease
Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules and give banks greater ability
to trade swaps overseas.  The  House Agriculture Committee  voted yesterday to move
seven measures, including one to allow trading of almost all
types of derivatives by units of banks that hold government-
insured deposits -- such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  A separate bill would restrict U.S. regulators’ ability to
apply rules to overseas transactions.  The measures, which would need approval from the House and
Senate before heading to President  Barack Obama , are part of an
effort to amend or limit the regulatory overhaul the president
signed into law less than three years ago. Dodd-Frank requires
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission to create swap-market rules after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The lawmakers are working to undo Dodd-Frank provisions
even as the CFTC and other regulators are trying to complete the
overhaul.  For more, click here.  ECB Said Likely to Delay Vote on Emergency Cyprus Bank Lending  The European Central Bank is likely to delay a decision on
whether to continue to supply Cypriot banks with emergency funds
as it awaits clarity on the nation’s bailout, two people
familiar with the deliberations said.  The ECB assumes that a bank holiday in Cyprus will be
extended to the end of the week, and there is a public holiday
on the Mediterranean island on March 25, the people said on
condition of anonymity.  That means policy makers don’t need to vote on whether to
extend or halt Emergency Liquidity Assistance to Cypriot banks
at their mid-month meeting in Frankfurt, which started yesterday
and ends today, the people said.  Europe Plays I-Didn’t-Do-It Blame Game on Cypriot Deposit Levy  To listen to the German and French governments, the
European Central Bank and  European Commission , no one was
responsible for the Cypriot deposit tax that was unanimously
endorsed in the early hours of March 16 and fell apart March 19.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opened the blame
game on Sunday, telling ARD television that the commission, ECB
and Cypriot government engineered the swoop on ordinary  bank
accounts  and “now they have to explain it to the Cypriot
people.”  Indignation in Nicosia led other finance ministers from
France to Finland to disown what they had decided.  France’s Pierre Moscovici said he had wanted an exemption
for accounts worth less than 100,000 euros ($129,500). Austria’s
Maria Fekter said ECB demands made that impossible. Joerg
Asmussen, the ECB Executive Board member who took part in the
finance chiefs’ all-night Brussels meeting, pleaded not guilty,
saying the central bank didn’t insist on “this specific
structure of the levy.”  Other non-authors of the tax on sub-100,000-euro accounts
included Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen and the Brussels-based
commission, which said yesterday that it wasn’t comfortable with
the package in “all its elements” and added that “decisions
are taken by the member states.”  For more, click here.  Iceland Unveils Bill Restricting Foreigners’ Property Purchases  Iceland’s Interior Minister Ogmundur Jonasson introduced a
bill curbing foreigners’ ability to buy property in the country,
according to a statement on the parliament’s  website .  The bill, which is being discussed in the Reykjavik-based
legislature, seeks to prevent people who aren’t citizens of
Iceland from purchasing properties that include water rights or
fishing rights. The interior minister would be authorized to
grant exemptions to people or companies operating in Iceland.  The legislation follows Iceland’s repeated rejections of
Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo’s plan to invest $200 million in
300 square kilometers (116 square miles) of land in the north
part of the island to develop a resort and mountain park.  Compliance Action  ICE Said to Put Hold on Investor Swaps Clearing After SEC Rule  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  has put on hold plans to
clear some credit-default swaps for hedge funds and money
managers after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
doubled the amount of collateral the traders need to post,
according to two people familiar with the decision.  Intercontinental, owner of the world’s largest credit-swap
clearinghouse, and investment firms agreed to wait to begin
clearing so-called single-name trades after the SEC’s March 8
 decision  made them too costly, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the decision was private. Investors were hoping
the rule would reduce margin because those contracts often are
offset by opposing trades linked to indexes, lowering risk to
clearinghouses.  The development underscores the complications of having two
regulators overseeing separate parts of the $639 trillion over-
the-counter derivatives market. The SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission are imposing new rules under the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act, including requirements for margin backing trades that
Finadium LLC said may contribute to as much as $6.7 trillion in
additional collateral needs for market participants.  Dodd-Frank gave the SEC jurisdiction over swaps linked to
individual debt issuers while the CFTC has oversight of all
other swaps. Under the bifurcated regulatory oversight of the
credit-swaps market, many large investors are mandated to clear
their index trades, while they’re not required to do the same
for the single-name trades they hold because the SEC hasn’t
completed its rules, the Managed Funds Association, an investor
lobbying group, said in a Feb. 11  letter  to the SEC.  For more, click here.  Smart-Card Chipmakers Said to Face European Antitrust Complaints  Chip manufacturers face antitrust complaints from European
Union regulators over possible price-fixing of microchips for
smart cards, according to three people familiar with the probe.  The European Commission may soon send a so-called statement
of objections cataloging antitrust concerns in the case that
dates back more than four years, said the people, who didn’t
identify the companies concerned and who asked not to be named
because the EU process isn’t public. Such complaints are usually
a precursor to fines.  The Brussels-based EU agency  said  in 2009 that it raided
companies that make chips for telephone SIM cards, bank cards
and identity cards because they may have fixed prices, allocated
customers and exchanged commercially sensitive information.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, declined
to comment on the EU regulator’s next steps in the smart-card
chips probe.  For more, click here.  Singapore Meets Basel III Bank-Capital Rules, Regulators Say  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said Singapore
successfully implemented an overhaul of international bank-
capital rules.  An assessment by regulators found that “Singapore’s
overall capital regime is in line with the requirements of the
Basel framework,” the group said in a statement on its website.  Any deviations from the so-called Basel III rules “were
not considered by the assessment team to be material,” it said.  China Banks Rally on Valuation as Regulator May Loosen Loan Rule  Chinese banks  rallied in Shanghai and Hong Kong, rebounding
from valuations near record lows as a newspaper  reported  that
regulators may ease enforcement of loan rules at smaller
lenders.  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  encouraged small
banks to focus on branches’ loan-to-deposit ratios using the
average daily level each month and to stop checking the ratio on
any given day, the 21st Century Business Herald reported, citing
a person it didn’t identify.  China doesn’t allow banks to lend more than 75 percent of
their deposits, to contain risk.  Croatia Can Privatize Brodotrogir Shipyard by July After Ruling  Croatia will be able to privatize the Brodotrogir shipyard
by July 1 after European Union regulators approved the
government’s plan to increase restructuring aid, the European
Commission said.  Croatia has committed to sign the privatization for the
yard within two weeks of the EU’s decision, the Brussels-based
antitrust agency said.  The nation sought EU approval to increase aid of some 370
million euros ($479 million) to the yard prior to joining the
27-nation bloc in July.  Courts  Freddie Mac Sues BofA, UBS, JPMorgan for Alleged Libor Rigging  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  sued  Bank of America Corp. ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a dozen other banks over alleged manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate, saying it suffered
substantial losses as a result of the companies’ conduct.  Government-owned Freddie Mac accuses the banks of acting
collectively to hold down U.S. dollar Libor to “hide their
institutions’ financial problems and boost their profits,”
according to a complaint filed in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia.  The complaint lists 15 banks as defendants as well as the
 British Bankers’ Association . The banks include Citigroup Inc.,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY) , Deutsche Bank AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Freddie Mac accuses the banks of fraud, violations of
antitrust law and breach of contract. The housing financier is
seeking unspecified damages for financial harm, as well as
punitive damages and treble damages for violations of the
Sherman Act.  Representatives of the banks who declined to comment on the
lawsuit were Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for
Citigroup;  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan;
Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman;  Bill Halldin , a Bank of
America spokesman; Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse; and  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Royal Bank of Scotland.  Eberhard Roll, a Portigon AG spokesman, didn’t respond to
e-mail and phone messages requesting comment.  Calls to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and Norinchukin
Bank, both of Tokyo, which also were named in the complaint,
weren’t answered on a public holiday.  “The BBA is aware of the lawsuit in the United States and
is unable to comment,”  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for the British
Bankers’ Association, said in an e-mail.  Brad German , a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, said the company doesn’t comment on litigation. Denise
Dunckel, a spokeswoman for the Federal Housing Finance Agency,
the conservator of Freddie Mac, also declined to comment.  Freddie Mac and its sister company, Washington-based Fannie
Mae, could have lost a combined $3 billion because of Libor
manipulation, the auditor of the FHFA said in a Nov. 3 internal
memo urging the regulator to investigate further.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which have been under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008, use Libor to determine interest
payments on their investments in floating-rate financial
instruments such as bonds and swaps.  The case is Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-00342, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Interviews/Speeches  Libor Fines Going to Military Charities, U.K.’s Osborne Says  Fines imposed in connection with the Libor scandal are
being donated to military charities, U.K. Chancellor of the
 Exchequer   George Osborne  said during comments to parliament
about the budget in London yesterday.  “Further awards from the Libor banking fines have gone to
good military causes, with money for combat stress to help
veterans with mental-health issues and funds for Christmas boxes
for all our troops on operations this year and next,” he said.  Comings and Goings  Bernanke Saying He’s Dispensable Suggests Tenure Is Winding Down  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s “spoken
to the president a bit” about his future and that he feels no
personal responsibility to stay at the helm until the Fed winds
down its unprecedented policies to stimulate the economy.  “I don’t think that I’m the only person in the world who
can manage the exit,” Bernanke said when asked at a news
conference in Washington if he’s discussed his plans with
President Barack Obama. His term expires at the end of January.  Bernanke’s comments yesterday meshed with the views of some
of Obama’s economic and political advisers who said Bernanke,
59, after spending most of his seven years on the job battling a
financial crisis and its aftermath, is exhausted and wants to
return to private life. The current and former administration
officials asked to not be identified to describe the private
conversations.  Yesterday’s remarks were a departure from Bernanke’s
previous statements that he hasn’t discussed his plans with
Obama or White House officials.  Michelle Smith , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Amy
Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  