-- Swiss Stocks Drop as German Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-21T16:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/swiss-stocks-drop-as-german-manufacturing-shrinks.html
Swiss stocks  declined the most in
more than three weeks after a report showed German manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted in March.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA slid to the lowest price this
year as Swiss watch exports declined in February.  Adecco (ADEN)  SA fell
the most since Nov. 7 after S&P Capital IQ Inc. recommended
selling shares in the recruitment company.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped 1.1 percent to 7,762.3 at
the close of trading in Zurich, its biggest slide since Feb. 26.
The benchmark gauge has retreated 1.3 percent so far this week,
on course for the first loss in six weeks and the biggest drop
since Nov. 16. The SMI has still climbed 14 percent this year.
The broader Swiss Performance Index lost 1 percent today.  “German economic data is the lung of the European
economy,” said Yves Marcais, an equity sales trader at Global
Equities in Paris. “When things there slow, it weighs on
confidence.”  A German index based on a survey of purchasing managers in
manufacturing declined to 48.9 this month from 50.3 in February,
while a services gauge fell to 51.6 from 54.7, Markit Economics
said. Economists in Bloomberg surveys had forecast a reading of
50.5 for manufacturing and 55.0 for services. A figure below 50
indicates contraction.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 9.2 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing Output  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted more
than economists estimated in March, another report showed. A
 composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries fell to 46.5 from 47.9 in February, Markit said.
Economists had forecast a reading of 48.2, according to the
median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In Cyprus, President Nicos Anastasiades met advisers to
draft a new plan to avoid a financial collapse after lawmakers
rejected a bank-deposit levy. The government’s alternative plan
may include a new version of the deposit tax, an official said
after a Cabinet meeting yesterday.  The  European Central Bank  said it will cut Cypriot banks
off from emergency funds after March 25 unless the Mediterranean
island agrees on a bailout with international creditors.  Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand, slid 4.5 percent
to 73 Swiss francs, the lowest price since Dec. 28.   Swatch
Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss timepieces, lost 3 percent
to 527.00 francs. Swiss watch exports fell 2.5 percent in
nominal terms in February from a year ago, the Federal Customs
Offices said.  Adecco Drops  Adecco, the world’s biggest supplier of temporary workers,
retreated 2.7 percent to 53.45 francs. S&P Capital IQ cut its
recommendation on the stock to sell from hold, citing weak
European labor markets.  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN)  tumbled 8.7 percent to 171.40 francs, the
biggest drop since Oct. 31, after the maker of textile machinery
forecast 2013 sales and earnings at last year’s level.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s largest cement maker, lost 1.7
percent to 76.45 francs, following European construction shares
lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  