-- U.K. Budget Deficit Narrows on Boost From BOE, 4G Sale
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-03-21T10:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-on-boost-from-boe-4g-spectrum-sale.html
Britain had its smallest February
budget deficit since 2008 after the Treasury received a second
installment of cash from the  Bank of England  and proceeds from
the sale of fourth-generation mobile spectrum.  The shortfall excluding temporary support for banks was
2.76 billion pounds ($4.3 billion) compared with 11.76 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London  today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a deficit of 8 billion pounds. The underlying deficit
was 7.8 billion pounds.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , delivering his
annual budget yesterday, acknowledged the deficit will be more
than 50 billion pounds higher than previously estimated over the
coming years after his fiscal watchdog cut its forecasts for
economic growth and  tax revenue . Concern over the state of the
public finances has weighed on the pound and gilts this year.  “While it is a good headline borrowing number, the
underlying story on fiscal consolidation remains poor,” said
 James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank NV in London. He said
sterling remains vulnerable to “downside risks, particularly
against the dollar.”  A separate report today showed U.K. retail sales rose 2.1
percent in February in a rebound from a snow-disrupted January.
It was the biggest increase in almost a year and exceeded the
0.4 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
pound strengthened and was trading at $1.5180 as of 11:16 a.m.
in London, up 0.5 percent on the day.  Revenue Boost  February’s deficit was reduced by 2.7 billion pounds of
gilt-coupon income from the central bank and 2.3 billion pounds
from the sale of 4G spectrum auction, the statistics office said.  There was a government cash surplus of 1.5 billion pounds.
This measure will receive the full benefit of 11.4 billion
pounds of cash from the BOE in the fiscal year that ends this
month.  The central bank accumulates income on the 375 billion
pounds of  government bonds  it has built up under its
 quantitative-easing program  since March 2009. Under an agreement
with Osborne last year, it will pay this over to the Treasury in
regular installments. It paid 3.8 billion pounds in January and
February and same amount will be transferred this month.  BOE Impact  The BOE cash will have a smaller impact on the government’s
preferred measure of the deficit, net borrowing excluding
financial interventions, under rules announced by the ONS last
month. The Treasury will be able to book 6.4 billion pounds of
the money in the current fiscal year and 12 billion pounds in
the next one.  In the first 11 months of the fiscal year, the underlying
deficit fell to 101.3 billion pounds from 104.2 billion pound a
year earlier. The  figures  exclude a one-time boost from the 28
billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets
as well as the Bank of England cash. The Office for Budget
Responsibility yesterday predicted a shortfall of 120.9 billion
pounds for the year as a whole, little changed from 2011-12.  Of the 4 billion-pound reduction in the underlying deficit
in February, 2.3 billion pounds came from an improvement in the
position of local authorities, the statistics office said. In
central government, there was a 1.1 billion-pound increase in
income-tax receipts and an 800 million-pound fall in current
spending.  The deteriorating outlook prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to strip Britain of its top  credit rating  last month.
Osborne yesterday conceded that the burden of debt will not
start falling until 2017-18, two years later than planned.  Net debt, which remained at 73.5 percent of gross domestic
product in February, will peak at 85.6 percent in 2016-17, the
OBR said yesterday. In December, the watchdog put the peak at
79.9 percent in 2015-16.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  