-- U.S. Wind Industry Hangs on IRS Defining ‘Construction’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-21T16:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/u-s-wind-industry-hangs-on-irs-defining-construction-.html
As U.S. lawmakers drafted a bill
extending  wind-energy  tax credits in August, they revised a key
clause that opens the door for a much bigger boost to the
industry than just the one-year addition that was eventually
passed.  To qualify for the tax credit that made wind energy the
largest new source of electricity in 2012, projects must “begin
construction” this year, a shift from earlier versions that
applied only to projects that were complete and producing
electricity before the deadline.  The  Internal Revenue Service  is poised to release guidance
for developers to show construction has begun. Depending on how
the term is defined, the Production Tax Credit may apply to
turbines that are installed well into 2015, long past the Dec.
31 expiration of the credit, said Nathanael Greene, director of
renewable  energy policy  at the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
in New York.  “With a liberal interpretation from the IRS, it could
extend activity more than a year,” Greene said in an interview.  The revised eligibility rule will keep turbine factories
humming for years, reviving the U.S. wind-power industry that’s
expected to slump 78 percent this year after a record 13,000
megawatts were installed in 2012.  IRS Review  The IRS is reviewing its policies for when a project will
qualify for the tax credits, said Anthony Burke, a spokesman for
the agency.  “It’s something we realize needs to be addressed,” Burke
said today in a phone interview. “This is being worked on.” He
wouldn’t say when the review may be complete.  The IRS definition may be issued as soon as this month,
according to the  American Wind Energy Association . The tax
credit offers 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for power from wind
farms over 10 years.  The credit was set to expire at the end of December and
lawmakers waited until Jan. 1 to approve the extension. Because
of the “in-service” language, developers raced to connect
turbines to the grid before the clock wound down, while
curtailing new plans. Additions in the fourth quarter reached a
record 8,380 megawatts, more than double that of any prior
three-month period, before plunging this year.  Wind Decline  Uncertainty last year over whether it would be renewed is a
key reason the U.S. is expected to install 4,800 megawatts of
turbines this year, down from an estimated 11,800 megawatts in
2012, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a November report.  “This extension allows the industry to reactivate
development that had been on hold since mid-year,” Tom Vinson,
senior director of federal and regulatory affairs at the
 American Wind Energy Association , said in an interview. “The
start-construction language provides a longer period of
certainty than prior extensions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  