-- U.S. Drought May Improve Slightly; Warmer Weather Nears
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-03-21T17:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/u-s-drought-may-improve-slightly-warmer-weather-nears.html
Drought may persist from  California 
to  Texas  while improving slightly in the Great Plains as
temperatures soar above normal across most of the U.S. from
April through June, the  Climate Prediction Center  said.  The worst of the drought, an “exceptional” dryness that
currently stretches across parts of the Plains from South Dakota
to  Oklahoma , may lessen by one level  on a four-step scale ,
according to the seasonal forecast by the center in College
Park,  Maryland .  “The term ‘improvement’ means a reduction of at least one
category,” said Ed O’Lenic, chief of the center’s climate
operations branch. “It doesn’t mean the drought is going to
away.”  While the next few weeks are expected to be cooler than
normal across the eastern U.S., temperatures will rise by mid-
April, according to the center.  “We are experiencing a very unusual cold pattern,”
O’Lenic said. “As the sun gets higher in the sky, that has to
stop.”  Drought gripped 51.9 percent of the contiguous 48 states in
the week ended March 19, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor
in Lincoln,  Nebraska . The two worst categories cover 16.9
percent of the area, up from 16.5 percent last week.  U.S. Drought  Last summer’s  dryness  across the Midwest and Great Plains
was the worst since the Dust Bowl years of the 1930s,
responsible for livestock losses brought on by feed shortages
and shipping restrictions caused by low channels in the
Missouri, Mississippi and Ohio rivers. It also meant a record
payout on crop insurance, with farmers collecting $14.7 billion
as of Feb. 18, according to the Agriculture Department.  “The deficits in the soil are very large and it’s very
unlikely that seasonal precipitation will ameliorate them,”
O’Lenic said today on a conference call with reporters.  The Midwest and  Great Lakes  may experience  above-average
rainfall  from April through June, according to the center. The
area from California through Texas and along the U.S. Gulf Coast
may experience below-normal rain.  The upper Great Plains has an above-average snowpack from
recent storms, and that will probably start to melt in the next
few weeks. There’s a significant flood risk for the Red River of
the North, which flows through Fargo,  North Dakota , said Laura
Furgione, deputy director of the  National Weather Service .  Flood Outlook  The area around Devil’s Lake, North Dakota, may have flood
waters across about 20,000 acres of farmland, Furgione said. The
snow may also contribute to minor flooding along the upper
Mississippi River.  There is a  high probability  that temperatures from Nevada
to the Atlantic Coast will be higher than the 30-year average,
according to the center. The best chances are in  New Mexico ,
Texas, Oklahoma,  Arkansas  and  Louisiana  in the south and upstate
New York and northern New England in the east.  Warmer-than-normal weather can increase the amount of
energy needed to cool homes and businesses as the Northern
Hemisphere summer, defined by meteorologists as starting on June
1, arrives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  