-- U.S. February Leading Economic Indicators (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-21T14:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/u-s-february-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
rose 0.5 percent in February to 94.8 (2004 = 100), following a
0.5 percent increase in January, and a 0.4 percent increase in
December.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“This month’s increase in the U.S. LEI -- the third consecutive
-- was widespread and driven by a majority of its components.
Even though consumer expectations and manufacturing new orders
remain weak, the economy continues to expand slowly, and may be
developing some resilience against headwinds from, for example,
federal spending cuts due to improving residential construction
and labor market conditions. Meanwhile, the U.S. CEI posted a
small gain following January’s sharp drop due to a decline in
personal income.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board: “The
 U.S. economy  is growing slowly now, and with this reading
increases hope that it may pick up some momentum in the second
half of the year. However, this latest report does not yet
capture the recent effects of sequestration, which could dampen
the pickup in GDP.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.2 percent in February to 105.1 (2004 = 100),
following a 1.0 percent decline in January, and a 0.9 percent
increase in December.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.1
percent in February to 118.0 (2004 = 100), following a 1.6
percent increase in January, and no change in December.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance  Manufacturers’ new orders, consumer goods and materials  ISM Index of New Orders  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods
excluding aircraft orders  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Leading Credit Index  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Average consumer expectations for business conditions  For full press release and technical notes: www.conference-
board.org/data/bcicountry.cfm?cid=1  For more information about The Conference Board global
business cycle indicators: www.conference-board.org/data/bci.cfm  About The Conference Board  The Conference Board is a global, independent business
membership and research association working in the public
interest. Our mission is unique: To provide the world’s leading
organizations with the practical knowledge they need to improve
their performance and better serve society. The Conference Board
is a non-advocacy, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3)
tax-exempt status in the  United States . www.conference-board.org  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, April 18, 2013
at 10 A.M. ET  SOURCE: The Conference Board 