-- U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Europe Concern as Oracle Tumbles
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-03-21T20:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/u-s-stock-futures-drop-as-german-manufacturing-shrinks.html
U.S.  stocks  fell, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index approached a record high yesterday,
as concern about Europe’s debt crisis overshadowed better-than-
estimated American economic data.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  plunged 9.7 percent after sales and earnings
missed estimates. Cisco Systems Inc. and Juniper Networks Inc.
slipped at least 2.2 percent amid an analyst downgrade. Guess?
Inc. fell 7.2 percent after its revenue forecast trailed
projections.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  added 3.5 percent as Oppenheimer & Co.
upgraded the shares.  The S&P 500 fell 0.8 percent to 1,545.8 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , headed toward its second weekly decline of the year. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 90.24 points, or 0.6 percent,
to 14,421.49. About 5.9 billion shares traded hands on U.S.
exchanges today, 6.7 percent below the three-month average.  “There’s going to be on-again, off-again, troublesome news
out of Europe and occasionally it’s going to cause the market
some disruption,” Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at
Milwaukee-based RW Baird & Co., which oversees $85 billion, said
in a telephone interview. “The  U.S. economy  can do somewhat
better, but it will probably be in a slow growth mode for most
of 2013. That’s how it’s been over the last four years and the
market has done quite well in that environment.”  Equities slid today as a  purchasing managers’ index  for
Germany’s manufacturing industry unexpectedly fell this month
while a measure of euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted more than forecast.  Cyprus Funding  The  European Central Bank  said it may cut Cypriot banks off
from emergency funds after March 25 as the island nation’s
president, Nicos Anastasiades, struggled to forge agreement on a
plan to stave off financial collapse.  “We don’t feel anything has been solved in Europe in terms
of the debt situation there,” Eric Thorne, who helps oversee
about $6 billion at  Bryn Mawr  Trust Co. in Bryn Mawr,
 Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview. “Europe and the
surrounding economies having trouble could well be the reason
that the market decides to pause here for a while.”  In the U.S., sales  of previously owned homes  rose in
February to the highest level in more than three years.
Purchases increased 0.8 percent to a 4.98 million annualized
rate, the most since November 2009, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington .  Other data showed applications for  jobless benefits 
increased by 2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended March 16, while
the Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three
to six months climbed 0.5 percent for the second straight month.  Record High  The  S&P (SPX)  500 climbed yesterday to within seven points of its
record reached in 2007 while the Dow hit an intraday all-time
high as the  Federal Reserve  indicated it will keep up bond
buying to stimulate the economy.  The  bull market  in U.S. equities entered its fifth year
this month as the central bank embarked on three rounds of bond
purchases to keep  interest rates  low and corporate profits beat
analysts’ estimates.  Nine out of the 10 S&P 500 groups fell today as raw-
materials and technology companies dropped the most, sinking at
least 1.3 percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility
Index (VIX) , which measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the S&P 500, climbed 10 percent to 13.99.
The gauge, known as the VIX, is down 22 percent this year and
reached its lowest level since February 2007 last week.  Oracle led the slump in technology shares, tumbling 9.7
percent to $32.30. The largest database-software supplier
reported sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates as
Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  is being stymied by
customers switching to Internet-based cloud systems, curbing
their reliance on Oracle’s servers, databases and related
programs.  Cisco Downgrade  Cisco declined 3.8 percent to $20.84 while Juniper Networks
lost 2.2 percent to $18.89. The makers of networking equipment
were cut to underperform, an equivalent of sell, from market
perform at FBR Capital Markets. Increased competition means
there will be a slow but “meaningful” reduction in the number
of routers and switches deployed into networks, analyst  Scott
Thompson  said in a note.  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  retreated 4.5 percent to $18.60. The
contract electronics manufacturer forecast earnings excluding
some items of 58 cents a share at most for the fiscal third
quarter. That  trailed  the average analyst estimate of 61 cents
in a Bloomberg survey.  Airgas Inc. dropped 5.2 percent to $97.96. The largest U.S.
distributor of packaged gases said it may not meet its fiscal
fourth-quarter earnings guidance after sales didn’t increase
through February.  Guess slid 7.2 percent to $25.01. The maker of designer
jeans forecast annual revenue of $2.6 billion to $2.64 billion,
less than analysts’ estimates of $2.74 billion.  Yahoo Upgrade  Yahoo, the largest U.S. web portal, rose 3.5 percent to
$22.86. The shares were upgraded to outperform, meaning
investors should buy the shares, from market perform at
Oppenheimer, which cited the value of Yahoo Japan shares and a
possible initial public offering of Alibaba.com Ltd. in the next
12 months.  KB Home, the  best-performing  U.S. homebuilder stock this
year, rallied 2.5 percent to $22.10, its highest level since
September 2008. The Los Angeles-based company reported a
narrower loss for its fiscal first quarter as sales and prices
climbed amid a nationwide rebound in housing construction.  The  S&P 500  is approaching a record almost 5 1/2 years
after peaking and two years after most  stocks  in the gauge fully
recovered from the worst  bear market  since the 1930s.  Rally Breadth  The index has climbed 130 percent since March 2009, adding
 $10 trillion  to the value of American equity as it erased losses
from the credit crisis. The majority of companies surpassed
their previous highs by April 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 Equal Weighted Index, which counts
each company in the index equally instead of by their market
value,  increased  192 percent from the bottom.  Unlike past bull markets, where a single industry
dominated, all groups have improved in this rally as the U.S.
economy recovers. The breadth of the rebound can be seen in the
S&P 500’s  weightings , where none of the 10 industry measures
represents more than 18 percent of the index. In 2000,
technology companies made up 35 percent of the gauge, and in
2006, financial stocks accounted for 22 percent.  “The breadth of this rally is rather remarkable,”  Stephen Wood , who helps manage about $152 billion as the New York-based
chief market strategist for  North America  at Russell
Investments, said by telephone. “It speaks to the fact that
four years ago the markets were pricing in the end of the world,
but the end of the world was not nigh. So we’ve seen this
significant but drawn-out recovery across the board in equities
-- small, medium, large, defensive, dynamic, value, growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  