-- Lufthansa Cargo Unit Plans Higher Capacity on Industry Rebound
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-21T10:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lufthansa-cargo-unit-plans-higher-capacity-on-industry-rebound.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s  cargo  unit
plans to increase freight capacity as it expects demand to
rebound in the second half of the year at the latest.  The carrier expects to raise the capacity by 1 percent to 2
percent this year, Karl Ulrich Garnadt, who heads the unit, said
at a press conference today, after cutting it by 8.2 percent in
2012. Operating profit at the unit fell 58 percent in 2012 to
104 million euros ($134 million), Lufthansa said on March 14.  “We’ve lost some market share last year as we focused on
profitable freight,” Garnadt said in  Frankfurt . “The first two
months of this year have been difficult, but we are optimistic
we can show slight growth this year.”  Cargo carriers worldwide suffered a blow to profitability
with higher fuel costs and declining demand on slower economic
growth.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  more than tripled its operating
loss in cargo last year to 222 million euros, and  Singapore
Airlines Ltd (SIA) ’s cargo operations remained loss-making in the
quarter ended Dec. 31.  Garnadt reiterated the unit will earn more this year and
next, and post a record operating profit in 2015, as the freight
carrier trims costs and seeks to expand more profitable
businesses such as perishable goods and shipping for the health-
care industry under a group-wide efficiency push.  Lufthansa fell to “third or fourth place” in the global
cargo ranking last year, Garnadt said, with Emirates Airline
climbing to “the clear No. 1.”  “Our position in terms of volumes will remain under
pressure as we focus on profit, not market share,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  