-- Lufthansa Grounded in Europe as Workers Protest for Pay Increase
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-21T11:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lufthansa-grounded-in-europe-as-workers-protest-for-pay-increase.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  scrapped more
than 760 European flights today as cabin crew and ground
personnel went on strike over pay, adding to weeks of
disruptions that stemmed from poor weather and other protests.  About 2,000 employees rallied outside Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Franz’s office  at Frankfurt Airport today,
waving flags, blowing whistles and banging drums to protest a
company plan to freeze pay for two years. The Ver.di union
called staff in Frankfurt, Munich, Hamburg, Dusseldorf, Cologne
and Berlin to walk out until noon to support its demand for 5.2
percent more pay ahead of tomorrow’s talks with management.  Franz is facing resistance to his efficiency program aimed
at lifting operating profit to 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion) by
2015. Workers this year already staged strikes to push through
higher pay for security guards at airports including Hamburg,
Dusseldorf and Cologne, and severe winter weather led to
thousands of flight cancellations at the main  Frankfurt  hub.  “The negotiations are different this time around as there
are so many issues to deal with,” Christine Behle, who sits on
Ver.di’s federal executive board, said in an interview,
referring to the company demand for a pay freeze, and plans to
cut as many as 3,500 jobs and close sites. “Employees are
disappointed by management’s attitude, but we still hope to
reach an agreement soon.”  Behle will succeed Frank Bsirske on Lufthansa’s supervisory
board after  Europe ’s second-biggest airline holds its annual
meeting in Cologne on May 7.  Lufthansa called the strikes “excessive” because it’s
only entering the second round of negotiations tomorrow. The
first meeting on Feb. 26 ended in stalemate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  