-- Lululemon Sheer Yoga Pants Undetected Until Bend-Over Test
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-21T21:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/lululemon-forecast-trails-estimates-on-pulled-transparent-pants.html
Wall Street analysts from Robert W.
Baird & Co. to Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. peppered  Lululemon
Athletica Inc. (LULU)  executives today with questions about how the
yoga-wear retailer is handling a recall of women’s pants for
being too transparent.  Lululemon said on March 18 that some shipments of its black
Luon pants were too sheer and didn’t meet its standards. The
shortage will reduce fiscal full-year earnings by as much as 27
cents a share, Lululemon said today. Analysts asked Chief
Executive Officer Christine Day how employees were handling
returns, whether the company was changing suppliers and how the
pants made it out of the factory in the first place.  “The truth of the matter is the only way you can actually
test for the issue is to put the pants on and bend over,” Day
said on today’s conference call. “Just putting the pants on
themselves doesn’t solve the problem. It passed all of the basic
metric tests and the hand-feel is relatively the same, so it was
very difficult for the factories to isolate the issue, and it
wasn’t until we got in the store and started putting it on
people that we could actually see the issue.”  The problem is a challenge for the retailer, which is able
to sell $98 yoga pants and $64  tank tops  because of its
carefully cultivated reputation for quality. Lululemon, which is
offering full refunds or exchanges to customers who bought the
pants after March 1, has put store employees on “high alert,”
hired new quality control executives and is adding suppliers,
Day said.  Supply Chain  “There’s culpability all along the supply chain here,”
Mark Sunderland, a professor of textile engineering at
Philadelphia University, said in a telephone interview. “The
fact that the pants actually had to reach the customer with the
problem, that’s really unheard of.”  It’s possible that Lululemon’s  supply  chain hasn’t kept up
with the company’s rapid growth, said Sunderland, who has
consulted on performance gear for companies including
 Hanesbrands Inc. (HBI)   Lululemon’s sales have increased by about 30 percent or
more for 14 straight quarters, reaching $1 billion for the first
time in the year ended Jan. 29, 2012.  The chain also faced issues with bleeding garments last
year, which the company apologized for through a letter on its
Facebook page in July.  Lycra Spandex  The black Luon pants accounted for about 17 percent of all
women’s pants in stores, the company said earlier this week.
Lululemon hasn’t identified what caused the pants to be too
sheer though it has “several hypotheses,” Day said today.  Luon, which is made from a combination of nylon and Lycra
spandex fibers, is manufactured in Vietnam and  Taiwan ,  according 
to Lululemon’s website. The company says it has been producing
Luon with Eclat Textile Co. since 2004. The affected items are
concentrated in certain styles in “tighter fitting
silhouettes,” the company said.  Eclat said the pants were made according to requirements
laid out in a contract with Lululemon, the Wall Street Journal
reported earlier this week.  Profit  this  year will be a maximum of $1.99 a share on
revenue of as much as $1.64 billion, the Vancouver-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
projected profit of $2.16 a share and revenue of $1.67 billion,
on average.  Lululemon  rose  1.3 percent to $64.70 at the close in  New
York . The retailer has lost 15 percent this year, compared with
an 8.4 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Quality Issues  “Encouragingly, the company is moving to address its
quality issues and guided to a normalized selling environment by
the fall,” Brian Nagel, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, wrote in a note today. “However, given the lack of
visibility near term, we prefer to wait it out,” said Nagel,
who has the equivalent of a hold rating on the shares.  Lululemon, with more than 200 locations, has been expanding
into men’s and girls active-wear and opening more stores
internationally. Day conducted today’s conference call from
 Australia , where the company has been opening stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  