-- UN to Probe Claims Chemical Weapons Were Used in Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-21T17:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/un-will-investigate-chemical-weapon-claims-in-syria-ban-says.html
 The United Nations said today it
will investigate Syrian government claims that rebels used a
chemical weapon, as President  Barack Obama  warned Syria to keep
chemical arms off the battlefield and away from terrorists.  The UN’s probe will focus on allegations by Syrian
authorities that opposition forces killed 25 people in Aleppo
province by launching a rocket laden with chemicals on March 19.
The opposition said President Bashar al-Assad’s troops used a
toxic weapon.  The U.K. and France requested the investigation of two
additional claims alleging chemical weapons use on March 19 near
Damascus and on Dec. 23 in Homs. Rebels say those attacks were
carried out by government forces.  “I have made it clear to Bashar al-Assad and all who
follow his orders -- we will not tolerate the use of chemical
weapons against the Syrian people or the transfer of these
weapons to terrorists,” Obama said today in a speech in
 Jerusalem . “The world is watching, and we will hold you
accountable.”  The UN investigation is clouded by divergent versions of
what happened. Rebels said Assad’s forces used chemicals in the
Aleppo assault and in a second attack on the same day in the
suburbs of Damascus.  “I am of course aware that there are other allegations of
similar cases involving the reported use of chemical weapons,”
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told reporters in New York. He
stressed the need for “unfettered access” and said the mission
he described as difficult would be dispatched “as soon as
practically possible.”  ’Red Line’  Getting access into Syria, where few journalists and aid
workers are allowed entry, won’t be easy. A UN team of monitors
of the conflict in  Syria  departed last year, unable to leave
their hotels or keep track of abuses committed on the ground.  The risk of chemical-weapons use raises the stakes in the
two-year-old civil war. Obama has said Assad’s regime would
cross a “red line” if it unleashed its chemical weapons
arsenal, the region’s largest.  Obama said yesterday he was “deeply skeptical” of the
regime’s charges, while emphasizing the need to gather facts
about the claim. Proven use of a deadly gas, he said, would be a
“game-changer.”  The U.S. supports “an investigation that pursues any and
all credible allegations of possible chemical-weapons use in
Syria, and underscores the importance of launching this
investigation as swiftly as possible,” Susan Rice, the U.S.
ambassador to the UN, said in an e-mailed statement.  International Split  Both sides yesterday called for the UN to send a team of
investigators. Western governments including the U.S., the U.K.
and France are backing the rebels, while  Russia  is supporting
the Assad regime, underlining splits in the international
community over steps to stop hostilities from escalating.  Ban today showed he has some power to work around the
impasse over Syria at the UN Security Council by dispatching a
fact-finding mission. The most pertinent parallel goes back to
the 1980s during the Iran- Iraq  war.  UN chemical warfare experts traveled to the region in  1984,
1986 and 1987  to look into Iranian claims that Iraq had used
chemical weapons and concluded in all three trip reports that
Saddam Hussein’s regime had used gas on civilians.  Ban has repeatedly said the use of chemical weapons under
any circumstances would constitute an “outrageous crime.”  Behind the war of words about Syria lies a debate among
Western powers on whether and how to weigh in more forcefully to
end a crisis that has killed more than 70,000 people, spurred a
refugee exodus that threatens to destabilize neighboring Jordan
and Lebanon, and increased the threat of chemical arms falling
into the wrong hands as chaos spreads.  U.K., France  The U.K. has said it will supply armored vehicles and body
armor for the opposition.  France  said it may act alone to arm
the rebels.  While Syria’s government has produced, stored, and
weaponized chemical arms, “little is known from open sources”
about the stockpile’s size and condition, the nonpartisan U.S.
Congressional Research Service said in a report in December.  Assad’s regime has been reported to have stocks of nerve
and blister agents such as sarin, VX and mustard gas.  The Syrian opposition -- which just elected a new interim
prime minister, Ghassan Hitto -- has accused Assad’s forces of
using chemical agents before, most recently on Dec. 23. There
have been no confirmed cases, and it wasn’t determined whether
such allegations referred to deadly nerve agents such as sarin
gas or nonlethal crowd-control irritants such as tear gas.  For Related News and Information:
Obama ‘Deeply Skeptical’ of Syrian Chemical-Weapon Allegations  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  