-- Hungary Failed to Resolve Media Concerns, EU’s Kroes Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/hungary-failed-to-resolve-media-concerns-eu-s-kroes-says.html
Hungary  has failed to resolve
concerns about media freedom as the government has implemented
“only a fraction” of the recommendations to deal with the
issue, according to European Union Commissioner Neelie Kroes.  “Issues of media freedom are not yet solved; only a
fraction of the Council of Europe recommendations have been
implemented,” Kroes said of Hungary in the text of a speech to
be delivered today in Dublin. The award of a frequency to
opposition radio Klubradio this month after a series of lawsuits
was “welcome,” Kroes said.  The EU needs to increase its focus on protecting
“fundamental freedoms” such as media pluralism in the bloc,
said Kroes, who is in charge of the digital agenda at the EU
executive. The EU wants to strengthen the independence of media
regulators from government influence, she said.  Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has extended his
influence over independent institutions since winning a two-
thirds parliamentary majority in 2010, including by overhauling
the media regulator, which is now led exclusively by ruling-
party appointees. On March 11, lawmakers backed a constitutional
amendment to curtail judicial authority and limit election-
campaign ads outside of state-run television.  Hungary has made “significant progress” including on
addressing media-law concerns, Council of Europe Secretary-General
Thorbjoern Jagland said on Jan. 29. These included proposed
amendments such as limiting the mandate of the president of the
media authority to one nine-year term.  Concerns about the media are not limited to Hungary, Kroes
said, citing the “excessive concentration” of media ownership
in  Bulgaria  and the phone-hacking scandal in the United Kingdom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  