-- Urlacher Leaves Bears After ‘Insulting’ Offer, Eight Pro Bowls
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-21T13:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/urlacher-leaves-bears-after-insulting-offer-eight-pro-bowls.html
The  Chicago Bears  ended their 13-
year relationship with four-time All-Pro linebacker Brian Urlacher after he and the team were unable to agree on a
contract.  “Both sides have decided to move forward,” Bears General
Manager Phil Emery said in a  statement  on the team’s website.
“Brian has been an elite player in our league for over a
decade. He showed great leadership and helped develop a winning
culture over his time with the Bears.”  Urlacher, an eight-time Pro Bowl player, said he was
insulted by the Bears’ offer and disagreed that the split was
mutual, with his representation never voicing a desire to move
on, according to the  Chicago Tribune .  The Bears offered Urlacher a one-year contract with a
maximum salary of $2 million, including a $1 million guarantee,
while he had initially sought a two-year, $11.5 million deal,
the Tribune said. He made $7.5 million last year.  “It wasn’t even an offer, it was an ultimatum,” Urlacher
said, according to the newspaper. “I feel like I’m a decent
football player still. It was insulting, somewhat of a slap in
the face.”  The 34-year-old Urlacher was picked ninth in the first
round by  Chicago  in the 2000 National Football League draft. He
was named the Associated Press Defensive Rookie of the Year and
in 2005 was named AP’s Defensive Player of the Year.  Super Bowl  The Bears reached the playoffs four times during Urlacher’s
stay, including a trip to the  Super Bowl  following the 2006
season.  Urlacher missed the entire offseason training program and
preseason last year with a knee injury. Still, he led the team
in tackles before injuring his hamstring on Dec. 2 and missing
the team’s final four games.  “As Bears fans, we have been lucky to have such a humble
superstar represent our city,” Bears Chairman George McCaskey
said in a statement. “He embodies the same characteristics
displayed by the Bears all-time greats who played before him and
he will eventually join many of them in the Pro Football Hall of
Fame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  