-- Venezuela Plot Claims Are ‘Outlandish Allegations,’ U.S. Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-21T19:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/venezuela-plot-claims-are-outlandish-allegations-u-s-says.html
The U.S. State Department said
today claims by Venezuelan officials of U.S.-based plots to
destabilize the South American country are “unsubstantiated and
outlandish.”  Venezuela ’s government has stepped up its anti-U.S.
rhetoric after former President  Hugo Chavez ’s death from cancer
March 5 triggered snap elections scheduled for April 14. His
handpicked successor, acting President  Nicolas Maduro , said he
has evidence that former U.S. officials are plotting to
assassinate opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski as a
way of inciting a coup. Foreign Minister Elias Jaua yesterday
suspended talks with U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for
Western Hemisphere Affairs Roberta Jacobson after U.S. officials
were expelled from Venezuela. Maduro accused them of seeking to
destabilize Venezuela by meeting with military officials.  “We categorically reject allegations of U.S. government
involvement in any plots to destabilize the Venezuelan
government or to harm anyone in Venezuela,” State Department
spokesman Patrick Ventrell said in an e-mailed statement. “The
repetition of unsubstantiated and outlandish allegations by
Venezuelan officials about U.S.-based plots is disappointing.”  Venezuela and the U.S. clashed repeatedly during Chavez’s
14-year rule as the former tank commander accused the country’s
main oil client of complicity in an attempt to overthrow him in
2002. He formed an alliance of Latin American countries against
what he called U.S. hegemony in the region.  Chavez, who defeated Capriles by 11 percentage points in an
election in October, also said he had evidence of a plot to kill
his rival, six years after making a similar claim ahead of the
2006 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  New York  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 