-- Videgaray Says Free Float Peso to Continue Amid Mexico Rally
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-03-21T22:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/videgaray-says-free-floating-peso-to-continue-amid-mexico-rally.html
Mexico Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said the government will allow the peso to float
freely, even after a rally that outstripped gains in all major
currencies this year.  “We’ll continue with a currency policy where the exchange
rate is freely determined by the market,” Videgaray said today
at the Bloomberg Mexico Economic Summit. “A flexible exchange
rate is a useful instrument to preserve macro-economic
stability, particularly in a world where we have risks, where
problems exist.”  The peso gained 3.4 percent this year against the U.S.
dollar, the best performance among the 16 most traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Mexico is sticking to its policy even as
countries from Japan to Costa Rica move to weaken their
currencies in a bid to boost economic growth.  The currency pared an earlier loss after Videgaray’s
comments and fell 0.7 percent to 12.4295 per U.S. dollar today
after earlier climbing as much as 0.2 percent to 12.3226, the
strongest level since September 2011.  Mexico’s foreign exchange rate is at a level that doesn’t
hurt exports, Jens Nordvig, a New York-based managing director
at Nomura Holdings Inc., said at the summit. The currency will
probably strengthen to about 12 per dollar by year-end and can
rally beyond that should the government succeed with its push to
open the oil industry to more private investments and boost tax
collection, he said.  Optimism  The impact of a stronger currency on exports is
overshadowed by the optimism that the government’s economic plan
will boost growth, Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo
said at the summit. Guajardo said Pena Nieto’s energy overhaul
will require amending Mexico’s constitution.  Foreign direct investment can more than double to at least
$30 billion a year, Guajardo said, without providing a
timeframe. FDI fell 34.9 percent last year to $12.66 billion,
according to preliminary figures from the economy ministry.  The central bank has been selling dollars since November
2011 when the currency weakens more than 2 percent in a single
day. Any intervention on the market will be based on existing
rules, Videgaray said.  “The intervention by the currency commission will be as it
has been until now, with previously-known rules that have the
objective of moderating abrupt variations from one day to the
next,” Videgaray said.  Faster Growth  Costa Rica’s central bank has bought $185 million so far in
March, more than 14 times the amount purchased last month, to
limit the colon’s appreciation in Central America’s second-
biggest economy. Japanese Prime Minister has pushed the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  to expand monetary easing that has contributed to the
yen’s more than 17 percent decline against the dollar in the
past six months.  President Enrique Pena Nieto’s top economic priority is
passing bills to increase productivity that could accelerate
annual expansion beyond 5 percent, Videgaray said.  “Mexico’s growth is good, but it’s not enough to achieve
our goals and fight poverty,” Videgaray said. “If we
capitalize on this opportunity, Mexico could lift its potential
growth.”  Pena Nieto in coming weeks will present a bill to boost
bank lending, Videgaray said. The financial system doesn’t
provide enough credit to help sustain faster economic growth, he
said.  Political Pact  The president said during his last year’s election that he
would make opening Petroleos Mexicanos to more private
investment his “signature issue” as he looks to reverse
production declines 75 years after his Institutional
Revolutionary Party nationalized the oil industry.  Pena Nieto, 46, brought Mexico’s three biggest political
parties together to sign the Pact for Mexico on Dec. 2 as part
of his bid to gain congressional support for his economic plans.  Mexico’s politicians have shown “greater maturity” in
working together since Pena Nieto took office, Alejandro Valenzuela, chief executive officer of  Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB (GFNORTEO) , Mexico’s third-largest bank by outstanding loans, said at
the summit.  Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Mexico Baa1, the
third-lowest investment grade, will probably reassess Mexico’s
rating at mid-year, said Mauro Leos, a senior credit officer at
the agency.  Standard & Poor’s last week raised its outlook on Mexico
BBB rating to positive from stable on the prospect that proposed
legal changes will fuel expansion in Latin America’s second-
largest economy.  Rating Reassessed  “What we should expect along the course of the year, very
probably at mid-year, is to do an evaluation, a re-evaluation of
the rating to see to what degree the things that we see merit a
change,” Leos said in interview.  Mexico may become Latin America’s largest economy by 2020,
surpassing Brazil, said Steven Costabile, the global head of the
private funds group at PineBridge Investments.  Mexico’s economy has grown faster than Brazil’s the past
two years and will expand 3.5 percent this year, compared with
3.4 percent for Brazil, 1.9 percent in the U.S. and a 0.2
percent contraction in the euro area, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Mexico is in a “sweet spot,” there will also be
difficulties as the nation attempts to move forward in making
its economy more competitive, Leos said.  “Be prepared to be disappointed, because there are going
to be setbacks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  