-- Volkswagen’s Slovak Unit Doubles Output to Record on New Models
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-03-21T10:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/volkswagen-s-slovak-unit-doubles-output-to-record-on-new-models.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  doubled output of its
Slovak factory to a record last year as the introduction of new
models offset slowing demand for cars across  Europe .  The plant located just outside the Slovak capital,
Bratislava, assembled a 419,888 vehicles, compared with 210,441
in 2011, the unit’s chief Albrecht Reimold told reporters today.
New Small Family models, which were introduced in late 2011,
accounted for almost one-half of shipments.  Europe’s largest carmaker is boosting output in the eastern
country, seeking to benefit from its euro adoption combined with
lower labor costs than in western Europe. Volkswagen’s Slovak
unit will seek to maintain the record production volume,
depending on market conditions, Reimold said.  “In 2012, we operated on the edge of our production
capacities,” Reimold said. “The worldwide market is developing
positively. So far this year, we have been doing quite well.”  In addition to the New Small Family line of cars, made for
the Volkswagen, Seat and Skoda brands, the Slovak company also
makes Volkswagen Touareg and Audi-brand Q7 SUVs as well as
bodies for the Porsche Cayenne. More than one-third of SUVs
produced in Slovakia were shipped to non-European markets, led
by China and the U.S.  Exporting outside Europe helps Volkswagen counter slumping
sales on the continent. European car registrations dropped 10.2
percent in February, led by  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and PSA
Peugeot Citroen, according to the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, as concern over the euro-region’s
economy prompted consumers to defer purchases. Volkswagen’s
European sales declined 7.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  