-- VW Sets Preliminary MAN Offer in Push for Full Control
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-03-22T08:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/vw-sets-preliminary-man-offer-in-push-for-full-control.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, made a low-ball initial offer to other holders of  MAN
SE (MAN)  stock as it pushes for full control of the German truckmaker.  VW, which already owns 75.03 percent of the Munich-based
company’s voting rights, will offer 80.89 euros ($104.34) per
share, a 7.1 percent discount to MAN’s closing price yesterday,
according to a statement yesterday from the truckmaker.  Shareholders that don’t accept the cash offer will receive
a guaranteed annual dividend of 3.07 euros per share. VW and MAN
will agree on final conditions after they receive full valuation
reports from auditors, the truckmaker said.  “Cash compensation came in clearly below our and market
expectations of around 95 euros,” Michael Punzet, an analyst
with DZ Bank in Frankfurt, said today in a note. “We don’t
expect high acceptance for the cash offer,” considering the
dividend yield is about 3.8 percent.  Volkswagen is pushing for deeper integration between MAN,
its own commercial-vehicles unit and Swedish truckmaker  Scania
AB (SCVB) , which it also controls, to leapfrog  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Daimler AG
as the biggest producer of heavy trucks in Europe. A completed
deal would allow VW to fully integrate MAN into its operations.  MAN’s common shares  fell  as much as 4.3 percent to 83.36
euros and were down 4.1 percent at 9:33 a.m. in Frankfurt
trading. Before the offer, the stock had climbed 7.9 percent
this year, valuing it at 12.4 billion euros. VW shares rose 0.6
percent to 156.10 euros.  Domination Goal  The Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker said in January that
it would talk with MAN’s board to discuss its goal of seeking a
domination agreement. The deal has to be approved by both
companies and by the truckmaker’s shareholders meeting, which is
scheduled for June 6.  VW is legally required to look at the average price of the
shares in the last three months and the value of the stock based
on an independent evaluation of the company, and offer MAN
shareholders the higher of the two figures. KPMG and
PricewaterhouseCoopers are conducting the assessments.  Europe ’s third-largest maker of commercial vehicles said it
may slow investments and will work to cut spending this year as
the region’s shrinking economies cause earnings to drop faster
than sales. MAN last month forecast a “disproportionately
large” operating profit drop this year as sales suffer a
“slight” decline.  Enough Votes  VW, which already holds enough votes to push through the
deal at an MAN  shareholders  meeting, owns 73.7 percent of the
total share capital. The preliminary offer values the
outstanding stock at about 3.3 billion euros. VW spokesman Marco Dalan declined to comment beyond the MAN statement.  Volkswagen announced a management reshuffle last June meant
to push forward the truckmaking cooperation. As part of the
changes, Leif Oestling gave up his post as chief executive
officer of Scania to join the German automaker’s management
board and help forge the alliance. MAN CEO Georg Pachta-Reyhofen
is now overseeing the group’s industrial engines business, along
with his duties running the truckmaker.  The maker of the Golf hatchback has been working for six
years on closer ties with MAN and Scania. Volkswagen increased
its holding in MAN to a majority in 2011, then raised its stake
last June to its current level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in  Frankfurt  at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  