-- Weil, Proskauer, S&C, Jones Day, Bingham: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-21T11:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/weil-proskauer-s-c-jones-day-bingham-business-of-law.html
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and
Proskauer Rose LLP represented  American Realty Capital
Properties Inc. (ARCP) , which offered to buy Cole Credit Property Trust
III Inc. for at least $5.7 billion, seeking to create one of the
largest real-estate investment trusts that leases space to
single tenants. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is advising Cole
Holdings as owner of the external manager to Cole Credit
Property Trust III.  New York  mergers and acquisitions partner Michael Aiello
led Weil’s team, which also included New York mergers and
acquisitions partner Matthew Gilroy.  The Proskauer team was led by partner Peter Fass, corporate
and included partners Daniel Ganitsky, corporate/mergers and
acquisitions and Andrew Bettwy, finance.  S&C was led by partners Alison Ressler in  Los Angeles  and
Benjamin Weber in New York.  American Realty bid $12 in cash or 0.80 of its common stock
for each Cole Credit share, according to a statement yesterday.
The offer is valued at more than $9 billion, American Realty
said.  Cole Credit, a Phoenix-based nontraded REIT that owns more
than 900 single-tenant office, retail and industrial properties,
agreed earlier this month to buy Cole Holdings, the company that
sponsors it, with plans to go public after the merger.  For more, click here.  Moves  Jones Day Adds Two Health-Care Partners in Atlanta  Rebekah N. Plowman and Kristen Pollock McDonald joined
 Jones Day ’s Atlanta office as partners in the health-care
practice. Both were formerly partners in the Atlanta office of
Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP, where Plowman headed the
national fraud and abuse practice, the firm said.  The two partners will represent health care providers and
life sciences companies in fraud and abuse investigations and
litigation and regulatory compliance matters.  “Our health care and life sciences clients face tremendous
challenges and opportunities in the wake of new legislation and
regulation and we are delighted that Rebekah and Kristen have
chosen to bring their nationally recognized industry practices
to Jones Day,” Atlanta partner-in-charge Lizanne Thomas said in
a statement.  Plowman concentrates on health care matters such as
government investigations,  False Claims Act  and Qui Tam actions,
and clinical research misconduct and certification and licensure
appeals before federal and state administrative tribunals, among
other matters.  McDonald’s practice focuses on litigation related to the
Federal and State False Claims Acts, OIG/DOJ investigations,
commercial disputes between health care providers, defense of
government audits, and appeals before federal and state
administrative bodies.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Bingham Hires Three Corporate Lawyers in Silicon Valley Office  Bingham McCutchen LLP added to its technology, life
sciences, clean technology and emerging-markets capabilities
with the addition of three lawyers to the corporate practice
group, including James Chapman and Michael DiSanto.  Chapman, formerly of Foley & Lardner LLP, has experience
representing  venture capital ,  investment banking , technology,
life sciences and cleantech clients in the U.S. and  Asia . He is
joined by a Foley colleague Stephen Clinton, who represents
emerging growth companies and will be of counsel at Bingham.  DiSanto joins from Dinsmore & Shohl LLP, where he
represented publicly traded and emerging-growth companies in a
variety of industries, including digital media, clean
technology, life sciences, Internet and financial services, the
firm said.  All three have experience in mergers and acquisitions and
other deals, including cross-border transactions.  “With their deep connections in the Valley, Jim, Mike and
Steve will allow us to leverage the strengths of our corporate
technology and life sciences practices on both the East and West
coasts,” Steve Browne, co-chairman of Bingham’s corporate area
said in a statement. “In addition, Jim has built a substantial
 China  practice, which is highly synergistic with our Beijing
office. Current and prospective clients with business worldwide,
particularly in China, will have the immediate benefit of their
experience and our global network.”  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Alexander Calfo Joins Barnes & Thornburg’s Litigation Practice  Alexander G. Calfo has joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s Los
Angeles office as a partner. Calfo, who will be joined by three
associates, was a name partner in litigation defense boutique
Yukevich Calfo & Cavanaugh.  Calfo’s practice focuses on product liability matters and
complex business and insurance coverage cases.  Barnes & Thornburg’s Los Angeles office currently has 27.
The firm has more than 600 attorneys and other legal
professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Tax Lawyer Joins Sidley Austin LLP in Houston  Sidley Austin LLP said Houston tax lawyer Timothy J. Devetski is joining the firm as a partner. Devetski, who was
previously with Vinson & Elkins LLP, will be in Sidley’s Houston
office and will be part of its global tax and tax controversy
practice groups.  Devetski principal area of practice is federal tax law,
with an emphasis on mergers and acquisitions, private equity and
capital markets transactions. He has experience in energy sector
transactions and capital markets, the firm said.  Sidley has approximately 1,700 lawyers in 18 offices
worldwide.  Intellectual Property Partner Joins Perkins Coie in Denver  Perkins Coie  LLP said it added Brian Kinnear to the firm’s
intellectual property practice as a partner in the Denver
office. He was previously a partner at Holland & Hart LLP.  Kinnear focuses his practice on patent prosecution,
counseling and litigation, and provides intellectual property
counsel to a range of businesses.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices across
the U.S. and Asia.  Manatt Phelps Adds Real Estate Partner in Los Angeles  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP announced that Anita Sabine
has joined the Los Angeles office as a partner in the real
estate and land use practice. Sabine joins the firm from
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP .  Sabine’s practice focuses on real estate investment and
development. She has more than a decade’s experience
representing developers, lenders and real estate investment
trusts in matters including acquisitions, entitlement and
finance to leasing and like-kind exchanges.  Manatt, Phelps has 400 lawyers and professionals at nine
offices in the U.S. and  Mexico .  WilmerHale Hires Ropes & Gray Partner Manheim in Washington  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP announced that
Bruce Manheim has joined the firm’s Washington office as a
partner in the regulatory and government affairs department.
Manheim, who has more than 30 years of regulatory, legislative
and litigation experience, was previously a partner at Ropes &
Gray LLP.  Manheim will strengthen WilmerHale’s representation of life
science companies on Food and Drug Administration issues,
government and internal investigations, administrative and other
litigation, transactions, and environmental compliance issues
involving biotech products, the firm said.  WilmerHale has more than 1,000 lawyers at offices in 12
cities in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  News  Chevron Hires Former Justice Minister to Lift Argentine Embargo  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the U.S. oil producer seeking to invest in
Argentina’s shale fields, hired former Justice Minister Leon
Arslanian as it seeks to end a court-ordered embargo on its
assets in the country related to a $19 billion award over
pollution in  Ecuador , court documents show.  Three units of the  San Ramon , California-based company
filed a motion at a  Buenos Aires  chamber court asking the
Federal Supreme Court to review the case. The motion has the
signature of Arslanian, who was justice minister from 1991 to
1993.  The plaintiffs are seeking to enforce a $19 billion award
against Chevron, which they say is responsible for damaging the
environment in Ecuador’s Lago Agrio region. Chevron, which
signed a $1 billion joint venture Dec. 21 with YPF SA to develop
Argentina’s Vaca Muerta shale formation, says the Ecuador
judgment is “illegitimate” and the embargo is “improper” in
its 40-page appeal.  German Gonzalez Campana, a lawyer from Arslanian’s law
firm, said in a phone interview from Buenos Aires that Arslanian
was hired by Chevron, and that he is unavailable for comment.  Arslanian was the judge who condemned in 1985 the military
dictators who killed 30,000 people during Argentina’s 1976-1983
dictatorship.  Lifting the embargo is crucial for a the joint venture with
YPF, Argentina’s state-owned oil company, Chevron said March 12.  Judge Adrian Elcuj Miranda ordered 40 percent of Chevron’s
Argentina bank accounts to be held in escrow on Dec. 14, a
decision that was ratified on Jan. 29 by an appeals court,
according to the new appeal filed by Chevron lawyers.  Securities Class-Action Settlements Found to Be at 14-Year Low  The number of securities class-action settlements fell to a
14-year low in 2012 while their average dollar value rose to an
all-time high, a research study found.  The 53 court-approved settlements reported last year
represent a more than 45 percent decline from the 10-year
average since 2002, and the average settlement increased to
$54.7 million in 2012 from $21.6 million in 2011,  Cornerstone
Research  concluded in a report released yesterday.  “Based on the volume of recent securities class action
filings, the unusually low number of settlements reported in
2012 is unlikely to persist in the future,” said Laura E. Simmons, senior adviser of Cornerstone. That’s based on higher
numbers of filings in recent years that may come to settlement
later, she said. For 2008 and 2009, there are 70 cases yet to be
resolved, she said.  “Settlement trends are often best viewed over time periods
longer than a year,”  Joseph Grundfest , a law professor and
director of the Stanford Law School Securities Class Action
Clearinghouse, said in the statement. “A lull in last year’s
data suggested a pickup for this year.”  The Cornerstone researchers said such cases historically
take years to settle, and the decrease in the number of
settlements last year may be traced to fewer lawsuits being
filed in 2009 and 2010. Since 2007, the median time for
settlement was 3.3 years, the researchers said.  They also cited a “significant slowdown in the initial
public offering market in 2008 and 2009” as a possible cause
for a dip in some 2012 settlements.  Cornerstone found that a third of the settlements in 2012
were in the financial services industry, with the technology and
pharmaceutical industries being the next most prevalent sectors.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Dickstein Shapiro Files Freddie Mac Suit Over Libor Rigging  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  sued  Bank of America Corp. ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and a dozen other banks over alleged manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate, saying the mortgage financier
suffered substantial losses as a result of the companies’
conduct.  Government-owned  Freddie Mac  accuses the banks of acting
collectively to hold down the U.S. dollar Libor to “hide their
institutions’ financial problems and boost their profits,”
according to a complaint filed in federal court in Alexandria,
 Virginia .  “Defendants’ fraudulent and collusive conduct caused USD
Libor to be published at rates that were false, dishonest, and
artificially low,” Richard Leveridge, a lawyer for Freddie Mac
and the managing partner of Dickstein Shapiro LLP, said in the
complaint.  Manipulation of  interest rates  by some of the world’s
biggest banks has spawned probes by half a dozen agencies on
three continents in what has become the industry’s largest and
longest-running scandal. More than $300 trillion of loans,
mortgages, financial products and contracts are linked to Libor.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, an
industry lobby group that asks firms to estimate how much it
would cost to borrow from each other for different periods and
in different currencies.  The complaint lists 15 banks as defendants as well as the
British Bankers’ Association. They include  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
Barclays Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the Royal Bank
of Canada, Deutsche Bank AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Freddie Mac accuses the banks of fraud, violations of
antitrust law and breach of contract. The housing financier is
seeking unspecified damages for financial harm, as well as
punitive damages and treble damages for violations of the
Sherman Act.  “The BBA is aware of the lawsuit in the  United States  and
is unable to comment,”  Brian Mairs , a spokesman for British
Bankers’ Association, said in an e-mail.  Freddie Mac and its sister company, Washington-based  Fannie
Mae , could have lost a combined $3 billion because of Libor
manipulation, the auditor of the FHFA said in a Nov. 3 internal
memo urging the regulator to investigate further.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae use Libor to determine interest
payments on their investments in floating-rate financial
instruments such as bonds and swaps.  The case is Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 13-cv-00342, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 