-- WTI Crude Drops as Europe Manufacturing Adds to Cyprus Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-21T13:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/west-texas-oil-falls-after-prices-fail-to-breach-technical-limit.html
West Texas Intermediate declined
after its biggest advance in two weeks as Euro-area services and
manufacturing contracted and Cyprus’s president worked on a new
plan to secure a financial bailout from the euro area.  Futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent in  New York  and
pared losses after Labor Department figures showed fewer
Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for  unemployment
insurance  last week. The  European Central Bank  said today it may
cut Cypriot banks off from emergency funds after March 25 as the
island nation’s president, Nicos Anastasiades, raced to draft a
new bailout proposal. Industrial output and services in the euro
area shrank more than economists estimated in March.  “The Cyprus situation is a sign that the  European debt
crisis  is far away from being solved,” said Gerrit Zambo, an
oil trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, who correctly
predicted last week that prices would decline. “There’s quite a
fundamental weakness in the oil market. A correction could come
at any time.”  WTI for May delivery fell as much as 71 cents to $92.79 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $93.35 at 12:55 p.m. London time. The volume
of all futures traded was 40 percent below the 100-day average.
The April contract, which expired yesterday, closed 80 cents
higher at $92.96.  Cyprus Alternative  Brent for May settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange slid 23 cents to $108.49 a barrel. The volume of
all futures traded was 9 percent above the 100-day average. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $15.15 to WTI. The
gap was $14.93 on March 19, the narrowest settlement since July.  The Cypriot government’s alternative plan may include a new
version of the deposit tax, according to an official who spoke
after a meeting of the cabinet yesterday and asked not to be
identified in line with government policy. The country’s central
bank declared that banks would stay shut for another two days,
effectively barring Cypriots from access to their accounts until
March 26, when lenders are due to reopen after a local holiday.  Crude declined after prices failed to surmount technical
resistance along the middle Bollinger Band, near $94.10 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Front-month WTI futures have traded near the middle
Bollinger indicator for the past four days without settling
above it, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders
tend to be clustered close to chart-resistance levels.  ‘Creeping’ Worries  “Worries are creeping back in relation to Cyprus, so we’re
seeing some selling,” said  Victor Shum , the managing director
of IHS Consulting in  Singapore .  A composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers
in European manufacturing and services fell to 46.5 from 47.9 in
February, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
had forecast a reading of 48.2, according to the median of 23
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  Applications for jobless benefits in the U.S. increased by
2,000 to 336,000 in the week ended March 16, Labor Department
figures showed today. Economists projected 340,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. oil inventories fell by  1.3 million barrels  last week,
the first drop in two months, an Energy Department report showed
yesterday. Supplies were forecast to climb 2 million barrels in
a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Oklahoma Crude  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the biggest U.S.
storage hub and the delivery point for WTI contracts, shrank by
286,000 barrels last week to 49 million, according to the Energy
Department report. It was a second weekly decrease and the
lowest level since the week ended Dec. 14. Total oil inventories
were 383 million, 12 percent  higher  than the five-year average.  The data for total supplies may have been distorted by
readings for the U.S. West Coast, which registered the largest
decline at 2.75 million barrels. The inventory change in the
area is sometimes disregarded by traders because the region’s
distribution system is isolated from the rest of the U.S., Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital
Advisors, said yesterday. Excluding  California  and the rest of
the West Coast, total U.S. stockpiles rose by 1.44 million
barrels.  U.S. gasoline inventories slid by  1.5 million barrels  last
week, the government report showed. They were forecast to fall
by 2 million, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate-fuel supplies, including
heating oil and diesel, decreased by 672,000 barrels, compared
with a projected fall of 1 million in the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  