-- Zynga Ends Requirement for Facebook Login on Web-Based Games
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-21T20:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-21/zynga-ends-requirement-for-facebook-login-on-web-based-games.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  will let users play its
Web-based games without having to provide a  Facebook Inc. (FB)  login,
bolstering efforts to reduce its reliance on the world’s largest
social-networking service.  An updated version of the Zynga.com gaming portal,
available to some visitors starting today, will let new users
create an account without entering their Facebook name and
password, Chief Technology Officer Cadir Lee said today in an
interview.  Zynga, the largest maker of games played on Facebook, has
struggled as competition has increased and users have shifted
toward apps on mobile devices, away from Web-based titles. The
company began planning a revamp of Zynga.com last year after
renegotiating the terms of its agreement with Facebook, easing
requirements for log-ins, payment and advertising, Lee said.  “It’s a reflection of the work that we jointly undertook
after discussions with Facebook,” Lee said. “We both felt like
there were some things that just didn’t quite work about having
an all-Facebook site on a non-Facebook destination.”  The new login process could make it easier for Zynga to
work with competing social networks including Google Inc. and
Twitter Inc., Lee said.  Zynga generates revenue by selling virtual goods within its
games -- for example, a gun in “Mafia Wars” or a brick oven in
“ChefVille.”  The company reported fourth-quarter profit and sales last
month that beat analysts’ estimates as it cut costs faster than
demand fell for virtual goods.  The shares were little changed at $3.35 at the close in  New
York . The stock has jumped 42 percent this year, compared with
an 8.4 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  