-- 
Macquarie Raised to ‘Hold’ at Citigroup, Shares Surge

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-07-15T07:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/macquarie-raised-to-hold-at-citigroup-shares-surge-1-.html
Investors in  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
Asia’s worst performing financial stock in the past month,
should stop selling because recent declines mean the bank’s
likely “earnings headwinds” are now reflected in the share
price, Citigroup Inc. analysts said.  Macquarie was raised to “hold” from “sell” by Citigroup
analysts led by Melbourne-based Wes Nason. In a note to
investors dated yesterday, the team kept its share price
forecast at A$30.50.  Sydney-based Macquarie faces weakening demand for mergers
and acquisitions advice, as well as turmoil on equity markets
and a higher Australian dollar that hurts about 60 percent of
its earnings, issues that are “now reflected in the price,”
according to Nason. Citigroup early last month cut Macquarie to
“sell” from “hold,” saying it was falling behind rivals in
generating fees from mergers.  “While operating conditions are difficult and the firm
appears to be underperforming peers in several key swing
businesses, we are no longer a seller of Macquarie,” Nason
wrote in the note.  Shares of Macquarie fell 14 percent since June 14 to
A$27.90 yesterday, the lowest since April 2009, making it the
biggest decliner among the 226 companies in the MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Financials Index, which gained 0.7 percent in the period.
It climbed 3.9 percent to A$29 in Sydney today, the biggest jump
since Oct. 29, paring this year’s losses to 22 percent.  “Some selective reduction of staff, say 1,000, probably
needs to occur” at Macquarie to restore returns to industry
levels, Citigroup’s Nason said. Macquarie bankers generate 75
percent to 80 percent of the revenue of their peers at other
investment banks, the note said.  Macquarie is due to publish a trading update late this
month. The bank forecast in late April that profit in the year
ending March 31 will top the A$956 million ($1.02 billion)
earned in the previous fiscal year as its U.S. expansion boosts
returns and dealmaking and equity trading rebound.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  