-- 
Klimt Landscape Once Looted by Nazis Could Go for $25 Million at Sotheby’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/after-nazi-looting-klimt-landscape-could-sell-for-25-million.html
A Gustav Klimt landscape whose
provenance includes Nazi looting and murder, and finally
restitution to an heir of the original owner, could fetch more
than $25 million at auction this fall.  The 1915 oil-on-canvas “Litzlberg am Attersee” (Litzlberg
on the Attersee) will highlight  Sotheby’s (BID)  evening Impressionist
and modern art sale in New York on Nov. 2.  “It’s a beautiful, beautiful painting,” said Jane Kallir,
director of  Galerie St. Etienne  in  Manhattan , which gave Klimt
his first U.S. exhibition in 1959. The estimate is “a
conservative, very prudent starting point. I would not be
surprised if it does considerably better.”  Earlier this month, the  Museum of Modern Art  in Salzburg,
 Austria , returned the artwork to Georges Jorisch, the grandson
of Amalie Redlich, a Jewish woman who owned it until she was
deported to  Poland  by the Nazis in 1941 and murdered. Her art
collection was seized by the Gestapo and sold off.  In 1944, the Klimt appeared in the collection of the
Landesgalerie Salzburg, now known as the Residenzgalerie, and
later in the Salzburg Museum of  Modern Art .  The painting initially belonged to Austrian iron magnate
Viktor Zuckerkandl and his wife, Paula, who were art patrons. In
1927, part of their collection passed to Viktor’s family.
“Litzlberg am Attersee” landed with Viktor’s sister, Jorisch’s
grandmother.  Another Restitution  Another Klimt landscape once owned by the family, “Kirche
in Cassone (Landschaft mit Zypressen)” (“Church in Cassone --
Landscape With Cypresses”), fetched 26.9 million pounds ($43.4
million) at  Sotheby’s   London  in February 2010, setting a record
for a landscape by the artist. The 1913 oil had a high estimate
of 18 million pounds.  “The difference is that ‘Litzlberg’ has a lot of landscape
and that to me is very enchanting,” Kallir said. “The church,
the top four-fifths are buildings, they are solid. To my mind
it’s a less lyrical painting.”  The priciest Klimt is a gold-splattered 1907 oil portrait
of Adele Bloch-Bauer, for which cosmetics magnate Ronald S. Lauder paid $135 million in 2006. It can be seen at the Neue
Galerie in  New York .  Jorisch will donate a portion of the proceeds from the sale
of “Litzlberg am Attersee” to Salzburg’s  Museum of Modern Art ,
to build an extension that will be named in his grandmother’s
honor.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 