-- 
Airport Body Scanners Were Improperly Adopted by U.S., Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a
-- 
2011-07-15T19:08:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/airport-body-scanners-were-improperly-adopted-by-u-s-appeals-court-rules.html
Airport body scanners that create
unclothed images of passengers were improperly adopted by the
U.S. as a primary screening tool, a federal appeals court ruled,
while allowing their use to continue.  The U.S.  Transportation Security Administration  should have
sought public comment before deciding that the scanners, first
deployed in 2007, would be used “everywhere for primary
screening,” U.S. Circuit Judge Douglas Ginsburg in  Washington 
wrote for a three-judge panel in the decision issued today.  The devices were developed at the direction of Congress,
which in 2004 ordered the TSA to give “high priority” to
finding new technology for airport screening that could detect
chemical, biological and radiological weapons. Privacy advocates
objected to the scanners as excessively intrusive and said the
TSA failed to follow correct procedure in implementing their
widespread use.  “Due to the obvious need for the TSA to continue its
airport security operations without interruption, we remand the
rule to the TSA but do not vacate it,” Ginsburg wrote. The
court said that passengers who don’t want a body scan will
receive a “patdown” from security agents.  Greg Soule, a TSA spokesman, said the agency is reviewing
the opinion.  ‘Best Technology’  “This is the best technology currently available to detect
non-metallic improvised explosive devices hidden on a passenger,
and is an important part of TSA’s multi-layered security
efforts,” Soule said in an e-mailed statement. He said the TSA
is trying out new software that generates a “generic outline” of
a person rather than a passenger-specific image.  The TSA employs two types of body scanners. One uses
“millimeter wave” technology that relies on radio frequency
energy. The other has “backscatter technology” that uses low-
intensity X-ray beams. Each produces an image without clothing
of the person being scanned. The scan allows TSA agents to
detect nonmetallic objects such as liquids or powders, which a
magnetometer can’t detect, without touching the passengers.  The agency awarded leasing contracts for scanners to
Rapiscan Systems Inc. and a unit of  L-3 Communications Holdings
Inc. (LLL)  in late 2007. New York-based L-3 contracts military and
homeland security technology to the U.S. government. Rapiscan,
based in Torrance,  California , makes security-detection
technology for airports.  Share Trading  L-3 fell 86 cents to $81.51 at 2:57 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares gained 17 percent this
year before today. Jennifer Barton, a spokeswoman for L-3, said
the company doesn’t typically comment on legal matters.  Rapiscan “is not involved in the legal proceedings and
will continue to support its ongoing programs with the U.S.
Transportation Security Administration,” Peter Kant, the
company’s executive vice president, said in a statement. “The
ruling does not affect Rapiscan’s business in any material
way.”  Rapiscan is a unit of  OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS) , a global supplier
of security inspection products based in Hawthorne, California.
OSI fell 7 cents to $42.79 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The TSA tested the scanners as a primary screening tool in
2009 and decided last year to use them everywhere for ordinary
screening. By the end of 2010, the agency was operating 486
scanners in 78 airports with plans to add 500 more by the end of
this year, according to the court.  Privacy Laws  The Electronic Privacy Information Center and two of its
advisory board members sued the TSA in July 2010, claiming the
scanners violated federal privacy laws and constitutional
protections from unreasonable searches.  They also challenged the decision to use the scanners as a
primary screening tool without first allowing people to comment.
The U.S. government is required to notify the public when it
proposes a new rule and to seek comments from interested parties
before issuing a final regulation. It must also allow people to
petition for a rule to be amended or repealed.  The TSA argued that the screening decision wasn’t a
“legislative rule” and was therefore exempt from federal
notice-and-comment requirements.  Rejecting the privacy and constitutional arguments, the
appeals panel said the change to so-called advanced imaging
technology, or AIT, affected the public sufficiently to trigger
rulemaking requirements.  ‘Unclothed Passenger’  “It is clear that by producing an image of the unclothed
passenger, an AIT scanner intrudes upon his or her personal
privacy in a way a magnetometer does not,” Ginsburg wrote.
Without providing a timetable, he said the court expected the
TSA to “act promptly” in soliciting public comment.  “Many Americans object to the airport body scanner
program,”  Marc Rotenberg , president of the Electronic Privacy
Information Center, said in an e-mailed statement. “Now they
will have an opportunity to express their views to the TSA, and
the agency must take their views into account.”  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v. U.S.
Department of  Homeland Security , 10-1157,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 