-- 
Allen, Novozymes, Samsung, Lady Gaga: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-15T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/allen-novozymes-samsung-eu-customs-lady-gaga-intellectual-property.html
Paul G. Allen’s claims that 11
companies including Google Inc. and Apple Inc. infringed his
business’s online-shopping technology will remain on hold while
the U.S. government reviews the quality of the patents, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman of federal court in
 Seattle  said she won’t reconsider staying the lawsuit filed by
Allen’s patent-licensing company. Interval Licensing LLC, she
said July 12, “has failed to show any manifest error in the
order granting the stay or any new facts that could not have
been brought to the court’s attention earlier that compel the
court to reconsider its order.”  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, at the request of the
companies sued by Interval, is evaluating whether the four
patents cover novel inventions. The patents, which mainly cover
common electronic-commerce applications for displaying and
categorizing product information, were obtained from a defunct
computer-science and communications research business Microsoft
Corp. co-founder Allen, 58, and David Liddle formed in 1992.  The other defendants are  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Facebook Inc.,  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) ,  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ,  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
Yahoo! Inc. and Google’s YouTube business. Seattle-based
Interval is seeking unspecified cash compensation and a court
order to block further use of the inventions.  In granting the request to maintain the stay, Pechman said
that since Interval doesn’t compete with the companies, it won’t
lose any market share from the delay. The patent office review
could alter the scope of the patents, which would affect how the
case proceeds, she said.  The lead case is Interval Licensing LLC v. AOL Inc.,
10cv1385, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  Novozymes Enzyme Patent Deemed Invalid at Danisco’s Request  The  European Patent Office  said a Novozymes A/S patent is
invalid, siding with DuPont Co.’s Danisco A/S unit in the latest
legal spat between the world’s two largest makers of enzymes.  The EPO revoked the patent, which covers the technology
used to coat an enzyme used for animal feed, according to a
statement on the Munich-based agency’s website dated July 8.
Novozymes, which was awarded the patent in 2009, last month won
an injunction against one of Danisco’s products in a Dutch court
based on the EPO’s patent.  “Danisco has strongly maintained that the patent is
invalid and that Danisco’s products do not infringe,” Soonhee
Jang, Danisco’s chief  intellectual property  counsel, said in an
e-mail. “We are gratified and very pleased with this
decision.”  Novozymes has appealed against the office’s decision and
the patent will stand as granted until the EPO’s board decides
on the challenge, said Annegrethe Jakobsen, a spokeswoman for
the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company.  “We still have a strong confidence in the validity of the
patent,” Jakobsen said by e-mail yesterday.  Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, in May won control of Copenhagen-based Danisco
in a $6.36 billion purchase.  Danisco and Novozymes are also locked in a U.S. patent
court case over an enzyme used in biofuel production.  That case is Novozymes A/S v. Danisco A/S, 10-cv-251, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin (Madison).  Circuit City Agrees to Sell Patent Portfolio for $750,000  Circuit City Stores Inc. (CCTYQ)  Liquidating Trust agreed to sell
its remaining patent portfolio for $750,000, according to a
 statement  from  Streambank LLC , which is advising the company in
the sale of its IP assets.  Included in the portfolio are 22 U.S. patents and patent
applications and related foreign patents. Streambank said the
patents cover technology related to Internet-based home-video
rental, and were developed for Circuit City’s Digital Video
Express.  The patents “play a central role in the evolving dynamic
of technology companies creating digital delivery solutions,”
according to the Streambank statement.  Streambank said that even with the agreement to sell the
patent portfolio to Imaging Transfer Co. for $750,000, the sale
is subject to higher and better offers, with bids due by Aug.
12. An auction will be held Aug. 16, Streambank said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Samsung Seeking Ouster of Some of Apple’s Legal Team from Case  Samsung Electronics Ltd. is seeking to disqualify one of
the law firms representing  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in an intellectual-
property dispute in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .  In a July 11 court filing, Samsung asked that  Bridges &
Mavrakakis LLP  of  Palo Alto , California, be discharged from the
case because of the firm’s previous representation of Samsung.  The Suwon, South Korea-based company said lawyers from
Bridges & Mavrakakis represented Samsung in a different
infringement case involving one of the patents at issue in the
Apple dispute. Bridges & Mavrakakis lawyers have worked almost
9,000 hours on Samsung patent litigation, according to the court
filing.  In the past, Samsung said, lawyers from the firm “received
confidential information from Samsung that is substantially
related to this action.” As a result, an “irreconcilable
conflict of interest required Bridges & Mavrakakis to be
disqualified from representing Apple in this case,” Samsung
said.  The issue is whether attorneys from the firm obtained
confidential information, “not whether they will use it,”
Samsung said. The company said it met with the firm “on
multiple occasions” in efforts to resolve the matter without a
lawsuit.  Kenneth H. Bridges  from Bridges & Mavrakakis didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment. He is named in
the motion for disqualification and is described as having been
in charge of the day-to-day operation of a case involving one of
the patents in the Apple dispute.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11CV1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  EU Customs Seized 1 Billion Euros of Imported Goods in 2010  The European Union seized more than 1 billion euros of
imported goods at customs last year, the European Commission
said in a  statement  yesterday.  “In 2010, EU Customs seized more than 103 million products
suspected of violating intellectual property rights  at the EU’s
external borders,” the commission said. “The number of
shipments stopped by customs almost doubled” to almost 80,000
from 43,500 in 2009, the commission said.  Cigarettes comprised 34 percent of the seized goods,
followed by office supplies, at 9 percent of the total. The
commission said 14.5 percent of the suspected products were
household products with potential health and safety implications
for customers, including shampoos, soaps, medicines and
electrical and electronic items.  China was the leading source of the infringing products,
accounting for 85 percent of the articles seized, the commission
said. Other points of origin for the detained items were Turkey,
 Thailand ,  Hong Kong  and  India .  According to the report, 90 percent of the goods seized by
customs were destroyed or are the subject of infringement-
related court cases.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google’s YouTube Yanks Gaga Account after Infringement Claims  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site suspended Lady
Gaga’s YouTube account in response to copyright-infringement
claims, the Washington Post  reported  yesterday.  According to the newspaper, a YouTube notice said her
account was suspended because of “multiple or severe violations
of YouTube’s copyright policy.”  The performer’s publicist and record label didn’t return
messages seeking comment, the Post reported.  Gaga has two accounts and only one was removed, according
to the newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  University Technology Transfer  University of Copenhagen to License IP Rights for Free  The University of Copenhagen has said it will follow the
lead of  three UK universities  to offer free licenses for
intellectual property developed by its researchers to companies
or individuals with credible plans for commercializing the
inventions, the Copenhagen Post  reported .  The “Easy Access IP” program under which the university
intellectual property is made available  had its origin  in
Glasgow University’s technology transfer program, according to
the Copenhagen Post.  The program’s aim is the development of new commercial
collaborations, the newspaper reported.  The project comes with a three-year timeline for the
development of the invention into a commercial product,
according to the Post.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  South Korea  Targets Industrial Espionage, Official Says  South Korea will intensify efforts targeting industrial
espionage,  Kim Dong-soo , chairman of that nation’s  Fair Trade
Commission , told the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea, the
Korea Herald  reported .  He said his agency will establish a center where reports of
intellectual-property abuse can be filed, according to the
Herald. he center will also provide guidelines on how to
exercise intellectual property rights properly, Kim said, and
the Herald reported.  Kim told the chamber that some holders of intellectual
property rights “engage in abusive behavior that exceeds the
rights rewarded for the innovation,” according to the Herald.  IP Moves  Heninger Garrison Adds Maureen Abbey to IP Litigation Team  Heninger Garrison Davis LLC  hired Maureen B. Abbey for its
intellectual-property practice, the Birmingham, Alabama-based
firm said in a  statement .  Abbey  previously practiced at the now-dissolved firm Ward &
Olivo and joins name partner John W. Olivo Jr. who also moved to
Heninger Garrison.  She has done patent litigation for clients whose
technologies include financial services, document and workflow
management, network security systems, fraud and security
detection and deterrent systems, and various other electronic
systems. She has also done patent-acquisition work, and advised
clients on intellectual property portfolio management.  Before she was a lawyer, Abbey was a research scientist and
lab manager at the Department of Neurosurgery at the Graduate
Hospital affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania, and
later at Thomas Jefferson University, in Philadelphia.  Abbey has an undergraduate degree from Johns Hopkins
University, a master’s degree from Thomas Jefferson University
and a law degree from Temple University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 