-- 
Amazon.com, Infant No More, Should Be Charging Sales Tax: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/amazon-com-infant-no-more-should-be-charging-sales-tax-view.html
There are lots of good reasons to
shop online, but dodging sales tax shouldn’t be one of them.
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is battling the authorities in its largest state
market,  California , over this principle. The good arguments are
on the Golden State’s side.  Online stores rang up more than $170 billion of purchases
last year, accounting for about 9 percent of all retail sales.
That’s a far cry from these merchants’ tiny start in 1998, when
Congress granted a three-year reprieve from taxation, believing
that the fledgling Internet sector needed help getting started.  That preferential treatment has since been extended several
times. Yet Amazon last year rang up more than $34 billion in
sales, with more than $1 billion in net income. Given online
retailing’s current clout, it is time for these companies to
play by grown-ups’ rules.  Until late June, Seattle-based Amazon enjoyed a convenient
double identity in California. The company based its A9 search-
engine project in  Palo Alto . Designers of Amazon’s Kindle book
reader worked in Cupertino. Thousands of Californians became
Amazon associates, drumming up sales in return for a small cut
of proceeds.  For sales, however, Amazon played the stranger. It deemed
its  online store  to be an entirely out-of-state operation,
unhampered by California retailers’ obligation to charge  state
sales tax  on orders. As a result, even if physical stores and
Amazon charged identical list prices for a toaster, a book or a
deck chair, Amazon’s tax-free pricing made its wares about 8
percent cheaper.  Angry Retailers  Brick-and-mortar retailers have been fuming about this
disparity for years. “We’re at a huge competitive disadvantage
with online retailers,” says Bill Dombrowski, president of the
 California Retailers’ Association . “It’s bleeding us.”  California’s fiscal experts aren’t happy either. State
Assemblyman Charles Calderon estimated that California was
missing out on $83 million a year in sales tax that wasn’t being
collected by Amazon. (The state asks taxpayers to compute their
online tax obligations as part of annual income tax filings, but
hardly anyone does.)  In the spring, the California Legislature passed a bill
that defines Amazon as having a California presence, with an
obligation to collect state taxes.  Amazon’s Rematch  Now, having lost in the legislature, Amazon wants a
rematch. It said this week that it will start gathering
signatures for a referendum, probably in February, on whether
the new sales-tax law should be repealed. If voters cast their
ballots simply to avoid paying sales tax, Amazon could win.  It’s important to remember, though, that sales tax isn’t
just a nuisance charge you pay every time you eat at a
restaurant, buy a T-shirt or get your car’s oil changed. In the
45 states that charge sales tax, these levies are a major way of
paying for roads, police, teachers and other services.  While Amazon rings up brisk sales in all states, it
 collects taxes  in only five, including  New York  and  Washington .
It provides some tax-bill notices for four others. To limit its
tax footprint, Amazon has situated many of its warehouses and
call centers in thinly populated or low-tax states.  There is nothing wrong with that; under the current rules,
it’s clever tax planning. But it speaks to an advantage that
Internet retailers no longer need. As Amazon keeps growing,
other states should follow California’s example and mandate that
online retailers collect sales taxes, too.  In pushing the referendum, Amazon has been arguing that
California needs to do more to attract business, not drive it
away. That’s doubtlessly true, but it’s hard to see how lenient
tax treatment for online retailers furthers that goal. As the
sponsor of California’s new law rightly put it in May, “If you
oppose this bill, you support  tax evasion .”  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 