-- 
Manacled Mormon, Cloned Pooch Headline Errol Morris’s ‘Tabloid’

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/manacled-mormon-cloned-pooch-headline-errol-morris-s-tabloid-interview.html
Errol Morris has gotten movie ideas
from weird newspaper stories about pet cemeteries and a Florida
town where residents cut off their limbs to collect insurance
money. No wonder his new documentary is called “ Tabloid .”  It’s about a former beauty queen, Joyce McKinney, who
allegedly kidnapped her ex-boyfriend, chained him to a bed and
raped him while he was on a Mormon mission in  England  in 1977.
The story became a tabloid sensation often referred to as the
“Manacled Mormon” case.  McKinney resurfaced in the headlines three decades later
when her beloved pit bull Booger died and she had him cloned in
 South Korea , giving her five identical puppies.  “I was unaware of Joyce McKinney until I read a wire-
service story in the  Boston  Globe about a woman who had her dogs
cloned,” Morris recalled during an interview at a boutique  New
York  hotel. “It mentioned that this woman also was the
protagonist in a 30-year-old sex-and-chain story. Of course,
that immediately got my attention.”  Morris won an Oscar for “ The Fog of War ,” his 2003
documentary about former Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara
and the painful lessons he learned from his role in the  Vietnam
War . The filmmaker also helped free a convicted murderer with
his 1988 investigative documentary “ The Thin Blue Line .”  Tabloid War  The McKinney saga might seem trivial by comparison, but
Morris sees deeper meaning there.  “Sure, it’s not McNamara talking about nuclear
apocalypse,” he said. “However, I think there are a number of
fascinating themes -- about the search for truth, the nature of
love and how we see ourselves.”  Morris, 63, has short white hair and an impish grin. He
sipped coffee and punctuated his remarks with animated gestures
as we spoke in a suite with a sweeping view of lower  Manhattan .  Though he’s a tabloid aficionado, Morris is appalled by the
News of the World scandal that has shaken  Rupert Murdoch ’s media
empire.  “I think the News of the World crossed a number of
journalistic and ethical lines,” he said. “They broke the law
and obliterated the facts.”  McKinney has disputed many of the purported facts in
“Tabloid,” especially the accounts given by reporter Peter
Tory and photographer Kent Gavin, two British journalists who
covered the case.  Marshmallow in Meter  Tory’s Daily Express and Gavin’s Daily Mirror waged a
tabloid war over the story, including allegations of kinky sex,
fake guns and brainwashing.  “Joyce says she had no idea there would be other people in
the movie,” Morris said. “There had to be other people because
they’re part of the story. And it’s not as though I portray
these tabloid journalists as purveyors of the truth. Listening
to them, you become aware that they helped create this story to
lure readers to their newspapers.  Morris agrees that tabloids are fond of exaggeration,
citing a line from Tory as an example: “He says, ‘I think it
was ropes, but ‘chains’ sounds better.’”  McKinney, who claims to have a genius IQ, also is a
colorful talker. Speaking in a soft Southern drawl, the
garrulous blonde peppers the film with her down-home
expressions.  “She’s one of the funniest people I’ve ever met,” Morris
said. “Who else would say, ‘A woman can’t rape a man. It would
be like putting a marshmallow in a parking meter.’”  “Tabloid,” from Sundance Selects, opened yesterday in New
York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco , Boston,  Chicago ,  Washington ,
 Minneapolis  and Salt Lake City.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 