-- 
Manchester City’s Tevez Wooed by Real BofA Calls Overvalued: Brazil Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e ,   B r y a n   G i b e l   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-07-15T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/manchester-city-s-tevez-wooed-by-real-bofa-calls-overvalued-brazil-credit.html
The Brazilian import boom that’s
prompting Bank of America Corp. and  RBC Capital Markets  to call
the real overvalued may extend to the soccer field.  SC Corinthians Paulista  is making a $56 million bid to take
Argentine striker  Carlos Tevez  from Manchester City in the
English Premier League. The real’s two-year, 24 percent rally is
helping the team make the biggest offer ever by a Brazilian club
and is ushering in “a new era for Brazilian sports business,”
said Luis Paulo Rosemberg, vice president of marketing at
Corinthians in Sao Paulo.  The real is trading 52 percent above its fair value, the
most among emerging-market currencies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from The Economist’s Big Mac index. The
currency’s rally helped spark an 11.4 percent gain in real-
denominated bonds in dollar terms this year, more than double
the average return on local-currency emerging-market notes,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The Brazilian currency will probably prove to be quite
uncompetitive at current levels,”  Nick Chamie , the global head
of emerging markets at RBC in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “On a longer term perspective, we don’t think the
real would likely remain at such strong levels as it is now.”  The real’s valuation is prompting analysts to predict the
currency will tumble 10 percent by 2013, which would make it the
worst performer in the world, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Record Imports  Brazilian policy makers raised the cost of betting on the
real against the dollar last week after it reached a 12-year
high of 1.5524, the latest government move aimed at stemming an
advance that is swelling the current account deficit. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases in October.  The real has soared 68 percent since the end of 2004, the
most among major currencies, as demand for  Brazil ’s commodity
exports surged while the world’s second-highest inflation-
adjusted  interest rates  attracted foreign investment.  The rally helped drive imports to a record $206 billion in
the past 12 months, a two-fold increase from $102 billion four
years earlier. Brazil’s deficit in the current account, the
broadest measure of trade and services, climbed to an all-time
high of $51 billion in the 12 months through May. The shortfall
will increase to $70 billion next year, according to a central
bank survey on July 8.  ‘Long-Term Advantage’  Corinthians’ offer to  Manchester City  topped the $20
million it paid  Argentina ’s Boca Juniors for Tevez in 2004.
Tevez, a 27-year-old Buenos Aires native, left Corinthians,
Brazil’s biggest soccer club by revenue, in 2006 for London.
Manchester City spokeswoman Vicky Kloss declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News on July 11.  “Of course our strong real is helpful,” Corinthians’
Rosemberg said in a telephone interview. “Our currency makes us
stronger too. It’s also a long-term advantage.”  The real will weaken 4.3 percent to 1.65 per dollar by the
end of 2012 from 1.5791, making it the worst performing
emerging-market currency after the Argentine peso and the South
African rand, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The currency will decline further to 1.75
per dollar by 2013, the survey shows. Bank of America predicts a
decline to 1.8 next year while Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
forecasts a drop to 1.85 by 2012.  Bearish  Options markets are also turning more bearish on the real.
It costs 5.5 percentage points more for a one-year option
contract granting the right to sell the real than to buy the
currency, compared with 5 percentage points three months earlier,
according to so-called risk-reversal rates.  The “real is significantly overvalued,”  Jim O’Neill ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, wrote in an e-mail
response to questions sent by Bloomberg. “I get visited by
Brazilians who now describe  London  as cheap. Astonishing.”  Albert Fishlow, a professor emeritus at the School of
International and Public Affairs at  Columbia University , said at
a Bloomberg Brazil Conference yesterday in  New York  that the
real may not slump as much as analysts estimate. He said the 55
percent gain in commodity prices in the past two years and the
country’s projected oil production increases are supporting the
currency.  “Everybody says that the real is overvalued,” Fishlow
said. “It may not be so overvalued. There is the question of
whether that  exchange rate  is going to change that much.”  ‘Attractive Place’  Roberto Simoes, head of proprietary trading at BES
Investimento do Brasil in  Sao Paulo , said the real may rise as
high as 1.5 per dollar as widening interest-rate differentials
help lure investment.  “It’s difficult to contain the real’s appreciation,”
Simoes said in a telephone interview. “If you look at the world
environment, Brazil is an attractive place to stay.”  Brazil’s benchmark 10-year bonds yield 12.5 percent, or 954
basis points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries and 426
more than Russia debt.  The yield on interest-rate futures contract due in January
2012 fell one basis point yesterday to 12.47 percent, suggesting
traders are betting the central bank will boost the rate 50
basis points to 12.75 percent by yearend to slow the fastest
inflation since 2005. The benchmark U.S. rate is between zero
and 0.25 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed four basis points to
172, according to JPMorgan.  Growth Outlook  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose one basis point to 117 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Annual inflation quickened to a six-year high of 6.71
percent in  Latin America ’s biggest economy in June. The economy
will grow 4 percent this year after expanding 7.5 percent in
2010, the fastest in two decades, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  The real is 39 percent stronger than its average of the
past decade against the dollar and has almost doubled its value
against its main trading partners after adjusting for inflation,
according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The odds for a weaker currency in Brazil are
increasing,”  David Beker , a Sao Paulo-based strategist at Bank
of America, said in a telephone interview. “The real is indeed
overvalued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  