-- 
HTC to Appeal U.S. Agency Ruling on Apple Patent Infringements

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-07-16T03:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/apple-wins-trade-agency-ruling-that-htc-infringes-2-patents.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  will appeal a U.S.
International Trade Commission ruling that it infringed two
patents of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in producing Android-based mobile phones.  HTC,  Asia ’s second-largest maker of smartphones, said it
was found to have  infringed  two of 10 Apple patents originally
asserted in the case. Administrative Law Judge Carl Charneski’s
finding yesterday is subject to review by the full six-member
commission in Washington.  HTC will “vigorously fight these two remaining patents
through an appeal before the ITC commissioners who make the
final decision,” Grace Lei, general counsel for the Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based company, said in an e-mail. HTC will use “all
means possible” to defend itself, it said in a separate
statement.  Should the commission uphold the finding, the ITC may ban
U.S. imports of some HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android, the most popular smartphone operating system in the U.S.
The HTC decision may serve as a barometer for other cases
Cupertino, California-based Apple has against makers of Android
devices, including Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.  “This isn’t the worst-case scenario for HTC, which was
found not to violate the other eight patents,” said Michael On,
president of Taipei-based Beyond Asset Management Co., who
doesn’t own the company’s shares. “They will probably resolve
the issue by paying royalties, which will raise costs.” He
declined to disclose the size of his assets.  ‘Alternate Solutions’  The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade complaints
that has become the venue of choice for resolving patent
disputes.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which had been targeted in the same ITC
complaint, reached a settlement with Apple last month.  Mountain
View , California-based Google wasn’t a party in the case.  An Apple spokeswoman,  Kristin Huguet , declined to comment
on the HTC findings.  HTC believes it has “alternate solutions” for issues
raised by Apple, according to today’s statement. “We look
forward to resolving this case.”  HTC shares fell 2.4 percent to close at NT$907 in Taipei
trading yesterday before the ruling. The stock has risen 0.8
percent this year, compared with a 4.4 percent decline in the
benchmark Taiex index.  One of the patents in the HTC case involved data-detection
technology used in e-mail and text messages, while another
related to a data-transmission system.  Flyer Tablet  Apple earlier this month accused HTC in a separate
complaint of infringing five patents related to software
architecture and user interfaces, hardware for touch screens and
movement sensors. Apple is seeking to block U.S. imports of the
Taiwanese company’s new Flyer tablet computers as well as its
Droid Incredible, Wildfire, EVO 4G and Desire phones.  HTC released the Flyer, its first tablet device, in the U.S.
in March, competing against Apple’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab. The Flyer has a 7-inch screen and uses Android.  Android is the most popular smartphone operating system in
the U.S., accounting for 38 percent of the market in the three
months ended May, according to Reston, Virginia-based researcher
ComScore Inc. Apple’s iOS, used in devices including the iPhone,
made up 27 percent of the market.  S3 Graphics Acquired  HTC agreed last week to buy S3 Graphics Co. for $300
million after the maker of video-game graphics chips won an
infringement ruling at the trade agency against Apple. HTC also
has its own patent complaint against Apple at the commission,
with findings scheduled to be released Sept. 16.  HTC and Apple more than doubled revenue from mobile phones
from a year earlier in the March quarter as they race to offer
their products in more markets around the globe. Apple, once
best known for its Mac computers, now relies on its iPhone for
about 50 percent of sales and the iPad tablet for 12 percent,
according to first-quarter figures compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is In the Matter Of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on the story:
Yu-huay Sun in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net . 