-- 
Markets Shrug After S&P Says 50% Chance of U.S. Credit-Rating Downgrade

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-15T12:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/markets-shrug-after-s-p-says-50-chance-of-u-s-credit-rating-downgrade.html
A 50 percent likelihood that the
U.S. will lose its top credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s  even
if Congress reaches agreement on raising the debt ceiling left
markets little changed.  “I don’t know if anyone is taking the situation seriously
at the moment,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “It’s seen as a bit of
a hollow threat.”  Treasuries were underpinned by demand for a safe haven as
concern over  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis escalated. The 10-
year yield was little changed at 2.95 percent as of 7:57 a.m. in
 New York  after falling to 2.93 percent earlier. The yield headed
for a weekly decline of eight basis points. The dollar was also
little changed at $1.4160 per euro today, rising 0.7 percent
from last week.  The U.S. will lose the AAA  credit rating  it has held since
1941 if New York-based S&P finds that a “credible solution” to
the nation’s rising debt burden isn’t likely for the foreseeable
future, the firm  said yesterday . Borrowing will continue to rise
unless a $4 trillion fiscal consolidation plan is agreed on, S&P
said.  It’s the second warning to the U.S. from a rating agency
this week as Congress and President Barack Obama’s
administration wrangle over the terms of raising the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  ‘Solid Demand’  Moody’s Investors Service said July 13 it may cut its Aaa
rating even if a default stemming from a failure to raise the
ceiling were quickly cured. While raising the debt limit and
avoiding default would allow the U.S. to retain its Aaa grade,
without “a substantial and credible agreement” the outlook
would probably be cut to negative, Moody’s said.  A failure by the U.S. to meet its obligations “however
brief,” may prompt S&P to cut the nation’s rating to SD, for
selective default, the firm said.  Even so, the Treasury attracted higher-than-average demand
at a 30-year bond auction yesterday. The bid-to-cover ratio on
the $13 billion in bonds, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount offered, was 2.80, versus a 2.64 average at
the past 10 sales. Indirect bidders, a group that includes
foreign central banks, bought 37.8 percent of the amount sold,
compared with 38.4 percent in the prior auction.  “Indirect bidding for U.S. Treasuries is a good
indicator,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “That foreign demand remains very
solid, especially after the Moody’s comments, is obviously good
news for the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Tilles 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  