-- 
Asian Currencies Decline This Week, led by Rupee, on Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-15T08:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/asian-currencies-decline-this-week-led-by-rupee-on-slowdown-concerns.html
Asian currencies declined this week,
led by  India ’s rupee and Malaysia’s ringgit, on concern global
economic growth will slow as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
deepens and the U.S. economic recovery remains fragile.  Overseas investors pulled $1.6 billion from Taiwanese,
South Korean and Thai stocks in the first four days of the week,
exchange data show. Greece will default on its debt and Portugal
and Ireland are likely to suffer the same fate,  Martin Feldstein ,
former president of the U.S.-based National Bureau of Economic
Research, said yesterday. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
warned U.S. lawmakers yesterday that the Aug. 2 deadline to
raise the federal debt ceiling would not be extended.  “There’s the ongoing debate on the U.S. debt ceiling and
the European debt issue,” said Goh Puay Yeong, a Singapore-
based strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “These two factors
are constraining investors’ appetite” for higher-yielding
assets, he said.  The rupee declined 0.5 percent this week to 44.5690 per
dollar as of 1:52 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit weakened 0.5 percent to 3.0080. Both
currencies snapped two weeks of gains. The Philippine peso fell
0.4 percent to 42.938 and the  Taiwan dollar  lost 0.4 percent to
NT$28.897. Indonesia’s rupiah retreated 0.3 percent to 8,548.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spread to some of the
region’s larger economies earlier in the week, with Italy and
Spain’s 10-year bond yields climbing to their highest levels in
at least a decade on July 12.  Korean Growth Downgrade  Taiwan’s dollar completed a second weekly decline as
foreign funds sold $1.2 billion more of the island’s shares than
they bought this week.  “Investors are still concerned recoveries in the U.S. and
Europe are not going well,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income
trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Foreign funds have
sold a lot of stocks recently, dragging down the  Taiwan 
dollar.”  The peso fell for the first week in four after overseas
shipments unexpectedly declined in May. Exports dropped 3.2
percent from a year earlier, compared with the median forecast
for a 4.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey of economists, data
showed July 12.  The Bank of  Korea  lowered its economic growth forecast for
this year on an expected slowdown in domestic demand. South
Korea’s economy will expand 4.3 percent, compared with the 4.5
percent growth estimated in April, the central bank said today.
The won dropped 0.1 percent for the week to 1,057.95.  Elsewhere, Singapore’s dollar added 0.1 percent for the
week to S$1.2185 against its U.S. counterpart.  China ’s yuan fell
0.10 percent today to 6.4640 and was little changed for the week.
Financial markets in Thailand were closed for a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net 
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  