-- 
Asian Stocks Fall for First Week in Four on Europe, U.S. Concern

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-15T22:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/asian-stocks-fall-for-first-week-in-four-on-europe-u-s-rating-concerns.html
Asian stocks fell for the first week
in four as credit rating agencies put the U.S. on review for a
possible downgrade and amid escalating concern the European debt
crisis will threaten bank earnings.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  Australia ’s biggest lender
by market value, dropped 5.3 percent in Sydney. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest listed lender, sank 5.3
percent in  Tokyo . Infosys Ltd., the Indian software maker,
declined 8.3 percent in Mumbai after forecasting sales that
missed analysts’ estimates.  HTC Corp. (2498) , a Taiwanese smartphone
maker, fell 6.5 percent after it was accused of infringing Apple
Inc. patents in a case that may halt U.S. imports of the
Taiwanese company’s phones and its new Flyer tablet computers.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1.95 percent to 135.68,
its first weekly decline since the week through June 17. The
measure dropped as European finance ministers declined to rule
out a temporary default for  Greece  and as the yield on Italy’s
10-year bonds rose to the highest level in a decade, threatening
the country’s ability to finance its debt.  “People are worried about the negative impact on financial
systems as it’s looking more and more like the debt crisis in
 Europe  will spread from Greece, Ireland and Portugal to bigger
countries such as Italy and Spain,” said Yumi Nishimura, an
equity-market analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  Japan, South Korea  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average and South Korea’s Kospi
Index both fell 1.6 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 3.9 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index dropped 3.7
percent while  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.8
percent after the nation’s economy expanded more than estimated
last quarter, easing concern the central bank’s policy
tightening measures are curbing growth.  In Sydney, Commonwealth Bank declined 5.3 percent to
A$49.02.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  fell 6.9 percent to
A$23.40. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group dropped 5.3 percent to
393 yen in Tokyo.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank by
market value, slid 3.4 percent to HK$75.60 in Hong Kong.  Asian exporters including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Li & Fung
Ltd. (494)  declined as Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Service said they may cut the U.S.’s credit rating on
concern Congress won’t be able to raise the government debt
ceiling in time to prevent a missed payment.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker by market value,
dipped 3.3 percent to 3,330 yen. Honda Motor Co., an automaker
which receives about 84 percent of its revenue from outside
 Japan , slipped 1.5 percent to 3,210 yen. Li & Fung, which counts
the U.S. as its biggest market, dropped 7 percent to HK$13.78 in
Hong Kong.  U.S. Rating  The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was put on review for the
first time since 1996 on concern the debt threshold won’t be
raised in time to prevent a missed interest or principal payment
on outstanding bonds and notes, even though the risk remains low,
Moody’s said in a statement on July 13.  The country’s ratings were put on Creditwatch negative by
S&P on July 14, meaning there’s a one-in-two chance they may be
cut in the following 90 days.  “We’re seeing cautious trade as investors assess the
likelihood of a U.S. debt de-rating that may increase the
chances of a double-dip recession that would hurt Asian
exporters,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
global equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Moody’s
action is a shot over the bows telling U.S. politicians that
failure to reach agreement on the debt ceiling would have dire
consequences for the economy.”  Safer Assets  Even as the ratings companies warned of downgrades, U.S.
Treasuries were still set for a weekly gain and three auctions
this week attracted higher-than-average bidding as the worsening
European debt crisis spurred investor demand for safer assets.  Stocks also declined after the Federal Reserve Chairman,
Ben S. Bernanke, testifying before the Senate Banking Committee
on July 14, ruled out immediate further bond purchases to
stimulate the economy.  “We’re not prepared at this point to take further
action,” he said. During the previous day, he had said he was
prepared to provide more stimulus if needed. The Fed last month
completed a $600 billion program of Treasury bond purchases that
aimed to stimulate the economy by reducing borrowing costs,
boosting stock prices and spurring  consumer spending .  Among other stocks that fell, Infosys dropped 0.3 percent
to 2,731.35 rupees in Mumbai. The company projected sales in the
year to March to range from $7.1 billion to $7.3 billion,
Bangalore-based Infosys said on July 12. That missed the $7.5
billion average of 56 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  HTC Falls  In Taipei, HTC slid 6.5 percent to NT$907, after being
accused of infringing on Apple Inc. patents. Apple claims HTC is
infringing five patents, according to a complaint filed July 8
with the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington .  HTC continues to “vehemently deny” all of Apple’s past
and present claims against it and will continue to protect and
defend its own intellectual property, said Grace Lei, HTC’s
general counsel on July 12.  Shares in China rose on optimism tightening measures aren’t
limiting growth, after a government report showed on July 13
that the country’s economy expanded 9.5 percent from a year
earlier last quarter. That compared with a median 9.3 percent
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists.  In Shanghai,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,
the world’s biggest-listed lender by market value, increased 1.4
percent to 4.4 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  climbed 0.4
percent to 2.7 yuan. Zijin Mining Group Co., which produces and
refines mineral resources, rose 8.9 percent to 5.75 yuan.  “The data suggest China’s economy is growing at a
moderate pace but still pretty healthy,” said  Zhang Ling ,
general manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “We’ll
focus on inflation figures going forward. If that’s brought
under control, growth will pick up again and that’ll be positive
for stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 