-- 
Atlan, Dialog, Hua Yang, ManagePay: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-07-15T00:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/atlan-dialog-hua-yang-managepay-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,579.84.        Atlan Holdings Bhd. (ALN)  : The Malaysian stamped metal
components maker and duty-free retailer said profit in the first
quarter ended May 31 surged to 92.2 million ringgit ($31
million) from 24.2 million ringgit a year earlier after making
gains from the sale of land, according to a stock filing. Atlan
was unchanged at 3.32 ringgit.        Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  : The Employees Provident
Fund, the second largest shareholder of Axiata, sold 7 million
shares in the mobile-phone operator, a stock exchange filing
showed. The stock gained 0.2 percent to 5.06 ringgit.  Dialog Group Bhd. (DLG)  : The oil and gas services
provider agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in Anewa Engineering
Pre., an Indian outsourcing company, for 7.9 million ringgit, it
said in a statement. Anewa provides engineering design services
to companies in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries in
 India ,  Middle East  and Southeast Asia, Dialog said. The stock
was unchanged at 2.61 ringgit.        Hua Yang Bhd. (HYB)  : The property developer proposed a
one-for-three bonus share issue to reward investors and improve
trading liquidity, according to a company statement. The stock
gained 0.6 percent to 1.76 ringgit.       ManagePay Systems Bhd. (MPSB MK): The payment services
provider signed a preliminary agreement to jointly develop a
online business with Taisea Capital Ltd. The stock was unchanged
at 16.5 sen.        Pos Malaysia Bhd. (POSM)  , the national postal company
named Mohd Khamil Jamil as its new chairman, replacing Aseh Che
Mat, it said in a statement. Mohd Khamil is group managing
director of  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  , which bought a 32.2 percent
stake in Pos. Shares of Pos fell 0.6 percent to 3.21 ringgit.  TechnoDex Bhd. (TDEX)  : The software company proposed to
sell a 10 percent stake in a private placement to raise as much
as 2.4 million ringgit, it said in a statement. The money raised
will be used for working capital, the company said. Its shares
were unchanged at 8.5 sen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  