-- 
RBA Rate-Rise Forecasts Pushed to November on ‘Wary’ Australian Households

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-07-15T06:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/australia-central-bank-may-push-back-rate-increase.html
Australia’s central bank may push
back its next interest rate rise by three months as languishing
 consumer spending  gives it time to assess  Europe ’s debt crisis
and whether a mining investment boom will stoke inflation.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will raise the official cash
rate a quarter of a percentage point to 5 percent in November,
according to the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News this week. A survey three weeks ago showed the
median estimate was for a rate increase in August. Economists at
Westpac Banking Corp. went further, becoming the first among the
nation’s four biggest lenders to predict a rate cut in December.  In an economy Treasurer  Wayne Swan  last week maintained is
“the envy of the developed world,” Australian households are
closing their wallets as the developed world’s highest  interest
rates , rising energy bills, falling  home prices  and global
concerns sap confidence. With spending accounting for about half
the nation’s economy, consumer caution is restraining growth
even as the mining industry increases investment.  “The consumer is wary,” said  Warren Hogan , chief
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“They’re being told that there’s this economic boom either
happening or coming for Australia, but they’re not seeing it.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  on July 5 held the benchmark
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent, his seventh straight meeting of
inaction. In a statement announcing the decision, he cited the
RBA’s main dilemma as the global economy downshifts: “A key
question is whether this more moderate pace of growth will
continue.”  ‘Cautious’ Behavior  On the domestic front, Stevens highlighted the economy’s
split personality. The outlook for investment in resource
industries “remains very positive,” while “cautious behavior
by households and the high level of the  exchange rate  are having
a noticeable dampening effect.”  Just three weeks earlier, Stevens said in a speech that
rates will probably have to climb “at some point” as “the
underlying rate of inflation is more likely to rise than fall.”
Economists said the recent spate of weaker-than-forecast retail
figures mean Stevens won’t be in a rush to raise rates.  Westpac, with A$279 billion ($297 billion) in home loans
outstanding, today said in a statement that “interest rates are
too high in Australia given the state of the non-mining sectors
of the domestic economy.” The Sydney-based bank predicted the
nation’s unemployment rate may rise as high as 5.75 percent next
year from 4.9 percent last month, sending the local currency and
bond yields lower.  Dollar Weakens  The Australian dollar dropped to $1.0668 from $1.0724
yesterday after Westpac changed its RBA forecast. Two-year bond
yields declined as much as 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 4.325 percent, the lowest since Sept. 1.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , the second-biggest department store chain,
yesterday dropped by a record 18 percent in Sydney after cutting
its profit forecast on what it called an “unprecedented”
decline in demand. Myer Holdings Ltd., its larger rival, dropped
6.4 percent to its lowest-ever close.  “There are some areas of the economy that are doing very,
very well, but there are other parts of the economy that are
not,” said Russell Zimmerman, executive director of the
Australian Retailers Association, a Melbourne-based trade group
representing the A$240 billion industry. “People are seeing
huge increases in water, gas and electricity rates in the past
12 to 18 months -- that’s why they haven’t got the discretionary
spending any longer.”  4.9% Unemployment  Those concerns are outweighing an unemployment rate of 4.9
percent and a currency that’s 21 percent stronger against the
 U.S. dollar  in the past year.  House prices  fell 2 percent in the second quarter and are
expected to drop 1.4 percent in the next year, a National
 Australia  Bank Ltd. poll of Australian homeowners showed this
week. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index is down 5.8 percent so far
this year, compared with a 4.1 percent rise in the U.S.’s
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the 1.3 percent drop in the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  Australian consumers’ savings rate jumped to 11.5 percent
in the first quarter this year, near the highest level in about
two decades. Credit to home buyers in May increased at the
slowest annual pace since 1977, when central bank data begins.  Retail sales unexpectedly dropped in May and  consumer
confidence  this month plunged the most since Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008.  ‘Spooked’ Households  “We’ve got a consumer who’s more cautious, more savvy,
more willing to wait and still a bit spooked by the global
financial crisis,” said Joshua Williamson, a senior economist
in Sydney at Citigroup Inc.  Australia is undergoing what economists call a structural
change -- a shift in productive capacity to more mining and
construction industries while the stronger currency hurts
exporters, education, tourism and manufacturing. Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s government estimates that mining investment will
reach A$76 billion this fiscal year.  Economists said Gillard’s proposed tax on  carbon emissions ,
which has eroded support for her government in opinion polls,
has also weighed on households, along with higher utility bills.  This week’s “awful reports from the big retailers” are
among the latest evidence that consumers are still struggling,
said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., which
this week changed its forecast for the next RBA rate increase to
November from August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  