-- 
Lawyer Indicted, Data Breaches, Tax Evasion: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-07-15T11:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/lawyer-indicted-offshore-accounts-groupon-data-breaches-compliance.html
Theodore L. Freedman, a former
bankruptcy partner with the international law firm  Kirkland &
Ellis LLP , was indicted yesterday for understating his income by
$2.1 million from 2001 to 2004.  Prosecutors charged Freedman, 63, with four counts of
filing false tax returns and allege that Freedman avoided paying
$1 million in federal taxes by falsely claiming he had sustained
losses as the sole proprietor of a law practice in Dutchess
County,  New York .  At the time, Freedman was a partner at Kirkland & Ellis,
according to papers he filed on behalf of clients in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court . Freedman actually made $5.4 million from the
firm during those years, according to the indictment which
federal prosecutors in New York released yesterday.  Freedman faces as many as 12 years in prison if convicted.  “Mr. Freedman resigned from the firm in October 2010,”
Kate Slaasted, a Kirkland & Ellis spokeswoman, said in a
statement. “We understand that the federal indictment relates
exclusively to Mr. Freedman’s personal conduct. Accordingly, the
firm will not comment on the matter.”  Freedman didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
left at his home.  The case is U.S. v. Freedman, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  IRS Takes Too Long to Notify Taxpayers of Data Breaches  The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  doesn’t always promptly
notify taxpayers when personal information has inadvertently
been disclosed, a government review of IRS procedures found.  The IRS failed to properly alert taxpayers to privacy
breaches in 35 of 98 cases of inadvertent disclosures sampled by
the  Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration , according
to a report by the inspector general released yesterday.  “Taxpayers need to be assured that the IRS will promptly
notify them of inadvertent disclosures of their confidential
information, so they can take appropriate steps to protect
themselves from identity theft or other harm,” Inspector
General J. Russell George said in a statement accompanying the
report.  Inadvertent disclosures of taxpayer information can occur
through mix-ups, such as sending a tax return to an incorrect
fax number or mailing a return to a different person with a
similar name.  The inspector general considered notifications timely if
they were made within 45 days. Notification letters in the
sample took an average of 86 days.  “While any inadvertent disclosure is of great concern,
nothing in this report suggests any systemic vulnerability,”
IRS spokeswoman Julianne Breitbeil said in a statement.
“Taxpayers can be confident that their data is secure with the
IRS, and protection of taxpayer data is a top priority for the
agency.”  There is no indication that any of the incidents of
inadvertent disclosure examined by the inspector general led to
any taxpayer harm, Breitbeil said.  George’s report made four recommendations to improve
training and procedures to ensure faster notifications. The IRS
agreed with all of the recommendations.  IRS Phases In Rule for Overseas Banks Naming U.S. Customers  The Internal Revenue Service released a second round of
guidance to overseas banks grappling with a proposal that would
require them to disclose their U.S. clients to the agency.  The guidance issued yesterday provides more time for
overseas institutions to implement the proposal, which was
slated to take effect at the beginning of 2013. Overseas
institutions now have until Jan. 1, 2014, to begin withholding
30 percent of interest and dividend payments from U.S. customers
that don’t provide adequate identification details.  The announcement is intended to address the concerns of
overseas financial institutions, including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
of Canada,  Allianz SE (ALV)  of  Germany  and  Aegon NV (AGN)  of the
Netherlands, which have said the proposal is too complex.  Compliance Action  Ex-UBS Customer Pleads Guilty to Hiding Swiss Bank Account  A New York podiatrist pleaded guilty to failing to report
his $3.11 million Swiss account at UBS AG to U.S. authorities.  Anton Ginzburg, 51, admitted yesterday in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, that he failed to file a Report of Foreign
Bank and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR, for 2007.  “I knew that I should file this form but I did not do
so,” he told U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert M. Levy.  Ginzburg’s case is part of a U.S. crackdown on tax evasion.
Zurich-based UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, agreed in 2009 to
pay $780 million to defer prosecution for aiding tax evasion by
U.S. clients. The bank admitted that its Swiss private bankers
helped wealthy Americans evade U.S. taxes from 2000 to 2007.  Jeffrey Harris, Ginzburg’s lawyer at  Rubin, Winston,
Diercks, Harris & Cooke LLP  in  Washington , declined to comment
after the hearing.  “This is just a case where a guy had an account with
after-tax dollars, lost money and did not file a form,” he said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Ginzburg agreed to pay a civil penalty of half the
account’s balance. He faces a maximum of five years in prison.
Levy set sentencing for Nov. 17.  “Those who willfully conceal assets overseas undermine the
playing field for all taxpayers,” U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
said in a statement.  U.S. citizens or residents with a foreign financial account
worth more than $10,000 in a particular year must disclose the
account to the Treasury Department in an FBAR report by June 30
of the following year, according to Lynch’s statement.  The case is U.S. v. Ginzburg, 11-cr-432, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  HSBC  India  Client Pleads Not Guilty to False Tax Returns  A Wisconsin neurosurgeon pleaded not guilty to charges that
he failed to declare an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  account in India once
valued at $8.7 million in his tax returns.  Arvind Ahuja appeared yesterday in federal court in
 Milwaukee , where he was indicted June 28 as part of a U.S.
crackdown on offshore tax evasion. U.S. Magistrate Judge Nancy
Joseph released him on a $5,000 cash bond, saying he needs court
permission to travel in the U.S. outside of eastern Wisconsin.  Ahuja is accused of filing false tax returns from 2006 to
2009 and of failing to file Reports of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts, or FBARs, for the same period. Prosecutors
said he failed to report more than $1.2 million in interest
income and pay taxes on those earnings.  The case is based on a “tenuous factual basis,” Dan K.
Webb, Ahuja’s attorney, said in an interview after the hearing.
He said HSBC didn’t give his client 1099 forms about his
interest income. Ahuja has one of the most prosperous
neurosurgery practices in the Midwest and made full payments to
the Internal Revenue Service when he learned of his mistake,
Webb said.  If convicted, Ahuja, who lives in Greendale, Wisconsin,
faces as long as 10 years in prison on the FBAR charges and
three years on the false tax return charges.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Tracy Johnson argued that Ahuja, a
native of India and a naturalized U.S. citizen, has the means
and the motive to flee with his family. She also said his
suburban Milwaukee home is valued at $1.2 million and his summer
home in Aspen, Colorado, is worth $8.5 million.  The U.S. filed a civil action in April against London-based
HSBC, the largest European bank by assets, seeking information
about U.S. citizens who may have banked in India to hide
accounts from the Internal Revenue Service.  In April, a New Jersey businessman pleaded guilty to
conspiring with five HSBC bankers to hide his Indian accounts
from the IRS.  Prosecutors also have charged at least two dozen clients of
UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank, four UBS bankers, and five
bankers at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest
bank.  The case is U.S. v. Ahuja, 11-cr-00135, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  Credit Suisse Is a Target of U.S. Private-Banking Tax Probe  Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-biggest Swiss bank, is a
target of an investigation by the Department of Justice over
former cross-border private banking services to U.S. customers.  “Subject to our Swiss legal obligations, we will continue
to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to resolve
these matters,” the Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The bank, which was informed of the probe
yesterday, has already been responding to requests for
information, including subpoenas, from the Department of
Justice, it said.  Four bankers who worked at Credit Suisse were charged with
conspiring to help clients in the U.S. evade taxes through
secret bank accounts, according to an indictment from earlier
this year. In the fall of 2008, when the bank began closing its
cross-border business with U.S. clients, it had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment.  The Swiss government is in talks with authorities in the
U.S. to resolve the issue of untaxed assets held by U.S.
citizens in Swiss bank accounts, a government official said last
month.  Daniel Saameli, a spokesman for Switzerland’s finance
ministry, said the government “acknowledges the developments,”
while declining to comment further.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, disclosed in May 2008
that it was under investigation in the U.S. on allegations of
helping Americans evade taxes. The bank agreed to pay $780
million, admitting that it fostered tax evasion, and to give the
IRS data on more than 250 accounts to avoid criminal
prosecution. The Justice Department last October dismissed the
case against UBS after the expiration of an 18-month deferred
prosecution agreement. The IRS dropped a demand for the
identities of Americans who hold secret offshore accounts at UBS
in November after the bank turned over data on more than 4,000
clients.  For more, click here.  Groupon’s Coupon Expiration Examined by Connecticut AG Jepsen  Groupon Inc.’s practice of selling group-discount coupons
with expiration dates is being reviewed by Connecticut Attorney
General George Jepsen for possible state law violations.  “It appears that what Groupon Inc. sells or offers may
fall within the definition of a gift certificate under
Connecticut law,” Jepsen said in a press statement issued
yesterday. “Connecticut law prohibits gift certificates from
being sold or issued subject to an expiration date.”  Jepsen, in a July 12 letter, asked Groupon Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mason  how his company’s certificates are bought
and redeemed, how many have been sold in state, which retailers
have accepted them and the typical terms of those agreements.  The attorney general also asked about expiration dates. The
Chicago-based company has until Aug. 5 to reply.  Groupon delivers daily discounts on hotels, restaurants and
other goods and services to 83.1 million subscribers. The daily
deal market pioneered by Groupon may generate $3.9 billion in
U.S. sales in 2015, from $873 million in 2010, according to the
research firm BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly, Virginia.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t
immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment. The company last month announced plans to raise $750
million in an initial public offering.  Consumers have filed at least 12 federal court lawsuits
challenging its business practices. Cases, including those
originally brought in  California , Massachusetts, Washington,
Alabama and Illinois, have been consolidated for pre-trial
proceedings before U.S. District Judge Dana Sabraw in San Diego.  The multidistrict case is In re Groupon Inc. Marketing and
Sales Practices Litigation, MDL 2238, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of California (San Diego).  Total, Arkema Lose EU Appeals of 78.6 Million-Euro Cartel Fine  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s largest refiner, and its former unit
 Arkema SA (AKE)  lost European Union court appeals against a 78.6
million-euro ($112 million) fine levied for unlawful price-
fixing of bleaching chemicals.  The  EU General Court , the region’s second-highest tribunal,
rejected all arguments by the companies and upheld the fines in
a ruling in Luxembourg yesterday.  Total’s arguments “were manifestly not capable of
constituting a sufficient body of evidence to rebut the
presumption of imputability to the parent company,” the court
said.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
 fined  seven companies 388.1 million euros in 2006 for fixing
prices of hydrogen peroxide and sodium perborates, used by the
pulp and paper industry and to make antiseptic and hair-care
products.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  and  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  previously paid $72.8
million to settle U.S. criminal charges in a similar cartel.  Sandra Dante, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Total, declined
to comment. Spokespeople for Colombes, France-based Arkema
didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment. Yesterday
was a public holiday in  France .  The cases are: T-189/06, Arkema France v. European
Commission; T-190/06, Total and Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  Swiss Regulator Added Smaller Banks to Stress Tests This Year  Switzerland’s banking regulator said it “regularly” puts
UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, the country’s biggest banks,
through stress tests and has started doing similar exercises for
smaller lenders as well.  “This year we started stress-testing further significant
Swiss banks,” Tobias Lux, a spokesman for the Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma, said by telephone
yesterday.  The European Union will tomorrow publish the results of its
stress tests on banks, which include a review of how lenders
would handle an economic contraction, a drop in equity markets
and possible trading losses on sovereign debt. Finma doesn’t
plan to publish anything tomorrow as its tests aren’t
coordinated with the EU, Lux said.  UBS and Credit Suisse are sometimes tested more than once a
year, depending on market conditions, he said. Stress tests for
the smaller banks are more “targeted” toward the lenders’ main
lines of business. Finma would, for example, put a bank’s
mortgage portfolio through a stress scenario, he said.  Courts  Bank of America Said to Offer MBIA Deal in Mortgage Suit  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, has made a
preliminary offer to bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  aimed at settling a
legal dispute tied to defective mortgages, according to two
people briefed on the discussions. MBIA shares surged as much as
13 percent yesterday.  The two companies remain split on how much the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank would have to pay to resolve the
disagreement and it is unclear when an agreement can be reached,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Bank of America, and
Kevin Brown of Armonk, New York-based MBIA declined to comment.  A settlement would help revive the fortunes of MBIA, the
biggest bond insurer before the financial crisis, which has
posted cumulative losses of more than $5 billion since the end
of 2006. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T.
Moynihan  is working to resolve demands from bond buyers and
insurers over defective mortgages created by Countrywide
Financial Corp., acquired by his predecessor in 2008.  “We will fight and represent your interest to the point
where we got the interests represented,” Moynihan said in a
June 1 conference. “There is a point where fighting doesn’t
have any value.”  The lawsuit is among several between Bank of America and
MBIA, which guaranteed Wall Street’s toxic mortgage debt. Bank
of America bought Countrywide in 2008 and Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2009, two of the largest participants in the market for subprime
home mortgages.  MBIA has booked $2.7 billion in estimated recoveries on its
balance sheet for mortgage-bond repurchase claims as of the
first quarter, the firm said in a May filing. The insurer said
it believes it is entitled to collect the full $4.6 billion of
losses it has incurred on the debt. Through September, MBIA had
paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage securities sponsored by
Countrywide, Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown said in February.  An eventual settlement may cost Bank of America “in the
higher end” of a $2 billion to $3 billion range, Robert Haines,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said this week in an interview.  UBS to Get Review of Madoff Trustee Suit by District Judge  A U.S. district judge said she will review lawsuits against
UBS AG by the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm, at least the
fourth time a bank in the Madoff case gained access to a higher
court.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice in bankruptcy court,
demanding $2.6 billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided
Madoff’s fraud by setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing
“to look the other way” at irregularities. U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan, who is handling Picard’s $19
billion suit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the UBS case
raises similar issues of whether Picard has a right to sue for
damages.  Her acceptance of the case, noted on a court docket
yesterday, is another challenge to Picard, who has filed 1,000
lawsuits seeking $100 billion for the Ponzi scheme’s investors.
HSBC Holdings Plc has asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to
dismiss a $9 billion suit against the U.K. bank and so-called
feeder funds, arguing that Picard went far beyond his role as
liquidator of the Madoff firm.  Rakoff also is considering whether the trustee had a right
to use U.S. racketeering law in a $59 billion suit against
UniCredit SpA, Bank Medici AG, its founder Sonja Kohn and dozens
of Italian and Austrian parties.  While suits to recoup money taken out of a bankrupt firm
are common, Picard is mostly suing for damages, using laws that
banks say are open to question.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Dexia Sues Deutsche Bank Over $1 Billion Securities Purchase  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local governments rescued by France
and Belgium in 2008, sued  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  claiming fraud in
connection with more than $1 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities.  Germany’s biggest bank played a “ubiquitous role” in the
mortgage origination and securitization process while betting
against the U.S. housing market as far back as 2005, according
to the complaint. By the end of 2007, Deutsche Bank had amassed
a $10 billion short position that paid off when the loans
backing the securities failed, Brussels-based Dexia said.  “Deutsche Bank originated, purchased, financed and
securitized exceptionally high-risk loans into these RMBS, all
while internally disparaging the poor quality of these loans and
the RMBS they backed as ‘pigs’ and ‘crap,’” Dexia said in the
complaint.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, said yesterday by e-mail that the company would fight the
lawsuit, which she said was “without merit.”  Dexia said it invested more than $1 billion in Deutsche
Bank residential mortgage-backed securities in 32 offerings from
2005 to 2007. Belgium and France led a 6.4 billion-euro ($9.2
billion) bailout of Dexia in September 2008 as the financial
crisis forced governments to prop up institutions across Europe.  Deutsche Bank and its MortgageIT unit were sued by the U.S.
in federal court in New York in May and accused of lying to
qualify thousands of risky mortgages for a government insurance
program.  Deutsche Bank earlier this week asked a judge to dismiss
the U.S. complaint, saying that the alleged conduct occurred
before it acquired MortgageIT.  Attorneys general from all 50 states and federal agencies
are investigating the way banks handle mortgage loans and
conduct foreclosures. Deutsche Bank is among lenders being
probed by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office
over mortgage securitization, a person familiar with the matter
said on May 24.  The case is Dexia SA/NV v. Deutsche Bank AG, 651918/2011,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Varian Semiconductor Sued by Investor Over $4.9 Billion Bid  Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. (VSEA)  was sued in
federal court by an investor who says stockholders will be
shortchanged in a planned $4.9 billion, $63-a-share takeover by
 Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)   Investor David Crane also contends Varian directors
violated U.S. securities law by issuing misleading proxy
materials that failed to fully explain the sales process and why
the board “chose to negotiate exclusively with Applied,”
according to a complaint filed yesterday in Boston.  Shareholders “will be prevented from obtaining a fair
price for their common stock” unless a judge and jury stop the
transaction under its present terms, Crane said in court papers.  Applied, based in Santa Clara, California, agreed May 4 to
buy Gloucester, Massachusetts-based Varian Semiconductor in
anticipation of increased demand for microchip technology used
in mobile devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Bob Halliday, Varian’s chief financial officer, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Crane v. Varian Semiconductor, 11CV11236 RGS,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Comings and Goings  Freddie Mac’s Robert Bostrom to Join SNR Denton as Partner  Robert Bostrom, the general counsel of Freddie Mac, is
leaving to join SNR Denton as a partner in August. Bostrom will
split his time between the New York and Washington offices, a
spokeswoman for the firm said. Bostrom had worked at Freddie Mac
since 2006, according to SNR Denton’s statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 