-- 
Barclays Takes Top Australia M&A Advisory Ranking With BHP-Petrohawk Deal

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-07-15T02:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/barclays-takes-top-australia-m-a-rank-with-bhp-petrohawk-deal.html
Barclays Capital claimed the lead
among Australia’s mergers arrangers after advising  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  on today’s proposed $12.1 billion purchase of Petrohawk
Energy Corp.  The investment banking unit of London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
has worked on $29.6 billion of announced mergers involving
Australian companies this year according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which is advising
Petrohawk, is in second place with $27.8 billion, the data show.  Barclays Capital benefited this year from its relationship
with BHP, which announced the two biggest acquisitions by
Australian companies in 2011. The investment bank also worked
for BHP, the world’s largest mining company, on its $4.75
billion takeover of Chesapeake Energy Corp. assets in March.  “Our point of difference is cross-border transactions,”
Cynthia Whelan, chief executive officer of  Barclays Capital ’s
Australian and New Zealand business, said by phone in Sydney.
“We continue to see good interest from clients although deals
are taking longer to come to fruition.” She declined to comment
on the Petrohawk transaction.  UBS AG (UBSN)  slipped to fourth in Australia’s mergers advisory
market this year from first in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Still, the Zurich-based lender has worked on nine
transactions involving Australian companies since Dec. 31,
second only to Goldman Sachs among the top 10 M&A arrangers, the
data show. UBS wasn’t involved in the Petrohawk or Chesapeake
transactions.  Takeovers valued at about $80 billion involving Australian
companies have been announced this year, compared with $149
billion for all of 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Last
year’s tally was the biggest since 2007.  Daniel Janes, the head of mergers and acquisitions for
 Australia  at Barclays Capital, said in June that the value of
transactions in 2011’s second half would surpass that of the
first six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  