-- 
Beef Contamination Spreads in Japan as Straw Tainted

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-07-15T08:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/beef-contamination-spreads-in-japan-as-cattle-eat-radiation-tainted-straw.html
(Corrects beef export figure in penultimate paragraph.)  More beef from cattle in  Japan  that
ate straw tainted by radiation has found its way into the  food
supply , deepening concern about the safety of meat as the
country struggles to contain the spread of the contamination.  Cattle at the farm in Asakawa, about 60 kilometers from the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station, were fed with rice
straw containing 97,000 becquerels of cesium per kilogram,
compared with the government standard of 300 becquerels, said
Hidenori Ohtani at the livestock division of the Fukushima
prefectural government. The farm shipped 42 cattle in the past
three months to slaughterhouses in Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba and
Miyagi prefectures, which were processed into meat and sold to
distributors, he said.  The discovery comes a week after the  Tokyo  metropolitan
government said it detected beef tainted by radiation for the
first time, underlining the severity of contamination caused by
the stricken station in Fukushima, site of the worst nuclear
disaster since Chernobyl. Japan’s government may restrict beef
shipments from all of Fukushima prefecture after the finding,
 Kyodo News  reported today, without citing anyone.  “They should consider suspending shipments of products
made within 80 kilometers from the nuclear station,” said
Junichi Sato, an executive director at Greenpeace in Japan. More
farms may have used tainted straw and shipped cattle,
threatening food supplies, Sato said in an interview today.  Tests showed beef from the Asakawa farm contained 650
becquerels of cesium a kilogram, exceeding the official standard
of 500 becquerels, said Kazuyuki Hashimoto at the food-
monitoring division of the Tokyo government office. There was no
confirmation yet if tainted beef was sold to consumers, he said.  ‘Beyond Imagination’  The farm bought straw from a rice grower in Shirakawa city,
about 70 kilometers from the plant damaged by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. The farmer left the straw in the field
until it was sold, exposing it to radiation through the air and
rain, according to Ohtani at the Fukushima government office.  The ministry was unaware of the risk to cattle from tainted
straw produced by local rice growers, Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano told reporters in Tokyo today. “It was beyond
imagination that rice straw was collected from the field in the
spring,” Kano said.  Rice growers typically finish collecting straw by the end
of harvest in the autumn, Kano said.  There’s no centralized system to check for radioactive
contamination of food in Japan as voluntary tests are conducted
by prefectural governments in cooperation with local farmers.  Testing Cattle  The agriculture ministry is discussing with the health
ministry and the Fukushima government if it is feasible to test
all cattle in the prefecture for radiation to prevent the
shipment of tainted meat to the market, Yasuo Sasaki, senior
press counselor for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries, said today in Tokyo.  About 437 kilograms (963 pounds) of beef from a farm in
Minami-Soma city, 30 kilometers from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station, was consumed in eight prefectures, according to
the Tokyo metropolitan government, which detected the first case
of tainted beef from the farm earlier this month.  Beef from the Minami-Soma farm contained 2,300 becquerels
of cesium a kilogram, according to the July 8 statement from the
government office of Tokyo, which operates Japan’s largest meat
market.  Fukushima is the 10th biggest cattle-producing region in
Japan, representing 2.7 percent of the total. The nation
exported 541 metric tons of beef worth 3.4 billion yen ($42.8
million) last year, including premium wagyu meat.  Japan imported 204,543 tons of beef in the five months
ended May 31, rising 11 percent from the same period last year,
according to the agriculture ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  