-- 
Berlusconi’s Austerity Package Wins Final Approval in Italian Parliament

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-07-15T16:13:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/berlusconi-s-austerity-package-gets-final-approval-in-italian-parliament.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s austerity plan won final approval by Parliament,
opening the way for measures intended to balance the budget by
2014 and keep the region’s debt crisis at bay.  The Chamber of Deputies voted 314 to 280 in Rome to pass
the package of spending cuts and tax increases. Berlusconi had
staked his government’s future on the plan, surviving confidence
votes on the measures in the Chamber earlier today and the upper
house Senate yesterday.  “I’ve worked in the interest of Italians,” the premier
said in the Chamber. “I’d love to be able to give them what I
promised, a lowering of taxes, but it’s a difficult moment and
now it’s just not possible.”  Berlusconi pushed for quick passage of the bill after
investors began dumping Italian securities on concern that
 Italy , with the region’s second-highest debt, would become the
next victim of  Europe ’s sovereign crisis. The selloff pushed the
10-year bond yield to a 14-year high 6.02 percent on July 12 and
sent the benchmark  stock index  to the lowest since July 2009.  The yield premium that investors demand to hold Italian
debt over German bunds rose 17 basis points today to 306 and the
10-year yield gained 12 basis points to 5.76 percent.  Like the Titanic  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said yesterday that Italy,
and even the region’s strongest economies, would remain
vulnerable until European policy makers come up with a solution
for the debt crisis that led  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to
seek bailouts. “Like with the Titanic, even the first-class
passengers can’t be saved,” Tremonti told the Senate.  Berlusconi resorted to confidence votes to pass the package
to end debate and force allies to back the measure or risk the
government’s collapse. His popularity has fallen to a record low
amid corruption allegations and sex scandals that prompted
dozens of his deputies to abandon his government last year,
eroding his majority in the legislature.  “We are radically against your economic policies, your
policies in Europe, and this austerity plan,” Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the main opposition  Democratic Party , said in
the Chamber today. “Our bond spreads are widening again today,
showing that this plan won’t shield us from the crisis.”  Wages, Pensions  The plan extends a freeze on civil-servant wages, cuts
funding for regional governments and ministries, speeds a
planned increase in the  retirement age  and will make Italians
pay 25 euros for some non-emergency hospital visits and 10 euros
above existing fees to see specialists. Taxes will be raised on
trading accounts holding more than 50,000 euros in securities
and on bonus and stock options.  The package aims to eliminate the deficit by 2014, and the
bulk of its 40 billion euros ($56 billion) in spending cuts,
savings and revenue measures will be implemented in 2013 and
2014. During that period, Italy will still accumulate 120
billion euros in debt, Senate Finance Committee President Mario Baldassarri said.  Italy’s debt is forecast to rise to 120 percent of gross
domestic product next year before declining. “I don’t care
about the debt-to-GDP ratio,” Baldassarri said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television in  Rome  today. “What goes on in the
market and must be underwritten by markets is not the debt-to-
GDP, but the billions of euros of actual debt.”  The surge in Italy’s bond yields is already boosting the
cost of financing its deficit. Italy priced 1.25 billion euros
of five-year bonds at an auction yesterday to yield 4.93
percent, the highest in three years and up from 3.9 percent at
the previous sale on June 14.  ‘Guarantee Clause’  The budget plan also includes a so-called guarantee clause
concerning the overhaul of the tax system. The clause authorizes
the government to reduce tax breaks and deductions by as much as
22.6 billion euros if Parliament fails to authorize the tax
changes by 2012, Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , said in a note.  Warnings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s that they were reviewing Italy’s rating for a possible
downgrade, coupled with opposition within the government to the
budget plan designed by Tremonti, helped drive yields higher
this month.  The backlash against Tremonti over the budget cuts and the
fallout from a corruption investigation into one his closest
aides had prompted speculation that the minister, the enforcer
of the fiscal rigor that kept the deficit in check, would
resign. Tremonti, in an interview with the Wall Street Journal
today, said he wasn’t stepping down and had no reason to do so.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 