-- 
Bernanke Damps  Prospects for More Bond Buying Amid Republican Criticism

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/bernanke-damps-additional-stimulus-prospects.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  tempered expectations the Fed will resume buying bonds
as criticism from Republican senators highlighted the potential
backlash to additional monetary stimulus.  “We’re not proposing anything today,” Bernanke said to
the Senate Banking Committee yesterday in Washington. “We just
want to make sure that we have the options when they become
necessary. But at this point, we’re not proposing to undertake
that option,” he said, referring to a third round of
quantitative easing, or QE3.  Bernanke appeared for semi-annual congressional testimony
the week after the government reported that the jobless rate
rose to 9.2 percent last month, with 14.1 million Americans
unemployed. The Fed has held its target interest rate near zero
for more than 30 months and expanded its balance sheet to a
record $2.88 trillion through two rounds of large-scale asset
purchases. Policy makers now are waiting to see whether the
economy strengthens before changing their stance, Bernanke said.  Tim Johnson, a Democrat from  South Dakota  and the committee
chairman, asked Bernanke why he isn’t starting a new round of
purchases to revive growth and reduce unemployment. Senate
Republicans such as  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama ,  Bob Corker  of
 Tennessee  and  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania  opposed any
consideration of increasing the Fed’s record stimulus.  U.S. stocks declined yesterday to the lowest level of the
month, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 falling 0.7 percent to
1,308.87 in  New York . In House testimony on July 13, Bernanke
said the Fed still has tools for stimulus, and that “we have to
keep all the options on the table,” driving share prices
higher.  Not Everyone  “It’s not the whole Congress that says QE3 is a bad idea,
but definitely they have to take those opinions into account,”
said Roberto Perli, a former Fed economist who is now a managing
director at International Strategy & Investment Group in
 Washington .  “In addition to the external politics from Congress, he
has internal dynamics to worry about,” he said. “Discussion of
QE3 will be strongly opposed by even more FOMC members because
it would start from an even larger balance sheet.”  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  told reporters on July
13 that “we’ve exhausted our ammunition, in my view,” and “I
do not personally see the benefit of more monetary accommodation
even if the economy weakens further.”  Shelby, the committee’s senior Republican, said “it
appears that the Fed may be going in the wrong direction.”  Shelby criticized the Fed in November when it launched a
$600 billon bond-buying program to rejuvenate the economy,
saying the purchases, which ended last month, could trigger an
inflation surge. Shelby also said bond purchases by the Fed
could fuel asset-price bubbles on  Wall Street .  Fed ‘Activism’  “I find the activism at the Fed right now a major turnoff,
and I am very concerned,” Corker said to Bernanke during the
hearing yesterday.  Should the economy turn out to be weaker than expected, the
central bank may provide more monetary stimulus, Bernanke said.
More quantitative easing is an option if a recent economic
slowdown persists and deflationary forces re-emerge, he said.  As in his July 13 testimony, Bernanke told lawmakers
yesterday that the Fed must be flexible and prepared to shift in
either policy direction. The Fed may tighten credit if inflation
were to rise more than anticipated, he said to the House
Financial Services Committee.  “There wasn’t any inconsistency in his remarks” this
week, said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global
Inc. Bernanke merely emphasized yesterday “the fact that they
aren’t planning QE3 right now,” he said.  Second Round  Bernanke said the Fed now faces conditions that are
different than they were in August, when he signaled a second
round of large-scale asset purchases. Then, the economy was in
danger of stalling, he said, and the Fed was concerned the
country may experience deflation, a broad and prolonged drop in
prices, wages and the value of assets such as homes and stocks.  “Today the situation is more complex,” Bernanke told
lawmakers. “Inflation is higher. Inflation expectations are
close to our target,” he said.  Breakeven inflation rates calculated from yield differences
on 10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S. government
bonds of similar maturity stood at 2.26 percent yesterday.
That’s up from 1.62 percent when Bernanke signaled the
possibility of a second round of bond purchases at his Aug. 27
speech last year in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Waiting for Pickup  “We are uncertain about the near-term developments in the
economy,” he said. “We’d like to see if, in fact, the economy
does pick up, as we are projecting.”  Bernanke predicted economic growth will pick up in the
second half of this year at a pace above 3 percent. He estimated
the economy expanded at a 2 percent rate during the first six
months of this year, less than necessary to reduce the
 unemployment rate .  The Fed chief “put a very high bar on doing more QE when
he said he has to see the reemergence of deflation risks,”
Perli said. “Clearly we are nowhere near that point at this
time. To me, that’s the clearest signal that they’re not
thinking about it seriously at this stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;  Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  