-- 
BP Should Weigh Spinoff After Conoco Split, UBS, JPMorgan Say

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-07-15T09:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/bp-should-weigh-spinoff-after-conoco-split-ubs-jpmorgan-say.html
BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-largest oil
company, came under pressure from analysts to follow
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and spin off its refining business as the shares
struggle to recover from last year’s Gulf of Mexico spill.  ConocoPhillips said yesterday it will become two separate,
publically traded companies by the end of next June, lifting
shares as much as 7.7 percent, the biggest intraday gain in two
years. BP has dropped 30 percent since the blowout at the
Macondo well in April 2010 that triggered the worst U.S. spill.  That leaves BP trading at a 44 percent discount to the sum
of the parts of its business, compared with an average discount
of 27 percent for the world’s biggest oil companies, according
to Fred Lucas, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove. UBS AG and Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch also argued today that a refining
spinoff would unlock value in London-based BP.  “We first proposed that BP pursue an upstream-downstream
split back in 2006,” Lucas wrote in an e-mailed note. “The
pressure, both peer-group and shareholder-related, to revisit
this idea might have just increased several atmospheres.”  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  has sold $25
billion in assets since the spill and plans to dispose of half
the company’s U.S. refining capacity to shore up the company’s
balance sheet. Dudley has signed exploration deals with India
and pursued an accord with OAO Rosneft in Russia that was
blocked by BP’s billionaire partners in the TNK-BP venture.  BP has no plans to spin off its refining business, company
spokesman  Robert Wine  said today.  Marathon Oil  Conoco’s move yesterday followed  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ’s
decision. Through yesterday’s closing price, Marathon’s spinoff
of its refinery network, completed June 30, has yielded
shareholders a 110 percent bonanza since it was announced in
January.  “If any company were to mirror this transaction, it might
be BP,” said Jon Rigby an analyst at UBS. “BP has
traditionally been strategically bold and it’s on a large net
asset value discount. The exploration and production and
refining and marketing businesses would be very material
companies in their own right and have critical mass, know-how
and brand.”  OMV AG (OMV) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP)  are also well-
placed for spinoffs, BofA-Merrill Lynch analyst Alejandro Demichelis wrote.  “The first move could come from BP as its underperformance
and its wider discount to net asset value could force management
to act on this front,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  