-- 
BP’s Gulf of Mexico Drilling Rules to Exceed Requirements

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-07-15T16:07:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/bp-to-implement-enhanced-drilling-standards-in-gulf-of-mexico.html
BP Plc (BP/) , operator of the Macondo well
that blew out in April 2010, causing the worst U.S. oil spill,
plans to implement drilling standards in the  Gulf of Mexico  that
exceed regulatory requirements.  BP and its contractors will use blowout preventers on the
ocean floor with at least two so-called blind shear rams, which
seal wellbores by cutting through the drill pipe, it said today
in a statement. The company, which plans to set up a real-time
drilling operations center in Houston, will also demand
independent tests on blowout preventers when they’re moved.  The announcement is “nothing but a positive for me,” said
 Michael Bromwich , head of the government regulator that was set
up after the spill and that will approve BP’s future drilling
permits. “I have no criticism of the way they have behaved
since I’ve been on the job.”  BP has set aside $41 billion to pay for the Macondo leak,
which was plugged a year ago today. Crude spewed into the Gulf
for three months after the Deepwater Horizon rig’s blowout
preventer failed to close off the well. The surge of oil and gas
that caused the explosion occurred after BP engineers and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  attempted to seal the well with cement.  “BP’s commitment in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon
incident is not only to restore the economic and environmental
conditions among the affected areas of the  Gulf Coast , but also
to apply what we have learned to improve the way we operate,”
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said in the statement.
“The commitments we have outlined today will promote greater
levels of safety and preparedness in deepwater drilling.”  Risky Design  Transocean Inc., the owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig,
said last month that BP was largely responsible for the disaster
because it used a risky well design. Halliburton, along with BP,
failed to ensure the cement job was successful, Transocean said.  BP will ensure its engineers or a “competent third party”
oversee cement tests, the company said in today’s statement. The
company has yet to resume drilling in the region.  The London-based producer outlined the proposals in a
letter to the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement. Bromwich, the bureau’s director, said he
welcomes “additional safety steps and best practices that
companies may decide to implement that are in addition to the
requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  