-- 
BP Well Partner Must Take Claims to Arbitration, Judge Rules

-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-07-15T20:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/bp-well-partner-anadarko-must-take-its-claims-to-arbitration-judge-rules.html
BP Plc (BP/)  can halt litigation with
minority business partner  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  so the
companies can arbitrate liability over costs of last year’s oil-
well blowout in the  Gulf of Mexico , a judge said.  Anadarko sued BP, asking a federal judge in New Orleans to
declare it isn’t responsible for damages and cleanup costs
created by the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. The
Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the
Macondo well, said BP’s conduct caused the blowout and the
spill.  BP asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to stall the
lawsuit, contending that a partnership agreement required the
companies to first attempt arbitration to resolve disputes.
Barbier today sent the claim to arbitration.  “Anadarko has not met its burden to overcome the
presumption in favor of arbitration,” Barbier said in his
ruling. “Accordingly, Anadarko’s claim against BP must be
stayed pursuant to the arbitration clause” in the joint
operating agreement between the parties, he said.  Today’s decision “does nothing to diminish our claims,”
 John Christiansen , Anadarko’s spokesman, said in an e-mail. “It
simply addresses the venue in which they may be resolved.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment on Barbier’s order regarding Anadarko.  ‘Blatantly Disregarded’  “Anadarko has blatantly disregarded its responsibilities to
the residents of the  Gulf Coast  by failing to pay its fair share
of the costs relating to the accident and resulting spill,”
Dean said in an e-mail today. “BP remains focused on ensuring
that Anadarko lives up to its obligations.”  Jacob Frenkel , a former Securities and Exchange Commission
lawyer, called the decision “a clear and compelling win” for BP.  “This insures that BP can advance its claims against
Anadarko behind closed doors, which has significant public-
relations and legal advantages for BP,” he said in a phone
interview.  Because arbitrations typically move faster than trials,
“BP could get to the money pot faster” if it has a strong case
for making Anadarko share spill-related costs, said Frenkel, now
in private practice at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in
Potomac,  Maryland .  Racketeering Suits  Barbier also dismissed lawsuits against BP claiming the
company defrauded government regulators about the safety of its
drilling operations and its ability to respond to oil spills,
including its response to the Macondo incident. The plaintiffs
claimed that BP engaged in racketeering, causing property damage
and lost earnings.  The plaintiffs in the racketeering complaints included the
owner of a penthouse in  Pensacola Beach ,  Florida , who claimed
property damage and a seafood restaurant in Laplace,  Louisiana ,
which said it had to close because the spill cut off access to
seafood.  Barbier said today the plaintiffs didn’t show a link
between their losses and any alleged fraud.  “Plaintiffs’ failure to allege a direct relationship
between BP’s alleged defrauding of government regulators and
their economic injuries is the fatal flaw,” the judge said.  Dean, the BP spokesman, declined to comment on that
decision.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the explosion that
followed killed 11 workers. The accident and spill led to
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners and
contractors.  Billions of Dollars  BP is trying to get its partners to help pay billions of
dollars of costs resulting from the explosion and spill.
Anadarko has refused to pay its share of the bills, BP said in
court papers.  BP also sought payment from a second minority partner, Moex
Offshore 2007 LLC, which owned 10 percent of the well. Moex, a
Mitsui & Co. unit, agreed on May 20 to pay $1.07 billion to
settle BP’s claims.  Anadarko said in its lawsuit filed in April that it had no
fault in the explosion and spill. Investigations into the
incident “raise serious questions” about its contractual
obligations to reimburse BP for costs of responding to the well
blowout, Anadarko said in an April 19 filing.  The company also is seeking damages from BP for the loss of
oil in the exploration area, loss of investment and lost profit.  Anadarko’s claims conflict with promises not to resort to
court remedies, BP said in an April 27 filing. The three
companies in the Macondo contract agreed to take such claims to
arbitration, BP said.  Anadarko said BP’s argument for arbitration was meritless
and would hamper the minority partner’s defense of lawsuits
brought over the spill.  The case is part of In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  