-- 
Brazil ‘Very Likely’ to Sell Real Bonds in 2011, Treasury’s Augustin Says

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-15T17:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/brazil-very-likely-to-sell-real-bonds-in-2011-treasury-s-augustin-says.html
Brazil  is constantly looking for
ways to curb the appreciation of the real, which hit a 12-year-
high last week and is a “worry” for  Latin America ’s biggest
economy, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government, after repeated
attempts to stem the real’s rally this year, will take further
measures if necessary, Augustin said in a phone interview from
Brasilia today.  “We are always studying new measures,” Augustin said.
“It’s hard to predict, but it’s possible that even more inflows
will come here.”  Brazil’s currency last week rose to its strongest level
against the  U.S. dollar  since 1999 as investors increased demand
for higher-yielding assets amid easing concern over  Greece ’s
debt crisis. The real has gained 47 percent against the dollar
since the end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The real rose 0.4 percent to 1.5735 per dollar at 1:24 p.m.
New York time.  Augustin also said the 2012 budget law approved this week
by Brazil’s Congress will hamper debt management and fiscal
policy because it imposes restrictions on bond sales and limits
the deficit.  Budget Limits  The law would limit next year’s budget deficit to 0.87
percent of gross domestic product, and also targets a  budget
surplus  before interest payments of 139.82 billion reais ($89
billion), up from 117.9 billion this year. The government can
discount up to 40.6 billion reais from this total for
investments in its infrastructure program.  “Debt management requires flexibility,” Augustin said.
“There can’t be restraints.”  Rousseff has the power to veto the law.  The central bank last month raised its forecast for the
2011  budget deficit  to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product,
from a previous forecast of 1.9 percent.  Brazil is “very likely” to sell international real-
denominated bonds this year, Augustin said.  In its fight against the real’s appreciation, the central
bank last week changed currency rules to reduce banks’ short
dollar positions. Banks have until July 15 to meet new
requirements that they deposit 60 percent of short dollar
positions over $1 billion at the central bank.  Currency Futures  On July 13, an official said the government is considering
a tax on foreigners’ purchases of currency futures. The official
asked not to be named because he is not authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  On March 29,Rousseff’s administration increased to 6
percent a tax on new corporate loans and debt sales abroad by
banks. A few days later, she applied the higher tax to renewed,
renegotiated, or transferred loans of up to two years in length.
Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90
days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three months. In
October, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled to 6 percent a
tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  