-- 
Canada Seeks to Grow China Sales Amid ‘Exaggerated Rhetoric’ for Oil Sands

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/canada-seeks-china-oil-sales-amid-environmentalist-rhetoric-.html
Canadian Natural Resources Minister
Joe Oliver said the nation will seek to grow energy sales to
 China , and challenge environmentalists in the U.S. and  Europe ,
to sustain demand for the world’s largest reserves of oil
outside the  Middle East .  Oliver, in a telephone interview with Bloomberg News, said
he plans a global campaign to challenge “exaggerated rhetoric”
about the environmental impact of Alberta’s oil sands. Canada
also must build new markets for its oil, which is now shipped
primarily to the U.S., he said.  “The oil sands are enormously important to Canada,”
Oliver said. “They are huge, they are forecast to produce
trillions of dollars in economic activity in this country, and
they’re part of our future prosperity and part of our becoming
an energy superpower.”  Canada  is relying on business investment to help lead its
recovery, and energy companies have been the main driver of
corporate spending over the past year. Canadian publicly traded
oil and gas companies spent C$18.5 billion ($19.3 billion) on
investment in the latest quarterly filings, up from C$14.5
billion from the same quarter a year earlier, according to
Bloomberg data.  Internationally, Prime Minister Stephen Harper has promoted
Canada as an “energy superpower,” pointing to its political
stability in a bid to fend off concerns in the U.S. about the
environmental impact of the oil sands, which require extensive
upgrading and refining in a process that generates more
greenhouse-gas emissions than conventional crude.  Biggest U.S. Supplier  Canada is the biggest foreign supplier of oil to the U.S.,
and supplies the country with almost a quarter of its crude
imports, twice what  Saudi Arabia  does.  Oliver said he will make trips to  Washington  and  New York 
to promote the oil sands as a secure source of energy. The tour
could also take him to China and Europe, he said.  “Oil is oil and heavy oil is heavy oil, and we have to
look at what the emissions are and what’s being done about them
and make comparisons on the facts,” Oliver said. “There’s
heavy oil in  California . There’s bitumen in the oil sands.”  While emphasizing that the U.S. is a “great customer,”
Oliver also said Canada needs to increase oil exports to China.  “We’ve got to go where the market is, and diversification
of customers is a pretty fundamental economic construct,”
Oliver said. That is “something we want to do and we have to
do,” he added.  He said a key part of the country’s Asian export plans is a
pipeline proposed by Enbridge Inc., which will carry 525,000
barrels per day from Alberta to a port in British Columbia. The
project is being reviewed by the  National Energy Board , which
regulates pipeline projects.  Keystone Approval  Canada’s push to improve its energy image comes as
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  awaits approval from the U.S. State Department
for the Keystone XL pipeline that is meant to become a major
route for transporting crude oil from Canada’s oil sands to the
U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  coast.  The oil sands, which contain a thick, sticky substance
called bitumen, hold nearly 173 billion barrels of crude oil,
according to producer estimates.  Oliver said the Canadian government will continue to lobby
President Barack Obama’s administration for approval of the
pipeline, which will run from Alberta through Saskatchewan,
Montana,  South Dakota , Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas.  “It’s very good for the United States, too, because it
enhances energy security, which is a huge issue for the
Americans, particularly now, in this rather troubled
international political environment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 