-- 
Canadian Dollar Gains Against Its U.S. Counterpart Before Bank Stress Test

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-15T21:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/canadian-dollar-gains-against-its-u-s-counterpart-before-bank-stress-test.html
Canada ’s dollar rose versus its
American counterpart after a report showed eight banks failed
the European Union stress tests and concern increased the
region’s sovereign debt problems will worsen.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, outperformed all
of its 16 major peers and is headed for a five-day gain versus
the greenback. It pared gains after a report showed Canadian
factory sales declined four times faster than economists
forecast in May.  “Canada is still looking like a relatively attractive
destination for foreign investors,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto. “The
stress tests add to the impression that  Europe  is bumbling along
here and heading to a potential day of reckoning.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 95.32
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:06 p.m. in New York, from 96.06 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0491.  The eight banks that failed the EU stress tests had a
combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion),
regulators said. All banks tested in Italy, Germany, France, the
U.K. and Ireland passed, the lenders said today.  Europe’s Banks  The assessments are the first by the European Banking
Authority since it was set up earlier this year. Last year’s
tests by its predecessor were criticized for being
insufficiently tough because banks were shown to need only 3.5
billion euros more capital, a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. Banks that fail the stress test must present a plan to
raise more capital within three months.  “In the environment of concern about financial-sector
strength, the Canadian dollar is a fairly attractive currency
relative to its peers,” said  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto.  Canadian factory sales fell 0.8 percent to C$46 billion
($48 billion) on a seasonally adjusted basis, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa. Economists predicted a 0.2 percent
decrease, based on the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Economic growth may have been less than 2 percent in the
second quarter in part because of factory disruptions linked to
natural disasters in Japan, according to Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney .  Bond Yields  Yields on 10-year Government of Canada bonds fell eight
basis points to 2.87 percent. The the price of the 3.25 percent
security due in June 2021 rose 66 cents to C$103.22. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Foreign investors purchased more Canadian bonds than they
sold in every month but one since December 2008, according to
 Statistics Canada  data through April. The agency will report
international securities transactions for May on July 18.  “The Canadian dollar is a bit of a haven from the U.S.
because if you want to invest in  North America , you don’t have
the fiscal problems in Canada as you do in the states, so you
get an inflow of money,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, by
phone from  London . “You do see foreign buyers of bonds shifting
their money out of Treasuries and into Canadian bonds, and
that’s supportive.”  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday there’s a 50 percent
chance the U.S. will lose its top credit rating. U.S. lawmakers
are debating a 10-year budget package aimed at cutting the
deficit and raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit by an
Aug. 2 deadline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  