-- 
Canada May Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-15T12:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/canada-may-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for May released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales declined 0.8% (-$360 million) to $46.0
billion in May. Sales have remained relatively flat since
January 2011.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales declined 0.8% in May.  The overall decrease in current dollar sales reflected a 2.4%
decline on the non-durable goods side of manufacturing. The
declines were mostly concentrated in the food, petroleum and
coal product and chemical industries. In contrast, the durable
goods industries rose 0.8% in May.  Lower sales were reported in 11 of 21 industries, representing
71.9% of total manufacturing.  Chart description: Manufacturing sales down for the second
consecutive month
Note to readers
All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and are
expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference month.
Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for the three
previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and tobacco
products, textile mills, textile product mills, clothing,
leather and allied products, paper, printing and related support
activities, petroleum and coal products, chemicals, and plastics
and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-metallic
mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal products,
machinery, computer and electronic products, electrical
equipment, appliances and components, transportation equipment,
furniture and related products and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries, the
value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in inventories
of goods in process and finished products manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will contribute to
future sales assuming that the orders are not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the current month
or not. New orders are measured as the sum of sales for the
current month plus the change in unfilled orders from the
previous month to the current month.  Sales decline in the food industry
Sales in the  food industry  declined 3.1% in May to $6.9 billion.
The decrease was partly attributable to lower sales in the dairy
product industry.  Manufacturers in the petroleum and coal products industry also
reported a decrease in sales, down 2.5% in May to $6.3 billion.
The decline in petroleum stemmed from a combination of lower
prices and reduced volumes as result of maintenance shutdowns.  Sales in the chemical industry fell 3.0% to $3.7 billion. The
decline reflects lower than normal unadjusted sales in the
pesticide, fertilizer and other agricultural chemical industry.  Partly offsetting these declines were gains in the primary metal
(+3.7%), machinery (+3.9%) and computer and electronic product
(+7.7%) industries. The increase in machinery was mostly
attributable to greater activity in the mining and oil and gas
field machinery industry.  Manufacturing sales down in six provinces
In May, Newfoundland and Labrador,  Alberta  and British Columbia
had the largest declines in manufacturing sales.  Sales in Newfoundland and Labrador fell 40.4% to $299 million,
the largest decrease in percentage terms since April 2009. The
decline stemmed from lower sales in non-durable goods
industries.  In Alberta, sales fell 2.9% to $5.7 billion. A 16.4% drop in the
 chemical industry  was the largest factor in the decline.
Petroleum and coal products (-2.3%), food (-3.4%) and fabricated
metal products (-7.0%) also contributed to the decrease.  In British Columbia, sales were down 3.9% to $3.1 billion, with
13 of 21 industries posting declines compared with April. Paper
(-10.1%) and wood product (-7.0%) manufacturers reported the
largest decreases.  Sales in Saskatchewan rose 8.6% in May to $1.1 billion. The
gains were largely attributable to increases reported by
manufacturers in the non-durable goods industries. Higher sales
in the chemical industry accounted for part of the advance.  In Ontario, sales advanced 0.4% to $20.6 billion, following a
1.8% drop in April. Sales in the primary metal, computer and
electronic product and machinery industries led the gains.  Inventory levels up for the eighth straight month
Inventory levels increased 0.7% in May to $63.1 billion, their
highest level since April 2009. The rise was led by a 4.0% gain
in the chemical industry, reflecting higher goods-in-process
inventories.  Increased levels of inventories were also reported by
manufacturers in the primary metal (+2.2%),  motor vehicle 
(+10.4%), machinery (+1.0%) and aerospace product and part
(+1.3%) industries.  Chart description: Inventory levels rise
The inventory-to-sales ratio rose from 1.35 in April to 1.37 in
May, bringing the ratio to its highest level since February
2010. The higher level reflects eight months of increases in
inventory levels and declining sales in April and May.  Chart description: The inventory-to-sales ratio increases
Unfilled orders rise for the fifth consecutive month
Unfilled orders advanced 0.9% in May to $58.0 billion, the fifth
consecutive monthly increase.  The rise in unfilled orders was largely driven by the aerospace
product and parts industry (+2.4%). The increase in orders for
the aerospace industry partly reflected the depreciation of the
Canadian dollar in May. Excluding the aerospace industry,
unfilled orders declined 0.4% to $31.4 billion.  These gains were partly offset by declines in the computer and
electronic product (-2.6%) and fabricated metal product (-1.3%)
industries.  Chart description: Unfilled orders advance for the fifth
consecutive month
New orders remained unchanged at $46.5 billion in May. An
advance in the aerospace industry was offset by declines in a
number of industries, including railroad rolling stock, food and
fabricated metal product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Washington at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  