-- 
Canada Investment in Non-Residential Construction (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-15T13:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/canada-investment-in-non-residential-construction-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s investment in non-residential construction report
for the second quarter as released by Statistics Canada.  Investment in non-residential building construction remained at
$11.2 billion in the second quarter, edging up 0.1% from the
first quarter after growing 1.7% on average in the five previous
quarters. Gains in commercial and industrial building
construction were offset by a decline in the institutional
component.  Among the six provinces that posted gains in the second quarter,
Quebec posted the largest increase followed closely by British
Columbia. In both provinces, the gains were mainly a result of
higher spending on construction of commercial buildings.  Alberta  recorded the largest decline as a result of lower
spending in the institutional component, which more than offset
gains in commercial and industrial building construction.  Investment was up in 18 of the 34 census metropolitan areas. St.
Catharines-Niagara and Toronto posted the largest gains, mainly
as a result of higher spending on institutional projects.  In contrast, the largest declines occurred in Edmonton and
Saskatoon, as a result of decreases in the institutional and
commercial components.  Commercial component
Investment in commercial building construction reached $6.5
billion in the second quarter, up 0.8% from the previous
quarter. This was the sixth consecutive quarterly increase and
reflected higher spending in the construction of office,
transportation buildings, and retail and wholesale outlets in
several provinces.  Note to readers
Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which eases comparisons by removing the effects
of seasonal variations.  Investments in non-residential building construction exclude
engineering construction. This series is based on the Building
Permits Survey of municipalities, which collects information on
construction intentions.  Work put-in-place patterns are assigned to each type of
structure (industrial, commercial and institutional). These work
patterns are used to distribute the value of building permits
according to project length. Work put-in-place patterns differ
according to the value of the construction project; a project
worth several million dollars will usually take longer to
complete than will a project of a few hundred thousand dollars.  Additional data from the Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey
are used to create this investment series. Investments in non-
residential building data are benchmarked to  Statistics Canada ’s
System of National Accounts of non-residential building
investment series.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan area of
Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two areas: the
Ottawa part and the Gatineau part.  Commercial investment increased in four provinces. The largest
gain occurred in Alberta, where investment increased 5.4% to
$1.4 billion, while in Quebec commercial investment rose 3.2% to
$1.1 billion. In Alberta, the gain was led by higher spending in
the construction of transportation and office buildings. In
Quebec, higher investment in office buildings and retail and
wholesale outlets were behind the advance.  Ontario posted the largest decline as a result of lower spending
spread among several commercial building categories.  Industrial component
Investment in industrial projects totalled $1.3 billion in the
second quarter, up 0.8% from the previous quarter and the fifth
consecutive quarterly gain. Growth in this component was mainly
due to the construction of manufacturing plants in eight
provinces, as well as maintenance buildings in six provinces.  Provincially,  Quebec  and British Columbia contributed the most
to the rise in the industrial component. In both provinces, the
increase came mainly from spending on manufacturing and
maintenance buildings.  In contrast, Ontario had the largest decline as a result of
lower spending in the majority of industrial building
categories, which offset gains in the construction of
manufacturing plants.  Institutional component
Spending on institutional projects continued its downward trend
for a fifth straight quarter, falling 1.3% to $3.4 billion in
the second quarter. Lower spending on the construction of
educational facilities in eight provinces (particularly in
Alberta) was the main factor behind the decline in the
institutional component.  Institutional investment was up in five provinces. The largest
increases were in Ontario, Manitoba and British Columbia, where
higher investment occurred in several institutional building
categories. 