-- 
Canada June Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-15T13:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/canada-june-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), home sales
activity over MLS Systems of Canadian real estate Boards climbed
in June 2011 compared to May.  Highlights:  •Sales activity climbed from May to June, with a big year-over-
year gain reflecting falling demand in June 2010.
•Year-to-date sales remain in line with the ten-year average.
•The number of newly listed homes also rose from May to June.
•National housing market remains firmly entrenched in balanced
territory.
•National average price still being skewed upward by the value
of sales in expensive Vancouver neighbourhoods, with price gains
in other markets providing additional loft.
Seasonally adjusted national home sales activity rose 2.6 per
cent in June 2011 compared to the previous month. Two-thirds of
local markets posted month-over-month gains in June.  Activity remained stable in Toronto while declining slightly in
Vancouver and the Fraser Valley. Major markets that saw gains
compared to May included Calgary,  Montreal , Ottawa,  London ,
Hamilton, and Victoria.  “Canadian housing demand remains resilient, thanks to low
interest rates, job growth, and home buyer confidence in the
economy,” said Gary Morse, CREA’s President. “That said, local
housing market trends often differ from national trends, so
buyers and sellers should consult their local REALTOR® to
understand how the housing market is shaping up where they
live.”  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) activity came in 10.8 per cent
above June 2010 levels, but this largely reflects falling sales
activity last June. This was also the case for the year-over-
year increase in activity in May. Year-over-year comparisons in
July may also be stretched by falling activity one year ago,
since July 2010 marked the low point for activity last year.  “The Canadian housing sector remains on a solid footing,” said
Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist. “The rise in monthly home
sales activity at the end of the second quarter, upbeat business
sentiment and hiring intentions, and signs that the  Bank of
Canada  is in no rush to raise  interest rates  bode well for home
sales activity and prices going into the second half of 2011.”  National sales activity was down 4.7 per cent in the second
quarter compared to levels in the first quarter. This in part
reflects how new mortgage rules announced in January and
implemented at the end of March pulled sales forward into the
first quarter at the expense of sales activity in April and May.
Mortgage interest rates also rose in April and May, which may
have moved some home buyers to the sidelines.  A total of 245,170 homes have traded hands via Canadian MLS®
Systems in the first half of 2011. Year-to-date sales activity
is running in line with the ten-year average, with monthly sales
activity having come close to the ten-year average from January
to June this year (Chart A). This highlights the relative
stability of demand this year compared to the past three years,
when activity swung significantly above and below average
monthly levels.  The number of newly listed homes also rose nationally by 1.8 per
cent from May to June. Gains in Toronto,  Vancouver , and Ottawa
contributed most to the national increase. The rise in new
listings will be especially welcome news for home buyers in
Toronto, where listings have been in short supply relative to
demand this year.  The national housing market remains firmly planted in balanced
territory. The national sales-to-new listings ratio, a measure
of market balance, stood at 52.6 per cent in June, little
changed from 52.2 per cent in May.  About 60 per cent of local housing markets in Canada were
balanced in June. Almost half of the remainder can be classified
as sellers’ markets, based on a sales-to-new listings ratio
above 60 per cent.  The seasonally adjusted number of months of inventory stood at
six months at the end of June on a national basis, holding
steady compared to May. The number of months of inventory
represents the number of months it would take to sell current
inventories at the current rate of sales activity, and is
another measure of the balance between housing supply and
demand.  The national average price for homes sold in June 2011 was
$372,700, up 8.7 per cent from the same month last year. The
national average price is becoming less affected by the overall
number of sales in some expensive Vancouver neighbourhoods, but
is still being pitched higher by the value of those sales.
Activity in these neighbourhoods has eased from levels reported
in February and March, while sales elsewhere across  Canada  have
risen in line with normal seasonal trends. As a result, property
sales above $1 million in Vancouver West, West Vancouver, and
Richmond now account for a smaller but still elevated share of
national activity.  While the effect of Vancouver activity on the national average
price has begun to wane, broadly based price gains in other
housing markets are holding the national average price aloft.
Close to 80 per cent of local markets posted year-over-year
average price gains in June. This includes Toronto, where price
gains reflect a tight balance between supply and demand.  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales information
from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at:
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  