-- 
Paul McCartney Live, Potter Finale, Bald Aliens: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/mccartney-live-potter-finale-horsey-ballet-8-bald-aliens-n-y-weekend.html
Macca’s back. For two nights at
Yankee Stadium on Friday and Saturday,  Paul McCartney  will play
some of the world’s most revered tunes from the Beatles, Wings
and the Fireman album.  For this kick-off to the new “On the Run” tour, he’s
backed by Paul Wickens, Rusty Anderson, Abe Laboriel Jr. and
Brian Ray.  It’s been nearly two years since he’s been in town so
prepare for multiple cathartic sing-a-longs.  At 1 E. 161st St., Bronx. Information:
 http://www.ticketmaster.com .  For a magical Brit of a different sort, fly to the final
cinematic battle between young wizards and epic evil.  “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2” is the
eighth and climactic film of J.K. Rowling’s much-loved series --
so far, the Potter movies alone have grossed nearly $6.5 billion
worldwide without losing their integrity.  Lord Voldemort, played by a creepy  Ralph Fiennes , is now in
possession of the Elder Wand, and he launches an attack on
Hogwarts School. Can he be stopped by Harry, Hermione and Ron
before dark forces take over the world?  Opens Friday at theaters across the U.S. and the U.K. See
it in IMAX 3D if you can.  Information:  http://harrypotter.warnerbros.com .  Saturday  Paddle, sail, motor or just jump on a ferry to  Governors
Island  for the fourth annual City of Water Day Festival.  Get a fishing lesson or take a boat tour around New York
Harbor. Check out the critter tank with seahorses, mud crabs,
shrimp and more.  There’s live music, food and kiddie activities.  Sponsored by the Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance, composed
of 500 separate organizations, the festival celebrates the
waterfront and focuses on having an accessible and clean harbor
for all to enjoy.  Other activities take place at Liberty State Park,  Jersey
City , N.J., and in neighborhoods throughout the city from 10
a.m. to 4 p.m.  Information:  http://www.cityofwaterday.org .  Saturday Matinee  Valery Gergiev’s elegant Mariinsky Ballet is back in town
at last.  Leap at the chance to see the U.S. premiere of Alexei
Ratmansky’s playful “Little Humpbacked Horse,” set to a score
by Rodion Shchedrin, and based on a Russian fairy tale. The
intrepid hero must do the impossible to win the maiden, but
luckily his magic steed is always there to work miracles.  The evening performance at 8 p.m., the company’s last in
N.Y., features Alberto Alonso’s “Carmen Suite,” and
Balanchine’s “Symphony in C.”  For dance lovers, a day-long celebration of Merce Cunningham, with performances, films and exhibitions, begins at
10 a.m. at the Frederick P. Rose Hall.  The ballet is at the Metropolitan Opera House. All are part
of the  Lincoln Center  Festival. Information: +1-212-721-6500;
 http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org .  To carb up for evening fun at Lincoln Center, cross the
street to Boulud Sud for some summery Mediterranean flavors: try
saffron linguini with lemon oil and razor clams. Wash it down
with “Cuvee Daniel” Champagne.  At 20 W. 64th St. Information: +1-212-595-1313.  Saturday Night  Franz Welser-Most leads the Cleveland Orchestra in Anton
Bruckner’s luminous Symphony No. 8, nicknamed “Apocalyptic.”  Master of the large-scale form, the Austrian composer
created works that at the time were considered radical and
confusing. Well-meaning advisers suggested cuts and revisions to
make the symphonies more listener-friendly, and Bruckner
dutifully complied.  Welser-Most brings the original 1887 version, which he and
his band recently released on DVD.  Avery Fisher Hall , Lincoln Center at 8 p.m. Information:
+1-212-721-6500;  http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org .  Sunday  There are the sexy fantasies of 14-year old Evgenij Kozlov,
found in his “Leningrad Album” and photographs of female
German factory workers by Helga Paris.  The collective Chto Delat? gives us a timeline of the
Soviet Bloc’s collapse, while Phil Collins interviews Marxist
teachers who are left reeling after the fall of the  Berlin Wall .  More than 50 artists from Eastern Europe and the former
Soviet republics are represented in the New Museum’s ambitious
exhibition.  “Ostalgie” is a German word that can describe a feeling
of nostalgia for the Communist era during a time of tectonic
shifts in ideology.  “Ostalgia” runs through Sept. 25th at 235 Bowery.
Information: +1-212-219-1222;  http://www.newmuseum.org .  Sunday Evening  Eight bald white aliens with eye-popping ruby lips will
serenade you -- and may make you sing, too.  They want to get
back to Planet Voca and their spaceship runs on musical energy.  Combining acapella, comedy and the art of the beat box,
“Voca People” will take you through a time warp of 70 famous
tunes, from Handel to Madonna, with a movie medley thrown in --
think Pink Panther and  James Bond .  Here’s your chance to participate in the “first
intergalactic show.”  At the Westside Theatre, 407 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200; www.vocapeoplenyc.com.  (With assistance from Jacob Henkoff. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 