-- 
Cemex Selling Asset-Backed Bonds in Return to Local Market: Mexico Credit

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-15T22:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/cemex-selling-asset-backed-bonds-in-return-to-local-market-mexico-credit.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, is selling asset-backed debt for the first time
in two years to obtain lower yields as slumping demand for
building materials drives up its benchmark borrowing costs.  The company, based in Monterrey,  Mexico ,  may sell  2.5
billion pesos ($214 million) of bonds backed by accounts
receivable this month to yield as much as 80 basis points more
than the 28-day interbank lending rate, or about 5.6 percent,
said  Alonso Madero , who helps oversee $5.5 billion of debt at
Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City. It would have to pay a rate
as high as 7.8 percent if the securities weren’t backed by
assets, Madero said.  Cemex is tapping credit markets as growth in the U.S., the
company’s biggest foreign market, slows and Europe’s debt crisis
curbs demand for higher-yielding assets. The company paid a
yield premium of 97 basis points over existing notes to revive
an overseas sale on July 6 that it scrapped last month. Cemex is
the biggest Mexican issuer of debt abroad this year as it seeks
to repay a $15 billion  bank loan  refinancing in 2009 that helped
it stave off default.  “I don’t think it’s the best moment, above all because of
the great volatility out there and the uncertainty that’s being
generated from Europe,” Mario Copca, an analyst at Vanguardia
Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  Cemex sold $650 million more of its notes maturing in 2018
to yield 9.5 percent last week, fueling a tumble in the
secondary market. The yield on the outstanding bonds climbed to
8.9 percent the day the new notes were sold from 8.5 percent on
July 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexican
government debt due in 2019 yields 3.72 percent, while similar-
maturity bonds sold by Holcim Ltd., the world’s second-biggest
cement maker, offer a rate of 4.64 percent.  Highest Rating  Cemex issued 2.2 billion pesos of asset-backed debt in July
2009, the company’s last sale in the local market, and paid 250
basis points over Mexico’s 28-day interbank rate. The bonds,
sold through a  trust fund  that controls accounts receivables
from two Cemex units in Mexico, were rated AAA on the local
scale, the highest investment grade, by  Standard & Poor’s .
Cemex’s local rating is now BB+, 10 levels lower.  The peso bond sale in July 2009 was given S&P’s highest
rating because the trust fund that services the debt has first
priority on sales from Cemex’s customers, said Mauricio Tello,
an analyst at S&P in Mexico City.  “This rating isn’t linked at all to Cemex’s rating,”
Tello said in a telephone interview.  The proposed sale hasn’t been rated.  Rinker Acquisition  Actinver’s Madero said he expects Cemex’s peso sale to
receive a rating of AAA.  “Having an AAA rating gives you a much lower interest
rate,” he said in a telephone interview.  Cemex’s foreign-currency rating was cut seven levels by S&P
over a 10-month span ending August 2009 after the company
boosted debt levels to pay for the $14.2 billion acquisition of
Rinker Group Ltd. in 2007. S&P rates Cemex debt B, or five
levels below investment grade.  The company will use proceeds of the five-year offering to
refinance 2.2 billion pesos of debt from its 2009 sale, said
Maher Al-Haffar, Cemex’s communications director. The securities
mature in December.  “It’s an interesting market and we haven’t been to it for
a while, and it’s very competitive in terms of cost of
capital,” Al-Haffar said in a telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened two basis points today
to 144, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was unchanged at 115 basis points, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The Mexican currency fell 0.2 percent to 11.7420 pesos per
dollar.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in March fell three basis points to 5.03 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate
that month.  Cemex has raised $2.45 billion from international bond
sales this year, the most by a Mexican company, to repay debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has paid
back about half of the $15 billion bank loan and is ahead of
schedule to avoid increases in  interest rates  under the
agreement, according to the company. It has also raised money by
selling shares and shedding assets.  ‘Significant Demand’  “Cemex has been consistently active in the capital markets
since the refinancing agreement,” Andrew Belton, a fixed-income
analyst with CreditSights Inc. in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “They’re trying to take advantage of the significant
demand for Cemex paper.”  A housing slump has curbed Cemex’s profits in the U.S.,
which is its largest foreign market. Cemex’s annual sales in the
U.S. plummeted to $2.49 billion in 2010 from $4.9 billion in
2007 and operating cash flow -- or Ebitda -- turned to a loss of
$44.9 million in 2010 from a gain of $1.12 billion in 2007.  Investors are also concerned  Europe ’s debt crisis could cut
into Cemex revenue, Vanguardia’s Copca said. The region
accounted for 34 percent of Cemex’s sales in 2010.  Debt bailouts in  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland have raised
concerns a financial crisis may sweep Europe, which has made
some investors pull back from emerging markets.  Actinver’s Madero said he owns the asset-backed peso bonds
Cemex sold in 2009 and will likely skip the new offer if the
 yield spread  drops more than 100 basis points from the initial
offering.  “For me to sacrifice my liquidity with such an uncertain
panorama as we have now, they have to give me a super premium,”
Madero said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  