-- 
Chavez Will Fly to Cuba for Chemotherapy

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-16T01:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/chavez-will-fly-to-cuba-tomorrow-to-begin-chemotherapy-treatment-for-tumor.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he’ll fly to Cuba tomorrow for a second stage of
treatment involving chemotherapy  as he fights cancer in what he
has called the “battle of my life.”  “I need to continue completing the strict plan designed by
the medical team that is accompanying me on this ascent of the
mountain,” Chavez said in comments carried on state television.
“I’m asking for legislative authority to absent myself from the
country from Saturday, July 16, in order to continue the
treatment plan in  Havana  needed for me to recover my full
health.”  Chavez, who has led  South America ’s largest oil producer
since 1999, was operated on June 20 for an undisclosed form of
malignant cancer after an initial operation to remove a pelvic
abscess on June 11. The self-declared socialist said July 13
that doctors removed a baseball-sized tumor from his pelvic area.
In his comments today, he didn’t disclose how long he would
remain out of  Venezuela  and whether he would cede power to Vice
President Elias Jaua.  “I’m going to begin the second stage of this slow and
complex process of recuperation,” the 56-year-old leader said.
“The second stage will start with chemotherapy that has already
been planned in scientific detail.”  Venezuela’a National Assembly will vote tomorrow on whether
to grant Chavez permission to travel to Cuba for treatment,
according to a  statement  on its website. Chavez holds a majority
in Congress.  ‘State Secret’  The president’s announcement quashes reports that he would
go to  Brazil  for treatment after an offer by Brazilian President
 Dilma Rousseff , who herself was treated for a lymphoma in 2009
at a hospital in  Sao Paulo .  Cuba was chosen over Brazil because it will be easier for
Chavez to keep his exact prognosis a secret, said Jose Vicente
Carrasquero, a political analyst at the Central University of
Venezuela in Caracas.  “In Brazil, it would be very difficult to keep people in
the dark about what’s going on because public opinion would
demand answers and the Brazilian media would investigate,”
Carrasquero said in a phone interview. “In Cuba, the
president’s health will be handled like a state secret.”  Opposition, Transition  Chavez and his government have repeatedly denied opposition
demands that he hand over power temporarily to Jaua while he
undergoes treatment. The opposition’s push for a political
transition on the premise that he’s “finished” due to cancer
will fail, the president said yesterday  “The opposition is pushing for a transition and saying
that Chavez is finished, that he’s chopped up into 20 pieces,”
Chavez said yesterday. “The only transition here is from
capitalism to socialism.”  The Venezuelan constitution is vague about the legality of
a president absenting himself from duties while he seeks medical
treatment abroad, said Carrasquero. Chavez is unlikely to cede
power unless his health deteriorates significantly, he said.  “The president has never left a delegate behind and he’s
not going to do it now,” Carrasquero said. “He considers it a
weakness to leave someone in charge.”  Patients are treated with chemotherapy or radiation even
after a tumor is successfully removed to prevent the cancer from
recurring, said Jeffrey Meyerhardt, a gastrointestinal
oncologist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston .  Challenges  While radiation is sometimes easier to tolerate than
chemotherapy when targeted to specific areas of the body, both
cause fatigue and nausea. Even so, many patients in high profile
jobs are able to work full time through treatment sessions that
can last several weeks, Meyerhardt said.  Chavez’s health problems have overshadowed the economic
challenges he faces to secure re-election, which include the
highest inflation rate in the hemisphere, food shortages,
violent crime and a housing shortage of more than 2 million
units.  The yield on Venezuela’s 9.25 percent benchmark bond due in
2027 has fallen 82 basis points, or 0.82 percentage points, to
12.98 percent since June 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price has risen 4.24 cents on the dollar to
75.025 cents.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps has fallen 135 basis
points to 994 today in that same period, according to data
compiled by CMA in  New York .  ‘Path to Recovery’  Before his health crisis, the president hosted his own
 television show  most Sundays that lasted up to seven hours
without commercial breaks and sometimes featured spontaneous
expropriations of businesses after followers complained of
exploitation.  His improvised speeches have ranged over philosophy,
baseball and diatribes against the U.S. “empire.”  Now the former paratrooper has altered what he described as
a “lifestyle of death” and is waking up at 5 a.m. to undergo
rehabilitation with his team of doctors, take medical exams and
return to bed early. Chavez said he has cut down his coffee
intake from 40 cups a day to just one or two cups and has taken
up painting again to relax.  “I have faith in God, medical science and our Cuban and
Venezuelan doctors and finally in my own will to live -- to live
for my people, for my daughters and grandchildren and myself --
that we will continue along the path to recovery,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  