-- 
Chelsea Considers Buying Midfielder Parker for $13 Million: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-15T06:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/chelsea-considers-buying-midfielder-parker-for-13-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Permanent Parker  Chelsea is considering whether to buy  Scott Parker  for 8
million pounds ($13 million) rather than take the West Ham
midfielder on loan as initially planned following interest from
rival clubs including  Aston Villa , the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  West Ham quoted Chelsea a loan fee of 4 million pounds to
take Parker for next season and will also demand his 65,000-
pounds-a-week wages are paid in full, the Telegraph said.
Chelsea won’t offer to pay so much for a temporary signing, the
newspaper added.  Luka Not Leaving  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said he expects Luka Modric, for whom Chelsea made an improved bid of 27 million
pounds this week, to still be a Spurs player when the new
Premier League campaign starts next month, the Sun  reported .  “I fully expect Luka to be here at the start of the
season,” the Sun cited Redknapp as saying. “The chairman
 Daniel Levy  has already said he does not want to sell him at any
price.”  Falcao Stays  Porto striker Radamel Falcao agreed to a new two-year
contract with the Portuguese champion that signals the end of
any prospect of a move to Chelsea, the  Daily Mail   reported .  The release clause in the Colombian forward’s contract has
been raised by 15 million euros ($21.2 million) to 45 million
euros, the Mail said. Falcao, who scored 38 goals last season,
was said to be target for Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas, who
himself made the switch to the Blues from Porto, the newspaper
added.  Enrique Auction  Newcastle will sell Jose Enrique to the highest bidder
after Magpies manager Alan Pardew said the Spanish left-back
isn’t “focused” on the club, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Enrique, who is a target for Arsenal and Liverpool, is
refusing to sign a new contract that Pardew said is one of the
club’s most lucrative in recent times, the Mirror said.  N’Zogbia Near  Aston Villa is nearing an agreement to sign Wigan winger
 Charles N’Zogbia  for 10 million pounds as Sunderland tries to
hijack the move, the  Daily Express   reported .  Villa and Wigan were yesterday at an advanced stage of
negotiations for the transfer of N’Zogbia, who has also
attracted the interest of Premier League clubs including
Newcastle, the Express said.  Weakened Teams  Premier League managers will be free to rotate their squads
next season without fear of punishment following a rule change,
the Daily Mail  reported .  Clubs will no longer be penalized for making wholesale
changes and fielding so-called weakened teams as long as they
use players from within a 25-man squad registered at the start
of the season, the Mail added. Clubs will still risk a charge if
a team selection mostly consists of players from the under-21
list rather than the senior 25-man squad, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  