-- 
Chevron E-Mails Show $363.8 Million Trading Profit This Year

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-07-16T00:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/chevron-e-mails-show-363-8m-in-trading-profit.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Houston-based
trading unit made almost two-thirds of its $363.8 million in
profit this year from trading fuels such as gasoline, heating
oil and diesel, according to documents inadvertently sent from
the company by e-mail today.  The second-largest U.S. oil company had year-to-date profit
of $263.9 million from products trading in the Americas and
Atlantic region as of yesterday, compared with $99.9 million
from trading crude oil and liquefied petroleum gas, according to
an internal document about trading.  The trading is “normal business activity within the
industry,”  San Ramon , California-based Chevron said in an e-
mailed statement. The data released was meant for “internal
management reporting” and doesn’t directly translate into
publicly reported earnings, the company said.  “Despite the embarrassment, competitors may still not find
this information all that useful,” said  Gianna Bern , founder of
Brookshire Advisory and Research Inc. in  Chicago  and a former BP
Plc oil trader. “It’s more a question of controls and access to
information.  ‘‘Sounds like a major blunder indeed.’’  Chevron tried to recall the document, titled ‘‘Houston
Daily Management Report,’’ 6 minutes after it was distributed to
reporters from Bloomberg News, Dow Jones & Co. and Argus Media
Ltd. A third e-mail asked recipients to ‘‘please delete the
information from the e-mail which was accidentally sent.’’  ‘‘Chevron is extremely disappointed that certain media
organizations chose to publish information after being alerted
it was an accidental release,’’ the company said later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in Sacramento at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  