-- 
Chilean Policy Makers Keep Rate at 5.25% on ‘Moderation’ in Output, Demand

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-07-15T14:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/chile-keeps-rate-at-5-25-on-moderation-in-production-demand.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged yesterday for the first time
since January as signs of slower growth abroad and a moderation
in domestic output and demand provided it space to delay
additional increases.  The five-member board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, held the benchmark rate at 5.25 percent, matching the
forecast of 20 of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Four
analysts expected a third-straight quarter-point increase.  Since the bank’s June meeting, policy makers, economists
and traders have reduced estimates for future consumer prices to
levels that fall within the central bank’s target range. Signs
of slower growth in Chile and a weaker recovery internationally
gave policy makers room to implement a temporary pause, said
Cristobal Doberti, chief economist at Bice Inversiones.  “There were three factors behind the decision: the
external environment is moderating, local growth is slowing
toward its potential and  core inflation  is quite contained,”
Doberti said after yesterday’s decision. “This gave it room to
hold the rate temporarily, not permanently.”  The central bank probably will raise rates by a quarter-
point twice more this year to 5.75 percent, Doberti said.  “In the most likely scenario, additional increases in the
monetary policy rates will be necessary, the timing of which
will depend on the unfolding of domestic and external
macroeconomic conditions,” the bank said in a statement
accompanying its decision.  Interest Rate Swaps  Chile’s one-year interest rate swaps, which reflect
traders’ views of future rate decisions, declined eight basis
points to 5.63 percent at 8:59 a.m. New York time from the day
after last month’s meeting.  Inflation slowed to 0.2 percent in June from 0.4 percent in
May on a decline in clothing and transportation prices, the
National Statistics Institute said in a July 8 report. Core
inflation, which excludes produce and fuel, decelerated to 0.1
percent from 0.3 percent in May.  Consumer prices will rise 0.2 percent again in July,
according to the median of 55 traders in a July 13 central bank
survey.  Inflation Forecasts  Annual inflation will be 3.4 percent in 12 months, matching
levels seen in June, according to the survey. Policy makers in a
June forecast and economists in a July 12 bank survey lowered
their forecasts for annual inflation in December to 4 percent,
which is the upper limit of policy makers’ target range.  “The main news in recent months has been the easing of
some inflationary risks,”  De Gregorio  told senators June 20,
when he published new price forecasts. “International prices
for commodities didn’t continue growing and the propagation of
specific price shocks has been limited.”  Economic activity probably will slow on higher lending
costs, De Gregorio told the lawmakers.  The economy, which grew 9.8 percent first quarter, is on
track to expand 6 percent to 7 percent this year, according to
bank forecasts.  “Domestically, output, demand and labor market figures are
progressing with strength, showing signs of moderation,” the
bank said yesterday.  Monitoring ‘Uncertainty’  Chilean policy makers will be monitoring “uncertainty”
surrounding the recovery of developed economies as they
determine when to raise lending costs again,  Alejandro Puente ,
an economist with  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said
before yesterday’s decision.  “Internationally, economic activity indicators confirm
somewhat slower growth in the U.S. and  Europe , while concerns
about fiscal and financial risks in these economies have
intensified, particularly in the Eurozone,” the central bank
said in yesterday’s statement.  Chilean policy makers have increased lending rates at 12 of
their last 14 monthly meetings to a rate that is the fourth-
highest among major Latin American economies tracked by
Bloomberg.  South America ’s fifth-largest economy has raised
rates faster this year than any other major rate-setting economy
tracked by Bloomberg except Belarus.  One central banker in the June meeting said keeping rates
at 5 percent would have been rational in light of global
economic events, according to minutes of the meeting.  Logical Pause  “Holding the monetary policy rate was coherent with a more
complex external scenario,” the minutes cited the board member
as saying. A pause would have been logical “taking into
consideration the exchange rate implications of a widening of
the gap between  interest rates .”  An influx of capital into  Latin America , driven by
increased global liquidity and higher interest rates in the
region, could cause currencies to appreciate, Lisa Schineller,
director of sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , said
yesterday in a conference call with reporters.  The peso has gained 15 percent against the dollar the last
year, the best performance against the dollar among the seven
major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 461.66 at 9:14 a.m. New York
time from yesterday’s close of 462.11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  