-- 
China Foreign Investment Climbs as Companies Woo Consumers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-15T06:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/china-s-foreign-investment-rises-as-companies-woo-consumers-1-.html
Foreign direct investment in China
rose 18.4 percent in the first half of the year as companies
such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  and Ford Motor Co. boosted their presence in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Foreign investment climbed to $60.9 billion in the first
six months from a year earlier, the Ministry of Commerce said in
a statement in Beijing today. Spending in June gained 2.8
percent from a year earlier to $12.86 billion, the ministry said,
the slowest pace in 10 months.  China, the largest contributor to global growth for the
past three years, is expected to expand three times faster than
the U.S. this year, giving its 1.3 billion people more money to
spend on snacks, cars and household goods.  Asia ’s biggest
economy will be the No. 1 target for foreign investment until
the end of 2012, a United Nations report forecast in September.  “ China  is still an attractive destination for investors
and will remain so for many years to come,” Fang Sihai,
Beijing-based chief economist at Hongyuan Securities Co., said
before the announcement. “An expanding middle-class and a
strong economy will continue to appeal to every investor.”  The slowdown in FDI growth in June comes against a high
comparative base in the same month last year when investment
jumped to what was then the second-highest on record.  ‘Sound’ Growth  Foreign investment exceeded $100 billion last year and
“sound” growth is expected again this year, Commerce Ministry
spokesman Yao Jian said today.  “The market is large, the investment environment is sound
and labor costs are still competitive,” Yao said.  The monthly FDI figures are usually volatile,”  Wang Tao ,
chief China economist at UBS AG, said at a briefing in Beijing
today. The data “are affected by factors including global
economic trends, yuan appreciation expectations and the
intensity of supervision of capital flows by the nation’s
currency regulator. “So it’s hard to judge the impact on the
economy based on a single month’s change.”  The world’s second-biggest economy expanded a more-than-
estimated 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
the  statistics bureau  said this week, easing concerns that
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s campaign to tame the highest inflation in
three years will lead to a so-called “hard landing.”  Faster Expansion  Growth for the year will likely be more than 9 percent,
according to forecasts from  Barclays Capital  and Mizuho
Securities Ltd. Yu Bin, director of the macroeconomic research
department at the State Council’s Development Research Center,
said yesterday the expansion may be as fast as 9.5 percent.  That pace compares with International Monetary Fund
projections in June of 2.5 percent growth in the U.S. and a 2
percent expansion in the euro area.  Growth in China is easing as higher  interest rates  and
curbs on lending damp the supply of credit that’s fueled
inflation and property speculation. The State Council said
yesterday it would expand controls on home purchases in smaller
cities where price gains are still excessive.  The official Xinhua News Agency said in an  editorial  today
that while the government will maintain its overall “prudent”
monetary stance, policy will be “fine tuned” to make sure the
cumulative effects of earlier tightening don’t have a “big
impact” on growth.  Fine-Tuning Policy  As part of the fine-tuning, policy makers will support
lending to smaller companies, who have been hurt by monetary
tightening, and to agriculture to boost output, the editorial
said.  Labor shortages and government-mandated increases in
minimum wages are helping to boost salaries and consumer
spending power. Per capita urban disposable income rose 13.2
percent in the first half of the year and rural cash incomes
climbed 20.4 percent, the statistics bureau said this week.  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, and Ford, the
U.S.’s second-biggest automaker, are among foreign companies
raising their investment in China to tap growth.  Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle in April agreed to buy 60
percent of Yinlu Foods Group in a transaction that will increase
its sales in China by about a quarter. The maker of Nescafe
instant coffee and Kit Kat candy bars, which already has 23
factories in China, this week added to its expansion plans with
the announcement it intends to buy 60 percent of snack and candy
maker Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. for $1.7 billion.  Ford last month broke ground on a $500 million engine
factory in southwestern city of Chongqing, which will more than
double engine capacity for joint venture Changan Ford Mazda
Automobile Co. to 750,000 units when output starts in 2013. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said its sales in China
jumped 40 percent last year.  --Zheng Lifei, Victoria Ruan, Sophie Leung. With assistance from
Charles Li in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  