-- 
CIBC Agrees to Buy JPMorgan American Century Stake for About $848 Million

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-15T20:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/cibc-agrees-to-buy-jpmorgan-american-century-stake-for-about-848-million.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
the country’s fifth-largest bank, agreed to buy a 41 percent
stake in American Century Investments from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
for $848 million to expand its asset-management business.  The cash acquisition, the third-largest purchase by the
Toronto-based bank, will immediately add to earnings and
contribute 15 cents a share to profit in 2012, CIBC said today
in a statement.  The purchase may lead to further asset-management
acquisitions following a change in corporate structure in March
that placed Victor Dodig as head of the unit, the bank said.  “American Century Investments is a platform for further
growth internationally,” Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey told investors on a conference call.  CIBC fell 49 cents to C$74.13 at 4 p.m. in trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have fallen 5.4 percent this
year, the worst performer among  Canada ’s six biggest banks.  McCaughey, 55, said the transaction will have “a positive
impact on our dividend increase plan,” without being more
specific. The lender is expected to boost its quarterly payout
by 3.4 percent to 90 cents a share in the fiscal third quarter,
according to Bloomberg Dividend Forecasts. The bank’s dividend
yield is 4.7 percent.  Growth Stocks   Kansas City-based  American Century , founded in 1958, has
$112 billion in assets under management and was named the “Best
Large Mutual Fund Company” at the 2009 Lipper Fund Awards.
American Century’s majority shareholder is the Stowers Institute
for  Medical Research .  American Century is known for its focus on growth stocks, or
shares in companies whose profit is expected to grow faster than
the broader market, fund industry consultant Geoff Bobroff said
in a telephone interview.  The growth-oriented  American Century Ultra Fund (TWCUX)  was once
considered the company’s flagship product, Bobroff said. Its
assets have fallen from $23.8 billion in 2004 to $6.5 billion as
of June 30. Ultra has returned 5.3 percent annually in the past
five years, beating 64 percent of competing funds, Bloomberg
data show.  “One has to puzzle over why CIBC would want a minority
stake, unless it saw the opportunity to either buy more or use
American Century as a platform for the entry of its own products
into the U.S.,” Bobroff said.  Equities  The firm’s largest fund is the $9.25 billion Equity Income
fund, which has returned an annual average of 4.2 percent over
the past five years, beating 68 percent of similarly managed
funds.  About two-thirds of American Century’s assets under
management are weighted toward equities, CIBC  said  in its
presentation to investors.  The investment by CIBC is surpassed only by its purchase of
FirstCaribbean International Bank in 2006 and a MasterCard
portfolio from Citigroup Inc. last year.  CIBC has shed most of its U.S. businesses over the past
decade. In 2008, the lender sold part of its U.S. capital
markets businesses to New York-based Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.
It also closed an online-banking business known as Amicus in
2002.  “Admittedly, we are a little surprised that CIBC is
allocating capital in the U.S.,” said  John Aiken , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in Toronto, in a research note. “That said,
the acquisition is in asset management, which is far less risky
than wholesale or even retail banking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 