-- 
Citigroup Estimates It Has $22 Billion at Risk in Five European Countries

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-15T20:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/citigroup-estimates-it-has-22-billion-at-risk-in-five-european-countries.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , estimated it has at least $22 billion in loans,
trading assets and other “exposures” to  Greece ,  Italy ,
Portugal,  Spain  and Ireland.  The net figure includes $13 billion in so-called funded
exposure as of June 30, mostly in the form of credit to
financial institutions and companies, according to an earnings
 presentation  today on the New York-based firm’s website.
Sovereign entities account for “a little more than” $1 billion
of that amount, it said.  The remaining $9 billion is unfunded exposure, mainly to
international companies based in the five countries, where
Citigroup provides settlement and clearing services, according
to the presentation. Estimates were based on the firm’s internal
risk measures, it said.  “Our exposure to the businesses and the sovereigns in
those countries certainly is appropriate given our size, our
stature and our business model,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 57, told reporters today on a conference call.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ,
tumbled 5.3 percent in New York Stock Exchange trading on July
11 as concern mounted that  Europe ’s debt crisis may engulf
Italy, which has the region’s second-highest borrowings.  The bank previously disclosed $12.3 billion in loans to
Italian customers at the end of 2010, including banks and public
entities, and a further $18.4 billion in legally binding
“commitments.” This figure doesn’t include so-called hedges,
when an investor makes a bet to protect against potential loss
on an existing position. The company hadn’t made detailed
disclosures on the five countries since then.  Gross Exposure  Pandit and Gerspach declined to tell analysts in a separate
conference call what the bank’s gross exposure to the five
countries was, not including hedges. In response to questions
from Michael Mayo, an analyst at Credit Agricole SA in  New York ,
Gerspach said the figure was irrelevant while Pandit defended
the bank’s hedges and risk-management approach.  “If Europe turns into a real problem, the net exposure
guidance or disclosure you gave isn’t going to give investors
any comfort whatsoever,” Michael Holton, an analyst with Boston
Co. Asset Management LLC, said on the call. “I would encourage
you to give the gross exposure at some point if you’re not going
to do it today.”  In addition to the $22 billion, Citigroup said it has money
at risk to retail customers and small businesses through locally
funded lending. Most of that is through Citi Holdings, a
division that contains businesses tagged for sale, and is
focused on Greece and Spain, it said.  Maintaining Relationships  “We fully expect to maintain our long-standing
relationships” in the five countries, Citigroup wrote in the
presentation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported yesterday that its
outstanding loans and contracts to the five countries total
about $15 billion. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55, said
the amount “bounces around by several billion” after taxes and
taking into account hedges against that risk. In the worst-case
scenario, the bank may lose about $3 billion, he said.  “We’ve not dramatically reduced those exposures,” Dimon
said. “We’re still doing a lot of business in Europe.”  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. bank by assets,
said in a May regulatory filing that it has $16.9 billion at
risk in the five countries as of March 31.  Citigroup today reported second-quarter net income of $3.34
billion, a 24 percent increase from a year earlier that beat
analysts’ estimates, as it earned more from investment-banking
fees and reduced losses tied to troubled assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 