-- 
Citigroup Net Rises; Shares Drop on Higher Expense Forecast

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-15T20:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/citigroup-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-higher-investment-bank-fees.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , said profit rose 24 percent, beating analysts’
estimates on higher investment-banking fees and reductions in
loan-loss reserves. The shares declined after the bank said
expenses will be higher than previous forecasts.  Second-quarter net income rose to $3.34 billion, or $1.09 a
share, from $2.7 billion, or 90 cents, in the same period last
year, New York-based Citigroup said today in a statement. The
average estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
earnings per share of 96 cents.  A 61 percent gain in investment-banking revenue at
Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit,
mirrored the results  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported yesterday. A
$2 billion release from loan-loss reserves also bolstered
earnings. The results countered a decline in trading revenue
from the first quarter and allowed Pandit to post a sixth
straight profitable quarter.  “ Investment-banking  results, particularly on the trading
front, were much better than we expected,” Charles Peabody, an
analyst with New York-based Portales Partners LLC, said in an
interview on Bloomberg TV. “Their investment banking, which
would be mergers and acquisitions and underwriting, was up very
strong both quarter over quarter and year over year.”  Citigroup shares declined, erasing an earlier gain, after
the company said on a conference call with analysts that
expenses would remain elevated through the end of this year. The
stock fell 64 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $38.38 at 4:15 p.m. in
composite trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange, the biggest
drop in the KBW Bank Index of 24 companies.  Cutting Estimates  Operating costs rose 9 percent to $12.9 billion due in part
to increased legal bills and a weakening U.S. dollar, Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  told analysts. The annual total
will probably exceed the range of between $48 billion and $50
billion previously given by the bank, Gerspach said.  “Higher expenses lead to lower profits,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with Royal Bank of Canada, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares. “Unless they’re able to
offset those expenses with greater revenue growth, and
management did not say that was going to happen, one can
conclude that when analysts make their earnings adjustments,
they’re going to be lowering their earnings estimates.”  The bank’s total revenue declined 7 percent to $20.6
billion, compared with JPMorgan’s 7 percent revenue increase to
$26.8 billion in the same period.  Revenue Falls  Citicorp revenue, which includes investment banking,
trading, the retail bank and global transaction services, fell 1
percent to $16.3 billion. Citi Holdings, which Pandit created in
January 2009 to sell troubled businesses and securities, posted
an 18 percent decline in revenue, to $4.01 billion.  “While we are comfortable with the broader macro-economic
trends that underpin our strategy, we are concerned with the
impact the near-term economic environment will have on the
industry for the second half of the year,” Pandit told analysts
on the conference call. “But with that said, we are
consistently profitable and remain focused on growing
responsibly.”  Revenue at Citigroup’s investment bank, run by Ray McGuire,
increased to $1.09 billion from $674 million in the same quarter
last year. Moshe Orenbuch, a Credit Suisse AG analyst, had
predicted revenue of $865 million while Richard Staite, a
London-based analyst with Atlantic Equities LLC, had estimated
$890 million.  McGuire, 54, added more than 40 managing directors this
year as Pandit seeks to boost market share. Citigroup doesn’t
disclose the investment bank’s profit.  Investment Bank  Citigroup’s investment-banking unit advised on completed
deals worth $98.8 billion in the quarter, almost quadruple
volume for the same period last year. Overall deal volume
increased 45 percent to $579.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets behind
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , yesterday reported a $5.43 billion
profit, or $1.27 a share, 6 cents higher than the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue at the
firm’s investment bank, led by James Staley, increased 37
percent to $1.9 billion.  The sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and slowing economic
growth in the U.S. depressed trading volume and curtailed
revenue in the second quarter as investors bought and sold fewer
bonds and equities, according to analysts including Chris Kotowski at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  Fixed Income  Citigroup’s fixed-income trading revenue fell to $3.03
billion from $3.8 billion in the first quarter. Equity-trading
revenue declined to $812 million from $1.07 billion in the first
three months of 2011.  The slump in fixed-income trading was driven by “credit-
related and securitized products,” Gerspach said on the call.  The bank’s revenue from trading in equities fell because of
“a challenging trading environment, particularly in
derivatives,” Gerspach said.  Losses dropped by about $1 billion to $218 million at the
Citi Holdings unit from the same period a year earlier. Losses
on soured loans fell to $3 billion from $5 billion last year.  Results got a boost from the Special Asset Pool unit, which
contains some of the bank’s most toxic mortgages and securities.
The business, run by Aloysius “Ish” McLaughlin under Citi
Holdings head  Michael Corbat , posted a $629 million profit for
the quarter tied to gains on selling $12.7 billion of assets,
the bank said. The profit compared with $122 million in the same
period a year earlier.  Basel Requirement  Gerspach told reporters on the conference call that the
assets included corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities
and were sold “in preparation” for  capital requirements 
prepared by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Losses declined to $746 million from $1.23 billion last
year in the local consumer-lending unit of Citi Holdings, which
includes the CitiFinancial consumer-finance operation and the
bank’s store-branded cards business.  Citi Holdings assets declined to $308 billion from $465
billion.  Citigroup, once the largest lender in the world, posted
$29.3 billion in combined losses tied to sub-prime mortgages for
2008 and 2009. Under Pandit, the firm took a $45 billion
bailout, which it returned to taxpayers with a profit of about
$12 billion last year. Shares are down about 90 percent since
Pandit became CEO in 2007.  European Risk  The bank disclosed that it has at least $22 billion in
loans, trading assets and other “exposures” to  Greece ,  Italy ,
 Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland. Citigroup also said it has money at
risk to retail customers and small businesses through locally
funded lending. Most of that is through Citi Holdings businesses
and is focused on Greece and Spain, the bank said.  “Our exposure to the businesses and the sovereigns in
those countries certainly is appropriate given our size, our
stature and our business model,” Gerspach, 57, told reporters.  The bank had previously disclosed a $31.1 billion exposure
to Italy at the end of December 2010 including commitments such
as legally binding letters of credit. That figure didn’t include
hedges, according to filings.  Manuel Medina-Mora, Citigroup’s global consumer bank chief,
boosted that division’s global profit to $1.61 billion from
$1.14 billion last year.  Loss Reserves  Profit at the U.S. consumer unit, run by Cecelia “CeCe” Stewart, rose to $684 million from $52 million in the same
period last year. Revenue fell 9 percent to $3.37 billion.
Stewart oversaw a $757 million release from loan-loss reserves,
allowing the bank to bolster profit with funds that had been set
aside for future losses on bad loans.  While revenue from the consumer bank’s Latin American and
Asian units rose a combined 13 percent to $4.46 billion, profit
fell 14 percent to $895 million. As Pandit increases lending in
countries such as  Brazil ,  China  and  India , the bank’s costs are
rising, according to Staite at Atlantic Equities, who has a
“overweight” rating on Citigroup shares.  “After  Vikram Pandit  came on board, they started to ramp
up their investment in these areas,” said Staite, who predicts
the bank’s international consumer-banking profit will fall in
2012 due to increased costs. “You’ve got to believe that at
some point it will translate into actual profit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 