-- 
Clarke, Glover Share 1-Stroke Lead at British Open as Weather Dominates

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-16T13:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/clarke-glover-share-one-stroke-lead-at-british-open-as-bad-weather-looms.html
Rain and wind are playing a key role
in the third round of the British Open, where Darren Clarke of
 Northern Ireland  and  Lucas Glover  of the U.S. share a one-stroke
lead.  Clarke and Glover, who tee off in the day’s final group at
3:05 p.m., are 4-under par at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,
England.  Steady rain and wind gusts of up to 35 miles per hour (56
kilometers per hour) have prevented any of the 56 golfers on the
course from shooting under par today. Only seven players are
currently even-par in their rounds.  “The conditions were brutal,” Australian Matthew Millar,
the first man out today, said after a 10-over par 80 left him in
next-to-last place at 13-over. “Anyone who shoots par or a
couple over today has had a really good knock of it.”  Rain is expected to become heavy for a few hours before
clearing in the late afternoon, while wind gusts could reach 40
mph, according to the U.K.’s Met Office. Many of the players
were wearing rain suits, ski caps and some, including U.S. Open
champion Rory McIlroy and playing partner  Rickie Fowler , had
mittens on between shots.  The weather forced officials to move up the tees on two of
the par-4s on the front nine. The fourth hole was shortened to
469 yards from 495 yards, with the eighth at 415 yards from its
normal 453.  Thomas Bjorn of Denmark, who was tied for the lead after
the first round, American Chad Campbell, U.S. PGA champion
 Martin Kaymer  of Germany, and Miguel Angel Jimenez of Spain are
all at 3-under. Jimenez and Bjorn will tee off at 2:45 p.m.,
followed by Campbell and Kaymer 10 minutes later.  Masters Tournament winner  Charl Schwartzel  of  South Africa 
and 1996 Open champion Tom Lehman of the U.S. both shot 67 to
get to 2-under. They’re joined by five others, including  Davis Love III , two shots off the pace. A total of 18 golfers began
the day within three shots of the leaders.  Tournament favorite McIlroy is 2-over through five holes
and 2-over for the tournament. Fowler is even-par for both his
round and the championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal St. George’s at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  