-- 
Clinton Meets With Allies to Discuss Libyan Succession Plans

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-15T10:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/clinton-meets-with-allies-to-discuss-succession-plans-in-libya.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and international allies are seeking to ensure that
 Libya ’s opposition is strong enough to fill the vacuum left
after the expected departure of leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  During a news conference that opened the so-called Libya
Contact Group meeting in Istanbul today, United Arab Emirates
Foreign Minister Abdullah Bin Zayed al-Nahyan said allies have
to be “more forceful, more insistent” that Qaddafi steps down.  The group will also examine the political, security and
diplomatic steps Libya’s rebel National Transitional Council
must take to secure funding and develop the capacity to govern,
said two State Department officials who spoke anonymously
because they aren’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization started military
strikes in late March to aid rebels seeking Qaddafi’s ouster.
Qaddafi has already lasted longer than allies had anticipated,
though his hold on the capital, Tripoli, appears to weakening
amid shortages of food and fuel and increasing reports that his
government is seeking a negotiated end to the fighting.  The contact group continues to believe time is on its side
in the struggle for control of the oil-rich country, the
officials said. The U.S. regards the council as the legitimate
representative of the Libyan people, they said.  British Tornado Warplanes  Britain will add four Tornado warplanes to its force in the
air campaign against Qaddafi’s military, bringing the total
number of British aircraft involved to 34, a spokesman for the
U.K. Foreign Ministry said today at the meeting. There is a
growing amount of interest from the Qaddafi government in
finding a political solution to the fighting, the spokesman
said.  Clinton, who landed in Istanbul today, will meet with the
other 20 core members of the contact group. In addition to
members of the  United Nations , the European Union, the Gulf
Cooperation Council and  African Union , 35 nations are attending.
This is the fourth meeting of the contact group and the ninth
the allies have held since the insurgency began in February.  Libya’s rebels must have access to the country’s frozen
assets, Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said today at
the meeting. There is an “urgent need for cash,” he said,
calling on countries to “open banks” to the rebels’ council,
“along with a percentage of frozen assets.”  Aid To Opposition  Qatar and  Kuwait  are expected to provide $100 million in
temporary funding for the opposition and the meeting’s host,
 Turkey , is in line to provide another $200 million, the State
Department officials said.  The U.S. has yet to deliver aid to the rebel council. The
U.S. House of Representatives rejected a plan to funnel frozen
Libyan assets to the group. The U.S. has frozen more than $30
billion of the Qaddafi government’s assets.  At today’s meeting, the council will outline plans for
leading a post-Qaddafi Libya, with the Obama administration
pressing for assurances that Libyans from different tribes and
locations will be represented, the officials said.  Davutoglu said, “There has been progressive improvement on
the ground,” and “what we need to do now is consolidate our
achievements and move into the phase of conflict resolution.”  The contact group has created an information clearing house
in Benghazi, the rebel stronghold, to ensure it learns of the
opposition’s needs, the U.S. officials said.  Clinton will hold separate meetings with Turkish officials
tomorrow to discuss bilateral issues from the unrest in  Syria  to
the war in  Afghanistan , they said.  When Clinton meets with Turkish leaders, they will have a
full agenda, reviewing results of the contact group meeting and
discussing the unrest in Syria, which has now sent more than
9,000 refugees over the border into Turkey. The leaders also
plan to confer on  Iraq , the Balkans, energy and defense issues,
 Iran , and Afghanistan, where Turkey has 1,800 troops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 