-- 
Clinton Works With Allies on Ways to Fight Religious Intolerance

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-15T20:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/clinton-works-with-allies-on-ways-to-fight-religious-intolerance.html
The U.S. and allies are seeking
better responses to acts of religious intolerance such as
burnings of the Koran and cartoons that mock the  Prophet
Muhammad .  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  discussed with religious
and political leaders today in Istanbul how to build on a United
Nations  Human Rights Council   resolution  passed March 24, which
calls for promoting tolerance and respect for diversity of
beliefs, without restricting legitimate free speech.  Clinton, the secretary general of the 57-nation
Organization of the Islamic Conference, Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu,
and others are aiming to implement responses to defamation that
includes education, government outreach and dialogue rather than
restrictive measures.  Since 1999,  Muslim countries  such as  Pakistan  have reacted
to perceived attacks on Islam by pushing for UN resolutions
against “defamation of religion” that prohibit speech that
they said could fuel discrimination.  Western nations said such measures repress speech and other
freedoms that the U.S. considers basic and universal, and were
used to justify “troublesome” blasphemy laws in Muslim
nations, according to State Department background materials.  “Together, we have begun to address the false divide that
pits religious sensitivities against freedom of expression,”
Clinton said today.  She noted that even as countries in the  Middle East  and
North Africa make the “inspiring” transition to democracy,
there has also been a rise in ethnic and religious intolerance.  Protect Speech Rights  Clinton said the Human Rights Council’s resolution “calls
upon states to protect freedom of religion, to counter offensive
expression through education, interfaith dialogue, and public
debate, and to prohibit discrimination, profiling, and hate
crimes, but not to criminalize speech unless there is an
incitement to imminent violence.”  Later this year, the U.S. will host a meeting of “relevant
experts” from around the world to discuss best practices,
exchange ideas and “keep us moving forward beyond the
polarizing debates of the past,” Clinton said.  In the  United States , Clinton said, “we have seen how the
incendiary actions of just a very few people” can create “wide
ripples of intolerance.”  “So we are focused on promoting interfaith education and
collaboration, enforcing anti-discrimination laws, protecting
the rights of all people to worship as they choose, and to use
some old-fashioned techniques of peer pressure and shaming so
that people don’t feel that they have the support to do what we
abhor,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 