-- 
ConocoPhillips Halts Refining Binge 10 Years Later

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-07-18T17:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/conocophillips-s-mulva-halts-oil-refining-binge-10-years-later.html
(Corrects rise in Marathon Oil’s market value in final two
paragraphs of story originally published July 15.)  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Mulva , the longest-serving U.S. oil CEO, is
abandoning a decade-long effort to compete with the world’s
biggest refiners amid a growing glut of crude-processing plants.  ConocoPhillips plans to spin off its refining business by
the end of June to focus on so-called upstream projects such as
drilling for crude and natural gas in Texas,  Norway ,  China  and
the U.K., Mulva said yesterday. Analysts including Oppenheimer &
Co.’s  Fadel Gheit , who panned Mulva in 2001 at the start of his
bid to amass a refining empire, now are praising him for
admitting it hasn’t worked.  Mulva will retire when the spinoff is complete.  ConocoPhillips follows  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in seeking to shrink or exit refining
businesses. With 97 percent of its crude-processing capacity
located in the U.S. and Europe, Houston-based ConocoPhillips’s
refineries will face acute competition from new plants in
emerging markets such as India that are closer to faster-growing
markets such as China, said Andy Steinhubl, a senior partner at
Bain & Co.  “Clearly there’s a trend under way with regard to reducing
exposure to refining,” said Simon Flowers, head of corporate
analysis at oil consultant Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Edinburgh.
“So long as the upstream remains a highly attractive business
and refining is in a state of overcapacity worldwide,  oil
companies  are going to look at every option from peripheral
asset sales to de-mergers.”  Less Volatile  Mulva, 65, told analysts and investors during a conference
call yesterday that the spinoff will allow the company to focus
on oil and gas projects, which aren’t as subject to the seasonal
and macroeconomic fluctuations inherent to the refining
industry.  “I think this is a brilliant move by the Conoco
management,”  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion
at New York-based Holland & Co., said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It’s a very smart
thing to do.”  While the margins earned from turning West  Texas  crude and
similar grades of crude into gasoline and diesel in the U.S.
climbed to a 25-year high of $35 a barrel yesterday, integrated
oil companies that engage in exploration along with refining
have been reducing their refinery holdings to lower the
volatility of their earnings.  Crude Price Swings  Oil-processing plants are vulnerable to swings in crude
prices and to fluctuations in consumer demand. Ten-day
volatility in the benchmark futures contract traded on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  reached 67.8 on May 17, the highest
level since April 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I love it,” Gheit said yesterday after the spinoff was
announced. The New York-based Oppenheimer analyst rates
ConocoPhillips stock “outperform.”  Oppenheimer puts the market value of ConocoPhillips’s
exploration and production business at $90 billion to $100
billion, according to a report dated today. The value of the
refining company may be $25 billion to $30 billion, Oppenheimer
said. The estimates may change depending on how ConocoPhillips
divides its properties and how planned asset sales proceed,
Gheit said.  ConocoPhillips rose 81 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $76.42 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. At that
price, the company’s market value is about $108 billion.  Funding Exploration  Still, the spinoff may damage ConocoPhillips’s ability to
fund new exploration or production projects, said Mark Gilman, a
New York-based analyst for Benchmark Co. The  oil company  won’t
have the refiner’s ample cash flow to distribute as it chooses
once the businesses are separate, he said.  Although refining accounted for just 1.7 percent of
ConocoPhillips’s net income last year, the business generated 71
percent of the company’s revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Oil and gas production accounted for 81 percent of
net income and 25 percent of revenue.  “Cash generation, whether it be from operations or asset
sales, is now captive to each newly created entity that’s going
to generate it,” Gilman said in a telephone interview.
“Previously, you had the ability to allocate across a broader
portfolio. You don’t have the ability to take cash from one
entity to the other that you did.”  Moody’s Review  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings each said they are reviewing ConocoPhillips’ credit
rating profile with possible negative implications following the
spinoff announcement. The  ratings agencies  cited the company’s
uncertain outlook and less diverse mix of assets following the
split into two companies.  Mulva began acquiring refineries in 2001 when, as CEO of
Phillips Petroleum Co., he led the $8.37 billion purchase of
Tosco Corp. The move disappointed analysts such as Gheit, then
with Fahnestock & Co., who wanted ConocoPhillips to pursue oil
and gas projects instead.  At the time, Mulva defended the Tosco deal as a necessary
move to compete with rivals such as Exxon Mobil and BP Plc,
which were swallowing smaller companies to expand market share
and cut costs. Less than a year after the Tosco transaction,
Mulva engineered the $25 billion combination of Conoco Inc. and
Phillips to add to the company’s refineries and retail stations.  Changing Environment  The integrated model was the best approach for
ConocoPhillips for about a decade, allowing it to expand its
base of resources and increase earnings as the company benefited
from its size and scope, Mulva said on yesterday’s conference
call. A changing environment, which includes more competition
for resources, means a move to split ConocoPhillips into two
“pure-play” companies will help boost value for shareholders
and improve the chances of success for the management team, he
said.  For Marathon investors, the Houston-based company’s June 30
spinoff of its refining unit, Marathon Petroleum Corp., has been
an unqualified win. In the six months since the separation was
announced, shareholders have reaped a 28 percent return.  Marathon Oil shares, which were valued at $40.53 the day
before the spinoff was announced in January, closed July 13 at
$31.71. When combined with the half-share in Marathon Petroleum
distributed for each parent company share, an investor held
$51.69 in stock in both companies as of the July 13 close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Houston at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  