-- 
Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Fell on Fuel

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-fell-on-fuel-costs.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably fell in June for the first time in a year as energy
costs receded, economists said before a report today.  The consumer-price index decreased 0.1 percent after a 0.2
percent gain in May, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs, may
have increased 0.2 percent.  Cheaper fuel removes some of the “temporary” stresses
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said hurt spending
among households burdened by slowing job growth and 9.2 percent
unemployment. The prior jump in raw-material costs is still
rippling though the economy, one reason Federal Reserve policy
makers are divided on their next course of action.  “This is where we start to see the energy-price reprieve
come into play,” said  Lindsey Piegza , an economist at FTN
Financial in  New York . “Unfortunately, we’re going to see a
good push in the core for the next month or two because energy
prices were sustained at such a high level for such a long
period that they filtered through into other sectors.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
 Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from declines of 0.3
percent to gains of 0.2 percent.  Other reports today may show manufacturing is recovering as
supply-chain disruptions related to Japan’s natural disaster
subside.  June’s projected increase would mean prices climbed 3.6
percent over the past 12 months, matching May as the biggest
year-to-year gain since October 2008.  The advance in core prices would follow a 0.3 percent gain
in May, according to the Bloomberg survey. The projected 1.6
percent increase from a year ago would be the biggest since
January 2010.  Bernanke on Inflation  Bernanke told Congress this week that central bank
officials anticipate that “most of the recent rise in inflation
appears likely to be transitory.” Stabilization of  oil prices 
and other commodities, along with slack in the labor market,
indicates inflation will moderate, Bernanke said.  The rise in prices came as U.S. economic growth cooled,
leaving Fed officials divided on whether the economy needed
additional stimulus, minutes of the central bank’s June 21-22
meeting showed earlier this week. Some members said a further
slowdown in the recovery would signal a need for more support,
while others said the growing risk of inflation would require
withdrawing stimulus sooner than currently anticipated.  Inflation Measure  Fed policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7
percent to 2 percent, according to their June forecast. Their
preferred price gauge, which excludes food and fuel, rose 1.2
percent in May from a year earlier.  Some of the economic slowdown stemmed from crimped factory
output after  Japan ’s March earthquake and tsunami stunted the
supply of parts used in auto production. As supplies begin to
flow, manufacturing may rebound.  Fed figures at 9:15 a.m. will show industrial production
rose 0.3 percent in June after a 0.1 percent gain in May,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. A regional Fed report,
released at 8:30 a.m., may show New York-area factories grew in
July after unexpectedly contracting the prior month.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  Wholesaler Costs  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
 price index  in June fell 0.4 percent, while the cost of goods
excluding fuel and food rose 0.3 percent. Import prices in the
U.S., reported July 13, dropped 0.5 percent from the prior month
as oil and food expenses retreated.  It’s too early to predict how consumers will react to
increased prices, according to Levi Strauss & Co. Chief
Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen. Levi Strauss, the closely
held maker of blue jeans and Dockers pants, boosted prices in
the first three months of the year as cotton costs soared.  “We haven’t seen the full impact of apparel prices on the
consumer,” Jorgensen said in a July 12 call with analysts.
“When you combine that with some of the continued pressure with
the consumer on general products, food, gas, commodities that
they are experiencing and no job growth, we’re still cautious
here in the U.S.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  