-- 
Corporate America Will Miss Munger-As-Mencken: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/corporate-america-to-miss-munger-as-mencken-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
Charles T. Munger, vice chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway, has been  Warren Buffett ’s sidekick since
1959. While Buffett made a name for himself as a statesmanlike
critic of inept auditors, see-no-evil regulators, fee-gouging
money managers and greedy CEOs, Munger gradually emerged from
Buffett’s shadow to tongue-lash those same targets mercilessly.  Munger, 87, delighted in ripping open the disappointing
realities of economic life to reveal them as he saw them. No one
but he would say, as he did recently, that if he ran the
European Union he would never have let in  Greece , a country full
of people who “are raising hell about having an adult life”
and who feel that “having a job ruins eight hours a day.”  A man who speaks this way is going to make enemies.
Buffett, 80, has made his share, but Munger has a higher
tolerance than Buffett for being disliked. He has come to play a
role in the business world not unlike that once played by the
critic H.L. Mencken, who stabbed the puffed-up preservers of the
status quo with the sharp needle of searing, unforgettable
prose.  I’ve heard Munger called hypocritical, heartless and
pompous. Munger describes himself as imperious, irreverent and
arrogant. It’s good to have somebody like that around. The
business world is better off with a Munger to point out how far
it has strayed. The people who control the world’s commerce need
to hear it from one of their own.  Raisins and Turds  Besides, nobody else would say a lot of the entertaining
things that have come out of Charlie Munger’s mouth, such as
when, in 2000, he criticized bankers who foisted worthless
Internet stocks on the public by saying, “If you mix raisins
and turds, they’re still turds.”  Wall Street  has long been a favorite target of Munger’s,
and it holds a special enmity for him. He’s called bankers
megalomaniacs, bucket-shop operators and evil. Whatever the
latest Wall Street money-making scheme, up rose Munger to decry
it. His latest volley was to say that it’s like letting “rats
loose in the granary” to allow high frequency trading in
stocks, which should be considered legalized front-running.  Munger is not only a critic and Buffett’s partner, but also
a lawyer, real estate investor, CEO and philanthropist. He has
used his sharp tongue in service of decisive action to avert
intolerable risk. One episode in the late 1980s, when the
savings and loan industry was using accounting tricks to create
capital out of thin air, sticks out in my mind as perhaps his
finest hour.  Bailout and Backlash  The S&Ls were careening toward a crisis of widespread
bankruptcies that would destroy depositor savings, require a
taxpayer bailout and result in a furious public backlash.
Munger, who is chairman and chief executive officer of
Berkshire’s savings and loan operation, Wesco Financial, foresaw
that Wesco’s better behavior wouldn’t prevent it from being
tainted by association.  He not only throttled back Wesco’s lending, but also took
an extreme stand to distance Wesco from the other savings and
loans by resigning from the U.S. League of Savings Institutions
in a letter. In it, he likened the trade association to
metastasizing cancer cells and called its lobbying practices
“flawed, indeed disgraceful.”  Quixotic Move  It was a quixotic move, one that only a person who was
willing to be detested by an entire industry would make. The
move also paid off when the S&L crisis erupted and Wesco avoided
being splattered with mud. It was Munger’s actions in the S&L
crisis that started Berkshire on its road to being held up as
the moral exemplar of corporate America. Its reputation was
later cemented when Buffett assumed the role of interim chairman
of Salomon Brothers Inc. to save the company, in which Berkshire
had a major investment, from bankruptcy after Salomon was caught
covering up an employee’s rigging of Treasury-bond auctions.  I’ve wondered what makes a man a Munger. He isn’t trying to
be a hero. Perhaps a person who feels that something innate in
him means he will be disliked finds that easier to tolerate if
he provokes the disapproval himself. It’s ironic, or predictable
-- maybe even both -- that a man who cultivates enemies with
broadsides against the comfortably selfish has won a large
audience of fans, and I mean fans in the fanatical sense of the
word.  Nature of Suffering  On July 1, Munger held an informal meeting to replace the
annual shareholder meeting of Wesco, which had been a publicly
traded subsidiary of Berkshire until it acquired the rest of
Wesco’s shares earlier this year. His audience of hundreds had
traveled from across the U.S. on a holiday weekend to listen to
their hero.  Among many other subjects, Munger talked about the nature
of suffering. I believe he did this partly to clarify a
statement made last year, when his mouth got him into trouble
for saying that individuals who had been hurt by the financial
crisis should “suck it up, buddy.” Munger was telling the one
group of people who had not been bailed out to suck it up, and I
was among the many who criticized him for having a “let them
eat cake” attitude.  Munger thinks of adversity as an opportunity, and said that
“you should assume life will be tough, and ask yourself if you
can bear it, and if so, smile and go on.” Hence, suck it up. In
his personal life, Munger has sucked it up a few times, after
the loss of a young son to cancer, after being blinded in one
eye, after the death of his wife last year.  Darwinian View  He also said he had not used his own wealth to “avoid all
misery” and deliberately took on some projects in his career
that were not financially enriching and that caused him various
forms of grief. Even so, under Munger’s Darwinian view of the
world, he is one of the survivors who’s prospered rather well,
and I would still like it better if he showed more sympathy
toward the weak.  But then again, if he did, he wouldn’t be
 Charlie Munger .  On July 1, Munger said he was giving his swan song. Get a
new cult hero, he told his audience of hard-core fans. Suck it
up. It’ll be good for you. That’s probably true, but I hope this
isn’t the last we hear from Charlie Munger. I, for one, am going
to miss him. And so will the business world, which needs people
like him.  (Alice Schroeder, the author of “The Snowball: Warren
Buffett and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on Wall Street, is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this article:
 Alice Schroeder  at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 