-- 
Credit Suisse Is Target of U.S. Justice Probe of Private-Banking Services

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   M a t t h i a s   W a b l
-- 
2011-07-15T16:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/credit-suisse-targeted-in-u-s-justice-probe.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, is a target of a criminal investigation by
the Department of Justice over former cross-border private
banking services to U.S. customers.  “Subject to our Swiss legal obligations, we will continue
to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to resolve
these matters,” the Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The bank said the Justice Department said
yesterday that it is a target, and it has responded to requests
for information, including subpoenas.  Four bankers who worked at Credit Suisse were indicted in
February on charges of conspiring to help clients in the U.S.
evade taxes through secret bank accounts. In the fall of 2008,
when the bank began closing its cross-border business with U.S.
clients, it had “thousands” of accounts with $3 billion in
assets not declared to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service,
according to the indictment.  Credit Suisse said today “it has been reported that the
U.S. authorities are conducting a broader industry inquiry.”
The Swiss government is in talks with authorities in the U.S. to
resolve the issue of untaxed assets held by U.S. citizens in
Swiss bank accounts, a government official said last month.  “Currently it is difficult to say whether this will lead
to a legal case and a fine against Credit Suisse,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel with a “hold” rating, said in
a note. “We expect  Switzerland  and the U.S. to continue
negotiations.”  UBS Probe  Daniel Saameli, a spokesman for Switzerland’s finance
ministry, said the government “acknowledges the developments,”
while declining to comment further.  Credit Suisse fell 1.5 percent to 30.12 francs in Zurich
trading. The stock is down 20 percent this year, compared with a
12 percent decline in the 46-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index.  In 2008, U.S. prosecutors conducted a probe into whether
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, helped Americans evade
taxes. In February 2009, the U.S. criminally charged UBS with
aiding tax evasion by U.S. clients.  UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting
it fostered  tax evasion , and giving the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service data on more than 250 accounts to avoid criminal
prosecution. It later turned over data on another 4,450
accounts. In October, the U.S. dropped its criminal case against
UBS.  ‘Significant Evidence’  Under Justice Department guidelines, prosecutors don’t call
an entity a target of an investigation “until developing
significant evidence that a crime has occurred,” said Jeffrey Neiman, a former federal prosecutor who worked on the UBS probe.  “I can’t imagine that the Justice Department will walk
away from an international bank when they have significant
evidence that they committed a crime on American soil,” Neiman
said.  Tax attorney Bryan Skarlatos said he expects Credit Suisse
to sign a deferred prosecution agreement similar to the one in
the UBS case.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see a significant financial
penalty and obligation to cooperate with the  Department of
Justice  and the IRS with respect to an investigation of
individual account holders,” said Skarlatos of Kostelanetz &
Fink LLP in  New York . “They may possibly reach an agreement to
turn over names and records of account holders.”  “Swiss Obligations”  Neiman said the Credit Suisse statement that it was
cooperating “subject to our Swiss legal obligations” suggests
that the bank’s assistance may not fully satisfy prosecutors. As
in the UBS case, it could set up a “showdown between bank
secrecy, Swiss law and American justice,” he said.  The Justice Department has entered dozens of so-called
deferred-prosecution agreements in recent years with companies,
including Credit Suisse. In December 2009, the bank agreed to
pay $536 million to resolve claims that it helped process
payments that let  Iran  and other nations avoid government
sanctions and gain access to U.S. financial markets.  Prosecutors said the bank made more than $1.6 billion in
illegal transactions involving Iran,  Sudan ,  Burma , Cuba and
 Libya  from the mid-1990s through 2006. Credit Suisse settled
with the Justice Department and the Manhattan District
Attorney’s Office, which agreed to dismiss the case in December
2011 if the bank complies with the agreement.  Cross-Border Banking  Credit Suisse currently provides cross-border banking
services to Americans through its Credit Suisse Private Advisors
unit, which has its headquarters in Zurich and is registered
with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  In announcing the indictment of four Credit Suisse bankers
in February, the  Justice Department  said “ conspiracy dates
back to 1953 and involved two generations of U.S. tax evaders
including U.S. customers who inherited secret accounts.”  Credit Suisse employees are also being investigated in
 Germany  for alleged helping some German clients evade taxes.
Dusseldorf prosecutors searched homes of some employees and
Credit Suisse offices last year, and seized “substantial”
amounts of data, after German authorities obtained a disk with
data that prompted probes against about 1,100 customers of the
bank.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said in April the bank
is cooperating with German authorities. “We believe that
globally, we’ve had a really state-of-the-art compliant cross-
border banking business,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 