-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance, Trimming Weekly Loss, on U.S. Outlook, Dollar

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-15T05:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/crude-oil-futures-rise-in-new-york-erasing-weekly-loss-on-u-s-outlook.html
Oil rose in  New York , trimming a
weekly loss, as investors bet that U.S. fuel consumption may
climb amid signs of improving confidence and manufacturing
growth in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent, after slumping 2.4
percent yesterday, before reports that may show industrial
production increased in June and consumer confidence grew this
month. Prices also gained as speculation the nation’s credit
rating may be cut weakened the dollar, boosting the appeal of
commodities priced in the U.S. currency.  London ’s Brent slid
after reaching a record premium to New York prices.  “We don’t expect it to be a sudden or a shocking pick-up
in the U.S. but we are expecting it to turn around gradually,”
said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts oil in New York
will average $113 a barrel in the third quarter. “Compared to
what we have seen in the last month or two, the data has become
more positive.”  Crude for August delivery increased as much as 65 cents to
$96.34 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $95.91 at 1:31 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday declined $2.36 to $95.69, the lowest since
July 11. Prices are little changed for the week and 25 percent
higher the past year.  Industrial production, or output at factories, mines and
utilities climbed 0.3 percent in June after a 0.1 percent gain
last month, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast before
data scheduled to be released today.  Consumer Confidence   The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment probably rose to 72 in June from
71.5 in May, according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of a
July 15 report.  Brent oil for September settlement was at $115.96 a barrel,
down 30 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $19.63 to New
York crude after settling at a record of $22.63 yesterday.  New York prices slumped yesterday after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s not prepared to take
immediate action to stimulate the  U.S. economy . The central bank
may provide more monetary stimulus, known as quantitative
easing, if the economy turns out to be weaker than expected, he
said.  Speculation that the Fed will act may drive  oil prices 
higher next week, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Thirteen of 30
analysts, or 43 percent, forecast oil will rise through July 22.
Eleven respondents, or 37 percent, predicted prices will fall
and six estimated there will be little change. Last week, 51
percent of those surveyed said futures would drop.  Debt Rating  Standard & Poor’s  became the second ratings company this
week to say it may downgrade the U.S.’s top credit grade,
sending the dollar lower against most of its major counterparts
and driving oil higher.  The dollar slid 0.2 percent to $1.4167 to the euro after
S&P said there’s at least a 50 percent chance it will cut the
AAA rating within 90 days on risks a stalemate will endure
beyond any near-term deal to raise the U.S.’s debt limit.  Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. Aaa credit rating on
review for a downgrade on July 13 citing concern officials won’t
raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit in time to prevent
a missed payment.  Even as the ratings companies warned of downgrades,
Treasuries still headed for a weekly gain and three auctions
this week attracted higher-than-average bidding as the spread in
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurred demand for safer assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  