-- 
Daley Says Obama May Submit Korea Trade Bill

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-15T05:31:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/daley-says-obama-may-submit-korea-trade-bill.html
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  said the Obama administration may send Congress a bill for
a South Korea free-trade agreement that includes worker aid
“very soon” unless lawmakers present an alternative for
renewing the expired program.  The Senate Finance Committee supported draft legislation
last week for the trade accord over opposition from Republicans,
who objected to its extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance.
The House Ways and Means Committee endorsed a South Korea bill
without the aid attached, and Chairman  Dave Camp  of Michigan led
Republicans in defeating an amendment that would have added the
assistance to a Panama trade deal instead.  “We can no longer wait,” Daley said yesterday at a U.S.-
Korea Business Council dinner in  Washington . “If there is no
agreement on an alternative approach in the very near future, we
will move forward to seek passage of the FTA with TAA. There is
no time to waste playing politics as usual.”  Last week’s hearings were “mock markups” that let
lawmakers give the president their views on free-trade deals
before he submits them formally under fast-track rules that
prohibit amendments and provide for a yes-or-no vote.  Republicans “have yet to present a credible alternative to
getting this legislation passed in a timely fashion,” Daley
said. “If we do not act before the August recess, American
businesses will suffer.”  The Obama administration is pushing for passage of the
free-trade agreement and those with Colombia and  Panama  that
were reached under President  George W. Bush .  Export Boost  The U.S. is facing more urgency because of Obama’s goal of
doubling exports by the end of 2014, Jasper Kim, associate
professor at Ewha Womans University’s Graduate School of
International Studies in  Seoul , said today. Still, Congress is
unlikely to consider the accords before the summer recess
because “Obama is more worried about making sure the U.S. is
not going to default,” he said.  The administration has warned that it will be unable to pay
all its bills if the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit isn’t
raised by Aug. 2.  The South Korea deal would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion a year when in full effect, and the accord with
 Colombia  would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The Korea-U.S. agreement is also pending approval by South
Korean lawmakers.  The Trade Adjustment Assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition. As part of stimulus legislation in 2009,
it was expanded beyond manufacturing to include service workers
such as call-center employees. Republicans say renewing the
expanded aid would be too costly when lawmakers are struggling
to reduce the federal deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in New York at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  