-- 
Republican Candidates, Democrat Activists Hinder Debt Deal

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-15T15:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/debt-deal-stymied-by-republican-white-house-candidates-democrat-activists.html
As President  Barack Obama  works for
a bipartisan deal to raise the government’s debt ceiling, both
the Republicans wanting to replace him and Democrats seeking the
best way to re-elect him have emerged as obstacles.  Republican presidential candidates and Democratic activists
alike are using the debate to sharpen their political messages
and appeal to core supporters, complicating efforts to reach a
compromise to avert a possible government default on Aug. 2.  “Both parties are set in concrete on what they believe
their base has to have, and that makes it very difficult to find
any middle ground,” said former Representative Charles Stenholm, a  Texas  Democrat who focused on reining in the federal
budget as a lawmaker.  Even as House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
negotiated privately last week with Obama on a potential $4
trillion, decade-long deficit-reduction compromise to pave the
way for raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit, Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota was drawing attention to her
Republican presidential candidacy by declaring she would oppose
any deal.  “I will not vote to increase the debt ceiling,” she said
in her first television advertisement in  Iowa , site of the first
contest in the nominating battle.  Representative Ron Paul of Texas, another Republican White
House contender, also is stressing his opposition to any debt
ceiling increase, in line with his decades-long effort to shrink
government’s size.  ‘Debt Ceiling Betrayal’  The  website  for Paul’s presidential campaign asks in large
letters on its homepage: “Will Speaker Boehner Cave on the Debt
Ceiling? Or will you help  Ron Paul  fight to prevent Debt Ceiling
Betrayal?” A campaign ad that starts airing today in Iowa and
 New Hampshire  spotlights the issue and touts Paul as the “one
candidate” who “has always been true” to cutting  government
spending . It also says: “No deals.”  Virtually all their rivals in the Republican race have said
they would balk at approving a debt-ceiling increase, unless
certain debt-reduction mandates are met.  On the other side of the political spectrum, Democratic
political groups have been firm in opposing any agreement that
would cut entitlement programs such as Social Security and
Medicare. A few hours after Obama held a nationally televised
news conference at the White House on July 11 to try to
resurrect a longer-range agreement combining some tax increases
with trims to entitlement programs, his own party’s activists
swung into action in opposition.  Petition Effort  “Obama went there,” was the subject line of a July 11 e-
mail circulated by Adam Green of the Washington-based
 Progressive Change Campaign  Committee, which raises money for
Democrats. The message included a petition asking like-minded
activists to warn Obama with their signatures that if he backed
a deal that cut entitlement benefits, “don’t ask for a penny of
my money or an hour of my time in 2012.”  Green has also said such an agreement would “put all
Democrats facing re-election in 2012 at risk.”  The group said today it has reached its goal of 200,000
signatures and intends to deliver the petitions tomorrow to
Obama’s campaign headquarters in  Chicago .  Obama and congressional leaders are now discussing a
smaller accord that would shave $2.4 trillion or less from the
debt. At least some of Bachmann’s and Paul’s House colleagues,
though, share their opposition to a debt-ceiling increase under
any circumstances.  ‘Major Influence’  Stenholm said, “The far right has a major influence on
Republican primary politics, and we are seeing that play out in
the debt-ceiling debate.”  Democrats are also reacting to the most vocal elements of
their party, he said. “It’s just amazing how my party continues
to politicize Social Security when everybody would tell you
privately that we need to do something” to bolster its
finances, said Stenholm, a board member for the Washington-based
Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.  Adding more urgency to the debate, Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services announced yesterday that it may downgrade the
U.S. top-level credit rating, saying there is an increasing risk
of a substantial policy stalemate enduring beyond any near-term
agreement to raise the debt ceiling.  ‘More Entangled’  The deadlock on fiscal policy has “only become more
entangled” since April 18, when S&P placed a negative outlook
on the U.S. AAA long-term rating, the service said in a
statement. Moody’s Investors Service placed the nation’s credit
rating under review for a downgrade on July 13.  Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner yesterday reiterated that
the U.S. borrowing authority will run out on Aug. 2, saying
there is “no way to give Congress more time” on lifting the
debt ceiling. Obama in an interview with  CBS News  earlier this
week cautioned that Social Security checks and veterans’
benefits could be delayed if Congress doesn’t act.  Bachmann responded by accusing Obama of political
blackmail. “President Obama is holding the full faith in credit
of the United States hostage, so that he can continue his
spending spree,” she said July 13 in  Washington .  E-Mail Blast  Paul e-mailed his supporters blasting a last-ditch option
proposed by Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
that would essentially let Obama raise the debt ceiling
unilaterally if no compromise is reached. Republican lawmakers
could go on record against the move but couldn’t block it.  McConnell described his rationale in terms of 2012
politics, saying a default would be held against his party.  Paul said McConnell was “scheming to raise the debt
ceiling with no real spending cuts.”  The day Obama hosted congressional leaders for a weekend
session at the White House in search of a compromise, Republican
presidential candidate and former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty  said there was no room for one that increased taxes.  “The United States federal government is not under-taxed;
it spends too darn much,” Pawlenty said on ABC’s “This Week,”
on July 10.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the Republican
presidential front-runner in fundraising and polls, has made
limited public comment about the debt ceiling debate. At a town
hall meeting yesterday in Derry, New Hampshire, he said, “For
me to be willing to raise any debt ceiling would be dependent on
cutting, capping and balancing the budget with a balanced budget
amendment” to the Constitution.  Cut, Cap, Balance  He and seven of the party’s other presidential candidates
have signed a pledge circulated by a coalition of fiscally
conservative groups and Tea Party chapters known as “Cut, Cap
and Balance,” in which they urge lawmakers to condition any
increase in borrowing authority on those requirements.  One candidate who didn’t sign was former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who said politicians shouldn’t commit themselves to
such pledges. His spokesman, Tim Miller, said Huntsman
“believes we need real cuts that are equal or greater than any
increase in the debt ceiling,” and “thinks any deal should
include tangible steps toward” a balanced budget amendment.  A fundraising pitch Democrats sent out yesterday seeks to
use the impasse on a debt deal to the party’s advantage. Guy
Cecil, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee, asked in an e-mail for contributions to help Obama
“hold strong” against the Republican bargaining position.  “We’re protecting our ideology here,” Cecil wrote.
“Democrats believe that a great nation protects those who can’t
protect themselves. We believe in helping the elderly, the poor
and the sick. Republicans will attack us for it and try to take
it away.”  For all the political focus on the debate, investors
haven’t shown many signs of reacting negatively. The yield on
10-year Treasuries was 2.93 percent as of 11:50 a.m. today in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader, after falling to a
low this year of 2.81 percent on July 12. That compares with
3.04 percent a year ago yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  