-- 
Delta Jets Collide in Boston as Pilot Says ‘We Hit the RJ’

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-07-15T19:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/delta-jets-collide-in-boston-carrier-s-3rd-bump-in-four-months.html
A  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  wide-body
plane struck the tail of a smaller jet from regional partner
Atlantic Southeast Airlines as they prepared for takeoff from
Boston’s Logan Airport last night.  “I think we hit the RJ off of our left with our wing,”
one of the pilots of the Delta  Boeing Co. (BA)  767 said on an air-
traffic recording posted on LiveATC.net.  ASA’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ-900 jet suffered “substantial
damage” to the tail, according to the  National Transportation
Safety Board , which is investigating the accident. Images on the
Boston Herald’s website show the upper half of the CRJ-900’s
tail twisted and bent over toward the right side.  Both jets were pulled from service for repairs, said Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta. The only
reported injury was a passenger with a hurt neck, Banstetter
said.  The twin-engine 767 struck the regional jet after the
smaller plane turned from one taxiway to another, said Peter Knudson, an NTSB spokesman. The Boeing was Delta Flight 266 to
Amsterdam, while ASA Flight 4909 was bound for Raleigh-Durham,
 North Carolina .  Recorder Analysis  Voice and flight data recorders from the planes are being
sent to the NTSB’s labs in Washington for analysis, and all
pilots and controllers are being interviewed, Knudson said.
Delta also is reviewing the incident, said Anthony Black, a
spokesman.  A 767 carries about 220 people, usually on international
and other long-haul routes. The CRJ-900 makes shorter trips with
as many as 74 passengers. The 767 can have a maximum takeoff
weight of as much as 450,000 pounds (204,000 kilograms), or
about five times as much as the heaviest CRJ, according to the
planemakers’ websites.  Yesterday’s collision was the third in fourth months
involving Delta planes.  On April 11, a Bombardier CRJ-700 from Delta’s Comair unit
was clipped by the wing of an Air France Airbus SAS A380
superjumbo at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport,
spinning the smaller plane and 66 occupants through 90 degrees.  A month later, the wing of a Delta Boeing 737 struck the
tail of another at Atlanta Hartsfield-Jackson Airport, Delta’s
hometown hub.  Atlantic Southeast is a unit of  St. George , Utah-based
 SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 