-- 
BofA, Deutsche Bank-Dexia, News Corp., UBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-15T12:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/deutsche-bank-dexia-news-corp-total-kirkland-ellis-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp., the biggest
U.S. lender, has made a preliminary offer to bond insurer  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  aimed at settling a legal dispute tied to defective
mortgages, according to two people briefed on the discussions.  The two companies remain split on how much the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank would have to pay to resolve the
disagreement and it is unclear when an agreement can be reached,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Bank of America, and
Kevin Brown of Armonk, New York-based MBIA declined to comment.  A settlement would help revive the fortunes of MBIA, the
biggest bond insurer before the financial crisis, which has
posted cumulative losses of more than $5 billion since the end
of 2006. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T.
Moynihan  is working to resolve demands from bond buyers and
insurers over defective mortgages created by Countrywide
Financial Corp., acquired by his predecessor in 2008.  “We will fight and represent your interest to the point
where we got the interests represented,” Moynihan said in a
June 1 conference. “There is a point where fighting doesn’t
have any value.”  The lawsuit is among several between Bank of America and
MBIA, which guaranteed Wall Street’s toxic mortgage debt. Bank
of America bought Countrywide in 2008 and Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2009, two of the largest participants in the market for subprime
home mortgages.  An eventual settlement may cost Bank of America “in the
higher end” of a $2 billion to $3 billion range, Robert Haines,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said this week in an interview.  For more, click here.  New Suits  Dexia Sues Deutsche Bank Over $1 Billion Securities Purchase  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the lender to local governments rescued by  France 
and Belgium in 2008, sued Deutsche Bank AG claiming fraud in
connection with more than $1 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities.  Germany’s biggest bank played a “ubiquitous role” in the
mortgage origination and securitization process while betting
against the U.S. housing market as far back as 2005, according
to the complaint. By the end of 2007, Deutsche Bank had amassed
a $10 billion short position that paid off when the loans
backing the securities failed, Brussels-based Dexia said.  “Deutsche Bank originated, purchased, financed and
securitized exceptionally high-risk loans into these RMBS, all
while internally disparaging the poor quality of these loans and
the RMBS they backed as ‘pigs’ and ‘crap,’” Dexia said in the
complaint.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, said yesterday by e-mail that the company would fight the
lawsuit, which she said was “without merit.”  The case is Dexia SA/NV v. Deutsche Bank AG, 651918/2011,
 New York  State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Ex-News of the World Editor Arrested in Phone-Hacking Probe  London police arrested a former News of the World editor as
part of the investigation into phone hacking at the  News Corp. (NWS) 
tabloid, a day after the company dropped a bid for full
ownership of British Sky Broadcasting Plc.  Neil Wallis, 60, was arrested yesterday on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept phone calls. He had also worked as a
paid communications consultant for the police in 2009 and 2010,
the Metropolitan Police Service said in a statement.  The arrest is at least the seventh of a reporter or editor
with ties to News of the World this year. Police are
investigating allegations reporters at the now-defunct tabloid
hacked into the mobile phones of politicians, celebrities, and
murder and terror victims, and bribed police officers for
information. The scandal forced Rupert Murdoch-led  News Corp. (NWSA)  to
shut the newspaper.  Wallis had a contract to provide communication advice,
including advice on speech writing and public relations activity
while the agency’s deputy director of public affairs was on sick
leave, the police said.  A call by Bloomberg News to a North London phone number
listed for an N. Wallis wasn’t answered.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Hong Kong Judge Won’t Halt Tiger Asia’s Trading; SFC to Appeal  Hong Kong’s securities regulator failed to obtain a trading
ban against New York-based hedge fund Tiger Asia Management LLC
based on insider trading allegations.  Judge Jonathan Harris of Hong Kong’s High Court ruled
yesterday the court couldn’t make the order to ban Tiger Asia
and its employees from trading in securities or derivatives in
the city before the  Securities and Futures Commission  proves its
insider trading case in a tribunal or criminal court.  Harris last month refused to freeze HK$38.5 million ($4.9
million) of assets held by Tiger Asia, the hedge-fund firm led
by Bill Hwang, or to rule on the SFC’s insider trading
allegations, saying the court lacked the power to do so. The
SFC, as the regulator is called, argued at a hearing on July 11
that the trading ban should be considered separately.  The regulator will appeal both decisions, it said in a
 statement  yesterday. The SFC said on June 21 that starting civil
proceedings before the market misconduct tribunal would immunize
Tiger Asia and its officers from criminal prosecution.  Tiger Asia, which has specialized in trading equities in
 China ,  Japan  and South  Korea  since its inception, doesn’t have
an office in Hong Kong, and all of its employees are based in
New York, according to the regulator. Tiger Asia isn’t licensed
by the SFC.  Tiger Asia disclosed in October it had also received a
subpoena from the U.S. regulator.  Union Bank Must Face Group Lawsuit on Overdrafts, Judge Says  UnionBanCal Corp. customers may sue as a group over the
bank’s overdraft-fee policy, a judge ruled in certifying the
first class-action case in litigation against dozens of banks,
according to lawyers in the case.  The courtroom ruling by U.S. District Judge James Lawrence
King July 13 in Miami may affect hundreds of thousands of
customers of the San Francisco-based bank. He also said
customers can’t pursue a racketeering claim against the bank,
which does business as Union Bank NA and is a unit of  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)   Customers are suing 30 banks, claiming they illegally
charged excessive overdraft fees, said Aaron Podhurst, the lead
plaintiffs’ attorney. The cases were consolidated before King
for the pretrial collection of evidence.  “In many respects, these banks are similarly situated and
the classes are similarly situated,” Podhurst said in an
interview. “This indicates he’s going to certify for these
other banks.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, in February
agreed to pay $410 million without admitting liability to settle
allegations against it. Institutions including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are defendants in
related lawsuits.  John Sullivan, lead attorney for Union Bank, confirmed that
King said in court that he would certify class-action case. He
referred other questions to the bank. A bank spokesperson didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-cv-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  UBS to Get Review of Madoff Trustee Suit by District Judge  A U.S. district judge said she will review lawsuits against
 UBS AG (UBSN)  by the liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s firm, at least the
fourth time a bank in the Madoff case gained access to a higher
court.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice in bankruptcy court,
demanding $2.6 billion and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided
Madoff’s fraud by setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing
“to look the other way” at irregularities. U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan, who is handling Picard’s $19
billion suit against JPMorgan Chase & Co., said the UBS case
raises similar issues of whether Picard has a right to sue for
damages.  Her acceptance of the case, noted on a court docket
yesterday, is another challenge to Picard, who has filed 1,000
lawsuits seeking $100 billion for the Ponzi scheme’s investors.
HSBC Holdings Plc has asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to
dismiss a $9 billion suit against the U.K. bank and so-called
feeder funds, arguing that Picard went far beyond his role as
liquidator of the Madoff firm.  Rakoff also is considering whether the trustee had a right
to use U.S. racketeering law in a $59 billion suit against
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bank Medici AG, its founder Sonja Kohn and dozens
of Italian and Austrian parties.  While suits to recoup money taken out of a bankrupt firm
are common, Picard is mostly suing for damages, using laws that
banks say are open to question.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Appeals Against Asset Freeze in South Korea  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, has appealed a
South Korean court order freezing some of its assets, amid
allegations that its staff unfairly profited from a market
plunge last year.  Deutsche Bank filed the appeal on June 13, Gong Do Il, a
spokesman for the Seoul Central District Court, said by phone
yesterday. Michael West, Deutsche Bank’s Hong Kong-based
spokesman, said in an e-mail that the bank had no comment.  The lender said June 9 that a preservation order on some of
its assets was granted by a court at the request of prosecutors
and without Deutsche Bank’s arguments being heard. South Korea’s
Financial Services Commission asked prosecutors to investigate
Deutsche Bank employees over a Nov. 11 plunge in the nation’s
benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  that wiped out about $26 billion in market
value.  Regulators accused Deutsche Bank employees of triggering
the plunge in violation of stock market rules and banned the
lender from trading shares and derivatives for its account for
six months from April 1. It was the heaviest penalty imposed on
any securities company in Korea.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Deutsche Bank Said to Settle ‘Spread Ladder Swap’ Cases  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank, is trying to
settle pending lawsuits involving swap contracts that were
similar to those in a German high court ruling against the
lender.  The bank has settled several cases and is trying to end
others in lower tribunals and Germany’s top civil court, three
people with knowledge of the issue said. They declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  The Federal Court of Justice, the country’s highest civil
court, ruled in March that Deutsche Bank must cover losses
caused by a derivative it branded “CMS Spread Ladder Swap,”
unless the bank disclosed the product had an initial negative
market value. The bank said at the time that there are eight
cases at the top court and 17 in lower courts over the same type
of derivative.  “To avoid more adverse top court rulings over an issue
where you already lost contains a pragmatic approach,” said
Ulrike Gantenberg, a litigator at Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek in
Dusseldorf, who isn’t involved in the cases. “You don’t serve
yourself if you give the judges more opportunities to make law
that’s not in favor of your interests and that of the specific
industry as a whole.”  Deutsche Bank is trying to settle other cases pending at
the top court to avoid producing more precedents over the issue,
two of the people said. In some of these cases the plaintiffs
have refused to settle, they say.  Deutsche Bank respects the Federal Court of Justice’s legal
assessment and is reviewing to what extent it applies to pending
cases, said Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-
based lender. The bank declined to comment further, he said.  For more, click here.  Ex-UBS Customer Pleads Guilty to Hiding Swiss Bank Account  A New York podiatrist pleaded guilty to failing to report
his $3.11 million Swiss account at UBS AG to U.S. authorities.  Anton Ginzburg, 51, admitted yesterday in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, to failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank
and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR, for 2007.  “I knew that I should file this form but I did not do
so,” he told U.S. Magistrate Judge Robert M. Levy.  Ginzburg’s case is part of a U.S. crackdown on tax evasion.
Zurich-based UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, agreed in 2009 to
pay $780 million to defer prosecution for aiding tax evasion by
U.S. clients. The bank admitted that its Swiss private bankers
helped wealthy Americans evade U.S. taxes from 2000 to 2007.  The case is U.S. v. Ginzburg, 11-cr-432, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Total, Arkema Lose EU Appeals of 78.6 Million-Euro Cartel Fine  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s largest refiner, and its former
subsidiary  Arkema SA (AKE)  lost European Union court appeals against a
78.6 million-euro ($112 million) fine levied for unlawful price-
fixing of bleaching chemicals.  The  EU General Court , the region’s second-highest tribunal,
rejected all arguments by the companies and upheld the fines in
a ruling in Luxembourg yesterday.  Total’s arguments “were manifestly not capable of
constituting a sufficient body of evidence to rebut the
presumption of imputability to the parent company,” the court
said.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator,
 fined  seven companies 388.1 million euros in 2006 for fixing
prices of hydrogen peroxide and sodium perborates, used by the
pulp and paper industry and to make antiseptic and hair-care
products.  Solvay SA (SOLB)  and  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  previously paid $72.8
million to settle U.S. criminal charges in a similar cartel.  Sandra Dante, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Total, declined
to comment. Spokespeople for Colombes, France-based Arkema
didn’t immediately answer to a call seeking comment. Yesterday
was a public holiday in France.  The cases are T-189/06, Arkema France v. European
Commission; T-190/06, Total and Elf Aquitaine v. Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Allen & Overy Partner Arrested in Child Pornography Case  Edward M. De Sear, an Allen & Overy LLP law firm partner
specializing in asset-backed securities, was charged by federal
prosecutors in  New Jersey  with distributing child pornography.  De Sear, 64, was arrested yesterday after the Federal
Bureau of Investigation executed a search warrant at his house
in Saddle River, New Jersey, and found pornographic computer
images of prepubescent children engaged in sexual acts with
adults, according to the arrest complaint.  From September to February, De Sear downloaded and
distributed videos and images of child pornography on the
Internet through peer-to-peer file-sharing software, U.S.
Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement. Undercover agents
downloaded pornography on three occasions from an Internet
protocol address registered to De Sear, the complaint said.  During the execution of the search warrant, De Sear
admitted “he downloads and shares child pornography,” that he
“uses the P2P network to download and share child
pornography,” and that he “receives sexual gratification from
viewing child pornography,” according to the FBI complaint.  De Sear faces as long as 20 years in prison. He appeared
yesterday in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey, where he was
released on a $250,000 bond with electronic monitoring. His
attorneys, John Vazquez and Michael Critchley Jr., didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment yesterday.  A spokeswoman for the firm said it is doing an internal
investigation and had no further comment.  The case is U.S. v. De Sear, 11-mj-08143, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  News Corp. Inquiry Led by ‘Formidable’ Former Prosecutor  The U.K. judicial review into the phone-hacking scandal
that has engulfed Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. will be led by a
former prosecutor best known for the conviction of an English
serial killer.  Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday chose Lord Justice
Brian Leveson, 62, to head up the independent review. Speaking
to Parliament, Cameron said the inquiry will report back within
12 months regarding press regulation and will have the power to
question under oath proprietors and managers, such as Murdoch
and his son James. A second part of the inquiry, a probe of
wrongdoing by the press and police, may take longer because of
criminal proceedings, Cameron said.  Leveson “has been involved in any number of high-profile
cases where public scrutiny has been intense,” said John
Benson, a barrister at Atlantic Chambers in Liverpool. “He
won’t be in any way fazed by the fact that the eyes of the world
will be watching.”  The judicial inquiry is in addition to a Parliamentary
investigation and pending police probes of allegations that
Murdoch’s News of the World newspaper hacked into mobile-phone
voice-mail messages for stories and bribed police officers. The
scandal forced News Corp. to shut the tabloid newspaper and drop
its bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   For more, click here.  Former Kirkland & Ellis Partner Indicted on Tax Charges  Theodore L. Freedman, a former bankruptcy partner with the
international law firm  Kirkland & Ellis LLP , was indicted for
lying about his personal income to U.S. tax authorities.  Prosecutors charged Freedman, 63, with four counts of
filing false tax returns, understating his income by $2.1
million from 2001 to 2004.  Freedman avoided paying $1 million in federal taxes by
falsely claiming he had sustained losses as the sole proprietor
of a law practice in Dutchess County, New York, according to the
indictment, released yesterday by federal prosecutors in New
York.  At the time, Freedman was a partner at Kirkland & Ellis,
according to papers he filed on behalf of clients in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court. Freedman actually made $5.4 million from the
firm during those years, according to prosecutors.  Freedman faces as many as 12 years in prison if convicted.  “Mr. Freedman resigned from the firm in October 2010,”
Kate Slaasted, a Kirkland & Ellis spokeswoman, said in a
statement. “We understand that the federal indictment relates
exclusively to Mr. Freedman’s personal conduct. Accordingly, the
firm will not comment on the matter.”  Freedman didn’t return a voice-mail message left at his
home.  The case is U.S. v. Freedman, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). For the latest litigation
department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 