-- 
Gold Rises for a Ninth Day as Dollar Index Falls; Oil Advances

-- B y   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-15T21:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/dollar-treasuries-decline-after-s-p-warning-over-u-s-credit-rating-cut.html
Gold climbed for a ninth straight
day amid concern the U.S. is getting closer to losing its top
 credit rating . Oil rallied, extending a third consecutive weekly
advance, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose amid gains in
energy and technology shares.  Gold futures added 0.3 percent to $1,593.80 an ounce at 4
p.m. in  New York  and have risen 7.5 percent since July 1. The
Dollar Index slumped 0.2 percent as eight banks failed European
Union stress tests. Crude jumped 1.6 percent to $97.24 a barrel.
The S&P 500 added 0.6 percent, leaving it with a 2.1 percent
drop for the week.  U.S. House Republicans plan a vote next week on a measure
to cut spending, cap expenditures and condition a $2.4 trillion
increase in the debt ceiling on passage of a constitutional
amendment to balance the budget. While the plan may pass in the
Republican-led House, it won’t in the Democratic-controlled
Senate, said Representative  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland, the House’s
No. 2 Democrat. The vote offers no immediate resolution to talks
aimed at reaching a deal by an Aug. 2 deadline.  “We got a lot of politicking going on in  Washington , and
investors are hoping they get the debt issue resolved,” Dan McMahon, director of equity trading at Raymond James Financial
Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “They need to
figure it out soon because as we get closer to the deadline, the
uncertainty will turn into pessimism and that will unhinge these
markets.”  Adding urgency to the debt-ceiling dispute, S&P’s Ratings
Services announced yesterday it may lower the U.S. top-level
credit rating, saying there is an increasing risk of a
substantial policy stalemate enduring beyond any near-term
agreement to raise the debt ceiling. Moody’s Investors Service
placed the nation’s credit rating under review for a downgrade
on July 13.  ’Big, Big Problem’  U.S. lawmakers “don’t get” the long-term implications of
deficit reduction, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” during an
interview with  Tom Keene . “The U.S. basically has a $60
trillion net present value liability burden, and that
constitutes Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security in
combination,” Gross said. “It certainly exceeds those
liabilities in  Greece  or Portugal or Spain. Ultimately the U.S.
has a big, big problem.”  The  S&P 500  rallied 93 percent from its low in March 2009
through yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  used large-scale asset
purchases to buoy the economy and companies posted earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates. Stocks pared gains today after the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment fell to 63.8 in July from 71.5 the prior
month. The gauge was projected to rise to 72.2, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Gold Gains  Gold increased 0.3 percent for its ninth straight advance,
the longest rally since November 2009, as the debt woes in the
U.S. and  Europe  boosted the appeal of the precious metal as a
haven. The metal gained 3.4 percent this week.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes fell for a
second consecutive week as investors sought a refuge in  U.S.
government debt . The yield dropped 5 basis points to 2.91
percent. It touched 2.81 percent on July 12, the lowest since
Dec. 1.  Crude oil advanced as much as 2.1 percent, settling at
$97.24 a barrel, up 1.6 percent. For the week, prices gained 1.1
percent and have climbed 27 percent in the past year.  The euro gained 0.1 percent against the dollar, to $1.4151.
It recorded its second weekly decline, for a total two-week drop
of 2.6 percent, after regulators said the eight banks that
failed EU stress tests had a combined capital shortfall of 2.5
billion euros ($3.5 billion).  Insufficient Reserves  The European banks were found to have insufficient reserves
to maintain a core tier 1 capital ratio of 5 percent in the
event of an economic slowdown, the European Banking Authority
said. As many as 16 more lenders will need to bolster capital
after scraping through, the European Banking Authority said. All
banks examined in Italy, Germany, France, the U.K. and Ireland
passed. Five banks in  Spain  and two from Greece failed the
tests, while the eighth was in Austria.  The results of the  stress test  came out after the markets
closed in Europe. Earlier, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.3
percent, after declining as much as 0.8 percent earlier. The
index dropped 2.5 percent for the week, the most since March.  The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond rose 21 basis points,
while the Italian 10-year bond yield advanced 13 basis points.
The Greek two-year yield surged as much as 279 basis points, or
2.79 percentage points, and last traded 185 basis points higher.  Corporate Earnings  Corporate earnings in the U.S. continued to top analyst
estimates.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the Internet’s most popular
search engine, rallied 13 percent after saying quarterly sales
were $6.92 billion, 5.3 percent above analyst estimates.
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third biggest U.S. bank, lost 1.6 percent
even as profit rose 25 percent, beating forecasts.  Of the 13 S&P 500 companies that have posted results so far
this earnings season, 11 have beaten forecasts for per-share
profit.  “Corporate earnings look good so far,” Purchase, New
York-based Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage about $7 billion
for Alpine Mutual Funds, said in a telephone interview. “The
European stress test looks like a non-event.”  Energy stocks were the biggest risers among 10 groups in
the S&P Index, gaining 2.3 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, agreed to buy Houston-based
 Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  for about $12.1 billion in cash.
Petrohawk shares surged 62 percent.  Clorox Co. (CLX)  rose 8.9 percent as billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  offered to buy the bleach maker for about $10.2 billion in
a move designed to flush out other potential bidders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  