-- 
Dow Jones Chief Hinton Resigns Amid News Corp. U.K. Phone-Hacking Scandal

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-15T22:21:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/dow-jones-chief-hinton-resigns-amid-news-corp-u-k-phone-hacking-scandal.html
Les Hinton , chief executive officer
of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co. unit, said he is resigning, the
media company’s second executive to step down today amid
accusations of phone hacking by its journalists.  Hinton, 67, was chairman of News International for 12 years
until 2007, giving him a leading role at the U.K. newspaper unit
during the time when the alleged hacking took place. News Corp.,
controlled by Chairman Rupert Murdoch, announced Hinton’s
resignation in a statement today.  “That I was ignorant of what apparently happened is
irrelevant and in the circumstances I feel it is proper for me
to resign from News Corp. and apologize to those hurt by the
actions of the News of the World,” Hinton said in the
statement.  News International’s News of the World tabloid is accused
of hacking hundreds of voice mails, including those of murder
and terrorism victims, and bribing police for confidential
information. News International CEO Rebekah Brooks, former
editor of News of the World, resigned earlier today.  The scandal has also led New York-based News Corp. to close
the 168-year-old tabloid and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6
billion) proposed bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Hinton started at News Corp. 52 years ago, at the age of
15, fetching sandwiches for Murdoch. His resignation, Hinton
said, marks a “deeply, deeply sad day for me.”  ’Heaviest of Hearts’  Murdoch echoed the sentiment in his statement, saying he
had accepted Hinton’s resignation “with the heaviest of
hearts.”  Hinton may have decided to resign to help the company
overcome the political fallout caused by the hacking incident,
according to  John Morton , a  Silver Spring , Maryland-based
newspaper industry consultant and analyst. “Questions have been
raised about how much responsibility Hinton had in this,”
Morton said in an interview. “This may be a way of deflecting
that stuff, or maybe he is sacrificing himself for Murdoch.”  Murdoch, who for the past 10 days has been managing through
the phone hacking turmoil, said that the global company he has
spent his life building is much larger than himself.  “News Corporation is not  Rupert Murdoch ,” he said in his
statement. “It is the collective creativity and effort of many
thousands of people around the world.”  FBI Probe  Murdoch, 80, and his son James, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, are scheduled to testify before the U.K.
Parliament on July 19. Brooks will also give evidence at the
parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee.  The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation is examining
whether News Corp. employees also tried to access the phones of
Sept. 11 victims.  News Corp. rose 21 cents to $15.64 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped 13
percent since the first reports on July 4 that News of the World
in 2002 hacked the voice-mail messages of a missing teen who was
later found murdered.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  