-- 
LME Doubles Minimum Delivery Rates for Top Metal Warehouses

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-15T12:41:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/lme-doubles-minimum-delivery-rates-for-top-metal-warehouses-2-.html
The London Metal Exchange will
double the amount of metal required to be delivered from the
biggest stockpiles to ease a backlog in  Detroit , home to a
quarter of global stockpiles.  The so-called load-out rate will be increased to a daily
minimum of 3,000 metric tons for a warehouse company storing
more than 900,000 tons at a single location in April, Martin
Abbott, chief executive officer of the exchange, said today.
That falls short of the 1,500 tons per 300,000 tons of stock
recommended by Europe Economics, which the LME commissioned to
study the issue.  “There will be no further increase in the load-out rate
over what was originally recommended,” Abbott said, referring
to the 3,000 ton level, at a London press conference.  The new rules may help to remove aluminum faster from
warehouses holding the biggest stockpiles. Withdrawing metal
from warehouses in Detroit, the only location with stockpiles
above 900,000 tons, can take as long as seven months.  “This is a board decision and so we’ll now talk to the
warehouses on how it will be implemented,” Abbott said.
“Technically, any warehouse that does not wish to comply could
at that point say that they want to be delisted. They can’t stop
us from implementing the change.”  Current rules oblige warehouses with space of at least
7,500 square meters to deliver a minimum 1,500 tons a day from a
location. All but three LME warehouses are under this category,
according to London-based  Europe Economics . The LME board in
June raised the requirements for smaller stockpiles.  ‘Critical Mass’  “A loading out requirement of 1,500 tons per 300,000 tons
of stocks would address the most acute problem, the persistent
queue in a critical mass warehouse,” the researcher said in a
summary of a report provided by the LME in May.  The LME, the world’s biggest marketplace for industrial
metals, advised raising the minimum delivery size in May. The
concern about lines to receive metal from warehouses “relates
to primary aluminum,” Abbott has said. “The exchange will keep
under review possible effect on other metals of the queues for
primary aluminum.” The LME handled $11.6 trillion of contracts
last year.  Delivery of aluminum from Detroit warehouses can take as
long as seven months,  Harbor Intelligence , a Laredo, Texas-based
researcher, estimated this month.  Detroit stores 1.1 million tons of aluminum. At least 19 of
the 24 LME-approved warehouses in the city belong to Metro
International Trade Services LLC, according to data on the LME’s
 website . Metro International was acquired by New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year.  “Metro has complied with and will continue to comply with
all LME requirements,” Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for
Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mail today.  New Rules  The exchange on June 16 increased minimum daily delivery
rates from inventory of 300,000 to 900,000 tons stored by a
single company in a given location, effective from April. The
bourse consulted the industry on warehouse companies storing
more than 900,000 tons before the board made its decision at a
meeting yesterday, Abbott said.  The LME hired Europe Economics last year to study concerns
that metal removed from exchange warehouses was not readily
available.  Aluminum stockpiles monitored by the LME total 4.4 million
tons, according to exchange data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  