-- 
Hedge-Fund Demand by Japan Pension Funds Seen Rising, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-07-15T00:50:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/hedge-fund-demand-by-japan-pension-funds-seen-rising-credit-suisse-says.html
Japanese corporate pension funds,
with about 60 trillion yen ($760 billion) in assets, may triple
their allocations to alternative assets as they seek to reduce
risks and boost returns, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Typically, 2 to 5 percent of pension fund assets are in
alternative investments including hedge funds, private equity
and real estate, and this may grow to about 10 to 15 percent
over the next two years, said Benjamin Happ, Hong Kong-based
Asia-Pacific head of capital services in Credit Suisse’s prime
services division.  “What’s interesting to us right now is how important the
institutional investors in  Japan  are for hedge funds,” said
Happ in an interview in Tokyo, where the bank held a conference
for Japanese institutions and global hedge-fund managers. “The
investor-base in Japan today is the largest and most important
group of hedge funds investors in all of  Asia  and we prioritize
it accordingly.”  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, has been
running a capital introduction business in Japan for over seven
years where they help hedge funds set up offices and introduce
them to potential investors.  Japanese retirement funds face the world’s lowest bond
yield and a falling birthrate, which have curbed contributions.
Thirty-one percent of 135 retirement funds plan to increase
alternative investments such as hedge funds from this fiscal
year starting April 1, according to a JPMorgan Asset Management
(Japan) Ltd. survey in May.  Single Managers  Japanese institutional investors including insurers are now
favoring single managers over fund-of-hedge-funds as their level
of sophistication in the $2 trillion global industry has
increased, according to Happ.  Insurance companies that Zurich-based Credit Suisse is
working with are planning to redeem the majority of their fund-
of-funds exposure and invest in  hedge funds  directly, Happ said.
Single-manager hedge funds may make up about 30 percent of their
overall investments in the asset class from 10 to 20 percent now,
he said.  By strategy, the highest demand is seen in macro funds,
which seek to profit from broad economic trends, multi-strategy
funds, which invest in everything from equities to commodities,
and equity long-short that profit from rising and falling stock
prices, Happ said.  ‘Long-Term Commitment’  “In all three of those strategies, they are looking for
managers that have the flexibility and creativity needed to
generate profits in a year like 2011, which has been a difficult
year for most investors,” he said. “Global hedge funds that
are working to grow their presence in Japan need to have a long-
term commitment to the investors here.”  Hedge funds have returned 0.4 percent this year through
June, according to Eurekahedge Pte, compared with a 4 percent
gain by the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index. Performances have been weighed by
declining stock prices on evidence the global economy may be
slowing amid rising sovereign debt concerns in  Europe .  The March disaster in Japan, where a record earthquake and
ensuing tsunami led to the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl, has also highlighted the need for diversification,
Happ said. The March 11 temblor sent Japan’s benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average to its biggest intraday drop since 1987.  “There were concerns that the earthquake and subsequent
events surrounding it will dampen the interest-level of Japanese
investors in hedge funds, but that has not at all been the
case,” he said. “If anything, the events in March have
exacerbated or highlighted the need to have portfolios that are
more diversified in their construction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  