-- 
Egyptians Gather in Tahrir Square to Press for Faster Change

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-15T17:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/egyptians-gather-in-tahrir-square-to-press-for-faster-change.html
Protesters streamed into Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square , joining some demonstrators staging a sit-in for
the eighth day and calling for faster change five months after
President  Hosni Mubarak  was forced out.  Demands include ending military trials of civilians, a new
government and speeding up efforts to prosecute former regime
officials accused of corruption or of killing protesters during
the uprising that toppled Mubarak in February.  Egypt  ended the service of hundreds of police officers on
July 13 in an attempt to appease protesters who have demanded a
purge of the security forces of Mubarak loyalists and those
accused of committing abuses. Rallies in Cairo and other cities
have continued even after Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said July
11 that he would change members of his Cabinet within a week.  “We want the public prosecutor to be fired,” Mohammed
Adel, a spokesman for the April 6 Youth Movement, one of the
protesting groups, said by telephone. “We don’t want the
military council to intervene in forming the new government.”  Eight protesters were treated at El-Moneera General
hospital after fainting because of the heat or suffering from
low  blood pressure , the state-run Middle East  News Agency  said,
citing hospital director Mohammed Shawky. A medical team in
Tahrir is monitoring a group of protesters on a hunger strike,
it said.  Muslim Brotherhood  Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood said it wasn’t participating in
today’s protests. “We have decided to give the government and
the military council a chance to implement the steps they have
announced,” said spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan. “There’s no reason
to stage protests and sit-ins now.”  Mohamed al-Beltagy, an official with the Freedom and
Justice party set up by the Brotherhood, said the group has
presented Sharaf with names of candidates for the new Cabinet
that do not belong to the Brotherhood or to any other political
groups. “We support having a government of technocrats, not
affiliated with political currents,” he said.  It appeared that there were fewer protesters in Tahrir
today than in rallies on July 8.  Army forces have deployed in the city of Suez, scene of
numerous protests, to protect the  Suez Canal , banks and
businesses, the state-run Ahram Online news website said.  Mubarak stepped down on Feb. 11 after mass protests and
ceded interim authority to the Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 