-- 
Lehman Lacks Consensus for $65 Billion Plan, Centerbridge Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/lehman-liquidation-plan-won-t-succeed-hedge-fund-centerbridge-says.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  won’t
win creditors’ approval for its $65 billion plan to liquidate
its assets in bankruptcy, hedge fund Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC said in a court filing.  “Numerous” other creditors may join Centerbridge in
voting against Lehman’s plan, a “flawed construct” that
“subsidizes” some groups at others’ expense, it said.
Anchorage Capital Group LLC said it was backing Centerbridge,
according to a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Manhattan .  Lehman shares trimmed earlier losses after Centerbridge’s
opposition was reported, and closed down 5.8 percent at 4.9
cents in over-the-counter trading in  New York  yesterday.  Lehman said this month that creditors holding more than
$100 billion in claims gave their support to the company’s
latest payout plan, which allots more money to a group including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and less to bondholders including
Paulson & Co. The two rival groups signed onto the revised plan
after battling to control the largest corporate liquidation in
U.S. history.  Centerbridge made its filing “to advise the court that
despite the purported consensus supporting the debtors’ plan,
Centerbridge and it believes numerous other creditors do not
believe that the new plan is confirmable” and will be opposing
the confirmation, the hedge fund said.  Final Claims  Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Spokeswoman
 Kimberly Macleod  declined to comment. Marsal has estimated that
final claims against the company will exceed $300 billion.  Lehman’s compromise proposal was “a product of horse
trading” among investors who were noisiest in objecting to the
defunct firm’s earlier payout formulas, Centerbridge said in its
filing. To win them over, Lehman was “siphoning value away from
other creditors,” Centerbridge said.  Holders of claims against Lehman’s commercial paper unit
were among the losers being forced to subsidize noisier
creditors, according to Centerbridge. The hedge fund said it had
Lehman’s permission to conduct research on these issues.  Discovery Process  Yesterday’s filings were a response to Lehman’s move to put
on hold a so-called discovery process that would allow creditors
to learn more about the structure of the company before voting
on the payout scheme. Liquidators for Lehman’s Swiss affiliate
said yesterday they and other parties “may have a need for
targeted discovery in connection with the debtors’ plan.” So
did Danske Bank A/S.  Judge James Peck yesterday signed his final orders denying
Lehman’s effort to recoup an alleged $11 billion “windfall”
made by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on the purchase of the defunct firm’s North
American business. The winner in last year’s bench trial was the
remnants of Lehman’s brokerage, which is being separately
liquidated. London-based Barclays yesterday appealed Peck’s
ruling that it return $2 billion in margin assets to the
brokerage.  “We look forward to presenting Barclays’ arguments on
appeal,” said Barclays’ lawyer Jonathan Schiller of Boies,
Schiller & Flexner LLP, in an e-mail.  Lehman aims to confirm its plan this year and start
distributing a “significant” amount of its $21 billion in
available cash shortly after, Lehman lawyer Lori Fife told
Bloomberg on July 1.  State Street Suit  Separately, Lehman settled a lawsuit yesterday with State
Street Bank & Trust Co., capping its recovery on a $638 million
claim against Lehman and its commercial paper unit at $400
million. State Street, like Goldman Sachs, had opposed Lehman’s
earlier plan to shift more money to bondholders.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, Lehman
filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, with assets of $639
billion. It failed partly because of too much leverage, which it
tried to hide, and risky real estate bets, said a bankruptcy
examiner.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Linda Sandler} in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 