-- 
Stress Tests Pressure Europe's `Problem Children' Banks to Bolster Capital

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-07-15T22:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/eight-european-banks-fail-stress-tests-with-3-5-billion-capital-shortfall.html
As many as 24 European banks will be
under pressure to show they can raise capital after failing, or
barely passing, a second round of stress tests by regulators.  Eight failed the European Banking Authority’s stress tests
yesterday, with a combined shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5
billion). As many as 16 more will need to bolster capital after
their core Tier 1 ratio dropped below 6 percent, little more
than the assessment’s 5 percent pass-mark, the EBA said.  “Six percent is the defacto pass-rate,” said Huw van Steenis, a banking analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London . The
result “puts pressure on national regulators to turn their
attention to the banks which just passed.”  The tests mark a clash between the European Union regulator
and national counterparts over what counts as capital. The EBA
is pushing banks to raise more and better capital to meet the
Basel III guidelines and boost investor confidence in the
industry amid the sovereign debt crisis. Both German and Spanish
regulators said their banks have enough. German lenders
criticized the “political” stress tests for excluding a kind
of non-voting capital recognized by local regulators.  “Neither the EBA’s 5 percent core capital hurdle, nor its
decision on the composition of that capital, have legal
equivalence,” the DSGV savings banks association said
yesterday. “This is a case of high-handed measures being set to
achieve political goals.”  ‘Problem Children’  Greece’s  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and  Agricultural Bank of
Greece (ATE)  SA, Austria’s  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and  Spain ’s
 Banco Pastor SA (PAS) ,  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM) , Banco Grupo
Caja3, CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim failed. They were found to have
insufficient reserves to maintain a core Tier 1 capital ratio of
5 percent in the event of an economic slowdown. All banks
examined in  Italy ,  Germany ,  France , the U.K. and Ireland passed.  “The problem children are going to be the 16 banks between
5 and 6 percent, and what happens to those,” said Joseph Dickerson, a banking analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank
in London. “The market will put substantial pressure on those
banks to raise capital.”  Those banks include  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,  Espirito
Santo Financial Group SA (ESF) , Germany’s HSH Nordbank AG and
Norddeutsche Landesbank. BCP and Espirito Santo will bolster
capital or sell assets in the next three months, the Bank of
Portugal said yesterday.  About 20 banks would have failed had they not raised
capital through April, the EBA said. The capital shortfall would
have totaled 26.8 billion euros without the additional money,
the regulator said. In all, European lenders raised 50 billion
euros of capital from January to April, according to EBA
Chairman Andrea Enria.  ‘Necessary Steps’  “For those banks that have not met the threshold, and for
those that have but still demonstrate substantial weaknesses, we
expect them to take all the necessary steps to reinforce their
capital positions,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, and Olli Rehn, the economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement from Brussels.  The EBA’s attempt to bolster confidence in the industry has
been criticized by analysts for excluding a Greek default. Last
year’s tests by the EBA’s predecessor were also attacked for not
being tough enough: banks then were shown to need only 3.5
billion euros more capital, a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. Investors expected as many as 15 banks to fail and
raise 29 billion euros after the latest assessments, according
to a survey by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last month.  ‘Same as Last Year’  “It feels the same as last year,” said Richard Barfield,
a director at accounting firm PwC in London. Investors “are
more interested in the disclosure of the sovereign exposures in
the detailed analysis.”  The criteria include a review of how the 90 lenders tested
would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area
in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets and
trading losses on sovereign debt not held to maturity.  “We’re aware the treatment of sovereign exposures is very
contentious,” Enria told reporters in London yesterday.  The cost of insuring European financial-company debt
against default stayed higher after the tests. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of credit-default swaps on the senior debt of 25
banks and insurers was 9.5 basis points higher on the day at 189
basis points as of 5:30 p.m. in London yesterday, unchanged
after the test results were released. The euro and the pound
were little changed against the dollar after the results.  The EBA included a 25 percent writedown in the value of
Greek 10-year government bonds in the tests, it said yesterday.
ATEbank, one of two Greek banks that failed, said its exposure
to 7.85 billion euros of Greek sovereign bonds and loans was the
main reason for failing the test.  Volksbanken  The five Spanish banks that failed have a combined
shortfall of 1.56 billion euros, with CAM accounting for 947
million euros. Even so, none of lenders that failed will need to
raise capital because they have other instruments that absorb
losses, according to the Bank of Spain.  Volksbanken,  Austria ’s fourth-biggest lender, failed with a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent in the test’s adverse
scenario. About a third of its capital was disqualified under
EBA’s rules for the exam, the lender said. The Austrian bank and
the two failed Greek banks are also selling assets to boost
capital.  One further bank may have failed the test. Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen on July 13 refused to give the EBA permission
to publish all of its data as it disputes the regulator’s
measurements of core Tier 1 capital because they don’t include
some instruments allowed by German regulators. That would push
the lender’s core capital ratio to below the 5 percent threshold
required to pass the test.  Sovereign Crisis  Rating company  Standard & Poor’s  own stress test, published
in March, found European banks would need as much as 250 billion
euros in fresh capital if faced with a “sharp” increase in
yields and a “severe” economic downturn.  The results come during a week of rising sovereign debt
yields. The yield on two-year Greek notes rose above 32 percent
this week and the extra rate investors demand to hold its 10-
year bonds relative to German bunds of similar maturity was 14
percentage points. Credit-default swaps indicate an 86 percent
chance  Greece  will fail to meet its commitments within five
years, according to CMA prices.  Concern about Greece also triggered a surge in 10-year
borrowing costs for Italy and Spain this week to the highest
since the introduction of the euro in 1999. The cost of insuring
Irish and Portuguese government bonds also hit records this
week, implying a 60 percent chance of default.  ‘Perceived Weaknesses’  Banks’ disclosure of the size and maturity of their
holdings of sovereign debt will allow analysts to model their
own stress tests, a potential threat to financial stability,
according to a confidential document prepared by EU officials.
There is an expectation the results will be “challenged by
market tests” aiming to address “the perceived weaknesses in
the design,” according to the paper obtained by Bloomberg News.  Euro-area government leaders will hold a special summit on
July 21 to put added political momentum behind efforts to halt
the debt crisis, European Union President Herman van Rompuy said
after the stress test results were announced.  “It’s an interesting academic exercise,” said Alex Potter, a banking analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. “But I
think gyrations in the sovereign market and the true
creditworthiness of some European governments, as well as the
political willingness to form a consensus, are far larger
stories than the stress tests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  