-- 
Ekofisk Oil Loadings to Be Delayed on BP Platforms Halts

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-07-15T15:57:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/ekofisk-oil-loadings-said-to-be-delayed-on-bp-platforms-halts.html
Cargoes of  North Sea  Ekofisk crude
for loading from July 27 to the end of August will be delayed by
two to three days, according to a revised loading program
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The revision was made following the shutdown of BP Plc’s
Valhall and Hod oil platforms in the North Sea after a fire.  Three cargoes of 600,000 barrels each will be deferred to
August from July, while two consignments totaling 1.05 million
barrels will be delayed to September from August.  As a result, a total of 16 lots amounting to 8.45 million
barrels will be loaded in July, compared with the original plan
for 10.25 million. The August plan was raised to 17 cargoes
totaling 10 million barrels, from 9.25 million barrels.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the operator of the Ekofisk pipeline,
didn’t reply to a phone message and an e-mail from Bloomberg.  A fire broke out in Valhall’s compressor room July 13 and
was later extinguished. The field was producing about 60,000
barrels a day before the closure and Hod a “few thousand
barrels,” Jan Erik Geirmo, a BP spokesman in  Norway , said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The Valhall platform processes crude produced from Hod. Oil
and natural gas liquids are routed via pipeline to Ekofisk for
transport to Teesside,  England .  Ekofisk is one of four North Sea crude grades used to price
Dated Brent, the benchmark for more than half of global oil. The
other blends are Brent, Forties and Oseberg.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 