-- 
Electrocomponents Sees Global Electronics Demand Slowing

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-15T15:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/electrocomponents-sees-global-demand-for-electronics-slowing.html
Electrocomponents Plc (ECM) , the world’s
largest distributor of electronics and maintenance products,
said global demand started to slow in June. The shares fell to
the lowest in nine months in London trading.  Group revenue increased 14 percent in the fiscal first
quarter ended June 30, with the international business growing
by 17 percent and the U.K. by 8 percent, the Oxford, England-
based company said in a statement today.  “The slowdown signaled by the wider semiconductor market
and the purchasing manager indexes is impacting,” Investec Plc
analyst Guy Hewett, who has a “hold” rating on the stock, said
in a note to clients. “We expect this slowdown to continue.”  Electrocomponents, which gets 70 percent of its sales
outside the U.K., wants to do a similar proportion through e-
commerce. The company, which introduced 15,000 new products in
the quarter, does 53 percent of its business through the
Internet, up from 47 percent a year ago.  The shares fell 5.7 pence, or 2.3 percent, to 238.7 pence,
the lowest since Oct. 4, extending the decline so far this year
to 10 percent and paring its market value to 1.04 billion pounds
($1.68 billion).  Sales in June rose 11 percent from a year earlier, compared
with a 16 percent increase in May and June, Chief Executive
Officer Ian Mason said in an interview. Revenue in  Europe 
outside the U.K. increased 17 percent during the quarter, while
north American sales rose 16 percent and Asia-Pacific revenue
advanced 15 percent.  “The purchasing managers indexes are off their peak,”
Mason said. “The U.K. has been stable throughout. It has been a
good start to the financial year, although the comparators are
getting harder.”  Revenue in the same quarter a year ago rose 24 percent.  “Clearly growth is slowing as the group hits tougher
comparatives, but this first look at 2011/12 is ahead of our
expectations,” Seymour Pierce Ltd. analyst Kevin Lapwood, who
upgraded his rating to “buy” from “add,” said in a note to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 