-- 
Telefonica to Book $3.8 Billion Job-Cut Cost

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-07-15T07:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/telefonica-to-book-2-7-billion-euro-job-cut-cost-this-year-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  said it will pay about
2.7 billion euros ($3.8 billion) to eliminate as many as 6,500
positions in  Spain  and will book the whole cost this year as a
one-time expense.  Europe ’s second-largest phone company said in a filing that
the job cuts will have a positive impact on cash-flow generation
from the first year, and reiterated “all its commitments to
shareholder remuneration.” The Madrid-based company employs
about 35,000 people in its home market.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
slashing Telefonica’s Spanish workforce as he counts on  Latin
America ’s economic growth to win back investors discouraged by
Spain’s unemployment rate, the highest in Europe at 21 percent.
Spain’s three-year economic slump has encouraged customers to
look for cheaper phone tariffs and switch to rival operators
including TeliaSonera AB’s Yoigo unit, France Telecom SA’s
Orange and  Jazztel Plc. (JAZ)   Telefonica fell 0.4 percent to 15.76 euros at 9:17 a.m. in
Madrid. The stock is down 7.1 this year, valuing the company at
71.9 billion euros.  The impact of the job cuts wasn’t included in the
objectives it has announced for 2011 through 2013, Telefonica
said. It forecast revenue growth of 1 percent to 4 percent over
three years on April 13 and said the profit margin, measured by
operating income before depreciation and amortization as a
percentage of revenue, will be in the “upper 30’s” through
2013.  The company clinched an agreement with unions this month
after months of negotiations. Telefonica, a former state-owned
monopoly, faced criticism over the cuts from government members
including former Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba,
who is now the Socialists’ candidate for the next general
election. The cost of the job cuts will be borne by the
operator, meaning the state won’t have to pay benefits for the
newly unemployed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  