-- 
Emerging-Market View Favors Stocks Over Bonds: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/emerging-market-view-favors-stocks-over-bonds-chart-of-the-day.html
Emerging-market stocks are more
appealing than the debt of  developing countries  after their
struggle to advance this year, according to  Pierre Lapointe ,
Brockhouse & Cooper Inc.’s global strategist.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, consisting of stocks from 21 countries, has performed by
comparison with a global index of developing-country bonds. The
chart begins in 2000, when JPMorgan Chase & Co. began compiling
the bond barometer, and tracks the difference in yield between
the debt securities and U.S. Treasuries.  Share prices have swung between gains and losses all year,
leaving the MSCI Index with a 0.3 percent total return through
July 13. JPMorgan’s index returned 5.4 percent during the same
period, thanks to a five-month rally in emerging-market bonds.
The figures reflect dividend and interest payments as well as
price changes.  Stocks have better prospects, Lapointe and economist Alex Bellefleur wrote yesterday in a report, because rising sales and
dividends are likely to bring higher price-earnings ratios. The
MSCI index is valued at 12.2 times reported profit, below an
average of 16.7 since 1995, according to Bloomberg data.  “There is little room for spreads to tighten further,”
they wrote, which may curtail any bond gains. As the chart
shows, the yield gap two days ago between the JPMorgan index and
Treasuries was 300 basis points, well below the peak of 852
basis points in October 2008. Each basis point equals 0.01
percentage point.  Shares of companies based in emerging markets are poised to
produce average annual returns of about 10 percent for the next
seven years, according to the report. Developing-country bonds
yield about 6 percent, based on JPMorgan’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  