-- 
Eni to Loan PDVSA $2 Billion, Venezuela’s Ramirez Says

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-15T00:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/eni-to-loan-pdvsa-2-billion-venezuela-s-ramirez-says-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s largest petroleum
company, will lend Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA $2 billion to
develop oil projects and a power plant in Venezuela, Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  said.  PDVSA, as the company is known, will invest $1.5 billion of
the loan in a joint venture it has with Eni in the Junin 5
oilfield of the Orinoco Belt in central Venezuela, Ramirez said
at a press conference in Caracas today. The remaining $500,000
will be spent on building an electricity plant in Guiria,
eastern Venezuela.  Ramirez, who serves as both Venezuelan oil minister and
president of PDVSA, said he expected Junin 5 to begin producing
50,000 barrels of oil a day next year. Eni will invest $1
billion a year over the next seven years to produce 75,000
barrels a day by 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni 
said at the press conference. The project is expected to produce
240,000 barrels a day by 2018, Scaroni said.  “We are concentrating all our efforts on the Orinoco,”
Ramirez told reporters. “Our personnel are already on site.”  Ramirez and Scaroni didn’t give details about when the loan
must be repaid. Eni, based in  Rome , will work with PDVSA to
build a refinery in the Jose complex in northeastern Venezuela
to refine the oil extracted from the Orinoco Belt, Ramirez said.  PDVSA, based in Caracas, has a 60 percent stake in the
Junin 5 project. Eni owns the rest.  Developing Perla Gas  Ramirez also said Eni will sign an agreement soon with
PDVSA to develop an offshore natural-gas field in the Cardon IV
block. Eni and PDVSA will provide a platform that should begin
producing gas by 2012, Ramirez said.  Eni said in April that it will start gas production with
partner  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  at the Perla field, Venezuela’s largest
gas discovery, in the Cardon IV block by 2013.  Perla, located in shallow waters of the Gulf of Venezuela,
holds an estimated 16 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves, Eni
said on Feb. 24.  Eni and Repsol each own 50 percent of the block where the
field is located. PDVSA has the option to take as much as 35
percent when commercial operations begin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  