-- 
European Stocks Retreat After U.S. Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Falls

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-15T16:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/equities-in-europe-retreat-extending-biggest-weekly-decline-since-march.html
European stocks fell as U.S.
consumer sentiment unexpectedly declined and investors
speculated that stress tests on  Europe ’s banks may show they
have insufficient capital to weather the fiscal crisis.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, lost
1.9 percent after agreeing to acquire Petrohawk Energy Corp. for
$12.1 billion.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  plunged 20 percent after cutting
its license-revenue forecast.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  advanced 6.7 percent
as the German luxury-clothing company raised its outlook.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 0.3 percent to 266.91 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge retreated 2.5 percent
this week, the biggest decline in four months, amid concern that
the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will spread from Greece to
the larger economies of Italy and Spain. The measure has
recorded only one weekly gain since the end of April.  “We are experiencing a soft patch of growth,” Bernd Meyer, head of cross-asset strategy at Commerzbank AG, said in a
phone interview from  Frankfurt . “There should be scope for
positive surprise on earnings and the economy later this year
and valuations are still attractive. It remains to be seen if we
have seen the bottom of this weaker macro news flow.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of U.S. consumer sentiment fell to a two-year low of 63.8
in July from 71.5 the prior month. The gauge was projected to
rise to 72.2, according to the median forecast of 62 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Economy  Separate U.S. data showed industrial production rose less
than forecast and manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly contracted.  National benchmark indexes dropped in 14 of the 18 western
European markets today.  France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  lost 0.7 percent
and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.1 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX
gained 0.1 percent.  Eight banks failed the European Union’s stress tests after
regulators said they had a combined capital shortfall of 2.5
billion euros ($3.5 billion), according to results released
after the close of European equity markets. All lenders in
Germany, France, Sweden and the U.K. passed the tests.  “The release of the European banking stress tests keeps
investors nervous,” Kai Fachinger, who manages more than $1
billion in equities at SAM Sustainable Asset Management AG in
Zurich, said before the results were made public. “The market
is afraid of negative surprises.”  Debt Ceiling  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned there’s no
possible extension to the time limit to raise the debt ceiling
as S&P joined Moody’s Investors Service in reviewing the U.S.’s
top credit rating late yesterday. The long-term rating may be
lowered by one or more notches into the AA category in the next
three months if S&P concludes Congress and President Barack Obama’s administration haven’t achieved a credible solution to
the government debt burden and aren’t likely to achieve one in
the foreseeable future, according to a statement late yesterday.  BHP Billiton  retreated 1.9 percent to 2,340 pence after the
mining company agreed to acquire Houston-based Petrohawk Energy
for about $12.1 billion in cash in its biggest acquisition,
betting natural gas demand will gain in the U.S.  Temenos plunged 20 percent to 18 Swiss francs, the biggest
drop since January 2009. The banking software provider reduced
its full-year outlook for license revenue, saying it expects
like-for-like growth of 5 percent to 10 percent.  Logitech Falls  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, slid 2.6 percent to 8.09 francs as a gauge of
technology companies was among the worst performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,
Europe’s largest chipmaker, retreated 3.5 percent to 6.29 euros
and Infineon Technologies AG lost 2.4 percent to 7.27 euros.  Electrocomponents Plc (ECM) , the world’s largest distributor of
electronics and maintenance products, dropped 2.3 percent to
238.7 pence after the company said global demand for electronics
started to slow in June.  SGS AG, the world’s largest goods inspection company, sank
6.9 percent to 1,470 francs after reporting first-half sales of
2.3 billion francs ($2.8 billion), missing analysts’ estimates.  Waertsilae Oyj plunged 12 percent to 20.10 euros, its
biggest drop in almost three years. The world’s largest maker of
ship engines and  power plants  forecast full-year sales will
decline as much as 5 percent amid weaker marine-service markets.  Hugo Boss   Hugo Boss preferred stock jumped 6.7 percent to 77 euros as
the company raised its full-year forecast after second-quarter
net income jumped more than fivefold to 31 million euros. It now
forecasts an increase in 2011 sales of between 15 and 17 percent
after adjustments for currency effects, compared with a previous
forecast of 12 percent.  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA (PGS) , the world’s third-largest
surveyor of oil and natural-gas fields, rallied 8.9 percent to
81.20 kroner after saying it expects to report second-quarter
results that are higher than current analyst projections. TGS
Nopec Geophysical Co. surged 5.9 percent to 157.20 kroner, its
highest price since at least 1997.  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) , Britain’s biggest train operator, rose 6.3
percent to 350.6 pence, the largest gain since October, after
saying first-quarter trading was in line with forecasts, buoyed
by improving trends at its U.K rail and U.S. bus businesses.  Automakers limited losses in the Stoxx 600 as  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest producer of luxury
vehicles, climbed 2.4 percent to 72.67 euros after Citigroup
Inc. analysts including John Lawson said they expect half year
records by German auto companies.  “Second-quarter 2011 is likely to prove exceptionally
profitable for German auto companies,” the analysts wrote in a
note to clients today. Porsche SE preferred shares rose 1.9
percent to 56.63 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  added 2.9 percent to 151 euros as Europe’s
largest carmaker said it expects to continue outperforming the
auto market in the second half of the year after posting a
record 4.1 million deliveries in the first six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  