-- 
EU Stress Tests on Banks Include a 25% Writedown in Greek Government Bonds

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-07-15T22:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/eu-stress-tests-on-banks-include-a-25-writedown-in-greek-government-bonds.html
European Union regulators’ stress
tests on the region’s banks include a 25 percent writedown on
Greek  government bonds . The market has already driven down the
price of 10-year Greek debt to 52 cents on the euro.  Regulators didn’t include the possibility of a sovereign
default in the tests even though credit-default swaps indicate
about an 87 percent chance that  Greece  won’t be able to repay
its debts. The tests included a 22.3 percent writedown on
Portuguese 10-year securities, while they currently trade at 54
cents per euro.  “Current market expectations regarding sovereign risk are
not incorporated in the tests,”  Hank Calenti , a bank strategist
at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in London, wrote in a note to clients
today.  The stress tests show the size and maturities of sovereign
bond holdings, the regional split of loans and lenders’ capital
strength. To pass, lenders needed to maintain a core Tier 1
capital ratio -- a kind of buffer against losses --of more than
5 percent in certain stressed scenarios. The test applied the 25
percent writedown only to those Greek bonds in each bank’s
trading book, not to the bank’s entire holdings of the debt.  Eight of the 91 banks tested failed the examination and
were told to raise 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion) in fresh
capital to strengthen their capital positions, the  European
Banking Authority  said.  Previous Tests Criticized  The assessments are the first by the EBA since it was set
up this year. Last year’s tests by its predecessor were
criticized for not being tough enough because banks were shown
to need only 3.5 billion euros more capital, a 10th of the
lowest analyst estimate. Banks that fail the stress test must
present a plan to raise more capital within three months.  The EBA can’t countenance a sovereign default because it
would be politically unacceptable to member states and could
also lend credence to the possibility of such an event happening
in the future, said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital
in Liverpool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  