-- 
European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Retreat Since March; Commerzbank Sinks

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-07-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-retreat-since-march-commerzbank-sinks.html
European stocks posted the biggest
weekly drop since March as concern mounted that the sovereign-
debt crisis will spread to Italy and Spain and as rating
companies said they may cut the U.S.’s top credit rating.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, led a
retreat in financial stocks.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  slumped 44
percent after Europe’s second-largest tour operator cut its
forecast.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  plunged 30 percent after reducing its
prediction for revenue from licenses.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 2.5 percent to 266.91. The
decline has left the index trading at about 12.5 times earnings,
near its lowest since December 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “I think markets are too expensive considering the risk,”
said Jean Borjeix, a partner at Paris-based Platinium Gestion,
which helps oversee about $170 million. “It is impossible to
take the same risk for the market as we did before 2008 because
now we have a public debt problem. We are not in the same
environment, so it is not possible to price today at the same
level.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned there’s
no possible extension to the time limit to raise the debt
ceiling as  Standard & Poor’s  joined Moody’s Investors Service in
reviewing the U.S.’ s credit rating. The company said it will
lower the long-term rating by one or more notches into the AA
category in the next three months if it concludes that Congress
and President Barack Obama’s administration haven’t found a
credible solution to the government’s rising debt burden and
aren’t likely to do so in the foreseeable future.  Moody’s Reviews U.S.  Moody’s put the U.S. on review for the first time since
1996 as talks to raise the country’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
stalled, adding to concern that political gridlock will lead to
default. Even a temporary default will probably have “large
systemic effects” on the economy and Treasury finances by
disrupting money funds, the repurchase-agreement market and
foreign investors’ willingness to buy the government’s debt,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Italy this week sold five-year bonds at the highest yield
in three years. The Italian Treasury priced 1.25 billion euros
($1.8 billion) of 2016 bonds on July 14 at an average yield of
4.93 percent, compared with a yield of 3.9 percent at a previous
auction on June 14.  Italy’s  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  on July 11 plunged the most in more
than a year, entering a  bear market  as its slide from this
year’s high on Feb. 17 exceeded 20 percent. The gauge tumbled
3.1 percent this week.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in every western
European market except Iceland, which finished the week
unchanged. France’s CAC 40 Index slid 4.8 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index and Germany’s DAX Index each dropped 2.5 percent.  Commerzbank sank 16 percent.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , the
second-largest bank in Greece, tumbled 15 percent.  Ageas (AGS) , an
insurer, retreated 16 percent.  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-largest
insurance company by market value, lost 11 percent.  Thomas Cook  plunged 44 percent. The company said on July 12
that its underlying operating profit for the year ending in
September may fall to 320 million pounds ($517 million) from 362
million pounds a year earlier. That’s below the company’s
prediction in May and less than the 382 million-pound average
estimate of nine analysts compiled by the company.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  slid 17 percent.  Technology shares sank 6.5 percent for the biggest drop
among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as Temenos tumbled
30 percent. The banking software provider on July 15 reduced its
full-year outlook for license revenue, saying it now expects
growth of 5 percent to 10 percent.  Missed Estimates  Software AG (SOW) , Germany’s second-largest maker of  business
software , fell 22 percent after reporting second-quarter sales
that missed analysts’ estimates due to currency moves and its
failure to sell licenses. Software AG also said that demand to
implement products from SAP fell from the same period a year
earlier. SAP, the world’s biggest maker of business software,
slipped 5.2 percent.  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, slipped
5.9 percent. The company on July 12 said second-quarter sales
rose 0.9 percent to 4.99 billion euros. That missed the average
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for revenue of
5.07 billion euros.  Waertsilae Oyj decreased 15 percent. The world’s biggest
maker of ship engines and  power plants  said on July 15 that its
full-year sales will contract because of weaker marine-service
markets.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver producer,
surged 14 percent as silver and gold prices rallied this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 