-- 
Ex-Trader, Lowrance, Extradited From Peru on Fraud Charges, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-07-15T19:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/ex-trader-lowrance-extradited-from-peru-on-fraud-charges-u-s-says.html
A former foreign-exchange trader,
Jeffery Lowrance, was extradited from  Peru  on charges he
swindled about 400 U.S. investors, leading to losses of at least
$5 million, according to federal prosecutors in Chicago.  “Lowrance and others at his direction fraudulently
solicited investments by making material misrepresentations,”
including the profitability of foreign exchange trading by one
of his businesses, First Capital Savings & Loan Ltd., according
to a statement today by U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in
Chicago citing an August 2010 indictment.  A U.S. citizen, Lowrence, 50, allegedly obtained $25
million from about 400 American investors, losing at least $5
million of their money, Fitzgerald said.  He pleaded not guilty today to charges of mail fraud,  wire
fraud  and  money laundering  before U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael T. Mason in  Chicago , answering charges first filed by
prosecutors in 2009.  Arrested earlier this year in Lima, he is being held in
U.S. custody pending the outcome of a detention hearing set for
July 25, Fitzgerald said. He had been living in Peru
intermittently since 2004 and continuously since 2009, the
prosecutor said.  Lowrance is being represented by Mary Higgins Judge of the
Federal Public Defender’s office in Chicago, who confirmed her
client’s entry of a plea today in a telephone interview. She
declined to discuss the matter, saying she was still
familiarizing herself with the case.  New Zealand   Incorporated in New Zealand, First Capital was a successor
to an earlier Lowrance business, Mentor Investing Group Inc.,
which was started in  San Diego  and later moved to Panama City,
Panama, the prosecutor said.  Lowrance allegedly obtained investments by promising
speculators he would pay them 4 percent to 7 percent interest a
month on their investments, according to the indictment. Some
investors were paid with other investors’ money.  He and his businesses were sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, Fitzgerald said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Lowrance, 09cr578, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  