-- 
Ex-Yankee Clemens Likely to Face New Jury Following Mistrial, Lawyers Say

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/ex-yankee-clemens-likely-to-face-new-jury-following-mistrial-lawyers-say.html
Major League Baseball veteran  Roger Clemens  is likely to face another trial on charges of lying to
Congress unless his attorneys can show prosecutors deliberately
provoked yesterday’s mistrial, lawyers say.  The government’s failure to steer clear of information
barred to the jury by the judge’s order probably won’t be enough
to keep the seven-time Cy Young award winner from being tried
again, said Stanford University criminal law professor Robert Weisberg.  “A procedural goof-up shouldn’t preclude a retrial, unless
the judge believes it involves intentional, egregious
misconduct,” Weisberg said, citing a Supreme Court ruling.  Even so, U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  raised the
possibility that the government may not be able to bring the
former  New York Yankees  pitcher before a new jury.  After declaring a mistrial yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , Walton said he’d have to assess whether the
government, “having precipitated this mistrial,” can retry
Clemens or whether “re-prosecution is barred by double
jeopardy.”  Under the U.S. Constitution, the government can rarely try
a criminal defendant more than once for the same crime.  In the case of a mistrial, inadvertent mistakes by the
prosecution aren’t enough to force charges to be dropped, said
Robert Mintz, a former federal prosecutor and a partner in
McCarter & English LLP in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  ‘Intentional and Egregious’  “The entire case will hinge in whether the judge viewed
the conduct as intentional and egregious,” he said, citing
language in a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling on the issue.  “We’ll hear the government’s explanation as to how this
could have occurred,” Mintz said, adding, “It’s hard to
imagine this was done intentionally.”  Walton said that prosecutors violated a court order
yesterday when they showed the jury of 10 women and two men a
video clip of the 2008 congressional hearing where the wife of
government witness  Andy Pettitte  was discussed. Walton ruled
earlier that no references to Laura Pettitte, or an affidavit
she gave Congress, could be made during the government’s case.  Clemens, 48, is accused of lying to Congress about his use
of steroids and human growth hormone. Prosecutors said that Andy Pettitte, a former teammate, would testify about his close
relationship with Clemens and how Clemens told him in 1999 or
2000 that he had used HGH. Clemens told Congress that Pettitte
misheard the conversation.  ‘Goes to Prison’  “Mr. Pettitte’s testimony is critical as to whether this
man goes to prison,” Walton said yesterday, noting that the
video improperly bolstered Pettitte’s credibility with the jury.
“I don’t see how to unring the bell.”  Clemens’s attorney,  Rusty Hardin , when asked to comment
after yesterday’s proceeding, said, “I’d love to, but I better
not.”  Bill Miller , the spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office
in Washington, said in a statement that Walton’s order barring
discussion of the case precluded comment.  Clemens was charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ use of performance-enhancing
drugs. If convicted on all charges, he faces as long as 30 years
in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Statements to House  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or HGH, according to the indictment.  During the public hearing on Feb. 13, the government’s main
witness in the trial, Clemens’s former trainer  Brian McNamee ,
said he injected Clemens with both drugs while his client
pitched for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the New York Yankees.  Walton stopped Durham during his opening statement as the
prosecutor told jurors that Clemens’s former Yankee teammates
Pettitte, Chuck Knoblauch and Mike Stanton would be called to
testify how they used HGH. Walton ordered jurors to disregard
the reference to the other players, which violated a pre-trial
order.  Walton also ruled July 6 that the government was barred
from using or referring to any part of an affidavit by Laura
Pettitte, who swore her husband had told her about a
conversation with Clemens in which Clemens acknowledged using
the drugs.  Rebuttal Information  Laura Pettitte could only be brought up in the trial to
rebut information from the defense, Walton ruled.  The trial was stopped as Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven
Durham took testimony from the government’s third witness, Phil
Barnett, the House staffer who deposed Clemens.  Durham played a clip of Representative Elijah Cummings
questioning Clemens during the Feb. 13, 2008 hearing. As the
video played, a transcript appeared on the screen.  Cummings mentioned Laura Pettitte’s affidavit.  Walton stopped the trial and ordered the lawyers to the
bench. While the video paused, Cummings’s words stayed on the
screen. After a few minutes, Walton sent the jury out of the
courtroom.  “I clearly ruled that Mr. Pettitte’s wife and what Mr.
Pettitte said to his wife could not come in,” Walton said.
“This clearly runs afoul of my pretrial rulings.”  Walton said he was “perplexed” that the government’s
exhibits hadn’t been altered after his ruling.  ‘No Bad Faith’  Durham told Walton “there is no bad faith on the part of
the government here.”  Michael Attanasio, a lawyer for Clemens, said in court he
had been “pestering” the government for new exhibits since the
July 6 ruling and that Durham “cited resource constrictions at
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for why he didn’t have them.”  Walton granted Hardin’s request for a mistrial after a half
hour break in which, he said, he consulted his colleagues.  “If this man got convicted, from my perspective, knowing
how I sentence, he goes to jail,” Walton said. “And I’m not
going to, under the circumstances, when this has happened, put
this man’s liberty in jeopardy.”  Walton gave Hardin until July 29 to file a request that
Clemens not be retried and scheduled a Sept. 2 hearing.  Mintz said the judge will “consider very carefully”
whether to retry the case given the resources put into it,
regardless of how angry Walton got at the government yesterday.  Government’s Explanation  His decision will depend on the government’s explanation
of how the tape made it to the jury, Mintz said.  The mistrial highlights questions about the value of
prosecuting Clemens to begin with, said Artur Davis, former
House member and now a criminal defense lawyer at SNR Denton in
Washington.  “This is not the wisest use of public resources,” said
Davis.  Steven Ross, general counsel to the House from 1983 until
1993, said “major resources were spent getting it to this
point” and he doesn’t expect the mistrial will change the
 Justice Department ’s commitment to prosecution.  “This is a failure not of the strength of the government’s
case, but of the simple execution in making sure there was
editing of electronic evidence,”  said Ross, who leads the
congressional investigations practice at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer
& Feld LLP in Washington.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 