-- 
FDA Says Bristol-AstraZeneca Diabetes Drug May Cause Cancer

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-15T20:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/fda-says-bristol-astrazeneca-diabetes-drug-may-cause-cancer-1-.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s new diabetes pill may cause breast and bladder
cancer, according to U.S. regulators weighing whether to clear
sales of the medicine.  While Food and Drug Administration staff said the drug is
effective, they focused on safety concerns in a  review  of
dapagliflozin released today ahead of a July 19 FDA advisory
panel  meeting  in Silver Spring,  Maryland . New York-based
Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca of  London  have said they expect a
final decision on approval by Oct. 28.  The companies said in June that more bladder and breast
cancers were seen in patients taking the new medicine instead of
a placebo in studies. Regulators have increased scrutiny of
diabetes pills since  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s top-selling Avandia
was tied to heart attacks in 2007 and was ultimately forced off
the market in Europe and severely restricted in the U.S.  “Several unexpected safety issues identified in this
clinical development program were of sufficient concern to FDA
to merit discussion of their impact on the overall benefit-risk
consideration of dapagliflozin,” agency reviewers said in the
report.  Bristol-Myers declined 13 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$28.97 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
AstraZeneca gained 6 pence to 3,079 pence in London trading.  Bladder Cancer  Nine cases of bladder cancer occurred in male patients who
took dapagliflozin, compared with one case among people treated
with a placebo.  Breast cancer  occurred in nine patients who took
dapagliflozin, and one patient in the control group. FDA staff
also said the drug was less effective in patients with impaired
kidney function.  “We believe pretty strongly that this will be an uphill
battle for the panel and that FDA will almost definitely seek
more information before approving dapagliflozin,”  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann in Boston, said today in
a note to clients.  Dapagliflozin would be the first in a new class of
treatments called SGLT2-inhibitors that work by letting patients
excrete excess blood sugar in their urine. Johnson & Johnson,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, and Astellas Pharma
Inc. are among the companies pursuing similar drugs.  An estimated 25.8 million people in the U.S. have diabetes,
mostly the Type 2 form tied to being overweight and sedentary,
according to the  National Institutes of Health . The disease is
caused by an inability to use insulin to break down blood sugar
into energy and can increase the risk of  heart disease , stroke
and kidney damage. Medicines are used to lower blood sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 