-- 
Forint, Zloty, Rand Are Most Vulnerable in a ‘Lehman II,’ Citigroup Says

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-07-15T16:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/forint-zloty-rand-are-most-vulnerable-in-a-lehman-ii-citigroup-says.html
Hungary ’s forint,  Poland ’s zloty,
 South Africa ’s rand and Brazil’s real are the emerging-market
currencies most vulnerable to credit crisis, like that sparked
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse, from the European
Union’s fiscal problems, according to Citigroup Inc.  The Taiwanese dollar, the Philippine peso and the Peruvian
sol are “relatively safer,” the bank said in a research report
based on an analysis of leverage in the system from April
through October 2008, a month after Lehman collapsed, leading to
a global credit crunch.  “The European crisis is at a critical point” in which
either its leaders come “up with a shock and awe package or the
situation deteriorates significantly,” analysts at Citigroup
led by Monty Gandhi wrote in a research report dated July 14.
“If it became more certain that the EU is not going to act in a
more pro-active way, we would expect most currencies to sell
off, but would expect” the zloty, forint, rand and real “to
perform the worst.”  The forint has lost 4.5 percent against the dollar and 1.9
percent versus the euro so far this month, leading declines of
more than 20 emerging-market currencies, after  Greece  asked the
EU for a second rescue package and concern deepened that  Italy 
may also require a bailout. Against the dollar, the zloty has
depreciated 3.8 percent, the Romanian leu 3.4 percent, the Czech
koruna 3.2 percent and the rand 2.1 percent. The real has slid
0.8 percent.  Citigroup measured vulnerability by taking foreign-exchange
reserves divided by the sum of the current-account deficit and
debt maturing in one year. It also analyzed net monthly long
positions, or market bets that a currency will strengthen.
Foreign-currency flows into the bonds of Poland, Hungary and
South Africa were still the “major catalysts” behind the
positioning in the zloty, forint and rand, the note said. In
 Latin America , the highest positioning is in the real followed
by the  Mexican peso , according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London on 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  