-- 
Fortescue Says Costs to Be ‘Challenging’ Until January 2012

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-15T07:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/fortescue-quarterly-iron-ore-shipments-rise-6-on-new-plant-1-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  said
containing costs will be “challenging” over the current and
next quarter as  Australia ’s third-biggest producer of iron ore
ramps up output at a new project in Western Australia state.  Production costs rose 18 percent to $53.23 a metric ton in
the quarter ended June from the previous three months because of
increased expenses linked to the commissioning of the Christmas
Creek operation in the Pilbara region and a broad increase in
the company’s excavation rate, Perth-based Fortescue said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  Keeping production costs to a range of $40 to $45 a ton
would remain “challenging” in the September and December
quarters, Chief Financial Officer Stephen Pearce said during a
media conference call. Costs would start to fall “in a
meaningful way” in the January to June 2012 period as more
output capacity comes on-line.  Fortescue, planning to almost triple output capacity to 155
million tons a year, reached a targeted annual run rate of 55
million tons at its Chichester hub, also in Pilbara, at the end
of the quarter, according to the statement. The World Steel
Association is forecasting steel demand to grow 6 percent next
year as requirements from China and India increase.  Shares of Fortescue fell 0.2 percent to A$6.41 at the 4:10
p.m. close of Sydney trading, taking losses since the start of
the year to 2 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index declined
0.4 percent.  Cost of Expansion  Fortescue’s $8.4 billion capacity expansion remains on
track in a challenging environment, Nev Power said during the
call, formally succeeding Andrew Forrest today as the company’s
chief executive officer.  A record number of minerals and energy projects in
Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of  iron ore , coal and
alumina, are at an advanced stage of development, leading to
wage and construction materials inflation that have led to cost
blowouts for projects.  The company may look to raise an additional $1 billion to
finance its expansion and is considering a range of debt options
including the U.S. bond market, Pearce said.  Shipments rose 6 percent to 11.5 million tons in the
quarter ended June from a year earlier after commissioning a new
processing plant at Christmas Creek, Fortescue said. That’s in
line with previous company guidance, according to UBS AG. Total
processed volumes increased 9 percent from a year earlier to
12.4 million tons.  Shipments in the first quarter will range from 12 million
to 12.5 million tons, Fortescue said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 