-- 
Former Fund Manager Wants to Show Shared Hatred of Regulators at Trial

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/fund-manager-mccrudden-wants-to-show-shared-hatred-of-regulators-at-trial.html
A former hedge-fund manager set to
be tried next week on charges he threatened to kill regulators
wants to show the jury that his statements were part of a public
dialogue about the corruption of the financial system, an
argument a judge could bar in a ruling today.  Vincent P. McCrudden, 50, is accused of threatening the
lives of 47 current and former officials, including Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler, as
well as employees of the  National Futures Association  and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc.  McCrudden wants “to introduce evidence that there is an
ardent and vocal community of people within the financial world
who believe (rightly or wrongly) that these organizations are
corrupt and/or inept,” his lawyer wrote in a court filing this
month. A federal judge is expected to rule at a hearing today on
what evidence will be allowed. Opening arguments are scheduled
to begin July 18 in federal court in Central Islip, New York.  McCrudden, who was also a commodities trader, has been held
without bail since he was arrested Jan. 13 returning from
Singapore. He is charged with threatening the regulators in
profanity-filled e-mails and, after the CFTC sued him in
December, in Web postings. McCrudden has said he’s being
persecuted for fighting back against unfair regulatory actions
that destroyed his career.  ‘No Logical Connection’  The government seeks to preclude evidence of alleged
corruption at the agencies or of vendettas against McCrudden by
their employees.  “The defendant offers no logical connection between his
threats to kill more than 40 people and the vague beliefs of
unidentified members of an undefined group,” Assistant U.S.
Attorneys Christopher C. Caffarone and James McMahon wrote in
court papers.  McCrudden’s lawyer, Bruce A. Barket, said in a filing the
information would put his client’s comments “in the context of
an ongoing public discussion about the honesty and efficacy of
the financial regulatory system” to determine whether they were
true threats or political opinion.  Barket included a Rolling Stone magazine article entitled
“Why Isn’t  Wall Street  in Jail?” and a statement by former
CFTC Administrative Law Judge George H. Painter saying a
colleague told him he would never rule in favor of an investor
against a broker.  False Impression  Prosecutors “want to create the false impression that Mr.
McCrudden is alone in his belief that the financial regulatory
industry is ‘corrupt,’ that only he thinks the industry unfairly
favors the large institutional banks over small brokers,”
Barket wrote in a July 13 court filing. “That Mr. McCrudden’s
speech is part of that mainstream of heated political debate
cannot be withheld from the jury.”  The government charged that, after the CFTC accused
McCrudden in the lawsuit of illegally starting his Hybrid Fund
II LP in 2008 without registering it, he posted an “execution”
list on his company  website .  “Go buy a gun, and let’s get to work in taking back our
country from these criminals,” he wrote on the site. “I will
be the first one to lead by example.”  “No federal judge is going to allow a defendant to put
federal regulators on trial where someone is threatening the
life and safety of their officials,”  Jacob Frenkel , a former
federal prosecutor now in private practice in Potomac,  Maryland ,
said in a phone interview. “Whether these were threats is
certainly a question of fact for the jury.”  Singapore  Location  McCrudden wrote in a Sept. 30 e-mail to Daniel A. Driscoll,
chief operating officer of the National Futures Association,
that he had hired people to kill him, according to prosecutors.
“It wasn’t ever a question of ‘if’ I was going to kill you, it
was just a question of when,” McCrudden wrote, according to the
government.  The e-mail was sent in CFTC Chairman Gensler’s name. Its
language and origin in Singapore pointed to McCrudden,
prosecutors said. McCrudden moved from  Long Beach , New York, to
the Southeast Asian country in September because his fiancée had
gotten a position there.  McCrudden has denied sending the e-mail.  Gensler is expected to testify at the trial, according to
Lonnie Soury, a spokesman for McCrudden’s family. Dennis Holden,
a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately return a call seeking to
confirm that.  ‘Disguntled’ People  Barket, of Quadrino Schwartz in  Garden City ,  New York ,
argued in court papers his evidence would show “that there are
a large number of disgruntled persons who bear considerable
animus towards the CFTC and NFA, and who would have a
substantial motive to send the anonymous e-mail.”  The prosecutors are also seeking to prevent expert
testimony that the address from which the e-mail was sent -- the
wireless system provided for guests at the Singapore hotel where
McCrudden was staying -- was on computer-hacker lists of
networks easily broken into.  Yesterday, Barket filed a motion asking the judge to free
McCrudden on bail and postpone the trial because of new evidence
concerning the computer address the e-mail was sent from.  Brian L. Rubin, a lawyer who represents defendants in
regulatory actions, said in a phone interview that U.S. District
Judge Denis R. Hurley, presiding over the case, could take a dim
view of McCrudden’s attempt to justify what he wrote.  “Even if there is some animosity or some question about
what regulators do sometimes, I’m not sure how that justifies
his alleged conduct,” said Rubin, a partner at Sutherland
Asbill & Brennan LLP in  Washington , who isn’t involved in
McCrudden’s case. “It’s common that people get upset, but
making threats takes it to a different level.”  Big Players  McCrudden argued in the Web postings that the regulators
focus on small managers such as himself and ignore big players
like  Bernard Madoff , now serving a 150-year prison sentence for
running the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history.  “Civil disobedience is the only way to stop these
fiefdoms,” he wrote on his website, referring to the regulatory
bodies, several sentences before urging his readers to buy a
gun. “Corrupt and biased processes that favor big business and
punish the small guy in a deliberate anti competitive campaign
can only end with violence against these lifelong lawyers that
work at these agencies.”  “Not one word from the website contains any explicit
threat to harm anyone,” Barket wrote in court papers.  The government also asked Hurley to limit how much the
jurors, who were chosen July 11, can hear about McCrudden’s
previous experiences with regulators and the criminal-justice
system, as that “has no bearing on whether he sent true
threats.”  Masking Shortfalls  McCrudden’s legal and regulatory entanglements began in
2000, when he was criminally charged with masking shortfalls in
statements to his hedge-fund investors. The government alleged
he included in his financial results money he expected to get
from a lawsuit after  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  was accused of manipulating
the copper market.  In 2003, a federal jury in Central Islip acquitted
McCrudden of all 15 counts of mail fraud he faced.  The National Futures Association in 2005  denied  his
registration application because of the alleged overstatements
that resulted in that earlier criminal case. The CFTC and a
federal appeals court upheld that decision.  In October 2009, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority  ruled  that McCrudden induced  Hedge Fund Capital
Partners LLC , a New York broker-dealer where he had worked, to
file a form saying he left voluntarily when he was fired, which
McCrudden denied. The National Adjudicatory Council, which hears
appeals of Finra decisions,  upheld  that finding.  McCrudden faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison on
two federal counts of “transmission of threats to injure.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York ( Central Islip ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. District Court in Central Islip, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 