-- 
Ex-Fund Manager Can’t Argue Regulator Corruption at His Threat Trial

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-15T21:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/fund-manager-can-t-argue-regulator-corruption-at-threat-trial.html
A former hedge-fund manager charged
with threatening to kill U.S. regulators can’t argue at his
trial set to begin next week that his alleged targets were
corrupt, a judge ruled.  Even if officials at the regulatory agencies were corrupt,
“it does not justify a threat, if in fact one was made, to kill
anyone of these individuals,” U.S. District Judge Denis R. Hurley said at a hearing today in Central Islip,  New York .  Vincent P. McCrudden, 50, is accused of threatening the
lives of 47 current and former officials, including Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  McCrudden, who was also a commodities trader, has been held
without bail since he was arrested Jan. 13 returning from
Singapore. He is charged with threatening the regulators,
including those at the National Futures Association and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc., in profanity-
filled e-mails and, after the CFTC sued him in December, in Web
postings.  McCrudden has said he’s being persecuted for fighting back
against unfair regulatory actions that destroyed his career.  His trial is set to begin with opening statements on July
18.  ‘Vague Beliefs’  Prosecutors Christopher C. Caffarone and James McMahon
sought to preclude evidence of alleged corruption at the
agencies or of vendettas against McCrudden by their employees,
saying there was no connection between the crimes he’s charged
with and “the vague beliefs of unidentified members of an
undefined group.”  McCrudden’s lawyer, Bruce A. Barket, said in a court filing
that the information would put his client’s comments in the
context of an ongoing public debate about the financial-
regulation system.  The government charged that, after the CFTC accused
McCrudden in the lawsuit of illegally starting his Hybrid Fund
II LP in 2008 without registering it, he posted an “execution”
list on his company  website .  “Go buy a gun, and let’s get to work in taking back our
country from these criminals,” he wrote on the site. “I will
be the first one to lead by example.”  Hired People  Prosectors said McCrudden wrote in a Sept. 30 e-mail to
Daniel A. Driscoll, chief operating officer of the National
Futures Association, that he had hired people to kill him. “It
wasn’t ever a question of ‘if’ I was going to kill you, it was
just a question of when,” McCrudden wrote, according to the
government.  The e-mail was sent in CFTC Chairman Gensler’s name. Its
language and origin in Singapore pointed to McCrudden,
prosecutors said. McCrudden moved from  Long Beach , New York, to
the Southeast Asian country in September because his fiancée had
gotten a position there.  McCrudden has denied sending the e-mail.  McMahon, the prosecutor, argued at the hearing that the Web
postings provided the context for McCrudden’s statements.  “I don’t have a quarrel with the concept of context,”
Hurley said.  ‘Political Hyperbole’  “A reasonable person looking at this would understand it
to be political hyperbole,” McCrudden’s lawyer Barket said at
the hearing. The jury is entitled to know “that this is part of
a political debate,” he said. “They are not the rantings of a
lunatic.”  Hurley said that whether McCrudden’s free speech rights
trumped his alleged violation of the law was a question for him,
not the jury, to decide.  The judge ruled that McCrudden can’t introduce evidence of
other extreme political speech such as a “Don’t Retreat,
Reload” button that McMahon said was based on a quote by Sarah
Palin, the former U.S. vice presidential candidate.  Hurley also ruled that McCrudden can introduce expert
testimony that the address from which the Sept. 30 e-mail was
sent -- the wireless system provided for guests at the  Singapore 
hotel where McCrudden was staying -- was on computer-hacker
lists of networks easily broken into.  Hurley also ruled that McCrudden’s experiences with
regulators and the criminal-justice system can be introduced to
the jury, saying that it would put McCrudden’s comments in
context.  “That history should go before the jury,” the judge said.  Legal Entanglements  McCrudden’s legal and regulatory entanglements began in
2000, when he was criminally charged with masking shortfalls in
statements to his hedge-fund investors. The government alleged
he included in his financial results money he expected to get
from a lawsuit after  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  was accused of manipulating
the copper market.  In 2003, a federal jury in Central Islip acquitted
McCrudden of all 15 counts of mail fraud he faced.  The  National Futures Association  in 2005  denied  his
registration application because of the alleged overstatements
that resulted in that earlier criminal case. The CFTC and a
federal appeals court upheld that decision.  In October 2009, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority  ruled  that McCrudden induced  Hedge Fund Capital
Partners LLC , a New York broker-dealer where he had worked, to
file a form saying he left voluntarily when he was fired, which
McCrudden denied. The National Adjudicatory Council, which hears
appeals of Finra decisions,  upheld  that finding.  McCrudden faces a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison on
two federal counts of “transmission of threats to injure.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Central Islip ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. District Court in Central Islip, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 