-- 
Fundraise.com to Streamline Giving, Sign Presidential Campaigns

-- B y   K e n   S t i e r
-- 
2011-07-15T16:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/fundraise-com-to-streamline-giving-sign-presidential-campaigns.html
The Boston charity boxing match put on by Haymakers for Hope
in June raised $200,000 for Dana Farber Cancer Institute’s Jimmy Fund, which finances
pediatric  cancer research . But rather than handle the donation legwork itself, the
nonprofit group used 19-year-old Nate Drouin’s fundraising website,  Fundraise.com .  Andrew Myerson, a  Goldman Sachs (GS)  associate in  New York  who organized the
event, says Fundraise.com satisfied Dana Farber’s exacting compliance demands, gave
each fighter a page of his own that works easily with social media tools, and developed
an iPad app that managed a silent auction and checked in more than 1,000 people at
the Boston Park Plaza Hotel without creating a line. “They blew us out of the water,”
says Myerson. “There was no shuffling through tickets, no shuffling through lists.”  Despite launching his site just five months ago, Drouin says some 500 users have
tapped it to solicit donations for causes that range from tsunami relief to anti-nuke
protests. He expects more than $2 million in revenue by year’s end and more than twice
that in 2012. Drouin, who postponed attending Rollins College to launch the site in
 Boston , using $250,000 from friends and relatives, wants to shape the seven-person
site into a donations platform as ubiquitous as Facebook or Twitter.  DONATIONS RISE ONLINE  He sees the most promise in individual donations -- which account for $212 billion of the
$291 billion given in the U.S. to nonprofits last year, according to data compiled for
Giving USA by the Center on Philanthropy at  Indiana University . Just 7.6 percent was
done online, but that was up 35 percent from the previous year, according to Steve
MacLaughlin, Internet solutions director for  Blackbaud (BLKB) , a Charleston (S.C.)
technology provider for nonprofits. MacLaughlin expects online giving to increase to 15
percent to 20 percent of the total in the next five to 10 years.  Low barriers to entry and demand from cash-starved nonprofits mean Drouin faces
plenty of competitors, though new entrants’ attrition has been significant. Nonprofit
service providers say that’s because most so-called aggregator sites in the past did not
offer enough value to either donors or recipient charities. “I have only been with  Convio
(CNVO)  about five years, and I have probably seen 15 to 20 of these [sites] come and
go,” says Tad Druart, a spokesman for the Austin (Tex.) company that sells software
and other services to nonprofits. Survivors and new entrants include Donors Choose,
Razoo, Causes, CrowdRise, and Rally.org. Jumo, which was started by Facebook co-
founder Chris Hughes, is still in beta stage despite having been launched in February
2010.  Fundraising sites’ business models are often predicated on acting as middleman for
nonprofits. But nonprofit fundraisers strongly prefer maintaining close relationships with
their supporters. “Getting that first gift from you is great, but then it’s all about how do I
steward you and retain you and get you to give that second and third and fourth gift, and
also how do you have such a good experience with us that you tell others about us. ...
Otherwise you are constantly acquiring donors that you are not able to retain, and you
are always fishing,” explains Blackbaud’s MacLaughlin.  THE “LONG TAIL OF GIVING”  Fundraise.com’s model does not depend on keeping donors and recipients separate; it’s
a platform designed to facilitate outreach rather than act as a rent-seeking broker, says
Drouin. His supporters -- investors, users of Fundraise.com, as well as rivals who have
met him -- point to how easily users can grab Fundraise.com code and paste it on their
own sites as a widget. They’re also impressed by users’ access to analytics. “We think
there’s a massive opportunity in the long tail of giving ... be it nonprofit, political, school,
or sports teams, all the verticals that Nate’s focused on,” says Dustin Dolginow, a
technology analyst at venture capital firm Atlas Ventures in Cambridge, Mass. He
expects to close a $1.2 million funding round soon for Fundraise.com, a financing that’s
being joined by John Goldsmith, former chief executive of Tucker Anthony.  For individual donors -- especially those who give to various causes -- having a
Fundraise.com account will allow them to keep easy track of all their donations, making
tax accounting simpler. That’s also true for small organizations -- 1.2 million registered
nonprofits in the U.S. raise less than $1 a million annually -- that want to avoid the
expense of putting up their own site with embedded payment processing. Bigger entities
could benefit, because basic donation information is collected and reported back to the
designated organization. For widespread adoption, Karsten Robbins, CEO of a leading
donation site, FirstGiving, says that establishing trust and accountability is as crucial as
staying focused on what Fundraise.com does well. “I know firsthand how unbelievably
difficult it is to be everything for everybody.”  Another challenge is meeting the crazy-quilt of state regulatory demands, where online
fundraising is regarded as professional solicitation, and required information varies
depending on who is raising money. Political fundraising is subject to stricter regulations
for the same reason its online fundraising is so evolved: The stakes are so high and the
money raised is so gargantuan. Despite the hurdles, Drouin hopes to sign two
Republican Presidential campaigns as clients. “Just getting two somewhat high-caliber
candidates is $80 [million] to $100 million in revenue, and I get to keep 7.5 percent of
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ken Stier at  kenstier@earthlink.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  