-- 
Japan Geiger Counter Demand After Fukushima Earthquake Means Buyer Beware

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-15T02:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/geiger-counters-sell-out-in-post-fukushima-japan.html
In Tokyo’s  Akihabara  electronics
district, a Geiger counter sold under the Shanghai Ergonomics
Detecting Instrument Co.’s  DP802i  brand name costs 65,000 yen
($800). For that price, twice the cost in  China , it comes
without a box, warranty or return policy.  Shanghai Ergonomics  doesn’t know how its device got onto
the shelves at Akihabara as the company doesn’t sell its Geiger
counters directly overseas and offers a one-year warranty for
models sold in China, Chairman Li Jinglei said in a telephone
interview.  Geiger counters, also known as dosimeters, have sold out
and prices quadrupled in Tokyo because of worries about
radiation fallout since the Fukushima nuclear reactor meltdown
in March. The demand spurred a grey market of “illegal”
products that use faulty parts and shoddy designs or are fake,
Li said. He declined to say how much it costs Shanghai
Ergonomics to make the dosimeters.  Some of the devices on the Chinese market tested by the
Shanghai-based company weren’t hermetically sealed or stopped
functioning within two or three days, Li said. He estimated a
failure rate of about 70 percent for those models.  “It’s by no means a high-tech product,” said Huang
Yinghong, a sales manager at  Shenzhen Xintaiheng Sci-tech Co. , a
Shenzhen-based seller of the devices. It takes about 20,000 yuan
($3,000), 10 workers and commonly available circuit boards and
chips to enter the Geiger counter business, according to Huang.  Demand Soars  Tokyo  residents snapped up the devices after  radiation
readings  in the capital soared more than 20-fold and tap water
was temporarily deemed unsafe for infants. Dosimeters sold out
as far away as  Germany  after reactor meltdowns at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant made the nuclear accident
the worst since Chernobyl.  “It was a wave of panic buying,” Huang said. “It was
absolutely a seller’s market,” with some manufacturers selling
out a year’s worth of inventory in a week through March and
April, he said. His shop has since restocked supplies, he said.  The Fukushima plant, about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north
of Tokyo, had three reactor meltdowns after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup generators.
Radiation leaks displaced 160,000 people and contaminated
products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea, milk,
plums and fish with cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers
from the station.  Device Shortage  The proliferation of temporary production lines targeting
Japan and  South Korea  led to a shortage of Geiger-Muller tubes,
a gas-filled vial that detects radiation, Huang said. The tube
accounts for about 40 percent of the materials cost, he said.  SparkFun Electronics , an online market place for
electronics enthusiasts, sells Geiger-Muller tubes for $94. A
bulk order of 100 tubes fetches $75 per unit, according to the
Boulder, Colorado-based site.  Saint-Gobain Corp. , a  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
maker of the components, has expanded capacity, moved employees
and introduced longer working hours to meet the increase in
orders, said spokeswoman Dina Silver Pokedoff.  The National Consumer Affairs Center of Japan has received
multiple complaints related to dosimeters bought online,
according to the agency’s spokeswoman Michiko Izawa, who
declined to name companies or the country of origin of the
dosimeters.  The claims include devices that give wildly varying
readings or the same readings in different locations, said
Izawa. Some online stores accepted payments without shipping the
product, she said.  Importing Dosimeters  The demand for Geiger counters and distrust of Chinese
products by Japanese consumers prompted Masanobu Suzuki, a 53-
year-old employee of a defense contractor in Fukui prefecture in
central  Japan , to import Estonian-made dosimeters.  Suzuki started selling a model made by Tallinn-based  Englo
LLC  on his  website  two months ago for 110,000 yen. He sold 15 of
the devices and said the next shipment is expected in the second
half of September.  Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology has handed out 1,700 dosimeters made by Tokyo-based
Fuji Electric Co. to kindergartens, elementary and middle
schools since April, according to the ministry’s spokesman
Hirotaku Oku.  Readings in Tokyo reached 0.809 microsieverts an hour on
March 15, compared with 0.0338 microsieverts before the quake,
the  Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Public Health  said. The
highest level was still below 1/100th of the radiation dose from
a single chest X-ray.  Avoiding Water  The city’s metropolitan government in March warned
residents to avoid giving tap water to infants after radioactive
iodine was found in the city’s supply at levels twice the
allowable limit for infants. The reading dropped to within safe
levels the next day.  Earlier this month, radioactive cesium-137 was found in
Tokyo’s tap water for the first time since April. The level was
below the safety limit set by the government.  Ayako Ishikawa, faced with the option of buying a Chinese
made Geiger counter or waiting six months for models from
Ukrainian and U.S. manufacturers, chose to ship soil samples
from her Tokyo neighborhood’s playground and park to a
laboratory in  France  for radiation testing.  “The reputation of the Chinese Geiger counters that are
still left on store shelves is not very good,” said Ishikawa, a
33-year-old housewife who heads a  neighborhood group  demanding
more radiation testing and cleanup of contaminated areas. “The
Russian and Ukrainian-made dosimeters sell out in a flash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  