-- 
German Stocks Retreat as Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, Infineon Shares Slide

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-15T16:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/german-stocks-retreat-heading-for-weekly-drop-commerzbank-shares-slide.html
Germany ’s DAX closed little changed,
posting its biggest weekly drop since March, as U.S. consumer
confidence retreated more and investors speculated that stress
tests on  Europe ’s banks may show they have insufficient capital.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s biggest
banks, declined.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  rose to its highest price since at
least 1998 as the clothing company raised its full-year earnings
forecast after second-quarter profit jumped more than fivefold
to 31 million euros ($43.7 million).  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.1 percent to 7,220.12 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge has fallen 2.5 percent
this week as concern mounted that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread to the bigger economies of  Italy  and  Spain . The DAX
has declined 4.1 percent since this year’s high on May 2. The
broader HDAX Index was little changed, rising less than 0.1
percent.  The  European Banking Authority  will release the results of
stress tests for 91 banks from 5 p.m.  London  time today as part
of an effort to reassure investors that the region’s banks have
sufficient capital.  To pass, lenders will need to maintain a core Tier 1
capital ratio of more than 5 percent in a stressed scenario. The
tests include a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro
area in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets and
trading losses on sovereign debt not held to maturity.  “Cautiousness dominates the trading session today as
stress-test data to be released today after the bell holds the
focus,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital in
London. “Although the test is considered to be tougher than the
last one and it examines the 90 banks’ ability to survive
diverse shocks, it does not account for the possibility of a
Greek default which is of immensely growing concern to the
markets.”  U.S. Consumer Confidence  A report today showed that confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly fell in July to the lowest level since March 2009.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment decreased to 63.8 from 71.5 in June. The
gauge was projected to rise to 72.2, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank lost 1.5 percent to 37.15
euros and 3 percent to 2.50 euros, respectively. The bank
assessments today are the first by the EBA since it was set up
earlier this year. Last year’s tests by the authority’s
predecessor were criticized for not being tough enough. Lenders
were shown to need only 3.5 billion euros more capital, a 10th
of the lowest analyst estimate.  Infineon, Hugo Boss  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  slid 2.4 percent to 7.27 euros as
a gauge of technology companies was among the worst performers
of the 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Hugo Boss jumped 6.7 percent to 77 euros. The company
forecast an increase in 2011 sales of 15 to 17 percent after
adjustments for currency effects, compared with a previous
prediction of at least 12 percent. The luxury clothing maker
said earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, before special items, will rise 25 to
30 percent, compared with an earlier forecast of at least 15
percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  climbed 2.9 percent to 151 euros, its highest
price on record. Europe’s biggest carmaker said sales of cars,
sport-utility vehicles and vans at the company’s brands
including its Audi AG luxury division and Czech unit Skoda rose
14 percent. Global industry sales increased 6.1 percent in the
same period, according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  