-- 
Giants Stadium Designer Builds in Iraq as Clinton Prods Business

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/giants-stadium-designer-builds-in-iraq-as-clinton-prods-business.html
The first time George Heinlein met
with Iraqi officials to discuss building sports stadiums, he
arrived without a translator and endured almost an hour of
discussion in Arabic -- none of which he understood.  More than two years later, the Kansas City-based
businessman has more than $500 million in Iraqi contracts and
enough cultural savvy to schedule a monthlong break in
construction during Ramadan, the Islamic period of fasting
during daylight hours. He doesn’t blink when camel is served for
lunch, either.  Heinlein runs one of several companies that have benefited
from a State Department push to get more U.S. companies into
Iraq. As foreign competitors from China and  France  rush to
invest in Iraq, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has mobilized
her agency to help companies like  Boeing Co. (BA) , PepsiCo Inc. and
Heinlein’s  360 Architecture  compete and prosper there.  “It’s time for the United States to start thinking of Iraq
as a business opportunity,” Clinton said June 3 to executives
who came to her agency to learn more about doing business there.  As the U.S. role in Iraq shifts from military cooperation
to a civilian partnership led by the State Department, Clinton
has focused on commercial diplomacy -- building economic links -
- as a way of fostering government transparency, political
stability and stronger ties.  “Commercial diplomacy works hand in hand with
strengthening ties in various areas of foreign policy and
national security,”  Robert Hormats , the State Department’s
Under Secretary for Economic Affairs, said in an interview.  Helping Out  As part of that effort, the State Department is helping
companies like Heinlein’s, which designed the New Meadowlands
Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , for the  New York Jets 
and the New York Giants football teams.  “There’s no doubt the State Department and the  Department
of Commerce  helped us out,” Heinlein said in a telephone
interview, recalling how his company won a Ministry of Youth and
Sport contract over 14 other firms vying to master plan and
design an Olympic-quality ‘sports village’ in Basra, the oil-
export hub in southern Iraq.  Even with the “tough” environment, Iraq’s economy is
projected to grow faster than  China ’s in the next two years,
Clinton said in her remarks to the executives.  The  International Monetary Fund  projected in May that the
country’s GDP growth will be 12.1 percent this year, while non-
oil growth will be 5 percent. Companies willing to invest will
have the support of embassies and consulates along with the
Departments of Treasury, Energy and Agriculture and the Export-
Import Bank.  Every Sector  In 2010, U.S. exports to Iraq totaled $1.64 billion, down 7
percent from the $1.77 billion in 2009, according to the U.S.
Census Bureau. The U.S. ran a goods-trade deficit with Iraq of
$10.5 billion last year, reflecting about $12 billion in oil
imports from  Iraq .  In the first five months of this year, U.S. exports to Iraq
totaled $1.17 billion, up 59 percent from $737.1 million in the
comparable 2010 period.  “Iraqis are looking to rebuild every sector of their
economy, not only their oil sector, but agribusiness,
transportation, housing, banking, and many others,” Clinton
said. “We want to go on record unequivocally in encouraging
American business to begin that process, and we will do
everything we can to support you in it.”  Heinlein’s company reached out for help midway through
competition for the contract, when the field narrowed to three
companies, including a Turkish business and one from  Kuwait .  “We were getting word that the other teams, their
ambassadors to Iraq were putting a lot of pressure on the
Ministry of Youth and Sport and others to try to make their
teams successful,” Heinlein said.  Security Challenges  360 Architecture won the contract to build a 65,000-seat
soccer stadium, smaller venues and athlete apartments for
Basra’s ‘sports city’ and just won two more stadium projects.  Heinlein admits there are difficulties. Traveling to and
from  Baghdad  is strenuous, often involving long waits for visas.
And dealing with security is a part of life there, Heinlein
said.  “We’ve arranged our own security,” he said. “So far we
haven’t had any issues.”  Within the State Department, Deputy Secretary Thomas Nides
will oversee efforts to help companies like Heinlein’s. In Iraq,
U.S. Ambassador James Jeffrey is working to establish an
American Chamber of Commerce to provide additional support.  On the Ground  About 30 companies attended the State Department event,
including some U.S. corporations already at work in Iraq.  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  are part of a group
that has exceeded its target of increasing oil production by 10
percent, according to the State Department’s bureau of
Management and Resources.  Pepsi is sold throughout Iraq and  General Electric Co. (GE)  has
contracted with the government to provide 56 gas turbines valued
at an estimated $3 billion to improve electricity supply.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is engaging with Iraqi financial
institutions and with corporations that wish to invest in Iraq.  Sean McCormack, a Boeing spokesman, said his company has
received “strong” support from the administration as it has
worked to replenish Iraq’s commercial aviation fleet by selling
thirty 737 airplanes and ten 787 airplanes to the Iraqi
government.  Firms in Iraq face serious hurdles that Clinton said she
wouldn’t “sugarcoat.”  Corruption  The  World Bank   rated Iraq 166th  out of 183 economies for
“ease of doing business,” an assessment that includes dealing
with construction permits, protecting investors, enforcing
contracts and registering a property.  Iraq also ranks 175th out of 178 on the Bank’s corruption
index. In a fact sheet, the State Department said that the
government of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and the U.S. are
participating in programs to fight corruption. When Heinlein got
help from the administration, he had to guarantee that the
project would involve no bribery.  The IMF is also working with Iraq on its budget, banking
and financial systems controls, according to State’s bureau of
management and resources.  “Iraqis have done some things, but they need to double
down on regulatory regime that will govern investment,” said
Lionel Johnson, vice president for Middle East Affairs at the
 U.S. Chamber of Commerce  in  Washington . Johnson spoke just days
before taking a delegation of interested U.S. companies to Iraq.  On previous trips, he has met with Iraqi officials to
convey what those companies need to operate with confidence.
“Transparency and good governance,” Johnson says. “It’s an
economy that is evolving, but it needs to evolve toward a more
rules-based economic and fiscal environment.”  More Help  The Chamber is pushing the U.S. administration to get more
deeply involved in efforts to establish U.S. companies in Iraq.
Japan, Korea and  Germany  have sent cabinet-level delegations to
Iraq to promote their country’s companies.  “We need to do that if we’re going to get somewhere in
Iraq,” said Johnson, who did similar work with  Vietnam  at
Citigroup. “It’s fine for the Chamber to do it, but it’s a real
vote of confidence if you have a delegation led by a cabinet
secretary,” he added.  Clinton pointed out the advantages for companies willing to
go there. The country “has one of the largest customer bases in
the entire Arab world, it has one of the world’s largest
supplies of oil, and it has one of the best educated workforces
in the region” with a literacy rate of 78 percent, she said.  Foreign Rivals  As it rebuilds, Iraq also has enormous requirements,
including the need for roughly 5 million new housing units.
That’s the sort of concrete business opportunity the Chamber
wants to promote to groups such as the  National Association of
Home Builders , Johnson said.  Other companies are already taking advantage of those
prospects. While Chinese, French, Jordanian and Iranian
companies are lining up to do business, “very honestly, we see
too few American companies alongside our soldiers and our
diplomats,” Clinton said.  International companies have been much more aggressive in
Iraq than their U.S. counterparts, Johnson said.  “Our trading partners are very, very active, with the
encouragement of their governments, because they see the
prospect of this being a success,” he said. “Our companies
have stepped up, but not commensurate with the level of
opportunity there.”  “The irony is that it is the  United States  that has
invested the huge sums of blood and treasure to stabilize Iraq
and position it to move into 21st century,” he said, “and it
would be a real disappointment if others capitalized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  