-- 
Gold Falls in New York Trading as Rally to a Record Spurs Investor Sales

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-15T12:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/gold-poised-for-second-weekly-gain-after-debt-concerns-spur-record-rally.html
Gold declined in New York as some
investors sold the metal after debt and growth concerns in
 Europe  and the U.S. boosted prices to a record and increased
scrap supply.  Bullion touched a record $1,594.90 an ounce yesterday on
speculation that debt woes in the U.S. and Europe will escalate.
 Standard & Poor’s  became the second rating company this week to
say it may cut the U.S.’s top credit grade. Gold scrap supply is
“noticeably above normal levels,” as prices rise, UBS AG said.  “The biggest risk to gold at current prices is not just
investors banking profits,” but also scrap supply,  Edel Tully ,
a London-based analyst at UBS, said in a report today. Still,
“the overall macroeconomic climate is very supportive of
gold.”  Gold for August delivery fell $6.70, or 0.4 percent, to
$1,582.60 an ounce by 8 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices
are up 2.7 percent this week and rose the previous eight days,
the longest streak of gains since April. Immediate-delivery gold
was down 0.3 percent at $1,582.10 in  London  after reaching a
record $1,594.45 yesterday.  With gold above $1,580 an ounce, physical sales are the
strongest in more than 13 months, Standard Bank Plc said today
in a report. Physical buying when the metal was close to $1,500
was the strongest in more than 15 months, it said.  S&P said it may lower the U.S.’s long-term rating by one or
more notches into the AA category if it concludes Congress and
President Barack Obama’s administration haven’t achieved a
credible solution to the rising government debt burden and
aren’t likely to achieve one in the near future. Moody’s
Investors Service put the U.S.’s Aaa  credit rating  on review for
a downgrade on July 13, citing concern officials won’t raise the
debt limit in time to prevent a missed payment.  No More Time  There’s “no way to give Congress more time” on lifting
the debt limit, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
after meeting with Democratic lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  in
 Washington . He has repeatedly said the U.S.’s borrowing
authority will end on Aug. 2 without congressional action.  The  Federal Reserve  is prepared to take additional action,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be in danger of stalling, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July
13.  “We just want to make sure that we have the options when
they become necessary. But at this point, we’re not proposing to
undertake” a third round of quantitative easing, he said
yesterday.  Credit Ratings Cut  Ireland this week became the third nation in the European
Union to have its credit rating cut below investment grade,
helping to send gold priced in euros and pounds to record highs.
The European Banking Authority will today release the results of
the stress tests for 91 banks as part of an effort to reassure
investors the region’s banks have sufficient capital.  Gold advanced 11 percent this year after climbing for the
past 10 years, the longest run of gains in at least nine decades
in London. Twenty-four of 27 traders, investors and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, or 89 percent, said bullion will rise
next week. One predicted lower prices and two were neutral.  “The next psychological barrier will be around the $1,600
level,” Natalie Robertson, an analyst at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said from Melbourne. “Given all the
uncertainty in the market with the European debt crisis and more
recently the U.S., the risk-off sentiment will continue.”  Silver for September delivery fell 1.2 percent to $38.235
an ounce, after yesterday climbing to a two-month high of
$39.395 in New York. Palladium for September delivery slipped
1.3 percent to $773 an ounce. Platinum for October delivery was
down 1 percent at $1,756.30 an ounce after yesterday reaching a
four-week high of $1,784.90.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  