-- 
Google Shares Advance After Sales Gain Shows Page’s Progress in Expansion

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-15T20:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/google-rises-as-sales-gain-shows-page-s-progress-in-expansion.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest Internet-
search company, rose the most in almost three years after
reporting sales that beat projections, a sign it’s making
progress expanding beyond search advertising.  Sales, excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, rose
to $6.92 billion,  Mountain View , California-based Google said
yesterday on its website. That topped $6.57 billion, the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page , who succeeded  Eric Schmidt  in April, is pushing into new markets such as mobile and
display advertising while trying to preserve the company’s
leadership in search, an area that generates most of Google’s
revenue. Ad prices, calculated on a per-click basis, rose at a
faster pace last quarter, a sign companies are more willing to
market their wares online.  “Google is a real-time indicator in terms of the broader
economy; this is a good sign,”  Gene Munster , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis , said in an interview on
“Bloomberg West.” “The improvements in ad units that we saw
tonight can continue for the next few quarters.”  Google rose $68.68, or 13 percent, to $597.62 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest gain since
Oct. 13, 2008.  Over the next twelve months, Google shares are projected to
surge to $729.21, according to the average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. After the earnings report, Jefferies &
Co. raised its price target to $830 from $800, while  RBC Capital
Markets  boosted its projection to $790 from $680.  Profit Beat Estimates  Second-quarter profit, excluding some items, was $8.74 a
share, exceeding the $7.85 average of analysts’ estimates. Net
income gained 36 percent to $2.51 billion, or $7.68 a share,
from $1.84 billion, or $5.71, a year earlier.  The average price for ads, calculated on a per-click basis,
rose 12 percent last quarter, after rising about 8 percent in
the previous period, Google said.  Page is investing in new businesses to help Google compete
with newer Internet rivals such as  Facebook  Inc., the world’s
most popular social-networking service. Online users spent an
average of 6.7 hours on Facebook in June, compared with 4.1
hours on Google, according to  ComScore Inc .  To narrow that gap, Google last month rolled out Google+, a
feature that lets users interact online. It’s comparable to
Facebook, yet aims to let people more easily set up groups of
contacts. More than 10 million users have signed up for Google+
so far, and they share and receive more than a billion items --
such as photos and messages -- a day, Page said during a call
with analysts.  ‘Long Ways Away’  “That is a big number for something that is essentially”
in a test phase, said Paul Meeks, an analyst at Capstone
Investments Inc. in Charleston,  South Carolina . He rates the
stock a “buy” and doesn’t own it.  Still, Google+ is far from an alternative to Facebook, with
its more than 750 million users, Munster said.  “The probability that they will succeed has definitely
gone up, but it’s still a long ways away from 750 million and
growing at Facebook,” Munster said.  Other areas where Page is pushing Google to expand include
mobile and display advertising.  Google’s Android mobile operating system is expected to
maintain its lead globally this year, with 38.9 percent of the
worldwide smartphone market, compared with 18.2 percent for
Apple Inc.’s iPhone, according to research firm IDC. Page said
on yesterday’s call that 550,000 Android devices are activated
on a daily basis.  Rising Costs  Google this year should command 9.3 percent of the  display
advertising market  in the U.S., making it the No. 3 provider
behind Yahoo! Inc. and Facebook, according to EMarketer Inc.
Google had 4.5 percent of the market in 2009.  Even as Google nabs share, its costs are rising as it adds
employees. Staff increased 2,452, or 9.3 percent, to 28,768, the
company said in a statement. Page is being careful not to waste
shareholder money, he said during the call. Page, who made only
a brief appearance on the previous quarter’s call, stayed for
the duration of yesterday’s call.  “We are focused on long-term absolute profit and growth as
we have always been,” Page said on the call. “We will continue
the tight financial management we’ve had in the last two years,
even as we’re making significant investments in our future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  