-- 
Google Option Bet Doubles Overnight as Earnings Boost Stock

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-15T20:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/google-options-volatility-bet-doubles-overnight.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  options traders who bet
on larger stock swings after its earnings report more than
doubled their money overnight after the owner of the world’s
largest Internet search engine soared as much as 13 percent.  Google option straddles, which involve purchasing a call to
buy and put to sell, using strike prices closest to the share
price and nearest the expiration date cost $26.77 as of
yesterday’s close. The straddles opened 151 percent higher today
at $67.15 after Google reported sales and profit that topped
analysts’ estimates after the close, lifting the shares by 13
percent, or $68.68, to $597.62 as of 4 p.m. in  New York .  “A few of the guys here who had those straddles on ended
up going out last night and partying,” Brenna Hardman, a
derivatives broker at MEB Options LLC, said in an interview from
the Chicago Board Options Exchange floor. “Straddles were cheap
because they reported good earnings and it was such a surprise
to everyone.”  The biggest post-earnings stock move since April 2008
rewarded options traders who bet on a larger swing. Buyers of
the straddle paid $26.77 as of the last close, pricing in a move
of about 5.1 percent to break even on the strategy. That was
less than the 6.1 percent average one-day gain or loss following
the prior eight earnings reports, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The July $530 call opened at $67.10 today and increased as
much as 452 percent, while the equivalent put closed at 5 cents
as this month’s options expired at the close of U.S. exchanges.  Google rose the most in almost three years after the report
signaled that it’s making progress expanding beyond search
advertising. Sales, excluding revenue passed on to partner
sites, rose to $6.92 billion,  Mountain View , California-based
Google said yesterday on its website. That topped $6.57 billion,
the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  