-- 
Government Spending Cuts to Fuel U.S. Economy Ignore Math of Lost Growth

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/government-spending-cuts-to-fuel-u-s-economy-ignore-math-of-lost-growth.html
Advocates of reduced federal
spending say shrinking the U.S. government would boost the
economy and create jobs. They are wrong, according to Wall
Street economists -- at least for the short term.  House Republican leaders, including Speaker  John Boehner ,
urge spending cuts to lift employer confidence and increase
investment and hiring. President  Barack Obama , who signed into
law a stimulus program now valued at $830 billion, has echoed
the Republican assertions in recent comments, even as he has
resisted cuts as deep and fast as they want.  Professional forecasters beg to differ. Fiscal retrenchment
could subtract 1.5 percentage points to 2 percentage points from
growth in 2012, a drag that will make it difficult to reduce 9.2
percent unemployment, say economists at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week cited
similar concerns. “You need to be careful about sharp cuts in
the very near term” because “the economy is still growing very
slowly,” he told the House Financial Services Committee in
 Washington . “To the extent possible, we should make the cuts
over a long term because this is a long-term problem.”  Bernanke cited the drop in federal, state and local
government payrolls of 39,000 jobs in June, offsetting most of a
57,000 gain in hiring by companies. The unemployment rate rose
to 9.2 percent, its highest this year, Labor Department data
showed July 8.  Significant Headwind  “Fiscal consolidation is rarely pain-free,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York, who predicts the economy will grow 2.8 percent next year.
“It is obviously a significant headwind. We are looking for a
very slow decline in unemployment.”  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates Inc. in Toronto, said government cutbacks could lead
to a “growth recession,” with expansion so slow that the
 unemployment rate  continues to rise.  “This morphing from fiscal stimulus to fiscal restraint is
going to prove to be a very big swing,” he said. “All those
people out there that are talking about the necessity of cutting
spending and massive fiscal restraint is a case of ‘be careful
what you wish for.’ ”  An outright contraction can’t be ruled out with the economy
growing slowly, said Dominic Konstam, New-York based head of
interest-rate research at Deutsche Bank.  U.S. growth of 1.9 percent in the first quarter was
followed by an estimated 2 percent gain in the second, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of 60 economists this month. The
median estimate for 2012 is 3 percent.  Risk of Recession  “If we’re going to get any kind of fiscal tightening, then
the risk is you’ll have a recession if all you can do is grow
around 2 or 3 percent without the fiscal tightening,” Konstam
said.  Republican House leaders say spending cuts will produce
growth.  “The best thing we can do is to have real spending cuts”
to “provide some confidence to job creators in America,”
Boehner said July 11. Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas ,
the fourth-ranking House Republican, said on July 7, “we’ve got
to cut the spending if we want to increase the jobs.”  Chief executive officers were less optimistic about the
 U.S. economy , according to a survey released June 14 by  Business
Roundtable , an association of corporate leaders. The
association’s economic outlook index fell to 109.9 in the second
quarter from 113 the previous three months.  ‘Balanced Approach’  Obama has called for a “balanced approach” to the
nation’s growing debt that would include higher tax revenue and
spending cuts. At the same time, he has echoed Republicans’
assertion that reduced outlays would stimulate the economy by
giving employers confidence.  Obama, in a July 2 radio address, said, “we have to cut
the spending we can’t afford” to “give our businesses the
confidence they need to grow and create jobs.”  The comments drew a rebuke from Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Paul Krugman , who said in a Web posting that the
president was embracing “the myth of expansionary austerity and
the confidence fairy.”  Spending cuts are likely to hurt the recovering economy
more than raising taxes, said  Christina Romer , who was Obama’s
first chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.  “The economics literature is pretty strong that if you
think about both the short-run effects of tax increases or
spending cuts and the long-run incentive effects, I think tax
increases do less damage to the economy than some of the
spending cuts,” she said.  Stimulus Package  Government spending  contributed a combined 1.1 percentage
points to growth from 2008 to 2010, as the economy overall grew
0.3 percent, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Growth was supported by Obama’s stimulus package, which was
criticized last year by  House Republicans  as ineffective.  Boehner doesn’t buy the thesis that spending cuts crimp
growth in the short run, said his spokesman, Mike Steel.  “This is the same sort of argument that was used to sell
the stimulus spending binge” of the Obama administration,
“with claims it would keep unemployment below 8 percent,”
Steel said in an interview yesterday. “Unemployment now is 9.2
percent.”  “At a time we are borrowing 40 cents out of every dollar
the government spends, every serious economist has called for a
real plan to deal with our debt and deficit,” he said.  Concerns about budget deficits haven’t pushed up U.S.
Treasury yields, even after Moody’s Investors Service warned
this week that a stalemate in talks to raise the debt ceiling
could jeopardize the nation’s credit rating.  10-Year Yield  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was 2.95 percent
late yesterday in  New York , compared with an average 5.38
percent since the start of 1990.  Federal Reserve policy makers, at their June 21-22 meeting,
cited “a larger-than-expected near-term fiscal tightening” as
one of the “downside risks” to the economy, according to
minutes of the session released this week.  American consumers are contending with falling home values,
unemployment hovering close to 9 percent for the past two years,
and a jump in fuel prices that sent gasoline costs to the
highest level in almost three years.  Consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, grew at a 2.2 percent annual pace in the first
quarter, down from a 4 percent gain in the last three months of
2010. Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York project it
expanded at a 0.4 percent rate in the second quarter as auto
demand slumped.  Slight Impact  The impact of any boost in business or  consumer confidence 
is likely to be slight compared with lost growth, said  Ethan Harris , head of developed-markets economic research at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in New York.  “Confidence-building type effects, even in a well designed
plan, can’t make up for the loss of actual spending,” he said.
“It makes it hard to get a solid year next year, even with the
rebound from the various shocks this year.”  Alan Blinder , a Princeton University economist and former
Fed vice chairman, said he has “tried to debunk the notion that
more government spending kills jobs.”  “I don’t find it realistic to think that a boost from
confidence would make up for a significant fiscal contraction,”
he said. “Fiscal contraction, per se, will reduce aggregate
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  