-- 
Grupo Modelo Gains Share in U.S. Market as Victoria Beer Cracks Top 20

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-15T18:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/grupo-modelo-gains-share-in-u-s-market-as-victoria-beer-cracks-top-20.html
Grupo Modelo SAB, the Mexican brewer
of Corona beer, is gaining share in the U.S. import market aided
by its Victoria brand, which cracked the top 20 of foreign beers
in its first year.  Shipments of Modelo brands rose 4.4 percent in the 13 weeks
ended July 3 compared with a 1.7 percent increase for all beer
imports, Emilio Fullaondo, chief financial officer, said today
on a conference call. Case shipments for the U.S. beer industry
fell 0.9 percent, he said, citing data from SymphonyIRI Group.  Even amid weak U.S. consumer spending, Victoria surpassed
sales of 2 million cases within the first 12 months, Fullaondo
said. Modelo, based in Mexico City, first sold the beer in
 Chicago  in June 2010 at a price that tops Corona, the company’s
flagship export, he said. Victoria ranks 20th among imports.  “We are very optimistic about the potential for Victoria
in the U.S. market as a super-premium import and are working on
plans to further expand the distribution,” he said, speaking on
an analyst call after the company reported second-quarter
earnings.  Modelo, aided by exports, has become the world’s seventh-
biggest brewer and the largest seller of U.S. imported beers.
Its Corona brand overtook Heineken as the top-selling U.S.
import in 1997 and it now has six brands in the top 20,
including Modelo Especial and Corona light.  Fullaondo said he hopes Victoria will help boost overall
brand sales even as sales of Corona slow from previous years.
Modelo started a Corona Beach Getaway marketing campaign as part
of “the effort toward maintaining Corona,” he said.  ‘Sources of Growth’  “That’s a virtue of having this portfolio,” Fullaondo
said. “You have different sources of growth. You’re trying to
target different types of consumers.”  Modelo’s brands had sales growth of 4.8 percent during the
13-week period Fullaondo said, citing data from  SymphonyIRI , a
Chicago-based research firm. That compares to 2.5 percent for
all beer imports to the U.S. and 1.3 percent for both domestic
and imported beers sold there, he said.  The market-share gains are “a combination of a good
portfolio of brands and an increased marketing effort,” said
 Luis Miranda , an analyst with the Mexican unit of Banco
Santander SA. “This trend could continue.”  Modelo is selling Victoria, a medium-bodied beer, in 10
states including  California ,  Arizona ,  Texas  and  Colorado . The
company may expand the brand into other states before the end of
next year, Fullaondo said.  The beermaker said second-quarter net income fell 1.4
percent to 2.89 billion pesos ($247 million) from 2.93 billion
pesos a year earlier after taxes rose 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  