-- 
Libya’s Opposition Council Is Accepted by Europe, U.S. as Sole Government

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-07-15T15:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/libya-s-opposition-council-is-accepted-by-europe-u-s-as-sole-government.html
The U.S. and allies meeting to
discuss  Libya  have recognized the Transitional National Council
as the sole legitimate governing authority in the country, a
step that allows for greater funding of the group whose forces
are fighting to oust  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Until an interim authority is in place, the United States
will recognize the TNC as the legitimate governing authority for
Libya, and we will deal with it on that basis,” U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said today in Istanbul, where the
allies from the Libya Contact Group held their fourth meeting.
The U.S. views Qaddafi’s regime as illegitimate, she said.  The contact group laid out conditions for a “genuine
cease-fire” in a final statement and declared that “Qaddafi and
certain of his family members must go.” The way he will leave
power has yet to be defined, the group said. The conditions call
for the complete withdrawal of Qaddafi-led forces to their
bases, the release of detainees and hostages, the provision of
water and electricity to all regions, and the opening of all
borders for the quick return of refugees.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization started airstrikes
in late March to aid rebels seeking Qaddafi’s ouster. Qaddafi
has already lasted longer than allies had anticipated, though
his hold on the capital, Tripoli, appears to be weakening amid
shortages of food and fuel and reports that his government is
seeking a political solution to end the fighting.  Fill the Vacuum  The allies met to determine how to ensure those opposed to
Qaddafi are able to fill the vacuum left after the Libyan
leader’s expected departure.  “The  United States  is impressed by the work the TNC has
done laying the groundwork for a democratic Libya,” Clinton
said. “The assurances the TNC offered today reinforced our
confidence that it is the appropriate interlocutor” until an
interim government can be formed, the top U.S. diplomat said.  The military campaign against Qaddafi will continue
“indefinitely” until he steps down, U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  told reporters earlier today in Istanbul.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will be the
only person entitled to negotiate with both sides in Libya,
Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  told reporters. Ban
will set up a board of two to three interlocutors from Tripoli
and the rebel-held town of Benghazi, he said.  Frozen Assets  Recognition of the council “will allow some countries to
unfreeze some money,” French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said.
Libyan frozen assets in  France  total $250 million, he said.  The move allows the Obama administration to access some of
the $30 billion in frozen Libyan assets that the U.S. holds, a
State Department official said today. The mechanics of how they
will be able to do that still has to be worked out. UN sanctions
against Libya remain in place, potentially complicating efforts
to get money to the rebels and the contact group will work on
that issue, the official said.  The State Department official said a number of actions by
the rebels convinced the U.S. to offer recognition, including a
commitment to pursue a reform process, and to seek more
inclusive representation of Libyans, politically, geographically
and tribally. The U.S. will continue to watch closely how they
perform, the official said.  When Clinton announced U.S. recognition of the council, the
room broke into applause. Part of the U.S. motivation was also
in sending a clear signal to Qaddafi that the U.S. and allies in
the contact group are looking to a future beyond him.  U.K. Warplanes  The group continues to believe time is on its side in the
struggle for control of the oil-rich country, said two U.S.
State Department officials who spoke anonymously before today’s
meeting because they aren’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly.  Britain will add four Tornado warplanes to its force in the
air campaign against Qaddafi’s military, bringing the total
number of British aircraft involved to 34, a spokesman for the
U.K. Foreign Ministry said at the meeting.  Italy  will open a  credit line  to rebels using frozen assets
as collateral, and will provide them with 100 million euros
($141 million) today, Frattini said. Another 300 million euros
will be released in two weeks and in total, Italy will release
400 million euros, he said, describing the money as loans.  There is an “urgent need for cash,” Turkish Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said, calling on countries to “open
banks” to the rebels’ council, “along with a percentage of
frozen assets.”  The U.S. has yet to deliver aid to the rebel council. The
U.S. House of Representatives rejected a plan to funnel frozen
Libyan assets to the group. Hague said the U.K. won’t be making
any financial contributions today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 