-- 
Libyan Rebels Get U.S. Recognition Without Keys to Qaddafi’s Frozen Cash

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-07-16T14:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/libyan-rebels-get-u-s-recognition-without-keys-to-qaddafi-s-frozen-cash.html
Leaders of the Libyan rebels’
Transitional National Council flew to Istanbul seeking
legitimacy and money. They will leave with the official
recognition of the U.S. and 31 other nations.  As for the cash, they will have to wait.  The decision to treat the council as the “legitimate
governing authority” in  Libya  is a key step to freeing up some
of the government’s frozen assets for rebels seeking the ouster
of Muammar Qaddafi. Still, obstacles such as existing United
Nations sanctions won’t disappear overnight.  “We still have to work through various legal issues, but
we expect this recognition will allow the TNC to access various
forms of funding,” said U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  At stake are about $34 billion in frozen Libyan government
assets that are held by U.S. institutions and as much as $130
billion more held around the world. Speaking by phone from
Istanbul, Transitional National Council spokesman Mahmoud
Shammam put the total in excess of $100 billion globally.  Qaddafi, in an audio message broadcast to supporters in the
town of Zlitan yesterday, said the Libyan people “will never
give up” in the fight to prevent him being ousted, the
 Associated Press  reported. “The Libyan people will persevere,”
he said.  Oil Purchases  In the coming weeks, U.S. officials will consult with the
TNC and international partners on the most effective and
appropriate method of making additional significant financial
assistance available, according to a Treasury official who was
not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  Shammam said the TNC needs $3 billion to cover the budget
for six months. The council is seeking loans secured by the
Qaddafi regime’s assets abroad as a means of funding, he said.  Recognition may lawfully allow nations to buy state-owned
oil from the TNC, which controls the oil-rich eastern part of
the country.  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  and France’s  Total SA (FP)  are the top
 oil companies  operating in Libya, a former Italian colony.  How much money the Benghazi-based government can get, and
when, may be more tied to politics than the law.  “The legal issues are in the eye of the beholder,” said
 Gary Clyde Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington. “If Obama and
Clinton want to go slow in paying out the money, their lawyers
can invent plenty of legal issues to justify the chosen pace.”  Asset Freeze  The U.S. envisions a “short timeframe” for releasing some
of the Libyan government assets frozen by the U.S., State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  signed an order on Feb. 25 freezing
any U.S. assets of  Muammar Qaddafi , his family and members of
his regime in Libya. As a practical matter, most of the frozen
$34 billion is tied up in complicated property interests,
including ownership interests in non-publicly traded companies
or real estate, according to the Treasury official.  The mechanics of how the U.S. will unfreeze assets still
has to be worked out. United Nations sanctions against Libya
remain in place, a hindrance to efforts to get money to the
rebels.  The U.K. and France, which led the campaign to unseat
Qaddafi, yesterday didn’t commit any financial contributions.  Recognition of the council “will allow some countries to
unfreeze some money,” French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said.
Libyan frozen assets in  France  total $250 million, he said.  International Law  Other nations have already found the means to act.  Italy will open a  credit line  to rebels using frozen assets
as collateral, and will provide them with 100 million euros
($141 million), Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said
yesterday. Another 300 million euros will be released in two
weeks and in total, Italy will release 400 million euros, he
said, describing the money as loans.  The council is expecting $100 million from  Turkey  within
three days, Shammam said.  The main criterion for international law for the
recognition of a rebel group as the government of a state is its
effective control over the territory.  The recognition of the TNC, given the fact that Qaddafi
still controls Tripoli, could “arguably constitute an illegal
interference in internal affairs,” Stefan Talmon, a professor
of International Law at the University of Oxford, wrote in a
paper for the American Society of International Law.  ‘Genuine Cease-Fire’  A number of actions by the rebels convinced the U.S. to
offer recognition, including a commitment to pursue a reform
process, and to seek more inclusive representation of Libyans,
politically, geographically and tribally,” according to a State
Department officially. The U.S. will continue to watch closely
how they perform, according to the official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  The contact group laid out conditions for a “genuine
ceasefire” in a final statement and declared that “Qaddafi and
certain of his family members must go.”  The way he will leave power has yet to be defined, the
group said. The ceasefire conditions call for complete
withdrawal of Qaddafi-led forces to their bases, the release of
detainees and hostages, provision of water and electricity to
all regions, and the opening of all borders for the quick return
of refugees.  Food Shortages  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization started airstrikes
in late March to protect civilians, an intervention that aided
rebels seeking Qaddafi’s ouster. Qaddafi has already lasted
longer than allies had anticipated, though his hold on the
capital, Tripoli, appears to be weakening amid shortages of food
and fuel. There are reports that his government is seeking a
political solution to end the fighting.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will be the only person
authorized by the contact group to negotiate with both sides in
Libya. Ban will set up a board of two to three interlocutors
from Tripoli and the rebel-held town of Benghazi, Frattini said.  The military campaign against Qaddafi will continue
“indefinitely” until he steps down, U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  told reporters yesterday in Istanbul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  