-- 
Icahn Says He Expects Interest in Clorox From Other Bidders

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-07-15T20:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/icahn-offers-12-6-billion-for-clorox-to-force-competing-bidders-into-open.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who
offered to acquire  Clorox Co. (CLX)  in a deal valuing the company at
$10.2 billion today, said he expects interest from other buyers
and that he hasn’t studied spinning off individual brands.  The benefits of owning the whole company are “extremely
compelling” and would help pay debt potential buyers took on to
fund an acquisition, Icahn said today in a telephone interview.  “I would expect a great deal of interest,” Icahn said. He
declined to say whether he’s received specific inquiries.  Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a 9.4 percent stake,
offered to pay $76.50 a share, 12 percent more than the Oakland,
California-based company’s closing price yesterday, according to
a filing today. Including debt, the transaction values Clorox at
about $12.6 billion, Icahn said.  In a letter to Chief Executive Officer Donald Knauss, Icahn
urged Clorox to seek offers from “strategic buyers” including
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , Henkel AG and
 Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)   Clorox rose $6.12, or 8.9 percent, to $74.55 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading for the biggest
gain since May 1, 2008.  Clorox, whose products include kitty litter and barbecue
sauce, may not find a buyer willing to take on the whole
company, said Constance Maneaty, an analyst for BMO Capital
Markets in New York.  Strategic Fit  “Is Clorox a strategic fit with anybody?” Maneaty said in
a telephone interview. “Are there any companies that really
need salad dressing, bleach and Burt’s Bees in their portfolio
all together? I think the answer is ‘no.’”  Potential buyers “are looking for categories that are
growing, and most of Clorox’s aren’t,” she said.  Icahn, 75, said he would have to study the tax implications
of potential brand spinoffs and may consider a reverse Morris
Trust, a strategy in which companies spin off a unit in a tax-
free manner.  The likelihood of a counterbid for Clorox is “pretty
low,” said Andreas Riemann, a Frankfurt-based analyst for
Commerzbank AG. Clorox probably would be too big of an
acquisition for Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc, the maker of Dettol
handwash and Nurofen pain killers, or for Henkel, which still is
integrating its 2008 purchase of National Starch & Chemical,
Riemann said.  Icahn’s offer is the biggest for a household products and
wares company in the U.S. in the past five years. The bid values
Clorox at about 11.2 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The median multiple of seven deals in that period and
for which the data was available was 13.7 times ebitda.  The chances of a strategic deal aren’t very high as
Clorox’s top categories are Glad trash bags and bleach, said
Linda Bolton, an analyst at Caris & Co. in  New York .  “Most of these companies want personal care, they really
don’t want this stuff,” Bolton said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  