-- 
LIFO Should Be First Tax Reducer to Go in a Budget Fix: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/lifo-should-be-first-tax-reducer-to-go-in-a-budget-fix-view.html
Suppose you are in the widget
business. Thousands of the items are piled up in your storeroom.
You buy them for $1 each and sell them for $2 each. Then, one
day, the widget wholesaler raises his price. It now costs you
$1.20 per widget, but you still keep them piled up in your
storeroom and you still sell them for $2. (It’s a competitive
business.)  Question: What is your profit on the sale of each widget?
Is it $1 ($2 minus $1) or 80 cents ($2 minus $1.20)? You might
say that depends on whether you sold an old widget or a new one.
But they’re identical. You can’t really tell old from new. And
if they’re identical, why should it matter which group -- old or
new -- the widget came from?  Believe it or not, this accounting puzzle has become part
of the budget debate. Right now, international accounting
standards call for use of FIFO accounting. That stands for
“first in, first out.” The widgets you bought first are presumed
to be the ones you sell first. In the U.S., however, about one-
third of all businesses use the LIFO method, “last in, first
out”: The newest widgets on the top of the pile are presumed to
be used first.  In a world where prices are usually going up, the
difference in your taxes between LIFO and FIFO can be startling.
When prices are rising, companies that use LIFO will record
higher inventory expenses and lower earnings compared with
companies that use FIFO. That means lower taxes, too.  Minor Change  The  Obama administration  wants to join the rest of the
world in forbidding LIFO accounting. The White House made the
proposal part of a loophole-closing package and had hoped that
Republicans would be able to convince themselves that the change
didn’t constitute a tax increase. This seemingly minor tweak to
the rules would raise about $53 billion in new revenue by 2016,
according to the  Treasury Department .  The  business community , naturally, is opposed -- especially
manufacturers, oil and gas companies, and other businesses that
carry large inventories. In 2010, about 12 percent of the
companies on the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  had a total of $62 billion in
LIFO reserves, which represent the difference between
inventory valued at LIFO and an alternative method such as FIFO.  Energy companies alone account for more than 82 percent of
these reserves, and make up eight of the top 10 companies with
the largest LIFO reserve, according to an analysis by Bloomberg
Government. To understand the benefits of the accounting rule,
consider the case of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , whose $21.3 billion LIFO
reserve is the largest. According to data compiled by Bloomberg,
the energy giant’s taxes could increase by $7.5 billion over the
next decade if it could no longer use LIFO. Such an increase
would have reduced Exxon’s earnings by 24.5 percent if the tax
had been paid in full in 2010.  Fair Points  Is LIFO a loophole? Well, not exactly. Put two accountants
in a room with a bottle of scotch and you can get a pretty good
argument going, with fair points on both sides. But there is no
reason that the U.S. should be out of step with the rest of the
world on this. In particular, there is no reason this accounting
quirk can be justified as yet another subsidy for small
businesses. Therefore, we support the Obama administration’s
position. In any event, the Securities and Exchange Commission
is looking into the matter and may forbid LIFO soon anyway.  Why then, if LIFO is such a great deal for business, do
two-thirds of businesses not use it (while they can)? For some,
it wouldn’t make much difference. For others, the answer seems
to be a cynical and short-term decision by management. Although
LIFO accounting saves the company money, it does so by making
the company’s profit seem smaller. Management would rather have
a higher profit on paper, even at the cost of lower real return
for the stockholders once taxes are paid.  Sure, the money generated by ending LIFO is minuscule in
comparison with the trillions in spending cuts and revenue
raisers that President  Barack Obama  and Congress are bandying
about in the debt-ceiling talks. But the LIFO-FIFO debate is a
good example of why tax simplification will never be as easy as
it is sometimes made to sound. It illustrates once again that
the reason our income-tax system is complicated has little to do
with multiple rates, but comes down to the difficulty of
defining what constitutes income in the first place.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 