-- 
Income Expectations Point to Slowdown in U.S. Consumer Spending

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-07-15T12:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/income-expectations-point-to-slowdown-in-u-s-consumer-spending.html
Consumers are turning more
pessimistic about their income prospects, an indication that
household spending will grow at a slower pace compared with a
year earlier.  The share of Americans foreseeing a drop in wages over the
next six months topped the proportion projecting an increase by
2.6 percentage points in June, data from the Conference Board, a
New York research group, showed. That is the lowest reading
since October 2010, according to  Lynn Franco , director of the
group’s consumer research center.  Weak income expectations will continue to “hold back”
 consumer spending , she said in an interview this week.
“Overall, we expect growth in real personal consumption to
remain sluggish, averaging less than 2.5 percent in the second
half of this year” on an annual basis, said Franco.  Spending adjusted for inflation, known as real spending,
grew 2.7 percent by that measure on average from January through
April, before cooling to 2.1 percent in the 12 months ended May,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week
highlighted concern over Americans’ attitudes toward income in
his semi-annual testimony to Congress. “Households report that
they have little confidence in the durability of the recovery
and about their own income prospects,” Bernanke said.  The correlation between the three-month averages of income
expectations and real spending is 0.88, according to Bloomberg
News calculations. A reading of 1 would show they move in
lockstep, while a value of zero means there is no relationship.  Precedent-Setting  The 18-month recession that ended in June 2009 marked the
first time income expectations turned negative since the
Conference Board began collecting data in the 1960s, Franco
said. Pessimism persists two years later because of the “double
whammy” of job losses and the drop in home values, which have
left consumers “quite cautious” even as financial markets
rebounded, she said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 exchanged-traded fund has climbed
92 percent since reaching an almost 13-year low on March 9,
2009, at the depth of the recession. The recovery has boosted
finances of higher-income consumers, Franco said, and has
contributed to a rise in their confidence and spending.  The correlation between real household purchases and income
expectations began to diverge in the fourth quarter of 2009 as
spending outpaced the wage outlook. Had the relationship held,
with income expectations now at negative 0.2 percent on a three-
month average basis, spending would be growing at a rate no more
than 1 percent instead of the current 2.4 percent, according to
calculations by Bloomberg News.  Affluent Investors  The positive influence from gains in stock prices enjoyed
by more affluent consumers has contributed to the divergence,
according to Doug Cliggott, a Boston-based U.S. equity
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The  Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLY) , which
includes companies like  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , hit an all-time high relative to the  S&P 500 
earlier this month, even amid negative income expectations and a
sluggish housing market. Since the market bottomed in March
2009, the fund has climbed 150 percent, outperforming the S&P
500 by 58 percentage points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Such gains defy the economic fundamentals of weak labor and
housing markets, Cliggott said, one reason he maintains an
“underweight” rating on the Consumer Discretionary Fund.  Stocks Outlook  “It’s going to be extremely difficult for stocks in this
sector to continue to outperform, particularly given the very
muted income growth that we’re likely to see,” Cliggott said.  It’s unusual for consumer discretionary stocks to
outperform in the third year of an expansion because investors
tend to rotate out of these types of early-recovery investments
as the expansion ages, he said.  “We think that most of the cyclical stock-market gains are
behind us rather than ahead of us,” Cliggott said.  U.S. employers added 18,000 workers to payrolls in June,
the smallest gain in nine months, while the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, a Labor Department report
showed last week.  Consumer confidence  probably won’t advance
until the job market improves, Franco said.  “Confidence and income expectations are likely to remain at
these lackluster levels until the economy gains momentum,”
Franco said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  