-- 
Indian Point Should Review Accident Impact Plans, Board Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-07-15T22:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/indian-point-should-review-accident-impact-plans-board-says-2-.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s Indian Point
nuclear-power plant near  New York City  can’t be relicensed until
the company provides a more thorough analysis of the facility’s
measures to mitigate accidents, regulators said.  Entergy, based in New Orleans, must complete an analysis of
cost-effective ways to lessen the environmental impact of a
severe accident, the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission ’s Atomic
Safety and Licensing Board ruled yesterday. The board agreed
with the State of  New York ’s challenge in January that Entergy’s
analysis and the NRC’s review of it were inadequate.  “We find that the NRC staff has prematurely concluded its
review before receiving all the requisite information from
Entergy,” the licensing board said in its 18-page decision.  Indian Point, located about 35 miles (56 kilometers) from
midtown  Manhattan , has two reactors with licenses that expire in
2013 and 2015. Entergy has asked the NRC to renew the licenses
for an additional 20 years. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has
said the plant is too close to the city and should be closed.  “We will not permit the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and
Entergy to procrastinate or limit the relicensing review with
the hope that full responsibility for protective measures can be
avoided,” New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman said
in a statement today.  The NRC must either approve Entergy’s completed analysis or
provide a “valid reason” for not doing so, NRC licensing board
said its decision.  Entergy’s Comment  “We’re still studying the order, so we can’t really
comment,” Jim Steets, a spokesman for Entergy, said in a phone
interview. “We support efforts by the Atomic Safety and
Licensing Board and the NRC to review and ultimately implement
NRC-required safety enhancements.”  “This is one piece of a larger proceeding,” to renew the
plant’s licenses, Neil Sheehan, a spokesman for the NRC, said in
a phone interview. There are multiple challenges to Indian
Point’s license renewal, he said.  An NRC task force on July 12 provided commissioners with
its report on safety conditions at U.S. reactors, following
 Japan ’s nuclear disaster. An earthquake and tsunami caused a
partial meltdown at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi power plant north of the Japanese capital.  The agency should adopt new regulations to bolster the
safety of nuclear  power plants , the panel said.  “It’s quite possible that the NRC may become less flexible
with nuclear-plant operators following Fukushima,”  Paul Patterson , a utility analyst at Glenrock Associates LLC in New
York, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  