-- 
IRS Delays Offshore Bank Reporting Rule Without Touching Policy

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-15T04:00:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/irs-delays-offshore-bank-reporting-rule-without-touching-policy.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
giving more time to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Aegon NV (AGN)  and other
banks based outside of the U.S. to implement a controversial tax
reporting rule.  In  guidance  issued yesterday on the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act, the IRS didn’t address some of the central
questions that have caused financial institutions to fight the
proposal. For instance, one of the rule’s most complex
provisions -- a requirement to withhold 30 percent from payments
that might have indirectly originated in the U.S. -- remains in
the proposal.  The later timeline for implementing the rule is helpful,
said Ellen McCarthy, a managing director of government affairs
at the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association , a
Washington trade group of banks and securities firms. The
industry is still anxious to resolve some of the proposal’s
thorniest issues, she said.  “This gives us the sense that Treasury and the IRS have
taken into account comments that the industry has given,” she
said. “There are still things to work out.”  The IRS is expected to address policy specifics in
additional guidance that will be released by the end of the
year.  The agency is finalizing the rule to comply with a law
Congress adopted last year. Yesterday’s delay reflects the
difficult position the IRS finds itself in as it implements a
law that Congress enacted to hunt down tax cheats while
acknowledging opposition from overseas banks and governments.  ‘Serious Commitment’  The “notice is a reflection of our serious commitment to
implementation of the statute, but also a serious commitment to
listen to the implementation challenges of affected foreign
financial institutions,” IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said in
a press release.  The new timeline gives offshore banks until June 30, 2013,
to enter into an agreement with the IRS that would shield them
from some withholding requirements. Institutions won’t have to
report on their efforts to track down their U.S. clients until
2014.  Banks won’t be required to make 30 percent withholdings on
non-compliant U.S. customers until Jan. 1, 2014. Other
withholdings on gross proceeds and income that might be
indirectly sourced to the U.S. won’t start until Jan. 1, 2015.  All of the requirements were initially slated to take
effect at the beginning of 2013.  Industry Opposition  Financial institutions have balked at the proposal, telling
the IRS it’s too difficult to siphon their U.S. customers from
their other clients. Konrad Hummler, the managing partner of
Wegelin & Co.,  Switzerland ’s oldest bank, said in January the
law would turn U.S. citizens into “pariahs” once the
regulations take effect.  American Citizens Abroad, a coalition of U.S. citizens
living overseas, issued a  report  yesterday calling on its
members to lobby Congress to repeal the law.  “The way this new law is structured is totally
disproportionate and unworkable, the equivalent of using a
bulldozer to destroy an ant hill,” Jackie Bugnion, ACA’s
director, said in an e-mailed statement.  The IRS responded to initial concerns with guidance in
April that said the agency will spend less time focusing on
accounts of U.S. citizens with less than $50,000. The agency
said its actions would be targeted on citizens with more than
$500,000 in offshore bank accounts and those with private
banking relationships at overseas institutions.  Heather Lowe, the director of government affairs at  Global
Financial Integrity , a Washington-based group focused on ending
bank secrecy, said the delay is unnecessary.  “That’s certainly going to open up the time period for
lobbying,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  