-- 
Israeli Consumer Prices Rise 0.4% on Summer Items, Housing

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-15T13:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/israeli-consumer-prices-rose-0-4-in-june-as-economy-grew-1-.html
Israeli consumer prices rose in June
as housing and food costs climbed and seasonal increases pushed
up clothing and shoes prices.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.4 percent from the
previous month, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  in  Jerusalem 
said today. The increase was in line with the median forecast of
14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation
accelerated to 4.2 percent from 4.1 percent.  “Housing prices continued to rise, and this is worrying,”
Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS Securities & Investments
Ltd., said by telephone. “Food prices rose despite the recent
public protests, and this is likely to cause an uproar.”  Consumer prices have surged as the economy recovers from
the global recession faster than most advanced countries.
Unemployment dropped to 5.8 percent in April, a record low,
according to Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz. Inflation has
exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target since
the beginning of the year.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the benchmark
interest rate at 3.25 percent on June 27, after raising it 10
times in two years. He is likely to keep the rate unchanged at
the end of this month, according to 13 of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg at the end of June and beginning of July. The two
others predicted a quarter-point increase.  Rate Outlook  “In light of the global situation and signs of slowing
growth, the interest rate isn’t likely to rise at the end of the
month,” Zabezhinsky said. “Also, inflation is likely to
moderate in the coming months.”  The interest rate is expected to increase gradually to
about 4.1 percent in 12 months, according to an assessment by
Bank of  Israel  research staff that was contained in the minutes
of a rate-setting meeting on June 27. Inflation will decline to
within the target range in the first quarter of 2012, according
to the forecast.  Rental housing costs rose by 0.5 percent in June, bringing
the increase for the past 12 months to 6.2 percent. Food prices
climbed by 0.8 percent for the month and 6 percent for the year.  Clothing and shoe prices increased 8.6 percent in June, and
2.6 percent for the year. Housing purchase prices, which aren’t
included in the index, but are reported at the same time, rose
0.7 percent in April-May, from March-April, bringing the
increase for the 12-month period to 13.7 percent.  Seasonal Factors  The increase in clothing prices in June “was purely
seasonal, but much lower than the hikes seen in the same month
in 2007, 08, 09, and 2010,”  Tevfik Aksoy , London-based head of
emerging market economics for the region at  Morgan Stanley &
Co ., said in an e-mail. “This might be an indication of some
marginal slowdown in demand and bodes well with the Bank of
Israel’s recent rhetoric which is somewhat more dovish.”  Economic growth may be slower in 2011 than the bank’s
forecast of 5.2 percent because the expansion in the second
quarter may have been less than expected, Fischer said July 7.  The TA-25 benchmark  stock index  has declined by 5.7 percent
since the beginning of the year, led by Discount Investment
Corp., a holding company with interests in telecommunications,
supermarkets, and manufacturing.  The shekel has strengthened by about 12 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months and was the third-best performer
among the 10 most-active currencies in emerging  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 