-- 
Italy’s Top Five Lenders Pass European Union Stress Tests on Capital Ratio

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-15T17:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/italy-s-top-five-lenders-pass-european-union-stress-tests-on-capital-level.html
The five Italian banks subject to
stress tests have sufficient capital to withstand a recession
and losses on sovereign debt including a “haircut” on Greek
 government bonds .  Banco Popolare Scarl,  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) ,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Unione di Banche Italiane
ScpA (UBI)  have core Tier 1 ratios that exceed the 5 percent minimum
required in the adverse scenario of the European Banking
Authority’s tests, the companies said. Intesa, Italy’s second-
largest bank, has the largest buffer against losses, while Banco
Popolare has the smallest.  The tests show the nation’s lenders are “adequately
capitalized,” Italy Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said in an
e-mailed statement. “Resolute action to address investor
perceptions of sustained weakness in the EU banking sector is an
important part of the comprehensive response to the crisis,” he
said.  The assessments are the first by the EBA since it was set
up earlier this year and come amid investor concern that the
sovereign debt crisis is spilling over to  Italy . The country’s
10-year bond yields rose to their highest relative to German
bunds since the introduction of the euro, adding more than 1
percentage point to funding costs this month.  The tests “reflect the underlying strength of Italian
banks,” Fabrizio Saccomanni, the Bank of Italy’s director
general told reporters in Rome.  Banco Popolare in a statement said its 5.7 percent core
Tier 1 capital in the test’s adverse scenario doesn’t include
the effect of a possible conversion of a convertible bond and
the impact of a plan to reorganize the company.  Intesa was shown to hold the most Italian government debt
with 57.6 billion euros ($81.5 billion) of the securities, the
company said. UniCredit, Italy’s biggest lender, ranked second
with 47.4 billion euros.  Italy “welcomes the enhanced transparency that has been
achieved with the publication of these results and in the
disclosure of the sovereign exposures,” said Tremonti.  Eight of the 91 European banks tested failed with a
combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  