-- 
Liz Claiborne Said to Talk With Buyout Firms About Sale of Its Mexx Brand

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-07-15T21:37:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/liz-claiborne-said-to-talk-with-buyout-firms-about-sale-of-its-mexx-brand.html
Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) , the owner of
Juicy Couture and Kate Spade, is making presentations to
private-equity firms to sell its money-losing Mexx brand, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Leonard Green  & Partners, Sun Capital and Golden Gate
Capital are among the firms that have explored a possible
acquisition of the Mexx business, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private. Mexx is Liz
Claiborne’s largest division and accounts for about a third of
its revenue.  Final bids will be due in a few weeks with a sale probably
completed around early September, said one of the people. Liz
Claiborne is seeking to maintain a small stake in Mexx, which
has stores in  Europe ,  Russia  and  Canada , the person said.  The Mexx business may fetch about $100 million, said the
person. Liz Claiborne will also try to require any buyer to put
in as much as another $100 million to cover debt and  capital
requirements , said the person.  Jane Randel, a Liz Claiborne spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the company’s progress in studying alternatives for
Mexx. Liz Claiborne is pursuing its goal, stated April 28, to
reduce its exposure to Mexx by various means, she said.  “There are no timelines at this point, but we continue to
pursue our previously stated goal of break-even operating profit
for the global brand by the end of 2012,” Randel said.  A spokesman for Sun Capital declined to comment. A
representative for  Golden Gate  couldn’t be reached for comment
and a spokesperson for Leonard Green didn’t immediately return
calls.  Since 2007, Chief Executive Officer Bill McComb has sought
to create freestanding, profitable operations for Mexx, Juicy
Couture, Lucky Brand and Kate Spade. In 2009, he brought in
Thomas Grote, former president of Esprit, to run the Mexx
division and revive its sagging sales in Europe.  Liz Claiborne said first-quarter international sales fell 9
percent due to declining retail and wholesale revenue in Mexx
Europe. The company has posted losses in each of the past 14
quarters and the share price has sunk more than 80 percent in
the past four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  