-- 
James Murdoch Comes Under U.K. Scrutiny After Brooks Quits

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-15T15:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/james-murdoch-faces-scrutiny-from-u-k-lawmakers-as-rebekah-brooks-resigns.html
U.K. lawmakers switched their focus
to  James Murdoch  after Rebekah Brooks resigned as chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing division
amid the scandal over phone hacking at a tabloid she edited.  Since July 4, when the  Guardian newspaper  reported that the
News of the World had hacked the mobile phone of a murdered
schoolgirl and deleted messages, politicians of all sides have
abandoned the practice of the past three decades and attacked
Rupert Murdoch and his newspapers. Yesterday, in the face of a
formal summons, Murdoch and his son were forced to back down and
agree to give evidence to a Parliamentary committee on July 19.  Their decisions to close down the News of the World, drop a
bid to take full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
and now accept Brooks’s resignation have done little to satisfy
opposition  Labour Party  lawmakers. Some want to ask James
Murdoch, who is deputy chief operating officer of New York-based
News Corp., about his approval of out-of-court settlements that
included non-disclosure agreements.  “It’s now about the Murdochs,” said  Chris Bryant , a
Labour lawmaker who called the emergency debate on the News of
the World held on July 6. “James Murdoch has got to answer
questions about their hush money strategy. Did the board agree
to it?”  Bryant has written to News Corp.’s non-executive directors
to ask what they were told about the payments.  ‘Hereditary Principle’  Former Treasury minister  Paul Myners  said BSkyB
shareholders should end the “hereditary principle” that allows
the Murdochs to control the company and oust James Murdoch as
chairman. News Corp. holds 39 percent of the largest U.K. pay-
television company.  “All directors of BSkyB should stand for re-election at
the AGM this summer, including Mr. James Murdoch,” Myners said
in the House of Lords, Parliament’s upper chamber. “There is an
opportunity here for the great investment institutions to show
they’ve had enough with the way the Murdochs dominate BSkyB.”  The inquiry into News Corp. spread beyond Britain yesterday
as the FBI opened a probe into whether employees tried to hack
into the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  U.S. Representative  Peter King , the Republican chairman of
the House Committee on  Homeland Security , asked FBI Director
Robert Mueller in a July 13 letter to investigate whether the
News of the World tried to access voice mails belonging to
victims of the attacks through bribery and illegal wiretapping.
At the time, James Murdoch was in charge of News Corp.’s Asian
television service, based in  Hong Kong .  Spotlight  Brooks’s “departure will move the spotlight onto James
Murdoch,” Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson , who has been
investigating phone hacking for two years, told Sky News
television today. “Terrible things happened over a long period
of time in that company, and they tried to cover it up. They
must be held to account.”  The Ofcom media regulator has said it is continuing an
assessment of whether News Corp. is a “fit and proper” company
to have a major stake in BSkyB. Labour lawmakers have said it
should look at James Murdoch’s behavior.  Brooks’s resignation is a blow for  Rupert Murdoch  and his
son, both of whom had backed her as the pressure from
politicians, the public and shareholders intensified. Labour
leader  Ed Miliband  said her departure isn’t enough.  ‘Doesn’t Get It’  “This is not just about one individual but about the
culture of an organization,” he said. “Rupert Murdoch says
that News Corp. has handled these allegations ‘extremely well.’
He still hasn’t apologized to the innocent victims of hacking.
He clearly still doesn’t get it.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  believes Brooks took “the
right decision” in quitting, his spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters in London.  Conservative lawmaker Philip Davies, who sits on the
Culture Committee that will question the Murdochs and Brooks
next week, cautioned that the hearing may not live up to its
billing.  “I don’t want people expecting that as a result of our
meeting on Tuesday James and Rupert Murdoch are going to throw
themselves off a bridge or they’re going to give up News
Corp.,” he said in a telephone interview. “I suspect that this
will one day be seen as a step on the way to getting to the
bottom of something, not actually the final thing itself.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 