-- 
Japan Stocks Trim Weekly Drop as Subsidy Report Lifts Appliance-Retailers

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-07-15T07:32:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/japanese-stocks-are-little-changed-as-railways-rise-insurers-decline.html
Japanese stocks rose, trimming the
 Nikkei 225  Stock Average’s decline for the week, as appliance
retailers gained on a report the government may revive subsidies
to encourage consumers to buy energy-saving products.  Yamada Denki Co.,  Japan ’s biggest electronics retailer,
advanced 2.4 percent after the Nikkei newspaper said the eco-
point subsidy program may be restarted to help Japan cope with
power shortages.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , a maker of industrial machinery
and atomic reactors, climbed 1.9 percent after Lithuanian picked
it to build nuclear power plant. Inpex Corp., Japan’s largest
oil explorer, dropped 1.5 percent after crude prices slipped.  The Nikkei 225 rose 0.4 percent to 9,974.47 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, paring a weekly decline of 1.6 percent. The
broader Topix index gained 0.3 percent to 859.56, with about
three stocks advancing for every two that retreated. Both gauges
declined this week for the first time in four weeks.  “Investors are seeing the report about the eco-point
program as a good reason to buy related stocks,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “The yen is
still strong and there’s a lot of uncertainty about a U.S.
slowdown and the debt issues in  Europe , but Japanese stocks are
not reacting much to bad news.”  No ‘Immediate Action’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent
yesterday in New York as a stalemate continued in  Washington  on
negotiations over the U.S. debt ceiling.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , testifying
yesterday for a second day before the Senate Banking Committee,
said he’s “not prepared at this point to take further action”
to stimulate the economy. A day earlier, he said the central
bank would consider buying more  government bonds  if the recovery
appeared to be in danger of stalling.  The yen appreciated to as high as 78.89 against the dollar,
compared with 78.98 at the close of  stock trading  yesterday in
Tokyo after Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services became the second
ratings company this week to say it may downgrade the U.S.’s top
credit grade. Against the euro, Japan’s currency strengthened to
111.84 from 112.10. A stronger yen hurts Japanese exporters
because it cuts the value of overseas sales.  Even as ratings companies warned of downgrades, U.S.
Treasuries were still set for a weekly gain and three auctions
this week attracted higher-than-average bidding as the worsening
European debt crisis spurred investor demand for safer assets.  Treasury Yields  Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 2.96
percent, after falling to this year’s low of 2.81 percent
earlier this week. The 10-year average is 4.06 percent.  In Japan, trading volume fell to the lowest in more than
four weeks after Bernanke’s mixed signals and amid concern over
government debt in both the U.S. and Europe. The number of
shares traded was also lower ahead of a report today from the
European Banking Authority on the health of the region’s lenders.  “It’s difficult for investors to be aggressive ahead of
stress tests of European banks,” said Juichi Wako, a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  The total value of stocks traded on the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange’s first section was 975 billion yen ($12 billion).
Volume, the lowest since June 13, was about a third less than
this year’s daily average of 1.44 trillion yen.  Retailers of electronics and other home appliances gained
after the Nikkei reported Japan may revive the eco-point subsidy
program to promote sales of energy-efficient appliances amid an
electricity shortage.  Power Shortages  Yamada Denki, the country’s biggest electronics retailer,
advanced 2.4 percent to 6,880 yen. Smaller Best Denki Co. jumped
7 percent to 261 yen, and K’s Holdings Corp. increased 1.8
percent to 3,975 yen.  Japan is facing power shortages after a March 11 earthquake
disaster crippled four nuclear reactors run by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. The government has ordered large power users in Tokyo
and areas around the capital to cut electricity consumption by
15 percent and companies including Nippon Steel Corp. have been
forced to curb operations.  Shimachu Co., a chain of home centers, gained 0.4 percent
to 2,061 yen, after saying profit rose on sales of energy-
efficient lighting and gardening products that provide shade for
buildings. Net income rose 33 percent to 6.85 billion yen in the
nine months ended May 31, the company said in a statement to the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Hitachi,  Mitsubishi Chemical   Hitachi climbed 1.9 percent to 484 yen after Lithuania gave
it “preferential negotiating rights” in a nuclear plant
project. The government aims to sign an agreement with Hitachi
by the end of the year and to complete construction by the end
of 2020, Deputy Energy Minister Romas Svedas said yesterday.  Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp. rose 1.9 percent to 602
yen after the Nikkei reported the chemicals maker may post an
April-June operating profit of 55 billion yen, beating a
forecast of 38 billion yen. Higher-than-expected revenue from
the company’s healthcare business helped offset a loss
anticipated because of a factory shutdown after the quake.  Energy and mining companies slid after crude and metal
prices fell. Inpex dropped 1.5 percent to 588,000 yen.
Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest trading company, slid 0.5
percent to 2,049 yen. Mitsui & Co., the No. 2, fell 0.6 percent
to 1,451 yen.  Crude oil for August delivery dropped 2.4 percent to settle
at 95.69 a barrel in  New York  yesterday after Bernanke said he
wasn’t ready to embark on a third round of government bond-
buying. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 