-- 
Japan’s Utilities to Submit Stress Test Reports This Year

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-07-15T10:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/japan-s-utilities-to-submit-stress-test-reports-this-year-1-.html
Japan ’s power companies will be
required to submit the results of so-called stress tests, to be
carried out in two phases, of their atomic power stations by the
end of this year.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency plans to ask
utilities to turn in the results of the second phase of the test
by the end of the year, according to a draft on the testing
submitted to the Nuclear Safety Commission, which oversees NISA.
The agency didn’t provide a deadline for the first phase.  The stress tests will examine plants’ vulnerability to
earthquakes, tsunamis, station blackouts and a loss of cooling
functions. The first phase will be on idled units ready for
restart after maintenance, while the second phase will be on all
nuclear power stations, including three plants under
construction, the draft said.  “The second phase of the tests will look into how far
plants can withstand disaster,” Tomoho Yamada, director for
nuclear power licensing division at the agency, told reporters
today in  Tokyo . “During the first-phase tests, utilities need
to evaluate how much safety margins are secured at each plant
against incidents that go beyond the designed capacity.”  NISA plans to re-submit the draft next week as it was
rejected by the safety commission for being unintelligible,
Yamada said. The draft will be completed and the utilities will
be officially notified after getting the commission’s approval,
he said.  Stress tests on Japan’s nuclear reactors will be conducted
by individual power utilities and results will be checked by
NISA. The commission will later examine the validity of the
agency’s checks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  