-- 
Joy Global Doesn’t Plan Share Sale to Fund International Mining Takeover

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-15T18:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/joy-global-doesn-t-plan-share-sale-to-fund-international-mining-takeover.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOYG) , the maker of P&H
and Joy mining equipment, said it doesn’t plan to sell shares to
finance its purchase of China’s  International Mining Machinery
Holdings Ltd. (1683)   “Right now, we are not planning to issue any equity,”
Chief Executive Officer Michael Sutherlin said in an interview
at Joy’s offices in Milwaukee today. “If we reach a point where
the balance sheet is levered more than we are comfortable, than
we would look at equity.”  The amount of cash versus debt to be used hasn’t been
determined, he said. Joy is weighing the use of cash held
offshore and issuing debt outside the U.S., Sutherlin said.  Joy said yesterday it agreed to pay about HK$4.55 billion
($583 million) for private-equity firm Jordan Co.’s 41 percent
stake in International Mining. Joy will be required under the
Hong Kong Takeovers Code to bid for the rest of the shares
should the deal get Chinese antitrust approval. Government
authorization may take two to six months, Sutherlin said.  “We are going to use excess cash and then take the rest
out of debt,” Sutherlin said. “We are not going to take cash
down to zero. We are going to have a comfortable cash balance.”  The timing of regulatory approval and the number of shares
tendered are among the variables that will affect decisions
about financing the deal, he said.  The current per-share offer is “attractive” and Joy
doesn’t plan to get into a situation where it has to negotiate
for the rest of the stock, Sutherlin said. Joy is willing to be
patient if it isn’t able to acquire all of International
Mining’s shares in a single tender, he said.  Joy, which is based in  Milwaukee , is paying HK8.50 a share
for its initial stake in the Chinese company. International
Mining, which makes coal-mining equipment, rose HK$1.14, or 17
percent, to HK$7.69 in Hong Kong trading today, giving it a
market capitalization of HK$10 billion. At that valuation, it
would be Joy’s biggest acquisition, topping the $1.1 billion
purchase of LeTourneau Technologies Inc. from Rowan Cos. in
June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 