-- 
Koch Brothers Spread Influence Via Blueberry Farmer

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t .
-- 
2011-07-15T15:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/koch-brothers-spread-influence-via-maine-blueberry-farmer.html
Gordon Colby, who manages 5,000
acres of  Maine  blueberries, says he’d never heard of any
billionaire brothers being involved when he decided to join a
group lobbying for less  government regulation .  “I don’t even know who the hell David and Charles Koch
are,” Colby, 63, said in an interview. “I don’t know about the
Kochs, don’t know who is funding Americans for Prosperity. But I
like what they are doing on the local level.”  Maine residents like Colby may not know it, but the Koch
brothers have arrived in their state and in most others, moving
well beyond their publicized involvement in Wisconsin and  Ohio .
Under the auspices of  Americans for Prosperity , the Kochs have
become one of the fastest-growing lobbying forces in U.S.
politics, spreading the gospel of low taxes, no unions and small
government one state at a time.  “The Koch brothers’ money puts them in a position where
they can change a lot of players on the ground,” Ron Schmidt,
head of the political science department at the University of
Southern Maine in  Portland , said in an interview.  David and Charles Koch and Koch Industries Inc., the family
controlled energy and chemicals company, helped found Americans
for Prosperity in 2004 with three state chapters.  The group’s website now lists 32 chapters, which is an
increase from 23 in April 2009, according to the Center for
American Progress, a policy group in Washington aligned with
Democrats that has criticized the Kochs’ political influence.  Helping Republicans  Donations to Americans for Prosperity jumped to $16.6
million in 2009 from $3.5 million in 2007, Internal Revenue
Service filings show. Koch Industries’ spending to lobby on
federal issues surged 40-fold to $8.1 million last year from
$200,000 in 1998, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based research group.  At the state level, Koch Industries and its employees spent
$1.2 million on races in last year’s elections, up from $518,509
in 2008, according to the National Institute on Money in State
Politics in Helena,  Montana . In both years, more than 80 percent
of the money went to Republicans.  “The spending can make a powerful impact,”  Ross Baker , a
political science professor at  Rutgers University  in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , said in an interview. “There is a
bottom-up effect. You only have to see what is happening in Ohio
and Wisconsin.”  Walker, Kasich  The group’s support for Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  and
Ohio Governor  John Kasich  helped the two Republicans win
legislation restricting public employee unions. In Wisconsin,
Americans for Prosperity organized rallies, set up a pro-Walker
website and announced an ad campaign costing more than $300,000
to support him. Walker’s moves triggered weeks of protests that
saw thousands of workers surround and crowd into the capitol in
Madison.  “They were one of the larger contributors to Walker’s
campaign and were supporting the shocking legislation where he
was able to go after public employees,” Bob Edgar, president
and chief executive officer of  Common Cause , a Washington-based
advocacy group that opposed Walker’s measures said in an
interview.  Less visibly, the Koch-backed organization has been at work
in other states as well, taking advantage of, and promoting the
election of, candidates who embrace its ideals.  “We have had more success on the state level this year
than we had in the past because of the change in sentiment and
change in elective bodies,” Alan Cobb, vice president for state
operations at Americans for Prosperity, said in an interview
from the group’s office in Topeka,  Kansas . “We’re now in a
position where we can push through more policy.”  ‘We’ve Been Vilified’  The Kochs’ contributions to Americans for Prosperity aren’t
public because as a nonprofit group it isn’t required to
disclose donors or most of the spending it devotes to state
efforts.  Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for Koch Industries, didn’t
comment, recommending a March 1 commentary by Charles Koch in
the Wall Street Journal. Koch wrote he was concerned about the
growing national debt and government that is “allowed to pick
winners and losers.” Smaller government is needed for
prosperity, he said.  “Because of our activism, we’ve been vilified by various
groups,” Koch said. “Despite this criticism, we’re determined
to keep contributing and standing up for those politicians, like
 Wisconsin  Governor Scott Walker, who are taking these challenges
seriously.”  Richest Americans  The Koch brothers tied for fifth on Forbes magazine’s
ranking of richest Americans last year, with $21.5 billion each
in net worth, reflecting their holdings in Koch Industries. The
company, founded by their father, Fred C. Koch, is the second-
largest closely held U.S. company after Cargill Inc., with
estimated annual revenue of $100 billion, according to Forbes.
Charles, 75, is chairman and chief executive officer, and David,
71, is an executive vice president.  Spending in the states has advantages because “it’s
largely out of the limelight” and “it’s where the next
generation of political leaders will come from,” Stephen Schneck, a politics professor and director of the Institute for
Policy Research & Catholic Studies at the  Catholic University  of
America in  Washington , said in an e-mail.  Americans for Prosperity opened an office in Montana in
January, hiring Scott Sales, the state’s former Republican
speaker of the House, as state director. Sales criticized the
budget crafted by Democratic Governor Brian Schweitzer, writing
on the group’s website that “before Government can give to one
citizen it must take it from another thus gaining control of
both.”  Washington State  The group expanded last year to Washington state, where its
supporters helped block the extension of taxes to fund a
convention center expansion and arts activities in King County.
The group also helped promote more than a dozen Tea Party
rallies scheduled around April 15, tax day.  In Augusta, Maine’s capital, Americans for Prosperity is
trying to benefit from the election last year of Republican
Governor Paul LePage and Republican majorities in both chambers
for the first since the 1973-1974 session.  In the legislative period that ended on June 29, the group
lobbied successfully to have the estate tax exemption doubled to
$2 million from $1 million, though it fell short in efforts to
eliminate the tax completely. The organization also helped win
changes to health care that will let Maine businesses buy
insurance from companies outside the state, over Democratic
objections that the law will make coverage unaffordable for
rural and middle-aged residents.  ‘Too Extreme’  Americans for Prosperity also is lobbying for Maine to quit
the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative , a program to cut carbon-
dioxide emissions in the Northeast.  “They have been waiting in the wings for the right
moment,” said Representative Emily Ann Cain, 31, the Democratic
leader in the state House. The group’s agenda is “too extreme
for the people of Maine,” she said in an interview.  Colby, the blueberry farmer, doesn’t think so. He is among
more than 4,500 volunteers in Maine trained as activists by
Americans for Prosperity, according to Carol Weston, a former
state senator who became the organization’s director and its
first registered lobbyist in February. Colby says he has 200
names on his own contact list that he can call.  “I’m a farmer and I just want to farm,” said Colby, who
lives in Waldoboro and started a Tea Party group in his area
last year. He said government regulations interfere with his
farming, without providing specifics.  Staying Involved  Weston, adapting civics lessons she gave visiting
schoolchildren as a state lawmaker, trains about 40 possible
Americans for Prosperity volunteers at a time in four-hour
sessions. She highlights skills for testifying at hearings,
obtaining research and learning how to “maximize your time when
engaging your elected officials,” according to the group’s
website.  “It’s the only way you see change,” Weston, 61, said in
an interview at a coffee shop near her office, across from an
Applebee’s restaurant about a mile from the statehouse. “They
stay very involved all the time.”  She also brought in guest speakers who urged support of
Republican-backed legislation, including Secretary of State
Charles Summers, who championed a successful measure to cut off
voter registration on election day,  “They are actively supporting voter suppression,” Diane
Russell, a Democratic House member, said after the chamber’s
vote on that bill.  ‘Diminishing Returns’  David R. Burns, a Republican representative, said that
while he generally agrees with Americans for Prosperity, the
group’s e-mail blitzes aimed at lawmakers may backfire in Maine,
where politics has traditionally been lower-key.  It can lead “to overkill and diminishing returns,” he
said.  Weston, who took her lobbying job after  term limits  ended
her Senate career, said she operates largely with autonomy from
Americans for Prosperity’s headquarters.  “Americans for Prosperity is clear about their priorities:
less taxes, less government,” Weston said. “It’s easy for the
state director. We agree on those principles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Augusta, Maine, at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 