-- 
NBA Eliminates 114 Jobs as Part of a Plan to Reduce Costs by $50 Million

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/nba-eliminates-114-jobs-as-part-of-a-plan-to-reduce-costs-by-50-million.html
The  National Basketball Association 
eliminated 114 jobs, or 11 percent of its workforce, as part
of a plan to strip out $50 million in costs.  The cuts come two weeks after the league locked out its
players following their failure to reach an agreement with team
owners on a new labor contract.  “The layoffs are not a direct result of the lockout, but
rather a response to the same underlying issue; that is, the
league’s expenses far outpace our revenues,” NBA spokesman  Mike Bass  said in an e-mail yesterday.  The NBA and its players disagree over how to split money
from a league that said it will lose about $300 million this
year from revenue of about $4.3 billion. Owners want to tighten
payrolls, while players say they shouldn’t be punished for
management errors. The NBA said in April that 22 of the 30
franchises are losing money.  “The roughly 11 percent reduction in headcount from the
league office is part of larger cost-cutting measures to reduce
our costs by $50 million,” Bass said.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said at a June 30 news
conference that, following the lockout, “we have to go back and
look at everything about our operations.”  The cuts were primarily made in  New York  and New Jersey
from departments including marketing, community relations,
player programs, broadcasting and information technology, the
New York Times reported. Most employees received the news during
the past two days, it said.  The reductions would have happened regardless of the
lockout and the workers won’t be rehired once the dispute is
over, the Times said, citing Bass. Before the latest move, the
NBA had cut 275 workers since 2008, the report said.  In October 2008, Stern announced a 9 percent cut on its U.S.
staff after season-ticket sales slowed.  The  Charlotte Bobcats  began  laying off employees  in the
past week, with radio play-by-play announcer Scott Lauer
becoming one of at least seven let go, according to the
 Associated Press . The  Detroit Pistons  also fired 15 people in
recent weeks, AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 