-- 
New York Area Manufacturing Unexpectedly Shrank in July

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-15T13:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/new-york-area-manufacturing-unexpectedly-contracted-in-july.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
unexpectedly contracted for a second straight month in July as
orders shrank at a faster pace, a sign the industry may be at
risk of stalling.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to minus 3.8, less than the most pessimistic forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey, from minus 7.8 the prior month. The
median forecast called for an index of 5. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in the so-called Empire State Index, which
covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Mounting inventories and a slowdown in  consumer spending 
indicate a pickup in manufacturing may depend more on the
strength of exports and demand for business equipment. The data
underscore comments this week by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
that the recovery “still needs a good deal of support.”  “We’re probably going to see a bit of cooling in the pace
of manufacturing growth,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said before the report.
“Businesses built up inventory faster than they had intended
because demand fell off and I would expect going forward that
production slows as businesses seek to sell off that excess.”  The cost of living in the U.S. fell in June for the first
time in a year as the biggest drop in energy costs since 2008
masked growing inflation in other goods and services, a separate
report from the Labor Department showed.  Core Prices  The consumer-price index decreased 0.2 percent. The so-
called core measure, which excludes more volatile food and
energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent for a second month, more than
forecast and the biggest back-to-back gain in three years.  U.S. stock-index futures rose as Citigroup Inc.’s second-
quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates. Futures on the  Standard
& Poor’s  500 index expiring in September rose 0.2 percent to
1,309.40 at 8:56 a.m. in New York.  The measure of New York-area manufacturing last contracted
for two straight months in the period ended in June 2009, when
the recession ended. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 48
economists ranged from zero to 15.  The headline index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  The Empire State gauge of new orders dropped to minus 5.5
last month, the lowest since November, from minus 3.6 in June. A
gauge of unfilled orders slumped to minus 12.2, the weakest
reading this year. A measure of shipments rose to 2.2 from minus
8.  Employment Gauge  The employment measure dropped to 1.1 from 10.2. An index
of prices paid fell to 43.3 from 56.1, while prices received
declined to 5.6 from 11.2.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now increased to 32.2 from 22.5.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s. U.S. factory payrolls rose by
6,000 workers in June, according to Labor Department data, while
the nation’s unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent.  “We are going to be around these numbers for some years,”
 Andrew Liveris , chief executive officer at  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  said
in a telephone interview July 8 from the company’s headquarters
in Midland,  Michigan , after the jobs data were released. “The
absence of a construction sector and a building sector is really
hurting this economy,” he said.  Dow plans to add 6,000 jobs this decade, mainly in
Michigan, Texas and  Louisiana , Liveris said.  ‘Selling Well’  Dow is “selling well” to overseas markets, he said.
Smaller U.S. companies with a regional focus aren’t doing as
well, Liveris said. The path of economic recovery is “jagged,
somewhere between “anemic” and “robust,” said Liveris.  President  Barack Obama  last month appointed Liveris to co-
chair the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership, which is tasked
with increasing U.S. manufacturing competitiveness.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia report is due July 21 and the national ISM report
is due Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  