-- 
News Corp. Tops List With 41% of Cameron’s Media Meetings

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-15T17:48:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/news-corp-tops-list-with-41-of-cameron-media-meetings.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
met with  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives or attended events hosted by the
firm 26 times between May 2010 and July 2011, his office said.  Cameron’s first meeting with a media executive on becoming
premier was with  Rupert Murdoch . It took place in May last year,
the month his coalition government took office. Contacts with
News Corp. accounted for 41 percent of the 63 meetings or events
run by media companies and attended by Cameron in the period.  The list of meetings with senior television and newspaper
executives was released by Cameron’s office today as a response
to criticism from opposition lawmakers about his close
relationship to News Corp. newspapers in the wake of the scandal
over phone hacking at the now-defunct News of the World tabloid.  Cameron entertained his former head of communications
 Andy Coulson  in March, two months after Coulson stepped down
from the job as allegations mounted about wrongdoing at the News
of the World when he edited the paper. He was arrested last week
over phone hacking.  Cameron has come under fire for hiring Coulson, who
resigned from the News of the World in 2007 after one of his
reporters was jailed for intercepting voicemails of members of
the royal household.  Coulson Ties  At a press conference last week, Cameron said of Coulson,
“he became a friend and is a friend,” insisting he had no
reason to doubt Coulson’s assurances that he had no knowledge of
hacking under his editorship. This week, as pressure over the
hacking scandal intensified, Cameron told lawmakers that Coulson
should be prosecuted if it turns out he lied.  Rebekah Brooks, who resigned today as chief executive
officer of News International, the publisher of News Corp.’s
U.K. papers, was entertained in June and August 2010 at
Chequers, the prime minister’s country residence. She was the
only person listed as being entertained twice at the house, near
 London .  Cameron also met Brooks, a near neighbour in his
Oxfordshire electoral district, twice in December 2010, once
with News International Chairman  James Murdoch .  James Murdoch had been entertained at Chequers with his
wife the previous month.  News Corp.’s Sun newspaper dropped its support for the
 Labour Party  and urged its readers to vote for Cameron’s
Conservatives at last year’s general election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 