-- 
NFL, Players Said to Be Near Rookie Pay Agreement, Clearing Labor Hurdle

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/nfl-players-said-to-be-near-rookie-pay-agreement-clearing-labor-hurdle.html
Negotiators for the  National
Football League  and its players are close to an agreement on
rookie pay, clearing a major obstacle toward reaching a new
labor accord that would end a four-month shutdown of the U.S.’s
most-popular sport, three people familiar with the talks said.  Rookie compensation was the center of talks this week after
the sides neared a deal on how to divide a projected $9.3
billion in revenue that would give just less than half to
players, according to the people, who were granted anonymity
because the talks are confidential.  The 2011 salary cap would be about  $123 million per team ,
the NFL Network reported, about $5 million less than the 2009
limit. The 2010 season didn’t have a ceiling on team payrolls.  The sides have met in  New York  the last two weeks. More
talks are scheduled today, on topics including safety, health
care and workers compensation, the people said.  Completing the new collective bargaining agreement this
week would help the NFL avoid missing one or more rounds of
preseason games, which the league says are worth about $200
million in revenue every week.  The federal magistrate judge mediating the dispute
scheduled a meeting with both sides on July 19 before starting
his vacation. NFL owners could ratify an agreement at a special
league meeting scheduled for July 21 near Atlanta with the
approval of 24 of 32 clubs.  NFL spokesman  Brian McCarthy  didn’t immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment. Carl Francis, a spokesman for the  NFL
Players Association , declined to comment in an e-mail.  Lockout, Lawsuit  NFL owners locked out players in March. The players sued,
behind Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning 
and  Drew Brees , claiming antitrust violations and wage-fixing. A
federal appeals court upheld the lockout last week, saying a
lower court erred in blocking it.  The lockout came about five weeks after the Green Bay
Packers’ Super Bowl victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers
attracted the largest U.S. television audience in history,
capping a season watched by a record 207.7 million people,
according to Neilsen Co. data.  Jeff Pash , the NFL’s chief negotiator, said after a league
meeting outside Chicago last month that reopening for business
would require making sure legal documents are fully drafted and
approved, then ratified by both sides. Owners and players also
will have to seek approval from “various courts” to deal with
litigation.  Pash said he didn’t know how long that may take. Once the
sides reach a handshake agreement, owners and players will want
to “move as quickly as we could,” he said.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears  are
scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play the
first preseason game on Aug. 7 in Canton, Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 