-- 
NFL, Players Will Meet Through Weekend to Reach Labor Agreement

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/nfl-players-site-progress-will-keep-talking-on-new-labor-contract.html
The  National Football League  and
its players said they will meet through the weekend as they
make progress toward a new contract to end a four-month-old
lockout.  A joint statement issued after talks in New York City
yesterday said contract negotiations this week “have been
constructive and progress has been made on a wide range of
issues.”  The sides also said legal and financial teams would work
through the weekend, and that NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
and players association Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith 
would meet or talk beginning today.  “We continue to have a lot of work to do,” Smith told
reporters outside the law offices where the negotiations took
place. “I know everybody is frustrated and they want a
definitive answer. I hate to disappoint everyone but you’re not
going to get one right now. We’re going to continue to work and
I think that’s a positive sign.”  No details of the negotiations were released. The two
sides have been ordered by federal Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan not to publically discuss specifics. The two sides are
to meet with Boylan in  Minnesota  on July 19, three days before
the first preseason training camps are set to open.  Two days ago negotiators were close to an agreement on a
pay scale for rookie players, clearing a major obstacle toward
reaching a new labor agreement in the U.S.’s most-popular
sport, three people familiar with the talks said.  $9.3 Billion  Rookie compensation was the center of talks this week
after the sides neared a deal on how to divide a projected $9.3
billion in revenue that would give just less than half to
players, according to the people, who were granted anonymity
because the talks are confidential.  The 2011 salary cap would be about  $123 million per team ,
the NFL Network reported, about $5 million less than the 2009
limit. The 2010 season didn’t have a ceiling on team payrolls.  The sides have met in  New York  the last two weeks. Topics
including safety, health care and workers compensation were
being discussed, the people said.  Boylan set next week’s meeting before starting his
vacation. NFL owners are scheduled to meet in a special session
in Atlanta two days later, and could use that time to vote on a
new collective bargaining package. Approval from 24 of 32 clubs
is needed for ratification.  March Lockout  NFL owners locked out players in March. The players sued,
behind Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks Tom Brady,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees , claiming antitrust violations and wage-
fixing. A federal appeals court upheld the lockout last week,
saying a lower court erred in blocking it.  The lockout came about five weeks after the  Green Bay
Packers ’ Super Bowl victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers
attracted the largest U.S. television audience in history,
capping a season watched by a record 207.7 million people,
according to Neilsen Co. data.  Jeff Pash , the NFL’s chief negotiator, said after a league
meeting outside Chicago last month that reopening for business
would require making sure legal documents are fully drafted and
approved, then ratified by both sides. Owners and players also
will have to seek approval from “various courts” to deal with
litigation.  Pash said he didn’t know how long that may take. Once the
sides reach a handshake agreement, owners and players will want
to “move as quickly as we could,” he said.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago  Bears
are scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play
the first preseason game on Aug. 7 in Canton,  Ohio .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 