-- 
Obama's 2012 Campaign Fundraiser List Shows Large Donations Play Big Role

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/obama-s-top-re-election-fundraisers-include-corzine-katzenberg-wintour.html
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 re-
election campaign has stressed the importance of relatively
small donations from hundreds of thousands of people. The list
of fundraisers it voluntarily released yesterday underscores the
significance of those who write checks for up to $35,800.  The campaign released a  list  of 244 individuals and couples
who have raised $50,000 or more so far for Obama’s re-election
bid, showcasing his support from  Wall Street  to Hollywood. The
group can account for at least $34.95 million of the more than
$86 million raised through June 30.  Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt , pointing to how former
President  George W. Bush  released the names of his fundraisers,
called on the 2012 Republican field of candidates to do the
same. A failure to do so raises “questions about the extent to
which Washington lobbyists and special interests are funding
their campaigns,” LaBolt said in a statement.  The so-called bundlers, people who solicit campaign
contributions from their personal networks and communities,
include  Jon Corzine , a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief
executive officer and New Jersey governor; Hollywood producer
Jeffrey Katzenberg; Blair Effron, co-founder of investment bank
Centerview Partners; and Vogue magazine editor Anna Wintour.  Also on the list are Ari Emanuel, the brother of Chicago’s
Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  and a Hollywood talent agent; Comcast Corp.
executive  David Cohen ; and Orin Kramer of Boston Provident
Partners LP.  The campaign has emphasized that more than 550,000 donors
have given to the president’s re-election effort with an average
donation of $69. Individuals can contribute up to $35,800, with
the first $5,000 going to the campaign and the rest to the
Democratic National Committee.  $500,000 or More  Obama’s list of fundraisers includes 27 individuals and
couples who have already brought in $500,000 or more for the
campaign, or a joint committee with the DNC that is designed to
boost his re-election efforts.  In  Chicago , Obama’s hometown and the location of his re-
election headquarters, fundraisers include Les Coney, an
executive vice president at Chicago-based Mesirow Financial;
John Rogers, chairman of Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC;
Chicago billionaire Neil Bluhm, managing principal of Chicago-
based  Walton Street Capital LLC  and chairman of a new casino
operation opening this month in suburban Chicago; entrepreneur
and philanthropist Fred Eychaner, who supported  Hillary Clinton 
in 2008 and is one of the nation’s top Democratic donors; and
Penny Pritzker, who led Obama’s 2008 fundraising efforts.  2008 Campaign  By the end of his last campaign, about 560 people had
raised at least $50,000 for Obama, according to a  list  kept by
the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  Obama’s campaign haul, announced on July 13, sets a record
for the second quarter of a non-election year and eclipses the
combined take of the 2012 Republican field.  In the 2008 campaign,  California  was home to the largest
number of Obama bundlers, according to  data  from the Center for
Responsive Politics. There were 97 from California, 86 from
 Illinois  and 82 from  New York .  An Upper West Side zip code in  Manhattan , 10024, was
Obama’s top overall fundraising zip code in 2008, accounting for
$2.8 million, followed by the $2.5 million from Chicago’s 60614
zip code, which includes the city’s Lincoln Park neighborhood on
the north side, according to the center’s  data .  Such detailed data for this election cycle will start to
become available once Obama’s quarterly filing is analyzed in
the coming weeks.  Obama for America  Obama’s fundraising total is a combination of money
collected by Obama’s campaign and the  Democratic National
Committee , including contributions received by the Obama Victory
Fund, a joint fundraising committee run by the two entities.
Obama for America, the president’s re-election campaign
committee, collected more than $47 million, while the DNC’s take
was more than $38 million, the campaign has said.  Obama, 49, has maintained a fundraising schedule that has
included almost 30 donor events since January for his campaign,
his party, or both, as he tries to balance partisanship with the
presidency at a time when the nation faces 9.2 percent
unemployment, a debate over the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit, and military action in Iraq, Afghanistan and  Libya .  Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007-08 and was the
first major-party nominee to reject public financing for the
general election.  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager and a
former deputy White House chief of staff, has sought to knock
down predictions that the president will raise $1 billion for
the 2012 campaign.  Medicare, Social Security  At Obama’s campaign headquarters, the  Progressive Change
Campaign Committee  yesterday delivered what were described as
200,000 individual pledges threatening to pull campaign support
if the president cuts entitlement programs such as Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security, the  Associated Press  reported.  “Americans elected the president in 2008 to take on the
big challenges facing our country, and he’s engaged in an effort
to do just that, promoting a balanced approach to reduce the
deficit and promote economic growth that protects the middle
class and seniors,” LaBolt responded in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  