-- 
Obama Said to Eliminate Warren as Consumer Bureau Nominee

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-16T15:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/obama-eliminates-warren-as-consumer-head.html
President  Barack Obama  has chosen a
candidate other than  Elizabeth Warren  as director of the new
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, according to a person
briefed on the matter.  The president’s choice is a person who already works at the
consumer agency, the person said yesterday. Obama may make the
nomination as soon as next week, another person briefed on the
administration’s plans said.  The people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
process isn’t public, didn’t name Obama’s choice.  Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard professor, was appointed last
fall by Obama to set up the consumer bureau until a director was
named. Warren previously was head of the congressional watchdog
panel overseeing the bank bailout.  Raj Date, a top deputy to Warren at the consumer bureau,
was on a short list of candidates to become director, Bloomberg
News reported last month, citing a person briefed on the
process. Date, currently the bureau’s associate director for
research, markets and regulations, is a former banker with
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)   Consumer bureau spokeswoman Jen Howard declined to comment,
as did  Jen Psaki , a White House spokeswoman.  Oversight Gap  The consumer bureau, which is to begin formal operations on
July 21, was established by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-
regulatory overhaul to fill what lawmakers said was a gap in
oversight of financial products such as mortgages and credit
cards whose abuse contributed to the 2008 credit crisis.  The bureau’s director requires confirmation by the Senate.
After 44 Republican senators announced in May that they wouldn’t
vote to approve any candidate to run the bureau without changes
in its structure, analysts said the White House might have to
resort to a temporary appointment during a congressional recess.
Sixty of the 100 senators are required to vote for a nomination
because of procedural rules.  The legislation requires a director confirmed by the Senate
or appointed in recess before the bureau has authority to
supervise and regulate non-bank financial firms such as mortgage
originators, payday lenders and credit bureaus. It also isn’t
able to enforce rules against “abusive” consumer products, a
legal standard Congress created in Dodd-Frank.  Obama didn’t nominate Warren last fall after then-Senator
 Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat who headed the Banking
Committee, said she couldn’t win confirmation.  Since then, several potential candidates have rejected
overtures, including Jennifer Granholm, the former governor of
 Michigan , and Ted Kaufman, a former Democratic senator from
 Delaware , people briefed on the search said.  Clash With Republicans  Warren has clashed with  House Republicans  repeatedly about
the agency’s mandate and about her role in settlement talks
between banks, state and federal agencies over problems with the
foreclosure process. One hearing, on May 24, turned into a
dispute about scheduling during which Representative  Patrick
McHenry , a North Carolina Republican on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, accused Warren of lying.  Date earned an engineering degree from the  University of
California  at Berkeley and a law degree from  Harvard University .
He was senior vice president for corporate strategy and
development at Capital One and a managing director in the
financial institutions group at Deutsche Bank. During the debate
over Dodd-Frank, Date headed the Cambridge Winter Center for
Financial Institutions Policy, a research group he founded.  When she appointed Date to the unit that will draft rules
for credit cards, mortgages,  student loans  and payday lenders,
Warren said that he and his team would “bring a wealth of
experience in the financial services industry, government, non-
profits, community banking and academia that will help us build
a world-class” research and regulations unit.  In an interview earlier this year with Bloomberg News,
Date, who joined Capital One in 2001, recalled his tenure there
during the housing bubble. He said he told his colleagues that
schemes to make quick money off customers would have affect the
bank’s reputation and balance sheet.  “I was very, very boring at cocktail parties,” Date said
in the interview. “But I happened to have experience at the
intersection of issues that were uniquely important in the fall
of 2008.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 morning@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  