-- 
Obama Targets Drug Companies for Cuts in U.S. Debt Talks

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-15T20:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/obama-singles-out-drug-companies-for-savings-in-u-s-debt-talks.html
Drugmakers led by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
Merck & Co. were targeted for Medicare cuts by President  Barack Obama  as lawmakers push to agree on a deficit plan. The industry
predicted “startling” job losses would result.  Pharmaceutical companies “are still doing very well
through the Medicare program,” Obama said today at a news
conference. “Although we have made drugs more available at a
cheaper price to seniors who are in Medicare through the
Affordable Care Act, there’s more work to potentially be done.”  The drug industry contributed $80 billion toward the cost
of last year’s health-care law, helping Democrats make up for
new spending in the bill. With cuts to Medicaid and Medicare on
the table as part of deficit talks, the industry may have to
give up more as an Aug. 2 deadline looms.  “It’s extremely unfortunate that President Obama continues
to push for a policy that could destabilize the successful
Medicare Part D program and have a devastating effect on
American jobs,” said Karl Uhlendorf, vice president of the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America , the  drug
industry ’s Washington lobbying group. “Startling potential job
losses could result from policy proposals that would undermine
the business foundations of biopharmaceutical companies.”  Companies Targeted  The industry has already started rallying Congressional
opposition to cuts. In a letter to House Speaker  John Boehner ,
the Ohio Republican, and Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California , 32 House members said they didn’t support drug
discounts for Medicare patients who are poor enough to also
qualify for Medicaid.  Medicare pays for drugs for this group, known as dual-
eligibles, at higher prices than Medicaid would. A copy of the
letter was provided by Pfizer spokesman Raul Damas.  The drug sector has already fired 118,000 workers since
2009, the manufacturers’ group said in the statement. Drugs such
as New York-based Pfizer’s top-selling cholesterol pill Lipitor
are coming off patents amid industry consolidation.  Cuts to drugmakers weren’t among as much as $353 billion in
Medicare and Medicaid cuts on a list produced by House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican. Medicare is the U.S.
health insurance program for the elderly and disabled, and
Medicaid is the federal-state health plan covering the poor.  Drugmakers including Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck were targeted in Obama’s proposal this year that called
for $200 billion in U.S. budget savings in a decade from the
industry. Spending on drugs in Medicare totaled $55 billion in
2009, about 11 percent of the program’s total spending that
year, according to the U.S Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.  Premiums on Wealthy  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index declined
0.5 percent to 324.88 at 4 p.m. New York time.  Obama also suggested requiring high-income beneficiaries
pay more for Medicare premiums, saving as much as $38 billion,
according to Cantor’s list.  “You can envision a situation where, for somebody in my
position, me having to pay a little bit more on premiums or co-
pays or things like that would be appropriate,” Obama said.  Medicare already  charges  40 percent more to people who make
in excess of $85,000 to get physician coverage. Seniors buying
drug coverage who make more than $85,000 pay more as well,
according to Medicare.  Obama is leading negotiations between Democrats and
Republicans to raise the country’s legal borrowing limit before
Aug. 2, when the administration says the government may no
longer be able to pay its debts and would be in default. The
parties haven’t announced any agreement about the size or
details of a deal, or whether it will include tax increases
Republicans have opposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 