-- 
Obama’s Deficit Offer as Good as They Get: Jared Bernstein

-- B y   J a r e d   B e r n s t e i n
-- 
2011-07-15T07:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/obama-s-deficit-offer-about-as-good-as-they-get-jared-bernstein.html
It’s tempting to call for a pox on
both political parties in the deficit debate, but the fact is
that President  Barack Obama  has been willing to give a lot to
get an increase in the debt ceiling. His original proposal --
from which he now seems to be pulling back -- called for $2 in
spending cuts for every dollar in increased revenue.  History shows that this mix was unprecedented.  According to an analysis by my colleague Kathy Ruffing at
the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, in the past four
major  deficit-reduction  deals, revenue increases made up a
bigger part of the package than Obama’s plan -- between 38
percent and 82 percent as the attached chart shows. The deal
that contained the biggest portion of revenue was the Deficit
Reduction  Act  of 1984 signed by  Ronald Reagan . (The Balanced
Budget Act of 1997 is excluded because it had almost no impact
on the deficit.)  In the deficit-reduction packages of 1987 and 1990, revenue
increases made up 39 percent and 38 percent, respectively, of
the packages. The Clinton budget deal in 1993 achieved 62
percent of its deficit reduction through higher revenue.  It’s interesting to consider why Reagan accepted a deal
that probably would have gotten him kicked out of today’s
 Republican Party .  Let’s look at some of the reasons that balanced-budget
deals have historically been successful.  First, while taxes have been unpopular in America since the
original Tea Party, the Republican Party has embraced the faulty
argument that you can never raise  taxes  by any amount without
destroying the economy.  Proven Wrong  This theory has been tested and proven wrong. Compare
outcomes under  Bill Clinton ’s tax structure with that of the
George W. Bush years. Growth, jobs, incomes, inequality,
poverty, even stock-market returns -- all performed much better
during Clinton’s higher-tax regime than under Bush’s lower one.  Notably, one measure of economic health did a lot worse
during the Bush years: budget deficits.  This leads to the second reason that the more balanced
approach of the past is proving so unattainable. It has to do
with the Republican mantra that we don’t have a taxation
problem, we have a spending problem.  Again, the evidence is suspect. Spending as a share of
gross domestic product was about the same in the Bush years as
the Clinton years -- 20 percent -- and both were about two
percentage points lower than during the Reagan years.  If you track federal revenue and spending through the Bush
years, you see that the Republicans have it backward. It’s not
that we overspent; it’s that we failed to raise the revenue we
needed to cover spending that was well within the range of the
historical average.  The other reason that balance is missing from the
Republican plan speaks to the party’s broader agenda.  Hurting the Vulnerable  Without new revenue, achieving significant deficit savings
requires spending cuts so deep that they undermine important
programs that protect vulnerable Americans -- the poor and
lower-income seniors. Such cuts also would leave nothing for
investing in programs that promote social mobility, such as job
training and education.  As President Obama has stressed, that’s the reason for
taking a more balanced approach. But if your goal is to slash
these very programs, to shrink government, to defund social
insurance, the last thing you want is new revenue to take some
of the pressure off the spending cuts.  At this point, Republicans have all but stopped negotiating
and there’s no reason to believe that the spending and revenue
record of past agreements will move their negotiators to return
to the table. That’s unfortunate, given the fragile recovery and
looming debt ceiling. Our nation would be much better off if
those blocking the deal would emulate prior Congresses that
achieved significant deficit reduction through balanced deals.  (Jared Bernstein is the former chief economist to Vice-
President Joseph Biden and is a senior fellow at the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jared Bernstein at  bernstein@cbpp.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  