-- 
Obama Lawyers Say ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Ban Shouldn’t Be Enforced Yet

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/obama-lawyers-say-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-ban-shouldn-t-be-enforced-yet.html
The Obama Administration asked a
federal appeals court to keep the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”
policy on gays and lesbians serving in the military in place
during an appeal of a ruling overturning the law.  Lawyers for the Justice Department yesterday asked the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  to reverse its July 6 decision
granting a request by the Log Cabin Republicans, a group that
promotes equal rights for gays and lesbians, to block further
enforcement of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.”  The appeals court issued its order “based in part on an
apparent understanding that the government is not defending the
constitutionality” of the policy, Henry C. Whitaker, a Justice
Department lawyer, wrote in a letter to the court yesterday.
“That understanding is incorrect.”  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 22 signed into law
legislation lifting the 1993 policy, which prohibits gays and
lesbians from serving openly in the military. The government
argues that the repeal is not effective until 60 days after the
president, secretary of defense and the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff certify the military has prepared for it.  The  Justice Department  is defending the constitutionality
of the law “as it presently exists,” Whitaker wrote. Though
the case before the appeals court will be irrelevant once
certification is complete, a “live controversy remains” about
“whether it is constitutional for Congress to maintain the
status quo while preparations are under way” to repeal the law,
according to the letter.  ‘Weeks Away’  The White House said in December that it would take months
for new rules to be put in place. On July 6, Marine Colonel Dave
Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, said in an e-mail that
certification of the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” --
required for the law to take effect -- was just “weeks away.”  The appeals court’s July 6 order was meant to enforce a
Sept. 9 ruling by U.S. District Judge Virginia Phillips in
Riverside,  California . She concluded that “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell”  violates constitutionally protected due process and free
speech rights.  The three-judge appeals court panel noted on July 6 that
the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” is under way, and that
the Obama administration no longer opposes court challenges to
the Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibits the federal
government from recognizing same-sex marriages for purposes of
taxes, Social Security and other federal programs.  ‘Orderly’ Repeal  The Justice Department, in yesterday’s request to keep the
lower-court ruling on hold, said it’s asking the appeals court
to “permit the orderly process for repealing” the policy to
resume.  “It is sad and disappointing that the government continues
to try to prevent openly gay and lesbian Americans from serving
in our armed forces,” Dan Woods, a lawyer representing the  Log
Cabin Republicans , said in an e-mailed statement.  “While we expect to win, the government’s goal in its
filing today can only be to delay the inevitable day when all
Americans will be able to serve our country honorably and
patriotically, regardless of their orientation,” Woods said
yesterday.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 10-56634, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  