-- 
Obama Tells Congressional Leaders Time for Rhetoric Is Over

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-15T10:18:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/obama-tells-congressional-leaders-time-for-rhetoric-is-ending.html
President  Barack Obama  pressed
Republican and Democratic congressional leaders to give him
options for a deficit-cutting deal that lawmakers could support
as part of raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit by an
Aug. 2 deadline.  Obama also called a news conference for this morning in
Washington to continue to push for a deal that combines spending
cuts with revenue increases. Republicans support the cuts while
opposing higher taxes.  White House Chief of Staff  William Daley , speaking at a
U.S.- Korea Business Council dinner at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in Washington last night, said the president still
wants as large a deficit-cutting plan as possible and believes
“it is time to stop the rhetoric and start the action” on
raising the debt limit. Daley said Obama won’t accept a solution
that doesn’t extend at least through next year, when he faces
re-election.  The administration has warned that it will be unable to pay
all its bills and the nation’s credit rating will be downgraded,
forcing higher borrowing costs, if the U.S.’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit isn’t raised by Aug. 2.  “This is not only an issue of fiscal sustainability,”
Daley said. “It is an issue of whether our elected officials
can fulfill their most basic responsibility and fulfill the
responsibilities that the American people sent them here to
do.”  Making the Case  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in separate trips to the
Capitol, made their cases for lifting the debt limit.  Adding more urgency to the dispute, Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services announced yesterday it may downgrade the U.S.
top-level credit rating, saying there is an increasing risk of a
substantial policy stalemate enduring beyond any near-term
agreement to raise the debt ceiling.  The deadlock on fiscal policy has “only become more
entangled” since April 18, when S&P placed a negative outlook
on the U.S. AAA long-term rating, the service said in a
statement. Moody’s Investors Service placed the nation’s credit
rating under review for a downgrade on July 13.  Jeffrey Goldstein , Treasury undersecretary for domestic
finance, said in a statement the warnings highlighted the need
to “act expeditiously to avoid defaulting on the country’s
obligations and to enact a credible deficit-reduction plan that
commands bipartisan support.”  Fifth Session  At a fifth consecutive negotiating session at the White
House yesterday, Obama told congressional leaders to report to
him by tomorrow morning on the type of deal their members can
support, Democratic and Republican officials said.  The president wants the leaders to tell him whether they
believe their caucuses can agree to a bipartisan deficit-cutting
package of $2 trillion or more, or if they should resort to a
backup plan that could raise the debt ceiling through the
November 2012 elections while postponing detailed decisions
about cuts.  Obama and lawmakers don’t plan to hold another negotiating
session today, and instead the congressional leaders will focus
on sounding out their colleagues, Democratic and Republican
aides said on condition of anonymity.  House Republicans  and Democrats scheduled separate caucuses
today. Obama told the lawmakers he may call another meeting over
the weekend if no path forward has emerged, officials from both
parties said.  ‘Stressed Out’  In an interview with WSB-TV in Atlanta, Obama said that
“America’s stressed out right now,” and that he has told
Congress “don’t play games with this; we’ve got to make sure
that we are fulfilling the full faith and credit of the United
States of America.”  Republicans have demanded major spending cuts in exchange
for their votes on the debt limit, while rejecting Democrats’
call for more  tax revenue  from high-income people.  Arriving back at the Capitol after yesterday’s negotiating
session, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
described it as “a good meeting.”  Officials from both parties described the session as
cordial, following a tense meeting the previous day, and largely
devoted to a presentation of options related to health-care
spending and tax revenue. The White House pressed for an
extension and possible expansion of the current 2 percentage
point payroll tax deduction set to expire Dec. 31, said a
Democratic official.  Broad Agreement  Obama continued to push for a broad agreement, which he
told negotiators could include $2 trillion in  deficit reduction 
if all sides gave a little, said a Democratic official.  Before the White House negotiating session, Senate
Democratic leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and McConnell were
engaged in their own talks on backup options to avert a U.S.
default by adding spending controls to a plan that would grant
the president unilateral power to raise the debt limit, Reid
told reporters yesterday.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democratic leader, said, while Democrats still want to
see a comprehensive deal emerge from the White House-led talks,
they are considering modifying a plan McConnell offered earlier
this week as a “last-choice” alternative.  Granting Obama Power  McConnell’s proposal would grant Obama authority to raise
the debt limit in installments unless Congress disapproves by a
two-thirds majority -- a near impossibility with the Senate
controlled by Democrats -- while Obama would also be required to
offer spending reductions.  Those cuts would be advisory, and the debt-ceiling increase
would occur regardless of whether lawmakers enact the cuts,
McConnell said. The idea drew criticism from both sides of the
aisle, particularly from Republicans who said it would fail to
curb spending.  Schumer said one option under consideration to build
legislative support would couple the McConnell plan with a
package of spending cuts smaller than the amount Republicans
have demanded -- a dollar in spending reductions for every
dollar increase in debt authority.  Another possible means of attracting votes would be to add
a commission modeled along the military base-closing panels to
recommend additional spending cuts, said two Republican aides
familiar with the talks who requested anonymity.  Casting Doubt  Still, Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat, cast doubt on the options under
discussion.  “I have not yet heard a package that I believe is credible
in dealing with the debt that builds off of the McConnell
plan,” he said.  Senior financial regulators came to the Capitol to
highlight the economic consequences of a U.S. government
default.  Geithner said there is “no way to give Congress more
time” on lifting the debt ceiling. He commented after meeting
with Senate Democrats.  “The eyes of the country are on us and the eyes of the
world are on us and we need to make sure we stand together and
send a definitive signal that we are going to take the steps
necessary to avoid default,” he said.  ‘Self-Inflicted Wound’  Bernanke said in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee
that lawmakers would cause a “self-inflicted wound” if they
prompt a credit-rating downgrade by failing to raise the debt
ceiling.  Investors showed few signs of being fazed by the drama in
 Washington , largely because bond traders said they considered
the possibility of default remote.  The Treasury attracted higher-than-average demand for a
third consecutive sale at its auction of 30-year bonds. The bid-
to-cover ratio on the $13 billion in bonds, which gauges demand
by comparing total bids with the amount offered, was 2.80,
versus a 2.64 average at the past 10 sales.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries was was little changed at
2.96 percent as of 10:51 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices, after falling to a 2011 low of 2.81 percent
on July 12. That compares with an average of 7.1 percent during
the past four decades.  “The market seems to believe that the debt-limit situation
will be resolved satisfactorily,” said Jeffrey Caughron, a
partner at Baker Group LP in  Oklahoma City  who advises community
banks on investments of more than $30 billion. “Most market
participants see it unthinkable that the president and the
Congress would allow a default, even a partial default on U.S.
obligations.”  Increasing Tension  The increasing tension between Democrats and Republicans
was underscored by dueling accounts of a White House meeting and
its sour ending earlier this week. Obama “got very agitated”
and left the room after House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
suggested a vote on a smaller deal, Cantor said.  “Don’t call my bluff; I am going to the American people,”
Obama said, according to Cantor, a Virginia Republican.  Cantor didn’t speak at yesterday’s session, a Democratic
aide said.  Reid said Cantor has shown “he shouldn’t be at the
table,” adding “it was childish” for Cantor to quit attending
earlier negotiating sessions led by Vice President  Joe Biden .  Laena Fallon, a spokesman for Cantor, responded: “This
isn’t a question about personalities -- Eric, President Obama or
Harry Reid. It’s about doing what is right for the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  