-- 
Mockridge, Sky Italia Chief, Selected to Run Murdoch’s News International

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-07-15T13:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/mockridge-sky-italia-chief-selected-to-run-murdoch-s-news-international.html
Tom Mockridge, who turned Sky Italia
Srl into Italy’s pay-television market leader, will replace
Rebekah Brooks as chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News
International publishing unit after a phone-hacking scandal.  Mockridge, a native of New Zealand, has been CEO of Sky
Italia, News Corp.’s Italian satellite-television unit, since
its 2003 debut. Since 2008 he has also overseen the Rupert
Murdoch-owned company’s TV operations in Europe excluding the
U.K., where British Sky Broadcasting Plc is based. Mockridge is
a non-executive director at BSkyB and a member of  Sky
Deutschland AG (SKYD) ’s supervisory board.  Mockridge, 56, began his career as a newspaper journalist
in New Zealand and has also worked as a spokesman for the
Australian government. He joined News Corp. in 1991 and worked
for Ken Cowley, CEO of Australian newspaper company News
Limited.  “Mockridge has done very well at Sky Italia,” said
 Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .
“For a long time he ran one of the platforms for growth at News
Corp.”  Sky Italia competes with  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster
controlled by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . Since 2008, the
two companies have increasingly been at odds in their battle for
domination of Italy’s TV market.  Berlusconi’s government in 2008 doubled the sales tax on
pay-TV subscriptions to 20 percent, hurting Sky Italia. That
year, Mediaset also began its own pay-TV operation.  Restoring Growth  After Sky Italia posted two straight quarters of losses in
net subscriptions between 2009 and 2010 due to increased
competition from Mediaset, Mockridge was able to restore growth.
Sky Italia had a record 4.9 million subscribers at the end of
March and in May the company forecast that it will have more
than 5 million customers by the end of this summer.  Mockridge and  Sky Italia  also got into a dispute with
former U.S. Vice President Al Gore in May as a broadcasting
contract with Gore’s Current TV wasn’t renewed. Sky rejected
comments Gore made in the Financial Times that the channel was
dropped because of its political coverage in the U.S.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and its Dow Jones division in providing financial
news and data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  