-- 
Oil Rises, Capping Third Weekly Gain, as U.S. Debt Concern

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-07-15T19:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/oil-rises-capping-third-weekly-gain-as-u-s-debt-concern.html
Crude oil rose, capping a third
weekly gain, as investors purchased commodities as a store of
value amid concern that the U.S. debt ceiling won’t be raised by
the Aug. 2 deadline.  Oil advanced as much as 2.1 percent as House Republicans
plan a vote next week on a measure to cut spending and increase
the debt ceiling. Futures also rose after Citigroup Inc. said
second-quarter profit rose 24 percent. Futures dropped 0.5
percent earlier when  Standard & Poor’s  joined Moody’s Investors
Service in reviewing the U.S.’s credit rating.  “Oil is up along with gold and silver because investors
are looking for safety,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
Cameron Hanover Inc., a trading advisory company in New Canaan,
Connecticut. “The debt situation in  Washington  is getting no
closer to resolution.”  Crude oil for August delivery rose $1.55, or 1.6 percent,
to settle at $97.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices advanced 1.1 percent this week and have climbed
27 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for September settlement increased $1, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $117.26 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The  House Republicans ’ plan won’t pass in the Democratic-
controlled Senate, said Representative  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland,
the House’s No. 2 Democrat. The vote offers no immediate
resolution to talks aimed at reaching a deal by the deadline.  President’s Warning  President  Barack Obama  said a failure to raise the U.S.
debt limit would trigger a default on the nation’s obligations
that could drive up  interest rates  for everyone in the country.  Gold futures for August delivery rose 80 cents to settle at
a record $1,590.10 an ounce on the Comex in New York. Silver for
September delivery jumped 37.4 cents, or 1 percent, to settle at
$39.063 an ounce on the Comex.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, said second-
quarter net income rose to $3.34 billion, or $1.09 share, from
$2.7 billion, or 90 cents, in the same period last year. The
average estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
earnings per share of 96 cents.  “The banking sector is looking healthier, which is good
for the overall economy and demand,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy.  ’Back and Forth’  Oil climbed July 13 after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is prepared to take additional
action, including buying more  government bonds , to boost growth.
The Fed ended its $600 billion bond-buying program, also called
quantitative easing, last month. Oil tumbled 2.4 percent
yesterday when Bernanke tempered stimulus expectations.  “The market has moved back and forth this week on
quantitative easing,” Beutel said. “It seems that there’s a
realization today that it will act as a safety net, keeping
things from getting worse, which is supportive.  August crude oil options expired at the close of floor
trading on the  New York  exchange today. The most actively traded
oil option was the June $97 call, which gives investors the
right to buy oil at that price.  ‘‘Options expiration often makes for an interesting
session,’’ said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in New York. ‘‘This has been an extremely volatile
week. There were big moves the past two days after Bernanke made
contradictory statements.’’  Brent-WTI Spread  North Sea Brent crude oil’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, narrowed from yesterday’s
record high. The difference between September contracts traded
on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe Exchange and the New York
Mercantile Exchange stood at $19.66 a barrel.  The spread ended yesterday’s session at $22.63 a barrel,
above the previous high of $22.29 based on settlement prices on
June 15. The premium touched $23.55 in yesterday’s intraday
trading, also the highest level ever. The August Brent contract
expired yesterday.  The U.S. contract has declined relative to other grades
this year because of ample stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
physical delivery point for New York oil futures contracts and
the largest crude-trading and storage hub in the country.
Supplies have climbed on increasing Canadian and North Dakota
output and the lack of an outlet to the Gulf of Mexico.  Cushing Stockpiles  Supplies at the hub fell 2.4 percent on July 9 from the
prior day, data from Longmont, Colorado-based DigitalGlobe Inc.
showed. Inventories held in floating-roof tanks dropped 911,000
barrels to 36.6 million barrels, according to satellite images.
Energy Department figures on July 13 showed Cushing stockpiles
including floating and fixed tanks were 37.6 million barrels.  ‘‘We aren’t going to see the Brent premium disappear until
there is a major pickup in Midwest refinery activity or a new
outlet opens up,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 505,021
contracts as of 2:59 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 839,754
contracts yesterday, the highest since June 23 and 24 percent
above the average of the past three months. Open interest was
1.54 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  