-- 
Oil Companies Fail to Bolster Peace in Nigeria, Presidential Adviser Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-15T12:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/oil-companies-fail-to-bolster-peace-in-nigeria-presidential-adviser-says.html
Peace in  Nigeria ’s main oil-
producing area is threatened by the failure of companies to
invest in improving residents’ living standards, a special
adviser to President Goodluck Jonathan said.  While a government amnesty in August 2009 ended most of the
fighting in the Niger River delta and disarmed thousands of
militant fighters, the oil companies “are not giving back,”
Kingsley Kuku, the president’s adviser on the region, said
yesterday in an interview in London.  Oil output in Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest producer, has risen
to more than 2.1 million barrels a day from 1.7 million barrels
in July 2009, a month before the amnesty. Attacks by armed
groups cut more than 28 percent of oil output between 2006 and
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump most of the West
African nation’s oil. Nigeria is the fifth-biggest source of
U.S. oil imports.  “Imagine, I’m operating in your community, your community
is in darkness, and the platform is light for 24 hours. What are
you telling the locals to do to you?” he said. “The first
thing you owe the community you’re extracting from is to get
lights to them. If they do that they are happy with you.”  Shell spokesmen Jonathan French in London and Precious
Okolobo in Lagos said they couldn’t comment on Kuku’s
statements. French forwarded excerpts from the company’s
 Briefing Notes  that said its units last year contributed $161
million to the  Niger Delta  Development Commission and $71
million “towards addressing social and economic development
challenges in the region.”  ‘Genuine Peace Process’  The state and federal governments, the companies and the
militants should use the relative peace “to try to consolidate a
genuine peace process that begins properly to deal with the
underlying causes of the unrest,” Antony Goldman, the head of
London-based PM Consulting, which specializes in risk analysis
in West Africa’s oil states.  “A critical part of that has to be the oil companies that
in the past have looked towards short-term quick fix solutions
which have contributed to some of the very problems that they
are trying to solve,” he said today in a telephone interview.  The main militant group, the Movement for the Emancipation
of the Niger Delta, or MEND, is preparing to resume attacks and
is training new fighters, spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. MEND says it’s fighting for control
of oil revenue by the ethnic minorities of the delta region.  Kuku, who like Jonathan is an ethnic Ijaw from the Niger
delta region, said  oil companies  should “stop complaining”
about sabotage and pipeline theft.  Community Protestors  ‘    Protesters from four communities in the delta besieged the
Shell Nigeria’s Kolo Creek logistics base and “tampered” with
installations because residents are unhappy about not being
supplied electricity from Shell’s facilities, company spokesman
 Tony Okonedo  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Shell’s local unit declared force majeure on Bonny Light
oil loadings June 13, after multiple fires on the Trans Niger
Pipeline. The company lifted force majeure, a legal clause
allowing companies to miss deliveries because of circumstances
beyond their control, on July 1.  “We must solve this problem once and for all under this
president, who is willing, who understands it, who is from one
of the tiniest communities in the Niger delta,” said Kuku.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  