-- 
Tom Watson Adds to British Open Memories With Hole-in-One in Second Round

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-15T15:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/tom-watson-adds-to-british-open-memories-with-hole-in-one-in-second-round.html
Five-time champion  Tom Watson  added
to his list of memories at the British Open with a hole-in-one
during today’s second round.  Watson’s tee shot took one bounce into the cup on the par-
3, 167-yard sixth hole at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,
England. He said he didn’t see the ball go in until watching a
television replay after his round.  “It was a slam dunk,” Watson, who said it was his 15th
ace, told reporters. “If it missed the flag it would’ve been 30
feet by. But it was lucky. They’re all lucky when they go in.”  Watson was congratulated by playing partners Henrik Stenson
of  Sweden  and 20-year-old English amateur Tom Lewis, who was
named after the eight-time major winner. The 61-year-old
American then bowed toward the crowd around the tee box.  Watson, who lost a playoff to  Stewart Cink  two years ago at
the Open, said he hit a 4-iron, a true sign of his age.  “Old guys hit 4-irons 160 yards into the wind,” he said.
“The kids are hitting 6-irons.”  Watson said he was watching an Open preview on television
this morning that showed Gene Sarazen’s hole-in-one at the age
of 71 on the famed “Postage Stamp” eighth green at Royal Troon
in  Scotland  during the 1973 Open.  “Maybe that’s what inspired me today, I don’t know,” he
said. “That’s the second one I’ve had in a major championship.
I had one at the  U.S. Open  in 1980 at Baltusrol on the fourth
hole of the first round. Maybe it was bookends.”  It’s the second ace at this year’s Open following American
Dustin Johnson’s yesterday on the 159-yard 16th hole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in Sandwich,  England , at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  