-- 
Hushovd Captures Stage 13 of Tour de France for 8th Victory

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-07-15T16:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/thor-hushovd-wins-stage-13-of-tour-de-france-for-his-eighth-stage-victory.html
Thor Hushovd of Team Garmin-Cervelo
won Stage 13 of the  Tour de France , pulling away from a small
group over the closing stretch of a 152.5-kilometer (95 mile)
mountain route from Pau to Lourdes.  Hushovd, cycling’s reigning world champion from Norway,
caught and then distanced himself from Jeremy Roy of  France ’s
Team FDJ 2.3 kilometers from the finish. Hushovd had pulled away
from David Moncoutie of Team Cofidis with less than 3 kilometers
remaining.  It was Hushovd’s eighth stage win in the Tour de France,
cycling’s most prestigious race.  Hushovd first broke away from a group of about 10 riders at
the front of the race on the climb up the 1,709-meter-high Col
d’Aubisque to open a gap on Roy and Moncoutie, who are both
known as better climbers than the 33-year-old Norwegian.  “The plan was to gain a small advantage,” Hushovd said in
an interview on Comcast Corp.’s Versus network. “I knew if
Moncoutie wanted to attack, I knew I couldn’t follow.”  Thomas Voeckler  of France finished 17th in the peloton to
keep the overall race lead with eight stages remaining.  As the climb continued, Roy and Moncoutie eventually caught
and rode away from Hushovd, who reached the summit 2 minutes, 3
seconds behind Roy. Hushovd then caught Moncoutie on the descent
and the duo joined up to close the gap on Roy over the final 25
kilometers before Hushovd broke away.  “I said I’m going to give everything and if it worked it
would be perfect,” Hushovd said. “If not, I tried. Today, my
tactic worked out 100 percent perfectly.”  Defending champion  Alberto Contador  of  Spain  finished in
the peloton and sits seventh overall, 4 minutes behind Voeckler
of Team Europcar and 2:11 in back of second-place rider Frank Schleck of Team Leopard-Trek.  Cadel Evans  of BMC Racing is
third, 2:06 behind Voeckler.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at  at
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at  at
 msillup@bloomberg.net  