-- 
Moral of the Murdoch Scandal? We Need Tabloid Hacks: A.A. Gill

-- B y   A . A .   G i l l
-- 
2011-07-15T04:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/moral-of-the-murdoch-scandal-we-need-tabloid-hacks-a-a-gill.html
First the due diligence: I have a
contract with News International, the British branch of  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  I’ve worked for the Sunday Times for
nearly 20 years.  I also have contracts with  Conde Nast , National Magazine
Corp., Australian Gourmet Traveller and, as you can see,
Bloomberg News. In the spirit of free and frank disclosure, I
should add that I’m white, 57, male, twice divorced, with four
children. I’m dyslexic, a recovering alcoholic and have a
hernia. Too much information yet?  When is enough enough? It seems we in London just found
out. Phone hacking the messages of a teenage murder victim was
more than enough. Hiring a private detective to do so sank
 Europe ’s largest-selling newspaper, the News of the World,
with all 200 hands. It also sank Murdoch’s plan to gain full
ownership of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  And it raised
a great deal of very sticky mud.  The U.K.’s tabloid culture tends to fascinate, disgust
and surprise Americans. How can a nation that sounds so
refined on TV talk such filth in print?  Part of this stems from the fundamentally different ways
that British and American journalists view themselves and
their jobs. The Americans tend to see themselves as men of
letters; they belong to a profession. We consider ourselves
hacks who do a trade. The tabloid stock of sex, football,
scandal, innuendo, bullying, humor and sex has a long and
venerable, if not illustrious, heritage in Britain.  Staccato of Outrage  The reaction to the News scandal from the politicians and
the competing broadsheet papers has been staccato and
sustained, the outrage both hysterical and laughable. But
then, righteous outrage is the defining tone in emotion of all
English journalism, be it the tabloids’ seedy exposes or the
broadsheets’ high ground moralizing. Everybody is outraged all
the time, and whenever they decided it was safe to jump in,
the politicians were more shrilly outraged than everyone else.  Now that pretty much everyone has vented, let’s take a
moment to stand back, catch our breath and remember that
nobody comes to this outrage roast without their own special-
interest dipping sauce.  The broadsheet papers the Guardian and the Independent
are losing fortunes and readers. They are terrified of a price
war with News International, particularly if it had access to
the cash stream of the Sky operation.  Politicians don’t need much of an excuse to blame the
press for their personal losses, woes and shortcomings. Both
major parties see their opponents’ past coziness to Murdoch
and his top editors as a stick to beat each other with.  Red Top Press  And let’s face it, given the opportunity, everyone’s
happy blaming the messenger for the message. The “red top
press” -- the tabloids -- are particularly open to a moral
patrician attack. They have, after all, accumulated enough
victims, and offered enough grievances. There are plenty who
live in fear of their prying and have good reason to; they
make few friends, and the ones they have tend to be the
powerless and silent.  There are many more who find tabloid prurience simply
embarrassing and unworthy of a civilized society. Like the
woman at dinner the other night who leaned across and said to
me: “Newspapers should improve their readers, not pander to
their baser selves. Owners ought to seek to improve the world.”  That is a fair if haughty approximation of what plenty
of folk who know a thing or two, including many broadsheet
hacks, think about tabloid journalism. It is the pious
declaration of the missionary who tells the natives to make
their wives wear brassieres.  A Moral Arbiter  Over and over we are assured that the public interest is
not necessarily what interests the public. That’s a neatly
trite and clubbable aphorism. But few bother to ask the
follow-up journalistic question: Why can’t the public decide
what is in its interest? And if not them, who? Who should be
the moral arbiter on behalf of the great unwashed, as to what
it’s nice for them to know? What is improving and uplifting,
and not merely frivolous and filthy?  The argument between broadsheet and tabloid, hack and
homme de lettres, is the wrong row. The press is indivisible.
There isn’t naughty and nice, good or bad, ours and theirs. It
is all part of the great flow of information, ideas and
observations, all of it the basis of democracy. High needs
low, rough needs smooth.  A newspaper’s competition isn’t other papers -- it’s no
papers. Just as the opposite of love isn’t hate but
indifference, the opposite of tabloid journalism isn’t
broadsheet journalism, it’s the indifference of great swathes
of the population. The 7 million readers of the News of the
World aren’t going to join the 100,000 readers of the
Independent on Sunday. They won’t read a paper at all.  Preaching Squishy Truisms  Unless we want a press that does nothing but preach
comforting truisms to the educated, squeamish and knowing,
then journalists need to realize that we work for all of the
press, not just the bit that has linen napkins. The men of
letters need to find their inner hack, and the hacks need to
use fewer exclamation points.  As we now hear renewed calls in Britain for stricter
policing and restriction of the press, it’s perhaps
germane to note two things. Many of the great exposes and
stories that improve our lives and hold the powerful to
account start with a technical illegality or a dubious act --
the Pentagon Papers, WikiLeaks, the 2009 expenses scandal
at Westminster.  The second point is that the News of the World phone-
hacking story wasn’t started by politicians, it wasn’t pressed
by the police, it didn’t arise from a great public outcry. It
was prosecuted relentlessly by a free  press . As the paper
tigers grow rarer and their habitat more endangered, they turn
and kill each other.  (A.A. Gill, the restaurant and TV critic of the Sunday
Times of  London , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
A.A. Gill in London at  aagill1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 