-- 
’Carmageddon’ Boosts Gridlock-Survival Services

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/los-angeles-freeway-shutdown-promises-sales-for-gridlock-survival-services.html
Closing the busiest stretch of
freeway in Los Angeles this weekend may hurt businesses in the
area, except for companies like Waze and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) 
that help travelers find a way around the mess.  The shutdown of part of Interstate 405 -- an event known
as Carmageddon to local media -- may back up traffic by as much
as 30 miles, according to Nancy Castles, a spokeswoman for Los
Angeles International Airport. Residents have been warned to
stay home or map out alternate routes during the closure of a
10-mile stretch that links L.A.’s Westside with the San Fernando
Valley. Plans are for ramps to begin to be blocked at 7 p.m.
tonight and for traffic to flow again by 6 a.m. Monday.  Waze, a mobile application that helps drivers navigate
around traffic jams, has added more than 80,000 active users, an
increase of about two-thirds in a market that is its biggest,
said Di-Ann Eisnor, a vice president at the  Palo Alto ,
California-based startup.  “When we heard about this, we thought we had to find a way
to respond,” Eisnor said in an interview. “This really becomes
an important showcase.”  Other companies see opportunities too. Briles Wing &
Helicopter Inc. is offering to whisk passengers over the
gridlock for $1,100 per person, and put a “countdown to the
closure” clock on its  website . JetBlue marketed $4 Carmageddon
Fly-Over flights between  Long Beach , south of the closure, and
Burbank, in the valley. The four flights sold out.  Luring Customers  City officials are advising residents to stay out of their
cars, as they did during the 1984 Olympics, when there were
concerns that smog and traffic would interfere with the Games.
Local bars and restaurants, worried the strategy will work
again, started the website  car-mageddon.com  to lure customers
with discounts and so-called CarmaCoupons.  The shutdown could blunt sales at Toyota of  Santa Monica ,
said Billy Rinker, general sales manager at the dealership,
which claims to be the top U.S. seller of Prius hybrids.  “July should be a good month because there’s five weekends
this year,” Rinker said. “But on the Westside, Carpocalypse or
Carmaggedon or whatever it’s called probably means we’ll lose
that weekend.”  The freeway is closing to allow workers to demolish the 80-
foot-high Mulholland Bridge that spans the 405. It’s part of a
five-year, $1 billion project to add a carpool lane on the
freeway between U.S. 101 in the San Fernando Valley and
Interstate 10 on the Westside.  ‘Massive Impact’  The stretch, which handles 500,000 vehicles on a typical
weekend, is the third busiest in the U.S., according to Inrix
Inc.’s Nation  Traffic  Report Card. The  California  Department of
Transportation, which is overseeing the project, expects
construction to be finished in 2013.  “In places like  Los Angeles , where the transportation
system is operating at or near capacity, even minor disruptions
can have a massive impact,” said  Brian Taylor , a transportation
professor at the  University of California , Los Angeles.  Motorists who typically drive the 405 will be directed 38
miles east through  downtown Los Angeles . Sepulveda Boulevard, a
main thoroughfare that parallels the closed section of freeway,
will be marked for residents only, said Lt. Andy Neiman, a
spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department.  “If you’re not currently planning ahead to make alternate
travel arrangements, your choices will limit you to staying home
to avoid the congestion that is expected,” Neiman said.  Helicopters Booked  Police and fire units will be positioned in the area to
ensure quick responses to emergencies. The Los Angeles Fire
Department will add 15 fire engines and six ambulances, said
Cecco Secci, the department’s public information officer.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the area’s largest cable TV
television provider, will put repair crews up in Westside hotels
so they can respond to calls, according to spokesman Jim Gordon.
Airlines are advising employees and travelers to allow extra
time to reach airports. Prime Time Shuttle, an airport
transportation service, will have its entire fleet of 150 vans
on the road to handle expected heavier-than-usual business at
LAX as travelers avoid driving.  As for the $4 JetBlue flights -- $5 for extra legroom --
they’ll last 35 to 45 minutes, about what it would take to drive
between Long Beach and Burbank under normal conditions,
according to the Forest Hills, New York-based carrier.  Waze, which has backing from Blue Run Ventures, Magma
Venture Partners, Vertex  Venture Capital  and Qualcomm Ventures,
will provide real-time traffic data to local television station
 KABC-TV , and has put its links on the station’s website.  $4.05 Combo  The Arclight Cinemas 16-screen multiplex in  Sherman Oaks ,
at the interchange of the 405 and 101 freeways, has recorded
“brisk” sales of tickets for films showing over the weekend
despite its location, said Gretchen McCourt, an executive vice
president at Arclight and Pacific Theaters. Movie-goers will be
able to see the closed freeway from the lobby windows, and buy a
$4.05 food-and-drink combination in honor of the shutdown.  At Los Angeles-based Briles Wing, Lance Strumpf, chief
pilot and general manager, said three of the company’s four
helicopters are booked for the weekend. With the volume of
inquiries, he expects the fourth to be busy as well.  “It’s definitely a viable alternative that people are
taking advantage of,” Strumf said. “Everything from airline
travelers to wealthy people up in Bel-Air who are landlocked and
trying to get to their weekend retreats.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  