-- 
Obama Presses Congress for U.S. Debt Deal While Dismissing Republican Plan

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-17T15:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/house-to-vote-on-2-4-trillion-debt-increase-spending-cuts.html
While President  Barack Obama 
publicly presses congressional leaders for a multitrillion-
dollar agreement in deficit-cutting talks he said are “running
out of time,” aides privately are negotiating the framework of
a possible compromise.  As negotiators near an Aug. 2 deadline for raising the
U.S. debt ceiling, the president is relying on the pulpit of
news conferences to hold lawmakers to his challenge for a major
deal. Out of the spotlight, he is relying on some of his top
aides to press congressional leaders for a more likely
agreement.  Time is working against leaders as jockeying for public
positions continues, with  House Republicans  planning a vote this
week on legislation to limit spending and tie a $2.4 trillion
increase in the debt ceiling to a constitutional amendment to
balance the budget. That plan stands little chance in the
Democratic-controlled Senate. Obama called the plan not
“serious.”  “The American people are not interested in the reality TV
aspects of who said what and did somebody’s feelings get hurt”
in the negotiations, Obama said July 15 at his second news
conference of the week. “They’re interested in solving the
budget problem and the deficit and the debt.”  Discussing Options  The White House continued to reach out to lawmakers in both
parties this weekend in search of a deficit-cutting deal as the
default deadline looms.  White House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said on Twitter that
Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and other White House officials
were discussing “various options” with lawmakers throughout the
day yesterday.  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  is “keeping the lines
of communication open,” said his spokesman, Mike Steel.
“Meetings have been occurring.”  In the Senate, a fallback plan by Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  that allows the president to unilaterally raise the
debt limit is moving ahead. McConnell and Majority Leader Harry Reid this weekend were negotiating changes to the proposal, with
a goal of putting a measure before the Senate as early as
Wednesday, said a Senate Democratic aide.  McConnell’s Proposal  The two are still discussing ways to alter McConnell’s
complex proposal, which would let the president raise the
ceiling on borrowing authority by $2.5 trillion by the end of
2012 with support of just over one-third of the members of each
chamber. McConnell wants the increase to occur in three stages,
forcing Democrats to take a series of tough votes before next
year’s elections.  Democrats are seeking to reduce the number of debt-limit
votes to two, and they are also pushing to include caps on
discretionary spending over the next two years, the aide said.
Such caps would help forestall repeats of the government
shutdown battle that dominated Congress for much of this year
for the remainder of Obama’s term.  McConnell and Reid are nearing agreement on a new joint
congressional committee on deficit reduction to include in the
plan, the aide said.  The House’s plan to vote July 19 on an increase in the debt
ceiling tied to a balanced-budget amendment will let Republicans
go on record while offering no immediate resolution by the Aug.
2 deadline Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has set for
raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  ‘Solid Plan’  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, called the chamber’s measure
“a solid plan for moving forward,” yet seemed to concede it
wouldn’t be the ultimate solution to the debt impasse. “Let’s
get through that vote,” he told reporters July 15, “and then
we’ll make decisions about what will come after it.”  Obama says the magnitude of cuts Republicans are proposing
will be harmful and should be offset by elimination of many tax
exemptions to deliver revenue for a deficit-cutting plan.  “I have not seen a credible plan -- having gone through
the numbers -- that would allow you to get to $2.4 trillion
without really hurting ordinary folks,” Obama said. “And the
notion that we would be doing that, and not asking anything from
the wealthiest among us or from closing corporate loopholes --
that doesn’t seem like a serious plan to me.”  A U.S. debt default would cause panic throughout the
financial system and long-term uncertainty, former Treasury
Secretary  Larry Summers  told  CNN .  “It seems to me an unthinkable financial risk to take,”
Summers said in an interview on “Fareed Zakaria GPS” today. It
would cause “a cascade that makes  Lehman Brothers   look like a
very small event.”  Lehman Brothers  The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008 was the biggest in U.S history and was followed
by a collapse of credit markets and a 43 percent decline in the
S&P 500.  The measure scheduled for a vote this week would cut $111
billion in spending this year, then place annual caps on
spending that would limit it to 19.9 percent of gross national
product within eight years, according to a summary.  As Republicans reiterated that they won’t accept a net
increase in  tax revenue  in a deficit-cutting plan, Obama
continued to argue for such an approach.  “The American people are sold” on the idea of balancing
spending cuts with tax increases,” Obama said. “The problem is
members of Congress are dug in ideologically.”  While the debate continues in  Washington  -- Boehner says
they are in “the fourth quarter” -- the bond market has shown
no sign of worry.  Bond Market  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes reached the lowest level
since December as investors sought a refuge in  U.S. government
debt . The Treasury attracted higher than average demand at last
week’s three note and bond auctions, even after Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  last week said the U.S.
may lose its top credit ratings if lawmakers fail to lift the
ceiling on the nation’s borrowing limit before Aug. 2.  A failure to act before then could lead to “a situation
where  interest rates  rise for everyone,” Obama said at his news
conference, creating in effect, “a tax increase for
everybody.”  Raising the debt ceiling “is not some abstract issue,” he
said. “These are obligations that the  United States  has taken
on in the past. Congress has run up the  credit card , and we now
have an obligation to pay our bills.”  Paying the Bills  The administration has warned that it will be unable to pay
all the government’s bills and that the nation’s credit rating
will be downgraded, forcing higher borrowing costs, if the debt
limit isn’t raised by the deadline.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,316.14 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . The gauge fell 2.1
percent last week. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 42.61
points, or 0.3 percent, to 479.73.  The  S&P 500  rallied 93 percent from its low in March 2009
through July 14 as the  Federal Reserve  used large-scale asset
purchases to buoy the economy and companies posted earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates. Of the 12 S&P 500 companies that have
posted results so far this earnings season, 10 have beaten
forecasts for per-share profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  