-- 
House Votes to Save Traditional Incandescent Bulb for 2012

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-07-15T18:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/house-votes-to-save-traditional-light-bulbs.html
The U.S. House approved a provision
to save for a year the 100-watt incandescent light bulb, which
has become a pear-shaped symbol of personal freedom to some
Republicans.  Lawmakers passed on a voice vote an amendment to energy-
spending legislation for fiscal year 2012 barring the Energy
Department from implementing or enforcing lighting-efficiency
standards set by 2007 legislation. The law would effectively
push the traditional bulbs off store shelves, starting with the
100-watt version next year.  Republicans passed the amendment over objections from
Democrats, environmental groups and lighting manufacturers such
as Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) , which have
retooled factories and products to meet the new standards.
Critics said consumers should be able to buy the cheapest bulbs
on the market.  “The federal government has no right to tell me or any
other citizen what type of light bulb to use at home,” said
Representative Michael Burgess, a Texas Republican who sponsored
the amendment, during debate yesterday. “It is our right to
choose.”  President Barack Obama’s administration has said the light-
bulb standards will save consumers $6 billion in 2015.  Democrats rejected Republicans’ complaints that the bulb
standards would restrict choice, saying companies already
produce more than one type of lighting that would comply with
the law, including a more efficient and more expensive
incandescent.  Spending Measure  The House passed the spending bill that includes the light-
bulb amendment by a 219-196 vote, with 10 Democrats joining the
majority and 21 Republicans opposing the measure.  The legislation provides $30.6 billion in funding for
energy- and water-related programs, about $5.9 billion less than
the amount requested by President  Barack Obama , and about $1
billion less than the programs received for fiscal 2011.  Efforts by Democrats to add millions of dollars to energy-
efficiency and renewable-energy programs were rejected by
Republicans during debate on the measure. The Appropriations
Committee had cut $1.9 billion from the Administration’s $3.2
billion request.  The bill adds $45 million to pay for a waste-repository at
Yucca Mountain,  Nevada , which the administration is seeking to
shut down.  Second Bulb Vote  Today’s vote on light bulbs was the second this week. The
House on July 13 rejected by a 233-193 vote a bill that would
have repealed the higher efficiency standards. The measure was
brought up under a procedure that required two-thirds support to
pass.  While the 2007 law passed with bipartisan support and was
signed by President  George W. Bush , Republicans have cited it
this year as an example of an intrusive federal government.
Critics also said the mercury contained in one type of
replacement, the compact fluorescent lights, raise health and
environmental concerns.  Recycling Bulbs  Environmental groups said the trace amount of the toxin in
the bulbs isn’t a problem when they are recycled properly, and
that the standards will eventually save the amount of energy
that would otherwise be produced by more than 30  power plants .  Kateri Callahan, president of the Alliance to Save Energy,
a Washington-based energy-efficiency advocacy group, said in a
statement yesterday that preventing the Energy Department from
enforcing the light-bulb law “may cost consumers little up
front, but would put a strain on their wallets in the long
term.”  The National Electrical Manufacturers Association, which
includes Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co., said
in a letter to Congress that the bill would “strand millions of
dollars in investment,” create “regulatory uncertainty,” and
increase energy use in the U.S.  The spending bill is H.R. 2354.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  