-- 
Love-Crazed ‘Hair’ Returns; Durang’s Grisly ‘Vacation’: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/love-crazed-hair-returns-durang-s-grisly-vacation-review.html
“ Hair ” is back on Broadway, its
happy hippies dancing in the aisles and clambering over startled
theatergoers.  A year after the 2009 edition of the musical closed, the
national tour is in New York for two months. A booking in  Asia 
fell through, presenting an opportunity for the producers,
including the  Public Theater , to sell diehards and tourists on
one more summer of love.  Its anti-war message still hits home, given Barack Obama’s
failure to be the political game-changer many had hoped.  Paris Remillard is a charismatic Claude, capturing the
innocence of the “genius genius” who believes in God and
believes that God believes in Claude. His refusal to burn his
draft card gives the trippy proceedings its heft.  Steel Burkhardt is a beefy Berger, who does handstands and
cartwheels onstage. He has the rambunctiousness of Will Swenson,
his Broadway predecessor, if not Swenson’s star presence. Caren
Lyn Tackett is a standout Sheila, who sings the affecting ballad
“Easy to be Hard.”  Under Diane Paulus’s direction, the young troupe’s energy
is admirable, but several performers more resemble clean-cut
models from Benetton ads than ragtag 1960s renegades. And the
pruned topiary of the lady hippies reminds us that we’re in
2011.  Through Sept. 10 at the St. James Theatre, 246 W. 44th St.
Information: +1-239-6200;  http://www.hairontour.com  Rating:
**1/2  ‘Betty’s Summer Vacation’  A sign in the lobby at Sag Harbor’s  Bay Street Theatre 
promises that “Betty’s Summer Vacation” contains “wickedly
strong language and shockingly sexual frankness.”  The sex is generally offstage and includes rape and incest.
The vacation is not one you’d want to take yourself.  Christopher Durang’s 1999 farce deposits a half-dozen
souls, mostly eccentrics, in a bright, inviting summer house by
the water. (The set is by Walt Spangler.) Bad, violent things
happen, underscored by offstage laughter.  Eventually, the play evolves into a prescient if grating
critique of celebrity-obsessed pop culture.  Trip Cullman directs a splendid, game cast of actors
familiar to New York theatergoers.  Celia Keenan-Bolger plays a hard-up young neurotic, John
Behlmann an indiscriminate lothario, Bobby Steggert an amiable
loner with a hat box he refuses to open. Heidi Schreck as the
straight woman in the title role projects quiet intelligence and
Veanne Cox as the house’s senior statesman lunatic is enviably
manic.  Through July 30 at 1 Bay Street, Sag Harbor. Information:
+1-631-725-9500, or  http://www.baystreet.org  Rating: **  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:  Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 