-- 
Pakistan’s Central Bank Governor Resigns

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-07-15T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/pakistan-s-central-bank-governor-resigns-over-policy-dispute.html
Pakistan’s  central bank Governor
Shahid Kardar resigned, the second person to quit the post in 15
months in an economy with one of  Asia ’s highest inflation rates
and where growth has been hobbled by terrorism and floods.  “I have resigned over policy differences with the
government,” Kardar said in a phone interview from Lahore
yesterday. “The acceptance of my resignation is pending with
the government.”  The government will name the new governor when it formally
receives Kardar’s resignation from the office of the prime
minister, presidential spokesman  Farhatullah Babar  said by phone
from Islamabad.  Kardar blamed increased  government borrowing  for price
gains, while keeping the benchmark discount rate unchanged at 14
percent since January this year. The combination of inflation,
rising debt and slow economic growth is a “nightmare,” his
aide and director of the monetary policy department at the  State
Bank  of Pakistan, Hamza Ali Malik, said last month.  “He was on a collision course with the government on the
rate issue,” said Sakib Sherani, chief executive officer at the
Islamabad-based research group Macroeconomic Insights, and a
former adviser in the  finance ministry . “He pursued a
relatively tighter monetary policy, which might not have gone
well with the political objectives of the government.”  Growth Target  Pakistan’s benchmark stock index, the Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 Index, has advanced 2.7 percent since Jan. 1, while
the currency has weakened 0.5 percent to 86.07 against the
dollar.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government aims to
boost growth to 4.2 percent in the year to June 30, 2012, from
2.4 percent in the previous 12 months.  Kardar, a chartered accountant who studied politics,
philosophy and economics at Oxford, took charge as the head of
 Pakistan ’s  central bank  on Sept. 14, 2010, for a three-year
term. He replaced Syed Salim Raza, who quit in June last year.  Kardar raised rates in September and November by half a
percentage point each.  Government  borrowing  rose 58 percent to 716 billion rupees
($8.3 billion) in the last fiscal year from the previous 12
months, according to the central bank.  Consumer prices in Pakistan climbed 13.1 percent in June,
the most after  Vietnam , among the 17 nations in the Asia Pacific
tracked by Bloomberg.  Budget Deficit  Further monetary tightening to tackle inflation is
difficult because of the risk of hurting investment, State
Bank’s Malik said in an interview with Bloomberg on June 1.  Pakistan’s government last month pledged to cut the  budget
deficit  to a seven-year low of 4 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending June 30, 2012, from 5.7 percent of
GDP in the previous 12 months, to help ease living costs.  The  International Monetary Fund  told Pakistani officials in
May that the government needs to keep cutting the deficit to
take pressure off monetary policy and allow more credit to
companies.  The Washington-based fund stopped disbursing money to
Pakistan in May 2010 after the country failed to meet conditions
attached to an $11.3 billion loan first issued in 2008. The next
round of talks is due this month.  Pakistan’s $162 billion economy is lagging behind emerging
markets including India and  China , which helped lead the global
economic rebound from the deepest postwar recession. Pakistan’s
expansion has also been undermined by a Taliban insurgency and
record floods in 2010.  The floods destroyed $3.3 billion of crops, swept away
4,000 kilometers of roads and 1,000 bridges, according to
government estimates.  The nation’s military has stepped up its fight against
insurgents in the northwest after al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. troops in Abbottabad on May 2. At least
35,000 Pakistanis have been killed in terrorist attacks in the
last decade, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  