-- 
Panasonic May Build Energy-Saving Homes on Ex-Factory Sites After Quakes

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-07-15T00:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/panasonic-may-build-green-homes-on-former-factory-sites-after-earthquake.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  may build homes in
 Japan  with power-saving devices on sites of factories it closed
as the appliance maker looks to tap demand for energy-efficient
products after the March 11 earthquake.  Homes in so-called smart towns, where Panasonic plans to
sell to consumers directly, may include solar panels, energy-
efficient refrigerators and rechargeable batteries, Teruhisa
Noro, a director for Panasonic’s systems and equipment business
promotion division, said in an interview yesterday.  The plans are part of Panasonic’s effort to expand business
built on energy-related products and to cut its reliance on
television sales, as intensified competition erodes prices.
Japan’s worst earthquake and tsunami cut power supplies across
the country and boosted demand for energy-saving devices.  “There is a noticeable increase in interest for houses and
equipment that can generate and save energy since the March 11
disaster,” said Noro. “We’re getting inquiries from municipal
and government agencies about our projects.”  The Osaka-based company will probably base the latest
project on one in Fujisawa, southwest of  Tokyo , where Panasonic
is building 1,000 homes in a former factory site, Noro said.  Sales from the energy-efficient homes and buildings may
reach at least 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in the year ending
March 2013, President Fumio Ohtsubo said in May. The annual
revenue may triple two years after that, he said.  Products in Price  The homes could be built on sites of factories Panasonic
closed to cut costs. Panasonic, the nation’s largest maker of
home appliances, announced plans to shut about 20 percent of its
230 factories two years ago after the worst global recession
eroded earnings.  Panasonic plans to offer low-priced houses through its
home-building affiliate in the Tohoku region, which was hit by
the earthquake and tsunami, Noro said.  The company may also build residential blocks equipped with
some of its energy-saving products such as solar panels in
 India , where the company plans to build a new plant, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 