-- 
Pawlenty Wants ‘Structural’ Debt Change, Opposes McConnell Plan

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/pawlenty-pans-mcconnell-s-debt-reduction-plan-wants-structural-change.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Tim Pawlenty  criticized Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell ’s last-choice plan to raise the U.S. debt limit as a
“Band-Aid on a broken bone.”  The former  Minnesota  governor said President  Barack Obama 
is “spinning” the public on the debt-limit debate and called
on him to “stop lecturing everybody every 24 hours and get the
deal done.”  “I wish they didn’t raise the debt ceiling,” Pawlenty
said in an interview on “Political Capital With Al Hunt”
airing on Bloomberg Television this weekend. He said that if
Congress does so, “we need to get something structural that’s
meaningful and measurable” to cut spending.  Pawlenty said he doesn’t believe the U.S. will default on
its obligations. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has
projected the country will exhaust its $14.3 trillion borrowing
authority by Aug. 2 without a vote of Congress to raise it.
Pawlenty said that if that occurs, he would favor reimbursing
foreign creditors before sending military personnel or Social
Security recipients their checks.  “Of course the outside creditors” should be paid first,
followed by the military, he said.  McConnell’s plan “doesn’t solve the problem,” Pawlenty,
50, said. It would allow Obama to raise the debt ceiling
unilaterally if he suggested an equal amount of spending cuts,
with no requirement that they be enacted.  ‘Top Few’ in  Iowa   Pawlenty, who has been focused on Iowa, home to the
nation’s first presidential caucuses scheduled for next
February, said he must finish in the “top few” of the Aug. 13
straw poll in Ames to be viable as a candidate.  He said late entrants to the Republican presidential field
might help determine his viability.  “We’ve just got to show significant improvement,”
Pawlenty said. “And part of it is also who else is in that
mix.”  Pawlenty defended his proposal to slash individual and
corporate taxes, which a Bloomberg analysis found would be the
biggest  tax cut  ever, handing the 0.1 percent of highest earners
an average tax cut of $1.4 million a year.  “If you’re into wealth redistribution, vote for President
Obama,” he said. “If you’re into growing the economy so the
other 97 percent of us can have jobs and pay our mortgages and
put gas in our car and get our kids to college, then vote for
me.”  Social Security  Pressed on whether his economic plans would require any
sacrifice by the wealthiest Americans, Pawlenty noted he is
proposing to limit the annual increase in Social Security
benefits for higher-income beneficiaries.  Wealthier people are “paying a bucket-load already” in
taxes, he said.  Pawlenty also favorably compared his record on  job creation 
with that of two other potential rivals for the Republican
presidential nomination, former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr.,
who is running, and Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who is weighing a
bid.  “I operated in a blue state, so we’re taking it from way
over to the left to something more mainstream,” Pawlenty said.
“It’s one thing to rubber-stamp a conservative legislature’s
work. It’s another thing to move the needle” in a state like
Minnesota.  Asked whether he could envision including gay or lesbian
people in his Cabinet, Pawlenty said he could. He said he has
had “several appointees” who were gay, even though he is
opposed to gay marriage.  “I don’t view that as a reason why you would or wouldn’t
pick somebody for a position in office,” said Pawlenty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  