-- 
Peak6’s Wien, Alexander of ‘Seinfeld’ Fame Ousted From Poker’s Main Event

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-07-15T18:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/peak6-s-wien-alexander-of-seinfeld-fame-ousted-from-poker-s-main-event.html
Options trader Jeremy Wien and actor
Jason Alexander were among those eliminated in the Day 3 of the
 World Series of Poker ’s main event yesterday.  Wien, head of VIX options trading at  Peak6 Capital
Management LLC , and Alexander, best known for his role as George
Costanza on the television show “Seinfeld,” were both
eliminated as the tournament trimmed to 852 players from the
original 6,685, according to its website.  The $10,000 buy-in tournament, officially known as the No-
Limit Hold’em World Championship, is being held at the  Rio All-
Suite Hotel & Casino  in  Las Vegas . The tournament has a purse of
over $64.5 million, with the top 693 finishing in the money and
the winner earning $8.7 million.  “I kept waiting for a hand where I would have a chance to
take a big chunk of chips, but it just didn’t happen this
year,” Wien said in a telephone interview.  Playing in his fifth main event, Wien advanced to the third
day for the third consecutive year. He lost roughly 85,000 in
chips in a hand yesterday afternoon, and was eliminated
following the dinner break, when he went all in and failed to
pair his queen or jack with any of the five communal cards.  Wien said that he is “absolutely” expecting to compete
for a sixth time in the main event next year.  “I’m 26, I’ve made Day 3 three years in a row, and I’ve
cashed in the World Championship already, so I know there will
be other opportunities,” Wien said. “Having said that, you are
competing in a championship event that happens once a year so
you always want to do as well as possible.”  Series Leader  Patrick Poirier of Tupper Lake,  New York , who has won
$6,707 in World Series of Poker prize money in his career, leads
with 1,328,000 in chips. Dan Perper of  Highland Park ,  Illinois ,
managing director of proprietary trading at Peak6, is tied for
663rd, with 109,000, according to the tournament website.  “It feels like I don’t have a lot, but looking back I am
just happy that I was able to gain chips instead of losing
chips,” Perper, 37, said in a telephone interview from Las
Vegas. “Then I look at how many people are out and it’s cool to
still be in.”  Perper, playing in his sixth live poker tournament and
first World Series main event, said his work at Peak6 has helped
him shrug off the pressure this week.  “It’s helped me prepare for the heat of it, and it’s
helped me prepare for the analytical process of poker,” Perper
said. “There are a lot of similarities between a multitable
poker tournament and running an options business or trading
options, because of the leverage and the importance of having
chips.”  Former Champions  Former main-event champions eliminated in the Day 3 session
were Huck Seed, Tom McEvoy and 2009 winner Joe Cada. Four former
champions remain, including Robert Varkonyi and Phil Hellmuth.
Professionals Ben Lamb, Daniel Negreanu and Todd Brunson, all
previous winners of other  World Series  events, also are still
alive.  The remaining competitors return to the tables today for
the Day 4 session. The tournament is scheduled to play down to
nine by July 19. Those players will compete at the final table
on Nov. 7 to crown the champion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  