-- 
Boeing ’Decided It Would Lose Money’ on Tanker

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-15T19:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/pentagon-s-carter-says-boeing-tanker-overrun-not-our-problem-.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s cost overruns for the
new U.S.  Air Force  tanker jets are “not our problem,” the
Defense Department’s procurement chief,  Ashton Carter , said
today in Washington.  The company “decided it would lose money” developing the
aerial refueling tanker, Carter said.  Boeing’s costs on the aerial tanker contract are projected
to exceed its $3.9 billion target cost, triggering a “share
line.” Up to a ceiling of $4.9 billion, Boeing would absorb
$400 million in foregone profit. The Air Force pays $600
million. This is known as a 60/40 share line.  Boeing in April also told the Air Force it’s projected to
exceed the ceiling by at least $300 million -- a loss absorbed
only by the company.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the senior Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, yesterday called the situation
“completely unacceptable.”  “I can assure you that Congress and taxpayers will find a
$600 million subsidy of a low-ball bid by Boeing is something
they feel they should not have to pay,” wrote McCain in a letter
to Carter yesterday.  Still, the contract that includes development and
production of the first four aircraft “was written with the
protection for the taxpayer” in mind, Carter said.  Pentagon officials evaluated proposals from Boeing and
rival European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for the
Pentagon’s liability up to the ceiling price, and included funds
to cover the military’s share in case of cost growth, Carter
said.  Boeing’s Decision  “So the fact that Boeing decided that it would lose money
in the development phase, presumably in the hopes of making
money in the production phase, was a decision they made,”
Carter said.  “That’s not a problem from the Department’s point of view
and not particularly surprising,” Carter said.  “What’s good in this case is that somebody who
underestimated the cost of development does not leave us open-
ended liable” because the government does not pay any money to
Boeing that exceeds the $4.9 billion ceiling, Carter said.  “If they come in” over $3.9 billion, the Air Force pays
its share until the $4.9 billion ceiling is reached, Air Force
KC-46 program manager Major General-select Christopher Bogdon
said. “If they get to $4.9 billion, they get zero profit,”
Bogdon said.  “We made an aggressive yet responsible bid to win the
contract.” said Conrad Chun, a Boeing spokesman, in a previous
statement. “This is a win for the Air Force and a win for the
taxpayer in that they will receive the best tanker at the best
price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  