-- 
Perelman Prompts Speculation Lowest Bid Gets Biggest Price Rise: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-07-15T02:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/perelman-spurs-speculation-low-bid-gets-biggest-rise-real-m-a.html
Ron Perelman is trying to complete
the least expensive buyout of a holding company in eight years,
prompting speculation that traders can extract the biggest price
increase of any U.S. deal from the billionaire.  Perelman, who owns 43 percent of  M&F Worldwide Corp. (MFW)  and is
its chairman, offered to acquire the rest of the company three
days after it fell to a two-year low in June. The $24-a-share
bid was 4.1 percent less than the average price in the past year
for New York-based M&F, which makes everything from licorice to
checkbooks and standardized test forms. M&F has climbed 6.7
percent above Perelman’s proposal, more than any U.S. all-cash
acquisition, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the buyout is 42 percent above M&F’s price a day
before the deal was announced, shareholders want a higher offer
for a target that throws off more free cash relative to its
shares than any U.S. holding company worth at least $100 million.
Perelman, whose hostile takeover of cosmetics maker  Revlon Inc. (REV) 
in the 1980s helped build his fortune and led to a ruling that
made price the biggest consideration in acquisitions, may now
try to gain control of M&F on the cheap, according to the
University of Chicago’s  Steven Kaplan .  “It is ironic given his history” with Revlon, said Kaplan,
a finance professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School
of Business. “I would predict that he will raise the price and
that seems to be what the market is betting on.”  Licorice, Checkbooks  Perelman declined to comment, as did  Christine Taylor , a
spokeswoman for M&F Worldwide.  M&F owns Mafco Worldwide Corp., a licorice producer;
Harland Clarke Corp., which makes checks; and  Scantron Corp. ,
which provides testing systems to educational institutions.  MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc., the New York-based
company that Perelman uses to make acquisitions, offered M&F
about $264 million for the 57 percent it doesn’t already own on
June 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Including M&F’s $2.04 billion in net debt, the transaction
is worth about $2.3 billion, the data show.  Since the proposal was announced last month, M&F has
recouped of all its losses, which reached 27 percent this year.
After closing at $16.96 on June l0, the stock has since rallied
51 percent to $25.61 yesterday. That’s $1.61 more than
Perelman’s all-cash offer, indicating that arbitragers expect a
higher bid will emerge, the data show.  ‘Lowball Bid’  While Perelman’s $24-a-share proposal sparked M&F’s biggest
one-day advance since at least 1995, the company had traded at
an average of $25.03 in the year prior to the announcement,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Perelman’s offer values M&F at 5.2 times earnings of $477
million before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in
the past 12 months, the data show. That’s the lowest among
comparable U.S. companies, which trade at a median of 8.9 times.
It’s also the least expensive for a takeover of a holding
company since November 2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “He was able to offer a premium and still bid only $24,”
said  John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston .
“That’s a lowball bid. He would be getting a great deal if it
goes through, but the rest of the shareholders would be getting
a bad deal.”  Dorfman estimated that a “fair offer” based on the
company’s net assets would equal about $34 a share, or 42
percent more than Perelman’s bid.  By pursuing M&F, Perelman can also gain control of a
company that’s cheaper relative to its free cash flow and sales
than any other U.S. diversified holding company with a market
value greater than $100 million, the data show.  Revlon Rule  M&F’s businesses last year generated more than $250 million
in cash from operations, after taking into account capital
expenses, the most since at least 1995, the data show. Its free
cash flow yield of about 46 percent is the highest among its
competitors, which have a median yield of 5.3 percent.  “The public markets don’t think it is worth very much,”
said Adam Pritchard, a corporate and securities law professor at
the  University of Michigan Law School  in  Ann Arbor . For Perelman,
“that’s a good reason to take the company private,” he said.  Perelman is known for his hostile bid for New York-based
Revlon using cash raised by former junk bond salesman  Michael Milken . The bidding contest for Revlon between Perelman’s Pantry
Pride and Forstmann Little & Co. ended in a legal case that
produced the framework for the so-called Revlon Rule.  The precedent mandates that once it is clear that a company
will be sold, its directors have the fiduciary duty to find the
highest price for shareholders. The ruling blocked Revlon’s
agreement with Forstmann Little in favor of Perelman.  Pocket Money  “If the M&F board decides to put up the ‘for sale’ sign,
then it has to be guided by Revlon,”  Roy Smith , a finance
professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business,
said in an e-mail message.  M&F will “appoint a special committee of independent
directors to consider its proposal and make a recommendation to
the company’s board,” MacAndrews & Forbes said in a statement
on June 13. If the committee doesn’t recommend the offer or
shareholders reject the bid, MacAndrews & Forbes intends to
remain a long-term investor, it said.  While traders are betting that M&F is worth more than
Perelman’s proposal, other bidders aren’t likely to emerge
because Perelman already controls almost half of the company and
could walk away, said  Sachin Shah , a former merger arbitrage
strategist for Capstone Global Markets LLC in  New York .  That may limit how much more M&F shareholders can wrest
from Perelman if he decides to raise his offer, he said.  “Perelman is trying to take the company on the cheap while
the company’s stock collapsed,” said Shah. “It’s not likely
that you will see a white knight. A company like this to Ron
Perelman is money in his pocket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 