-- 
Philippine Peso Declines This Week on Slowdown Risk; Bonds Drop

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-15T08:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/philippine-peso-declines-this-week-on-slowdown-risk-bonds-drop.html
The Philippine peso completed its
first weekly decline in a month as signs the global economic
recovery is faltering damped the outlook for exports.  The currency fell by the most since November on July 12
after a government report showed overseas shipments unexpectedly
dropped in May. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday the central bank isn’t ready to embark on a third
round of government bond buying to boost the  U.S. economy , whose
debt rating has been placed on watch for a possible downgrade
this week by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  “The peso is weaker because it’s reflecting the
developments in  Europe  and these concerns in the U.S.,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender by assets. “It’s
reflecting the fragile recovery.”  The peso declined 0.4 percent this week to 42.938 per
dollar as of the 4 p.m. close in Manila, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. It was little changed today.  Exports fell 3.2 percent from a year earlier to $4.1
billion, the  National Statistics Office  said this week. That
compares with a 19 percent gain in April and the median estimate
for a 4.3 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The Philippine economy may “conservatively” expand at
around 5 percent this year, President Benigno Aquino said in
Pampanga yesterday, citing tensions in the Middle East and
problems in Japan as reasons for the slowdown. The government’s
growth target was 7 percent to 8 percent. Gross domestic product
increased 7.6 percent in 2010.  Philippine five-year bonds dropped this week. The yield on
the 7 percent securities due January 2016 increased seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.75 percent, according to
Tradition Financial Services. The rate fell 13 basis points
today.  The government will issue 323.4 billion pesos ($7.5 billion)
of new 10- and 20-year bonds in its largest peso debt swap to
date, the Department of Finance said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 