-- 
Philips Chief Makes $2.8 Billion Bet on Overhaul to Meet Goals

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-07-18T08:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/philips-to-give-strategic-update-as-investors-brace-for-decline-in-profit.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV Chief
Executive Officer Frans  van Houten  said he’ll embark on a
2 billion-euro ($2.8 billion) share buyback program, betting
that a companywide overhaul will help the Dutch maker of  light
bulbs  and electrical goods meet new goals for growth.  The maker of Sonicare toothbrushes plans to cut an
additional 500 million euros in costs after reporting its
biggest loss in almost a decade and predicting no improvement to
its performance in the near term. Philips shares were little
changed in Amsterdam, where the company is based.  Van Houten, who became CEO in April, said he’s reviewing
management layers and staffing as he looks to reduce the
complexity of Philips. The savings will help improve efficiency
at a time when Philips is battling with low-cost manufacturers
in  Asia . Van Houten today unveiled a goal to lift margins to 10
percent to 12 percent by 2013, on sales growth of 4 percent to 6
percent.  “The share buyback is a positive surprise, especially the
timing of it, and the new targets look achievable”, said  Peter
Olofsen , an Amsterdam-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  Philips shares have declined more than 20 percent since Van
Houten’s arrival, paring the company’s market value to 17.9
billion euros.  Siemens AG (SIE) , which competes with Philips in
lighting and healthcare equipment, is little changed in
 Frankfurt  this year.  New Targets  Today’s strategic update reflectsvan Houten’s
determination to accelerate a turnaround of the company after
completing his first 100 days at the helm. Analysts had expected
new targets, which replace ones set in September, to be released
at the third-quarter results’ stage in the fall. The company
halted buybacks in January 2009 in a bid to preserve cash.  “The new targets look realistic and are in line with our
estimates for 2013, said  Victor Bareno , an Amsterdam-based
analyst at SNS Securities. He changed his recommendation to hold
from reduce.  Philips, which announced 1.6 billion euros in writedowns,
reported second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization of 370 million euros, a two-year low, down from 506
million euros. Analysts in a survey predicted 304 million euros.  The CEO is using cutbacks to offset an additional 200
million euros in expenses related to sales and research and
development. The company predicted 30 million euros in
restructuring and purchase-related costs in the third quarter.  TV Exit  Philips is bundling its operations making televisions,
which it first produced in 1928, into a partnership that will be
70 percent owned by Hong Kong-based  TPV Technology Ltd. (903) , joining
European conglomerates including Siemens scaling back consumer
electronics as prices decline. Rival  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  announced the
transfer of its LCD TV production site for the North American
and Mexican markets to  Taiwan ’s Compal Electronics last week.  Philips already cut 6,000 jobs to defend margins as the
global recession lowered demand for products. The Vision 2015
targets set out last year that are currently on hold included a
margin goal of 10 percent to 13 percent. The company didn’t
specify in today’s release if the savings plan includes job
cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  