-- 
Poland Unexpectedly Posts Balanced Current Account on Expanding Exports

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 
2011-07-15T14:20:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/poland-unexpectedly-posts-balanced-current-account-on-expanding-exports.html
Poland  unexpectedly posted a
balanced current account in May as exports grew faster than
forecast and funding from the European Union outweighed payments
to the bloc.  Today’s figure for the current account, the broadest
measure of money flowing into and out of the economy, compares
with a year-earlier deficit of 938 million euros ($1.3 billion),
the central bank in Warsaw said today in a statement. The median
forecast from 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
deficit of 755 million euros.  “The strength of exports was a real surprise,”  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank Zachodni WBK, said by phone
after the release. “This isn’t sustainable, though. As the
economies of western  Europe  slow this year, we’ll see Polish
export growth falling back.”  Exports grew almost 21 percent from a year earlier to 12.2
billion euros, compared with the median estimate of 11.5 billion
euros, the central bank said. Imports rose 21.9 percent to 13.1
billion euros. Transfers from the EU were 1.8 billion euros. In
May 2010, Poland paid 238 million euros into the bloc’s budget.  “As long as the German recovery remains so strong, we
should see around 10 percent export growth over the remainder of
this year,” Reluga said.  Economic growth in  Germany , the EU’s largest economy and
Poland’s biggest trading partner, is forecast to slow to 3.4
percent this year and 2.5 percent next, from 3.5 percent in
2010, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a May report. The 3.4 percent growth rate
for this year is still the fastest among Group of Seven nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Nathaniel Espino at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  