-- 
Traders Seeing 33% Chance of Lehman-Sized RBA Rate Cut: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-15T07:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/traders-seeing-33-chance-of-lehman-sized-rba-rate-cut-australia-credit.html
Traders are adding to bets
 Australia ’s central bank will repeat its emergency interest-rate
cuts of 2008 as the economy falters and concern intensifies that
U.S. and European debt burdens will derail global growth.  The yield on December cash-rate futures was 4.345 percent
as of 4:45 p.m. in Sydney. That implies the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will lower its benchmark of 4.75 percent to 4.5
percent by year-end, and a 41 percent chance of a reduction to
3.75 percent. Ten-year government bond yields fell the most this
week since since December 2008.  The rally in bonds comes after statements from RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  last month that rates may rise to contain
Australia’s biggest mining boom in a century. Economists have
pushed back forecasts for when rates will increase amid a
proposed carbon tax and the lowest business confidence in six
months. Westpac Banking Corp. today became the first among
Australia’s four biggest lenders to predict a cut in the
benchmark in December.  “People are fundamentally reassessing the economic outlook
for Australia,” said Sally Auld, a Sydney-based interest-rate
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The question then becomes
what might drive the RBA to cut: Either something goes
catastrophically wrong in  Europe , in which case they’ll cut by
100 basis points, or the domestic economy continues to weaken.”  Stevens slashed the cash rate to 3 percent from 7.25
percent between September 2008 and April 2009, in a record
stretch, to counter a global credit freeze. The RBA’s post-
Lehman reaction included three rate cuts of 100 basis points
each, the first time the central bank had moved by more than 25
basis points at a time since 2001.  Yields Fall  Australia’s 10-year yield fell as low as 4.90 percent today,
the least since Sept. 8, from this year’s high of 5.84 percent
on Feb. 8. It dropped 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage point,
this week to 4.91 percent as of 4:59 p.m. in Sydney, or 2
percentage points more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Two-year Australian yields fell to 4.33 percent, down 41
basis points since June 30, and are set for a third monthly drop.  “The move to lower yields at the front of the curve has
been the real pain trade and a lot of people have lost a lot of
money,” said Auld. “That means the appetite to put on any risk
is very minimal, especially in a world where you really don’t
know what’s going to happen one day to the next in Europe.”  Consumer Confidence   Australian consumer confidence fell this month by the most
since 2008 as concern intensified that Europe’s debt crisis is
getting worse, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and
Melbourne Institute survey released July 13.  The RBA will raise the official cash rate a quarter of a
percentage point to 5 percent in November, according to the
median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this
week. A survey three weeks ago showed the median prediction was
for a rate increase in August.  Governor Stevens will begin a “sequence of rate cuts” and
start by lowering the key rate to 4.5 percent in December,  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economists, wrote in an emailed note
today. The RBA will reduce its benchmark by 100 basis points in
total through 2012 before holding it unchanged in 2013, he said.  Greece  has about a one in 10 chance of sidestepping default,
according to credit traders who are betting the country will be
crippled by $490 billion of debt -- more than $40,000 for every
citizen. Italy has about 1.8 trillion euros ($2.54 trillion) of
debt, more than Greece,  Spain ,  Portugal  and Ireland combined.  Debt Limit  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned
lawmakers there’s no possible extension to the time limit to
raise the federal debt ceiling as  Standard & Poor’s  became the
second ratings company this week to say it may downgrade the
U.S.’s top credit rating.  Investors are accepting the lowest yields on Australian
 government securities  maturing in less than a year since the
period following Lehman’s collapse. Every tender since June 9
has drawn a weighted average yield less than the benchmark rate.  Notes maturing on Oct. 21 were priced to yield 4.6493
percent at yesterday’s tender, the biggest discount to the cash
rate since May 2009.  Retailer  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)  announced July 13 that it
expected profit to drop as much as 12 percent in the half-year
ending this month, just two months after Australia’s second-
largest department store chain forecast a 5 percent increase.  Business confidence fell to a six-month low in June due to
a strengthening currency and signs of weaker global growth, a
study released July 12 showed.  Consumer Prices  Australian government bond and inflation-indexed note
yields show investors expect consumer prices will rise an annual
2.8 percent for the next 10 years.  The RBA started lifting borrowing costs in October 2009 as
credit markets thawed, the first Group of 20 nation to raise
rates after the global financial crisis. Investors piled in to
the Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
to take advantage of the higher yields, pushing it up 20 percent
against the greenback in the past 12 months.  Australia’s strengthening dollar is a burden for many of
the nation’s industries, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday.  The so-called Aussie traded at $1.06511 today and will buy
$1.04 at the end of 2011, according to the median forecast of 37
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. The currency climbed to
$1.1012 on May 2, the highest since exchange-rate controls were
scrapped in 1983.  Bond Returns  The nation’s sovereign debt has gained 6 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, the best return after  New Zealand 
among 20 developed markets tracked by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. That compares with 3.4 percent for the U.S. and 2
percent for  Germany .  Portuguese bonds are the worst performers, generating a
27.6 percent loss, followed by Irish debt’s 21.6 percent drop
and a 2.5 percent decline for  Italy ’s securities.  Traders of cash-rate futures began pricing in the chance of
an Australian interest-rate cut by year-end on June 16. The
 European Central Bank  warned the day before that the threat of
the Greek debt crisis spilling over into the banking sector was
the biggest risk to the region’s financial stability.  “We think the RBA is near the end of its tightening
cycle,” said Brad Gibson, head of rates strategies at ING
Investment Management in Sydney, overseeing about A$14 billion
in fixed-income funds. “Given the deteriorating global
situation it is increasingly difficult to see an RBA hike in the
months ahead, though a higher cash rate in Australia in the
medium term is still our central case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  