-- 
Rand Set For Its Worst Week in Two Months as Further U.S. Stimulus Likely

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-15T14:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/rand-set-for-its-worst-week-in-two-months-as-further-u-s-stimulus-likely.html
The rand headed for its biggest
weekly retreat in two months versus the dollar after the  Federal
Reserve  tempered hopes of more stimulus for the world’s largest
economy and strikes in South Africa created fuel shortages.  South Arica’s currency slid as much as 0.9 percent to
6.9193, and traded 0.7 percent weaker at 6.9075 as of 3:45 p.m.
in Johannesburg. It has declined 2.9 percent versus the dollar
in the past five days, its worst performance since the week
ending May 13. The rand slipped 0.4 percent to 9.7441 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks and commodities fell for a second
day after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers in  Washington  the Fed won’t immediately resume buying
bonds and  Standard & Poor’s  became the second firm this week to
say it may cut the U.S.’s top credit rating. European stocks
sank amid speculation stress tests on banks may show they don’t
have enough capital to weather the fiscal crisis.  “The uncertainty surrounding the debt crises in  Europe  and
the U.S. kept the rand on the back foot,” Standard Bank Group
Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in
a research note. “The fact that Fed Chairman Bernanke dashed
expectations of further quantitative easing, while S&P became
the latest rating agency to signal the possibility of a U.S.
downgrade, also took a toll on risky assets.”  The one-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
dollar has jumped 1.57 percentage points this week to 14.82
percent, indicating currency options traders see wider swings in
South Africa’s currency in coming weeks. The premium of one-
month options to sell the rand over those to buy is 3 percentage
points, near the highest since Sept. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stress Tests  The results of the European bank stress tests will be
published after the close of South African markets.  “Global markets remain very hectic and holding long-risk
positions ahead of the weekend appears to be a daredevil
strategy,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in a research note. “We would not advocate
long positions ahead of the weekend” in emerging-market
currencies, they wrote.  Pumps ran dry at as many as 270 gas stations as a strike in
 South Africa ’s fuel industry entered its fifth day, adding to
negative investor sentiment.  “It would be a mistake if we did not mention the negative
fall-out that the local  strike action  is having on overall
sentiment both within South Africa and amongst the foreign
investment community,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by
Johannesburg-based wrote said in a research note. This might
translate into some short-term under performance of the rand
versus other emerging- market currencies.”  Bonds gained for a third day. The 6.75 percent securities
due 2021 rose 7 cents to 89.13 rand, cutting the yield one basis
point, or 0.1 percentage point, to 8.41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  