-- 
Treasuries Gain for Second Consecutive Week as European Contagion Spreads

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-15T21:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/treasuries-gain-for-second-consecutive-week-as-european-contagion-spreads.html
Treasuries gained for a second
consecutive week as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsened and the
 Federal Reserve  squelched speculation it would provide
additional stimulus while the economic recovery slowed.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes reached the lowest level
since December as investors sought a refuge in  U.S. government
debt . The Treasury attracted higher-than average-demand at this
week’s three note and bond auctions even after Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s said the U.S. may lose its top
credit ratings if lawmakers fail to lift a ceiling on the
nation’s borrowing limit before Aug. 2.  “Given the uncertainty about what’s going on in Washington
and Europe,” investors want to hold Treasuries, said Bulent Baygun, head of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at BNP
Paribas SA, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with
Federal Reserve. “There’s a very strong backdrop for lower
rates.”  The 10-year note yield fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, this week to 2.91 percent as of 5:15 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield
dropped 5 basis points today and touched 2.81 percent on July
12, the lowest since Dec. 1. The price of the 3.125 percent
security due in May 2021 rose 1 1/32, or $10.31 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 27/32.  Rates on one- and three-month bills turned negative during
the week as investors were willing to forgo returns in order to
preserve their principal.  Crisis Intensifies  Treasuries rose on the week as Moody’s lowered Ireland’s
credit rating to junk, fueling concern that the European
sovereign-debt crisis will spread beyond the three nations that
already receive bailouts and dampen investors’ appetite for
higher-risk assets.  Greece  was downgraded to CCC by  Fitch
Ratings , the lowest grade for any country, and three steps above
default.  The 10-year borrowing costs for Italy and  Spain  surged this
week to the highest since the introduction of the euro in 1999.
Italian notes rose as high as 6.02 percent and Spanish bonds
climbed to 6.31 percent. The cost of insuring Irish and
Portuguese government bonds also hit records this week, implying
a 60 percent chance of default.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty surrounding Greece and
Italy and how those situations will pan out,” said Dan Mulholland, a trader in New York at primary dealer RBC Capital
Markets LLC, the investment-banking arm of  Canada ’s biggest
bank. “It’s so far from over.”  House Vote  Treasuries dropped briefly after  Standard & Poor’s  followed
Moody’s Investors Service in saying it may cut the AAA rating of
the U.S. as lawmakers hold debt reduction talks. The U.S. House
plans a vote next week on a measure that would raise the
government’s debt limit by $2.4 trillion, cut spending, cap
government expenditures and propose a balanced-budget
constitutional amendment, Republican lawmakers Sean Duffy and
Billy Long said. Duffy, of  Wisconsin , and Long, of Missouri,
described discussions in a closed-door meeting of House
Republicans on Capitol Hill.  “To the extent that the U.S. is downgraded, to the extent
we don’t see a $4 trillion package, then it’s the long-end
that’s going to get hurt the most,” Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund said on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
during an interview with  Tom Keene . “Ultimately the U.S. has a
big, big problem.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke tempered expectations
yesterday that the central bank will resume buying bonds as
criticism from Republican senators highlighted the potential
backlash to additional monetary stimulus.  The U.S. government has said it has until Aug. 2 before its
ability to make payment on $14.3 trillion of debt expires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  