-- 
U.S. 30-Year Treasuries Maintain Loss After S&P Warns on U.S. Downgrade

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-15T06:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/treasuries-decline-after-s-p-says-it-may-reduce-u-s-aaa-credit-rating.html
Treasury 30-year bonds held a loss
from yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  followed Moody’s
Investors Service in warning it may cut its AAA rating for the
U.S. if officials fail to resolve their debt ceiling stalemate.  Credit-default swaps covering the U.S., which provide
protection in case the government is unable to meet its debt
obligations, rose to a 17-month high. Bonds will probably lag
behind stocks,  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based fund
company that  oversees  $1.66 trillion, wrote in a report.  “Default is becoming a rising possibility,” said Adam Donaldson, head of debt research at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  in Sydney, the nation’s largest lender by market value.
“There’s clearly a lack of progress on the political front.
While almost everybody thinks a deal will be reached, you have
to countenance the possibility that it won’t.”  The 30-year bond yielded 4.26 percent as of 7:09 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 4.375
percent note due in May 2041 traded at 101 30/32. The rate
increased eight basis points yesterday. Ten-year yields were
little changed at 2.95 percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps climbed to 55.76 basis
points yesterday, the most since February 2010, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices. The swaps advanced before S&P made its announcement.
Moody’s Investors Service issued a similar warning on July 13.  S&P said it may lower the long-term rating on the U.S. in
the next three months. President  Barack Obama  told congressional
leaders to report to him within two days on what debt-limit
options their members can support, Democratic and Republican
officials said after a negotiating session yesterday.  Debt Deadline  The government has said it has until Aug. 2 before its
ability to pay the debt expires. Moody’s earlier this week said
it may cut its ranking for  U.S. debt  unless the government
increases the borrowing ceiling.  The  Federal Reserve  is scheduled to buy $2.5 billion to $3
billion of Treasuries maturing from July 2015 to December 2016
today, according to its  website . It’s investing principal
payments from its debt holdings in  government bonds  as part of
its efforts to support the economy.  Japan’s 10-year yield rose 1.5 basis points today to 1.09
percent. It was as low as 1.07 percent yesterday, the least
since November. The extra yield investors demand to own 10-year
bonds in the nation instead of two-year securities shrank to 92
basis points yesterday, also a seven-month low.  Europe Crisis  Treasuries still headed for a weekly gain after investors
sought the relative safety of U.S. securities as the debt crisis
spread in  Europe .  Benchmark 10-year yields have dropped 23 basis points in
two weeks. They are below the 10-year average of 4.06 percent.
Three-month bills yield 0.005 percent. The Treasury attracted
higher-than-average bidding at three debt auctions this week.  Greece  is struggling to avoid a default and investors
concerned at borrowing levels in  Italy  sent yields on the
nation’s bonds to the highest level in a decade.  A U.S. report today will show the consumer-price index fell
0.1 percent in June, the first decline in a year, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile food
and energy costs, increased 0.2 percent, based on the responses.  Manufacturing Recovery  “Inflation is subdued,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior
investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , which oversees
the equivalent of $37.9 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-
largest bank. “After the debt-ceiling problem is resolved,
Treasury yields may start to decline again.”  Ten-year rates may drop to 2.5 percent by year-end,
Nakamura said. In March, he predicted the yield would fall to
2.8 percent by the middle of 2011. It was as low as 2.81 percent
on July 12.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has declined to
2.25 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.67 percentage
points in April. The 10-year average is 2.11 percentage points.  TIPS have returned 4.15 percent in the past three months,
versus 3.50 percent for conventional Treasuries, based on Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data, as some traders bet economic
growth will lead to higher costs in the economy. After
subtracting year-on-year gains in consumer prices, which
amounted to 3.9 percent in May, 10-year notes yield negative 65
basis points.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is little changed, after
accounting for reinvested dividends, reflecting demand for the
safest assets as the U.S. and Europe try to control borrowing.  “If we do get a debt deal, which I expect, the picture
could improve for risk assets, including stocks,” Lisa Emsbo- Mattingly, Fidelity’s director of asset allocation research,
wrote in her report yesterday. “Stocks look like they have more
upside than fixed income as we head into the third quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 