-- 
Treasuries Extend Weekly Advance Amid Concern Over Greece, U.S. Recovery

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-15T09:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/treasuries-head-for-weekly-advance-amid-concern-over-greece-u-s-recovery.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day
declines as investors sought the safest assets amid concern that
the U.S. recovery is struggling and the European sovereign-debt
crisis is worsening.  Benchmark 10-year bonds headed for a weekly gain even as
 Standard & Poor’s  yesterday became the second rating company to
say it may cut the U.S.’s top credit grade. Data today will
probably show the cost of living in the U.S. fell in June for
the first time in a year. German  government securities  climbed
and Greek two-year yields extended this week’s surge as the
debt-stricken Mediterranean nation struggles to avoid a default.  “Safe havens like bunds and Treasuries still remain well
supported by the whole debt crisis and also this soft patch in
U.S. data,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in London. “For now everyone is going to be closely
monitoring the inflation data. The market is pretty much
ignoring these warnings from the rating agencies.”  The 10-year yield was unchanged at 2.95 percent as of 10:20
a.m. in  London , after earlier gaining as much as two basis
points to 2.98 percent. It was headed for a weekly decline of
eight basis points. The 3.125 percent note due May 2021 traded
at 101 15/32.  The consumer-price index declined 0.1 percent last month,
according to the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the report. The so-called core measure,
which excludes more volatile food and energy costs, may have
increased 0.2 percent, a separate poll showed.  U.S. Inflation  “Inflation is subdued,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior
investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , which oversees
the equivalent of $37.9 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-
largest bank. “After the debt-ceiling problem is resolved,
Treasury yields may start to decline again.”  Ten-year rates may drop to 2.5 percent by year-end,
Nakamura said. In March, he predicted the yield would fall to
2.8 percent by the middle of 2011. It was as low as 2.81 percent
on July 12.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has declined to
2.26 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.67 percentage
points in April. The 10-year average is 2.11 percentage points.  TIPS have returned 4.15 percent in the past three months,
versus 3.50 percent for conventional Treasuries, based on Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data, as some traders bet economic
growth will lead to higher costs in the economy. After
subtracting year-on-year gains in consumer prices, which
amounted to 3.9 percent in May, 10-year notes yield negative 65
basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 