-- 
News Corp. U.K. Newspaper CEO Brooks Resigns

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-15T14:07:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/rebekah-brooks-quits-as-news-international-chief-in-phone-hacking-scandal.html
     July 15 (Bloomberg) --Rebekah Brooks, the  News Corp. (NWSA) 
executive at the center of a phone-hacking scandal that forced
the closure of a 168-year-old U.K. tabloid she edited, has
resigned amid pressure from politicians and shareholders.  Brooks stepped down as chief executive officer of the News
International U.K. publishing unit as she was “detracting
attention” from attempts to “fix the problems of the past,”
she wrote in a letter to employees today. Tom Mockridge, head of
News Corp.’s Sky Italia division, will succeed her.  Brooks’s departure is a blow for Rupert Murdoch and his
son, News International Chairman James Murdoch. Both had backed
her in the past week as allegations that employees at the News
of the World tabloid hacked into voicemails of murder and
terrorism victims led to U.K. police arrests, a probe by the FBI
and shelved  News Corp. (NWS) ’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid
for all of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   “In any other business she would have gone straight
away,”  Charlie Beckett , director of the media institute Polis
at the  London School  of Economics, said in a phone interview.
“It would’ve been an obvious thing to sack her early on.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and News Corp. investors
including Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Al Saud have called for
Brooks to be removed since the phone-hacking scandal escalated
last week.  First Female Editor  (For a story on Murdoch plans for a Sunday tabloid, click
here. To read about the FBI probe into News Corp., click here. 
For a profile of Brooks's successor, click here.)  Brooks became head of News International, which also
publishes the Sun, the Times and the Sunday Times, in 2009 after
serving as editor of the Sun for 6 1/2 years. Beginning her
career as a feature writer for the News of the World in 1989,
Brooks rose through the ranks and was editor of that newspaper
from 2000 to 2003.  Brooks was the first female editor of the Sun, a tabloid
known for printing pictures of topless women on the third page,
and earned a reputation for aggressive tactics. She told
lawmakers in 2003 that her publication had in the past paid
police officers for information.  Brooks was close to the Murdoch family, attending  Elisabeth Murdoch ’s wedding in 2001 and reporting to son James.  News Corp. dropped 19 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $15.25 at
9:58 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, and
earlier fell to $14.89, its lowest level since Jan. 21.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  ‘Right Decision’  Rupert Murdoch , 80, and James, News Corp.’s deputy chief
operating officer, are scheduled to testify about the phone-
hacking scandal before the U.K. Parliament on July 19. Brooks
will also give evidence at the parliament’s Culture, Media and
Sport Committee.  “My desire to remain on the bridge has made me a focal
point of the debate,” Brooks wrote in the memo. “My
resignation makes it possible for me to have the freedom and the
time to give my full cooperation to all the current and future
inquiries, the police investigations and the CMS appearance.”  Cameron said Brooks’s resignation was “the right
decision,” his spokesman said. “Clearly there have been
mistakes made. There are a lot of questions to answer,” Steve Field told reporters in London.  Misleading Parliament  Following Brooks’ resignation, lawmakers started increasing
the pressure on  James Murdoch .  “Her departure will move the spotlight onto James
Murdoch,” Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson , who has been
investigating phone-hacking for two years, said on the Sky News
channel today. “Terrible things happened over a long period of
time in that company, and they tried to cover it up. They must
be held to account.”  In a note last week to employees to announce the closure of
the News of the World, the younger Murdoch said the company had
misled the British Parliament. During hearings in 2007 and 2009,
executives including  Les Hinton , former News International
chairman, and  Colin Myler , News of the World editor, said that
there was no evidence that more than one reporter had been
involved in phone hacking.  James Murdoch also has said that out-of-court settlements
he approved that included non-disclosure agreements were
“wrong” and “a matter of serious regret.”  Apology  The settlements were criticized in Parliament during an
emergency debate on July 6, when Watson said James Murdoch
should face criminal charges and was unsuitable to be a director
of the company.  Among those who received payments was  Gordon Taylor , chief
executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association, after
his lawyers uncovered an e-mail suggesting more than one
journalist at the News of the World knew Taylor’s phone had been
hacked, Myler said in July 2009.  News Corp. will issue an apology for the phone-hacking
scandal in “all national newspapers” in the U.K. over the
weekend, James Murdoch said in a letter to employees, adding
that the company will also send letters to its commercial
partners.  In the U.S., the FBI began a probe whether employees tried
to hack into the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.  London  police have made at least nine arrests as part
of the investigation. Among those arrested was  Andy Coulson ,
another one-time editor of the News of the World and former
communications chief for Cameron. Coulson has denied any
knowledge of reporters tapping phones when he led the paper.  Rupert Murdoch yesterday defended his handling of the
crisis. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, which is
owned by News Corp., Murdoch said an independent committee led
by a “distinguished non-employee” will investigate the phone-
hacking allegations. The company has handled the crisis
“extremely well,” while there were “minor mistakes,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  