-- 
Renaissance Listing Russia Fund to Tap 2014 Olympics

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-07-15T11:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/renaissance-listing-russia-fund-to-tap-2014-olympics-correct-.html
(Corrects company to Globaltrans in last paragraph.)  Renaissance Asset Managers plans to
list its Russian infrastructure fund on the  London  Stock
Exchange next week to tap into investor interest abroad as
constructions ramps up before the Winter Olympics in 2014 and
the soccer  World Cup  four years later.  The Renaissance Russia Infrastructure fund, which invests
in shares of Russian construction, transport, engineering and
real estate companies, returned 22 percent last year and will
will list on July 20, Takouhi Tchertchian, who manages the $188
million-fund, said in an interview in London yesterday. Russia’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 23 percent in that period, according to
Bloomberg data.  The big sports events “created a lot of interest,
especially in foreign investors’ minds” and a London listing
will make the fund more accessible, she said. Mangers were
unable to find anyone willing to sell to a potential investor
recently, she said.  “If there is a listing on the LSE, then that process takes
care of itself,” she said.  Russia  will spend more than 1.1 trillion rubles ($37
billion) on roads and railways and pour more than 300 billion
rubles more into upgrading airports by 2015 in a push to “lay
down the new infrastructure base for the country,” Putin told
legislators on April 20. Russia, plagued by an outdated
transportation network, also won the right to host hockey’s 2016
World Championship, the latest success for Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  in luring global sports events to the country.  OAO  Mostotrest (MSTT) , a Russian construction company part-owned
by Putin’s judo partner Arkady Rotenberg, is the biggest of the
fund’s investments, accounting for 10.7 percent of its holdings,
according to the fund’s prospectus.  Globaltrans Investment Plc (GLTR) ,
Russia’s biggest non-state rail operator, is the second-largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  