-- 
Republicans Drop Effort to End U.S. Rural-Flight Payments

-- B y   P u n e e t   K o l l i p a r a
-- 
2011-07-15T19:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/republicans-drop-effort-to-end-u-s-rural-flight-payments-1-.html
House Republicans  backed down from a
plan to end a $200 million U.S. program that subsidizes rural
air service, proposing instead to adopt, with some reductions, a
plan the  U.S. Senate  approved.  The Republicans’ provision would end payments for service
to 10 communities in the Essential Air Service program, as the
Senate voted to do so earlier in the year, saving $12.5 million
annually, the House transportation committee said in a statement
today. It would also cap payments at $1,000 per passenger, which
would end payments for three more communities and save an
additional $4.1 million a year.  The provision within legislation to extend funding for the
 Federal Aviation Administration  was introduced today by
Representatives John Mica, a Florida Republican and chairman of
the committee; Tom Petri, a Wisconsin Republican who chairs the
aviation subcommittee; and  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who
chairs the House Ways & Means Committee.  “Given the intransigence of the Senate, their inability to
move any piece of substantive legislation, and their
unwillingness to compromise, we are compelled to seek rational
and modest reform in this extension,” Mica said in the
statement. “We hope they will pass this extension and come to
the table with a renewed sense of purpose for ensuring the
safety of our aviation system and passing a long-term FAA
reauthorization.”  The EAS payments were one of a few issues that
congressional leaders need to resolve to pass an FAA
authorization bill, Mica said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington office yesterday. “It could all easily be worked out
in a conference in 20 minutes,” Mica said.  ‘Limited Reforms’  The trio’s proposed payment cuts “are limited reforms that
target the most indefensible of the subsidies,” Petri said in
the statement. Republicans had targeted the EAS program
subsidies for elimination, saying the country can no longer
afford the program.  Ten communities would lose payments because they fall less
than 90 miles from “the nearest medium or large hub,” the
statement said. The proposal would eliminate payments for all
cities within the 90-mile radius.  The three additional communities that would lose subsidies
under the proposal are Ely,  Nevada ; Alamogordo/Holloman Air
Force Base,  New Mexico ; and Glendive,  Montana . All three
currently receive per-passenger payments greater than the
Republican proposal’s $1,000 limit.  Great Lakes   Great Lakes Aviation Ltd. (GLUX)  received $1.06 million a year in
federal money for flights to Glendive and $1.86 million for
flights to Ely, according to  Department of Transportation data 
from May 2010, the most recent available data. Chief Executive
Officer Charles R. Howell of Great Lakes, based in Cheyenne,
 Wyoming , didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The company, which operates Great Lakes Airlines, earned 48
percent of its $125 million in revenue in 2010 from the
Essential Air Service program, according to a company filing
with the Securities & Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Puneet Kollipara in Washington at 
 pkollipara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  