-- 
Rice Exports From Vietnam May Beat Target on Bigger Harvests, New Markets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-15T06:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/rice-exports-from-vietnam-may-beat-target-on-bigger-harvests-new-markets.html
Rice shipments from  Vietnam , the
world’s second-biggest exporter after Thailand, may exceed the
goal for the year as production increases and exporters aim for
new markets, including neighbor China.  “Our target is still 7.4 million tons, but we will try to
export more given the good crops and price,” Deputy Agriculture
Minister Diep Kinh Tan said today. Recent sales to new buyers in
China,  Indonesia  and  Bangladesh  show improved demand, said Huynh
Minh Hue, general-secretary at the  Vietnam Food Association .  Increased shipments from Vietnam may help cap a 72 percent
rally in rice futures over the past year, easing global food
costs that reached a record in February. Rice has extended gains
this month on concern higher guaranteed prices for farmers in
 Thailand , following an election, will boost export costs.  “At the moment, Vietnam is the only seller,” said Rakesh Singh, a grain trader at Emmsons International Ltd. in  New Delhi .
“In Thailand, until the government comes out with a clear
policy, the farmers are going to hold on to their produce.”  Rice on the Chicago Board of Trade was at $16.855 per 100
pounds at 12:33 p.m. in  Singapore  after touching $17.07
yesterday, the highest level for a most-active contract since
October 2008. The  United Nations ’ World Food Price Index rose to
233.84 last month, within 2 percent of its all-time high.  Vietnam’s exports totaled 4 million tons in the January-to-
June period, 16 percent higher than a year ago, the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi said yesterday. Both the summer-
autumn and winter-spring crops are forecast to top last year’s
output, according to the  Ministry of Agricultural and Rural
Development . Exports last year totaled 6.8 million tons.  Export Deals  “Rice exports will be accelerated since demand is rising
from both traditional and new markets such as  China , Indonesia
and Bangladesh,” the association’s Hue said by phone from  Ho
Chi Minh City  today.  “China has started buying from us after some bad weather
hurt their crop, and they will buy more later this year,”
Deputy Minister Tan said. China purchased 200,000 tons in the
second quarter, according to agriculture ministry data.  Bangladesh and Indonesia are expected to buy more this year,
the Thoi Bao Tai Chinh newspaper reported on July 6, citing the
association. Bangladesh has contracted to buy 100,000 tons of
15-percent-broken grain rice, with deliveries in July, and
Indonesia is in talks to buy 400,000 tons, the report said.  Thai Plan  Incoming Thai leader Yingluck Shinawatra, sister of former
premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , won a July 3 poll on pledges that
included raising the guaranteed price of unmilled rice bought
from farmers. Her government plans to buy the staple at 15,000
baht ($498) a ton, about 50 percent above the current level.  That may boost the Thai export price to $810 a ton by Dec.
31, according to the median estimate of six millers, exporters
and traders who commented after the Pheu Thai party’s victory.
Thailand’s 100 percent grade B rice, the export benchmark, was
set by an exporters’ group at $555 per ton on July 13.  “The current development in Thailand is good for
Vietnam,” said Hue from the association, which represents food
traders and processors. “If they raise their price, Vietnamese
rice will rise as well.”  Vietnam’s exporters will also keep an eye on  India , which
on July 11 cleared exports of 1 million tons of non-basmati rice,
Hue said. “We also want to see how India is going to sell their
rice since they said recently that they will.”  Vietnam’s unmilled production is forecast to increase 2.3
percent to 40.8 million tons in 2011, according to a report from
the agriculture ministry in May.  Stockpiling Delayed  Output from the summer-autumn crop may rise 620,000 tons
this year as the planted area expands, the agriculture ministry
said yesterday, without giving a total output figure. The
winter-spring crop in the Mekong Delta, the biggest producing
region, may have risen 300,000 tons to 10.6 million tons, the
ministry has said.                        The Vietnam Food Association has delayed a plan to
stockpile 1 million tons of the grain after growing demand
boosted local prices, Hue said.  “We don’t need to do the stockpiling now since prices of
unmilled rice have exceeded 6,000 dong (29 cents) a kilo, a very
good level compared with the last few years,” Hue said. “The
stockpiling plan was designed to ensure the price doesn’t slide
below 5,000 dong,” he said.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. Editors: Ovais Subhani, Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  