-- 
Ringgit Snaps Two-Week Gain on Lingering Europe Debt Concerns

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-07-15T08:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/ringgit-snaps-two-week-gain-on-lingering-europe-debt-concerns.html
Malaysia’s ringgit snapped a two-
week gain as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen bolstered
demand for dollars and deterred risk-taking, making it harder
for emerging markets to attract funds.  Greece will default on its debt and Portugal and Ireland
are likely to suffer the same fate,  Martin Feldstein , former
president of the U.S.-based National Bureau of Economic Research,
said yesterday. The Malaysian Institute of Economic Research
said the Southeast Asian economy is likely to expand 5.2 percent
this year, near the lower-end of the government’s forecast range
of 5 percent to 6 percent.  “Fears of European debt contagion weighed on the ringgit
for most of the week,” said Zulkiflee Nidzam, head of foreign-
exchange trading in Kuala Lumpur at Asian Finance Bank Bhd.
“The ringgit will likely continue to trade within a narrow band
because its gains in the past two days were excessive and the
MIER’s economic estimates are not terribly good.”  The ringgit was down 0.5 percent for the week at 3.0073 per
dollar as of 4:07 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , even after strengthening
0.9 percent in the past two days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was down 0.1 percent from yesterday.  The Malaysian Institute of Economic Research said yesterday
the country’s inflation probably peaked at 3.8 percent in June,
having reached a two-year high of 3.3 percent in May.  Bank
Negara Malaysia  boosted borrowing costs in May for the third
time since the start of 2010 and said last week it would
consider further normalizing  interest rates  to safeguard price
stability if domestic growth momentum is sustained.  Government bonds  advanced this week. The yield on the 4.16
percent debt due July 2021 fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage points, to 3.86 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.
The rate was down one basis point from yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  