-- 
Roche to Seek Regulatory Approval for Breast Cancer Treatment by Year End

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-15T09:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/roche-to-seek-regulatory-approval-for-breast-cancer-treatment-by-year-end.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  will seek
regulatory approval this year for a  breast cancer  treatment that
the company said extended patients’ lives without their disease
getting worse in a clinical trial.  The treatment, pertuzumab, when combined with chemotherapy
and Roche’s Herceptin, helped patients with an aggressive form
of breast cancer more than chemotherapy and Herceptin alone,
Roche said today in a statement, citing the results of a late-
stage clinical trial called Cleopatra.  Pertuzumab, like Herceptin, works by neutralizing the so-
called HER-2 protein linked to tumor growth. Both drugs were
developed by U.S. biotechnology company Genentech Inc., which
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche fully acquired in 2009 for $46.8
billion. Roche is the world’s biggest maker of cancer medicines.  “These results with pertuzumab combined with Herceptin and
docetaxel are very encouraging,”  Hal Barron , Roche’s head of
global product development, said in the statement, referring to
the type of chemotherapy used in the study. “We plan to submit
the study results for global regulatory approval this year.”  Roche may need more information on overall patient survival
to win U.S. regulatory approval,  Jack Scannell , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said.  “The Food and Drug Administration wonders if a therapy is
worth approving if all it can claim is that it slows the rate at
which CT and MRI scans get worse,” Scannell wrote today in a
note to clients. “The size of pertuzumab’s incremental benefit
may also come under scrutiny given the likely cost.”  Roche rose 90 centimes, or 0.7 percent, to 136.8 francs at
11:27 a.m. in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  London  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  