-- 
Romanian September CPI May Fall Below 5%, Isarescu Says

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-07-15T11:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/romanian-september-cpi-may-fall-below-5-isarescu-says-2-.html
Romanian inflation may slow to less
than 5 percent by September as a good farm harvest drives food
prices lower and the effects of a government tax increase fade,
central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu said.  The rate, the European Union’s highest at 7.9 percent in
June, may fall to between 3.8 percent and 5 percent in
September, according to the most likely scenario, Isarescu said
at a seminar in Bucharest today.  “The fundamentals that could push inflation higher,
depreciate the leu and drive market interest rates higher don’t
point in that direction,” Isarescu said. “We have to look
cautiously ahead, considering we have an election year in 2012,
but so far the wages and labor costs point to a slowdown.”  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 6.25 percent, the highest in the EU, for a
13th month on June 29 to tame inflation, sparked by a government
tax increase last year and rising global commodity prices. The
central bank expects the effects of a value-added tax increase
on inflation to dissipate in the second half.  Romania ’s inflation rate unexpectedly fell in June to the
lowest since February as the farm harvest boosted supply and cut
food costs, giving the central bank more room to leave rates
unchanged to help an economic recovery this year.  Leu Moves  The rate may increase by as much as 0.8 percentage points
in the fall, boosted by a possible government increase in
thermal energy prices for the entire population, according to
the central bank’s calculations, Isarescu said.  The leu’s depreciation against the euro to the weakest
level this year is in line with regional moves, he said. The
currency weakened 1.4 percent this week to as low as 4.2836 per
euro and was trading at 4.2671 against the common currency at
2:04 p.m. in Bucharest today.  “The leu looks a bit more stable than its peers, but it’s
not overly stable, which is not bad,” Isarescu said.  When asked whether the central bank was worried about
currency volatility, he said: “What volatility? The leu is
trading between 4.1 and 4.3 to the euro.”  Gross domestic product rose 1.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, ending a two-year contraction as
demand for exports increased. The country, which received two
international bailouts since 2009, plans to trim its  budget
deficit  to less than 3 percent of GDP in 2012 from 6.5 percent
in 2010.  Romania’s credit rating was raised one step to BBB- by
 Fitch Ratings  on July 4, rising to investment grade for the
first time in almost three years after government measures
lowered the fiscal gap. Moody’s Investors Service also gives
Romania comparable Baa3, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
country’s debt BB+, its highest speculative grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  