-- 
Murdochs Are Next Target of U.K. Lawmakers as Rebekah Brooks Steps Down

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-07-15T16:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/rupert-james-murdoch-face-scrutiny-from-u-k-lawmakers-after-brooks-quits.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman Rupert Murdoch
and his son, James, are under mounting pressure from U.K.
lawmakers to take responsibility for a phone-hacking scandal
after bowing to calls for Rebekah Brooks to resign.  Some people close to the Murdoch family and News Corp.’s
directors think it would make sense for Murdoch to relinquish
his job as chief executive officer and stay on as chairman.
Although a leadership change hasn’t been formally discussed by
the board, the situation is fluid and everything is possible,
said one of the people, who wouldn’t be identified because the
matter isn’t public.  The resignation of Brooks, who edited the News of the World
tabloid at the time of the alleged phone-hacking, marks a U-Turn
for James, News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer, and
Rupert Murdoch, 80, who said last week Brooks had their support
and would stay on. Murdoch yesterday backed his 38-year-old son
and heir apparent, saying he had acted “as fast as he could,
the moment he could.”  “It’s now about the Murdochs,” said  Chris Bryant , a
Labour lawmaker who called the July 6 emergency debate on the
News of the World. “James Murdoch has got to answer questions
about their hush money strategy. Did the board agree to it?”  If the Murdochs’ position weakens further, Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  may be named as interim CEO, said one person
close to the family and board of directors.  News Corp. spokeswoman Alice Macandrew declined to comment
via phone today.  Spotlight on James  (For a story on Murdoch plans for a Sunday tabloid, click
here. To read about the FBI probe into News Corp., click here.)  Bryant has written to News Corp.’s non-executive directors
to ask what they were told about the payments. Brooks and the
Murdochs yesterday agreed to appear before a Culture, Media and
Sport Committee hearing on July 19 after first saying only
Brooks would attend.  In the U.S., the FBI began a probe whether employees tried
to hack into the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. London police have made at least nine arrests as part
of the investigation. Among those arrested was  Andy Coulson ,
one-time editor of the News of the World and former
communications chief for U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .
Coulson has denied any knowledge of reporters tapping phones
when he led the paper.  The scandal wiped almost $5 billion off the company’s
market value since the Guardian reported on July 4 that the News
of the World in 2002 hacked into the voice mails of murdered
schoolgirl Milly Dowler and deleted messages.  Shelved BSkyB Bid  In a week, News Corp. has also been forced to shelve a 7.8
billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid for full control of  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , close the 168-year-old tabloid on
which Murdoch’s U.K. media business was founded and accept
Brooks’s resignation amid an unprecedented backlash from all
political parties against his company.  “Her departure will move the spotlight onto  James
Murdoch ,” Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson , who has been
investigating phone-hacking for two years, said on the Sky News
channel today. “Terrible things happened over a long period of
time in that company, and they tried to cover it up. They must
be held to account.”  Brooks stepped down as chief executive officer of the News
International U.K. publishing unit as she was “detracting
attention” from attempts to “fix the problems of the past,”
she wrote in a letter to employees today. Tom Mockridge, head of
News Corp.’s Sky Italia division, will succeed her.  ‘Weakness’  Rupert’s handling of the scandal and Brooks’ resignation
“shows weakness,” said  Charlie Beckett , director of the media
institute Polis at the  London  School of Economics, said in a
phone interview. “It won’t do a lot to reassure people that he
has entirely got a strategy as opposed to a series of short-term
tactics.”  “In any other business she would have gone straight
away,” Beckett said.  Cameron and News Corp. investors including Prince Alwaleed
bin Talal Al Saud had called for Brooks to be removed since the
phone-hacking scandal escalated last week.  Cameron said Brooks’s resignation was “the right
decision,” his spokesman said today. “Clearly there have been
mistakes made. There are a lot of questions to answer,” Steve
Field told reporters in London.  Brooks became head of News International, which also
publishes the Sun, the Times and the Sunday Times, in 2009 after
serving as editor of the Sun for 6 1/2 years. Brooks was the
first female editor of the Sun, a tabloid known for printing
pictures of topless women on the third page, and earned a
reputation for aggressive tactics. She told lawmakers in 2003
that her publication had in the past paid police officers for
information.  Misleading Parliament  Brooks was close to the Murdoch family, attending  Elisabeth Murdoch ’s wedding in 2001 and reporting to son James.  In a note last week to employees to announce the closure of
the News of the World, the younger Murdoch said the company had
misled the British Parliament. During hearings in 2007 and 2009,
executives including  Les Hinton , former News International
chairman, and  Colin Myler , News of the World editor, said that
there was no evidence that more than one reporter had been
involved in phone hacking.  James Murdoch also has said that out-of-court settlements
he approved that included non-disclosure agreements were
“wrong” and “a matter of serious regret.”  The settlements were criticized in Parliament during an
emergency debate on July 6, when Watson said James Murdoch
should face criminal charges and was unsuitable to be a director
of the company.  Payments  Among those who received payments was  Gordon Taylor , chief
executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association, after
his lawyers uncovered an e-mail suggesting more than one
journalist at the News of the World knew Taylor’s phone had been
hacked, Myler said in July 2009.  Rupert Murdoch  will apologize to the public in an
advertising campaign over the weekend for the phone-hacking
scandal.  “We are sorry for the serious wrongdoing that occurred,”
Murdoch will say in the ads, according to a copy sent by a News
Corp. spokeswoman. “In the coming days, as we take further
concrete steps to resolve these issues and make amends for the
damage they have caused, you will hear more from us.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Rupert Murdoch yesterday defended his handling of the
crisis. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, which is
owned by News Corp., Murdoch said an independent committee led
by a “distinguished non-employee” will investigate the phone-
hacking allegations. The company has handled the crisis
“extremely well,” while there were “minor mistakes,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  