-- 
Truworths of South Africa Erases Decline as Earnings to Exceed Estimates

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-07-15T15:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/truworths-says-earnings-per-share-rose-by-up-to-22-in-52-weeks-to-june-26.html
Truworths International Ltd. (TRU) , South
Africa’s largest clothing retailer, erased an earlier decline
after saying full-year earnings probably rose by more than
analysts’ estimates.  Earnings per share for the 52 weeks to June 26 climbed
between 18 percent and 22 percent, the company said in a
regulatory filing today. The median estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings per share before one-time
items to increase to 4.39 rand from 3.70 rand a year earlier.  South African consumer spending, which accounts for two-
thirds of demand in the economy, rose an annualized 5.2 percent
in the first quarter, compared with 4.8 percent in the previous
three months. Spending had been slower to recover from a
recession in 2009 than manufacturing as job losses mounted and
 household debt  remained close to record levels.  “Profit is marginally above expectation,” Syd Vianello, a
retail analyst at Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone from
Johannesburg. “The retail environment is going to become a lot
tougher as we’ve got more rounds of retrenchments in the economy
coming and huge increases in controlled prices.”  Wage Strikes  Workers in the fuel, metals and engineering industries have
been on strike to push for wage increases that are more than
double the 4.6 percent inflation rate, arguing that surging food
and fuel costs are driving down  living standards . Wage talks in
the coal, gold and platinum industries have also stalled, and
unions have warned that labor action is imminent.  South Africa ’s power regulator allowed Eskom Holdings SOC
Ltd. to boost average tariffs about 26 percent this year to fund
capacity expansion.  Truworths shares climbed 2.2 percent to 74.10 rand by the 5
p.m. close in Johannesburg, erasing an earlier declined of as
much as 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 