-- 
SEC Trying to Gauge Risk Without Credit Raters: One Year Later

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/sec-struggles-to-gauge-risk-without-raters-post-dodd-frank-one-year-later.html
To authors of the Dodd-Frank Act,
the credit-rating industry was a chief villain of the 2008
financial crisis. As a result, the law instructed U.S.
regulators to strip use of credit ratings from their rules.  What Dodd-Frank didn’t decide was what should take the
place of previously accepted risk ratings from companies
including  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO) ,  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’ Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  A year after the law passed, U.S. agencies are still
struggling to write and enforce regulations -- particularly
banking and securities rules -- without using credit ratings.  “Our staff has been given an impossible challenge: finding
an appropriate substitute for an objective evaluation of credit
risk when it may not exist,” Securities and Exchange Commission
member  Luis Aguilar  said in April.  A report from the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission
concluded that the major credit raters were “key enablers of
the financial meltdown,” justifying the exploding sales of
mortgage-related securities before turning around and issuing
rating downgrades that “wreaked havoc across markets.”  The financial system became overly dependent on credit
ratings as the unquestioned measure of  investment risk , the
commission and other critics said.  “For better or worse, ratings have come to be a shorthand
way of describing a level of credit risk that is generally
understood by all market participants,” Jim Nadler, president
and chief operating officer of Kroll Bond Ratings Inc., said in
an interview.  No Substitute  In the absence of a good substitute, the Securities and
Exchange Commission has handed the problem back to the market:
in two rules issued last spring, the agency has suggested that
 money-market funds , which invest in top-quality bonds and other
securities, evaluate credit risk themselves and that broker-dealers figure out their own measures for creditworthiness when
tallying their required reserves.  “The alternative standards that they’ve come up with need
to be strengthened,” said Steve Hall, a securities policy
expert at Washington-based Better Markets Inc., a non-profit
research group promoting Dodd-Frank regulation. “They need to
be more specific.”  Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , which said its $450
billion in money-market assets makes it the largest money funds
manager, said the SEC’s idea would add a “significant degree of
subjectivity” to figuring risk.  Changing Standards  A manager’s standard “could change from month to month, or
even week to week,” Scott C. Goebel, Fidelity’s senior vice
president and general counsel, said in a letter to the SEC.  Removing third-party ratings “could have the opposite of
the intended effect, as it could permit a money fund to purchase
a security that today would not meet the minimum threshold,”
Simon Mendelson and Richard Hoerner, BlackRock Inc. managing
directors and co-heads of global cash management and securities
lending, said in a letter.  The New York-based firm, which manages $208 billion in
U.S.-registered money market funds, also pointed out that many
institutional investors have guidelines limiting their holdings
to rated securities.  Another regulator removing credit ratings from regulations,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., also ran into “significant
challenges involved with developing creditworthiness standards
for the broad range of exposures and complex securities
structures,” according to Sept. 30 Senate testimony from then-Chairman  Sheila Bair .  Real-Life Impact  Stephen H. Cohen, a  New York  partner at Loeb & Loeb LLP who
works with broker-dealers, said the proposal for counting
dealers’ reserves has “real-life” impact that will affect
small brokers differently from big operations like  Bank of
America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit.  “Merrill Lynch, using its research staff, may make a
determination not as favorably as a three-person shop,” said
Cohen, who predicted a possible “Wild West environment.”  While crafting ratings replacements, the SEC also proposed
a wider, Dodd-Frank-mandated overhaul of practices within the
ratings firms. The companies would have to ensure the quality of
ratings, prevent conflicts of interest and release more
information on how they assess debt securities.  To prevent potential conflicts of interest, marketing and
sales employees would be barred from ratings work, and the SEC
could de-register firms that violate conflict-of-interest rules.  More Review  Ratings companies would also have to review activities of
employees who leave to join firms whose products they rated.
Outside contractors hired to assess asset-backed securities
would have to provide public information on their conclusions.  The adoption of that and other rules won’t make Dodd-Frank’s July 21 deadline, according to the agency’s  calendar .
When they do pass, the rules’ toughness may not be their final
measure of effectiveness.  “Even if strong, new internal control standards are put in
place by the SEC, it won’t clean up the credit-rating system
unless the SEC has the funds and willpower to actively enforce
those standards,” said Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat
and chairman of the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, in a statement.  The industry, its critics routinely point out, is still
paid by the clients whose products they rate.  ‘Fundamental Problem’  Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat, said this year’s
regulatory progress won’t fix that conflict. “They still
haven’t tackled the fundamental problem,” he said in a
statement.  The SEC isn’t dealing with it because Congress didn’t
address it in Dodd-Frank. Even some of the things Congress did
require -- such as the formation of an Office of Credit Ratings
to coordinate additional new oversight of the firms -- are being
held up by lawmakers. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said her agency
awaits approval to spend money on opening the office.  “We’re still waiting for permission,” Schapiro said in an
interview, adding that the SEC has organized rating company
inspections within its existing structure while it waits. “We
have examiners who are dedicated now to the credit-rating
agencies and have to examine them all every year,” she said.
“They’re well through that process for this year. So, it’s
moving ahead.”  The rating firms say they support many of the regulators’
changes. Daniel J. Noonan, a Fitch spokesman, said the firm has
made several changes since the 2008 credit crisis, and the
proposed regulations “largely reflect constructive changes
already in place at Fitch.”  Investor Value  “We believe the market -- not government mandates --should
decide the value of our work,” David Wargin, an S&P spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “Regardless of any regulatory mandate, we
believe investors continue to find value in the ratings.”  Kroll’s Nadler, whose company started issuing ratings in
June and declares it aims “to restore trust” in ratings, said
he thinks investors should be using ratings as only one piece of
an analysis.  “Investors need to do a bit more of their own work,” he
said, so they can “make their own determination separate from
the ratings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 