-- 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Appoints Zhang Wenyi as Chairman, Acting CEO

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-07-15T18:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/semiconductor-manufacturing-appoints-zhang-wenyi-as-chairman-acting-ceo.html
Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (981) , China’s biggest chipmaker, appointed Zhang Wenyi as chairman and acting chief executive officer yesterday
to fill positions vacated by a death and a shareholder vote.  Zhang, 64, was appointed to SMIC’s board as an independent
non-executive director last month, is a career electronics
industry executive, and is chairman of Shanghai Hua Hong Group
Co., the company said in a June 23 announcement.  The company will continue to seek a candidate to fill the
CEO position to replace David Wang, who resigned on July 13,
according to a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday
evening.  Shareholders rejected Wang’s reappointment last month, and
vetoed board mandates to issue new shares. Wang, appointed in
November 2009, helped SMIC return to profitability last year
after five straight annual net losses under founder Richard Chang. In April,  China  Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign
wealth fund, agreed to invest $250 million in the company.
Former Chairman Jiang Shang Zhou died on June 27.  SMIC, suspended since June 30, will resume trading in Hong
Kong on July 18. The stock gained 13 percent this year before
halting trading, compared with the 2.8 percent decline in the
city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  over the same period.  The departure of 100 middle managers in the past nine
months, out of about 1,000 at the company, “were in the normal
course of business,” given the nature of the industry, SMIC said
in yesterday’s filing. No senior executives other than Wang
left, it said.  The company’s shareholders include state-owned Datang
Telecom Technology & Industry Holdings Co. and Shanghai
Industrial Investment Holdings Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at   mlui11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 