-- 
Serb Dinar Losing Most Worldwide on Concerns

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-15T09:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/serb-dinar-losing-most-worldwide-on-italian-greek-bank-concerns.html
Serbia ’s dinar is losing the most
among currencies worldwide as Greek and Italian lenders’ 39
percent share of the Balkan nation’s banking industry and a
second interest rate cut in two months curb investor demand.  The dinar depreciated 2.2 percent against the euro this
week and is down 4.8 percent against the dollar for July, the
biggest losses among more than 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The dinar was 0.09 percent lower at 103.06 per euro
at 11:14 a.m. in Belgrade.  The failure of the European Union to complete a second aid
package for  Greece  and prevent the debt crisis spreading to
 Italy  is diverting “time and effort” that officials would have
spent focusing on enlarging the bloc, Milica Delevic, the
government’s European integration chief, said in an interview in
Belgrade yesterday. Italian banks make up about 23 percent of
Serbian lenders and Greeks account for 16 percent, according to
Serbia’s central bank data from March.  “All these factors are coming into one big melting pot,”
said George Christou, emerging markets strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in  London . The currency may weaken to 104 per euro, 1
percent below the level of 102.97 per euro at yesterday’s close,
he said.  Serbian policy makers have cut borrowing costs by three
quarters of a percentage point in the past two months on
expectations inflation has peaked and may fall below the central
bank’s target. The two-week repurchase rate, the second-highest
benchmark rate after Belarus among European central banks at
11.75 percent, is set to climb “at least” 2 percentage points
by the end of the year, Christou said yesterday.  The dinar has reversed gains after the arrest of Ratko Mladic for alleged  war crimes  spurred a rally on speculation it
would boost the chance of EU candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  