-- 
Serial Killer Wins Lottery; Deadhead Worships Preacher: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/serial-killer-wins-lottery-deadhead-worships-preacher-movies.html
Carl used to worship Jerry Garcia.
Now he’s a Jesus freak.  The Deadhead turned true believer played by Greg Kinnear in
“ Salvation Boulevard ” is a disciple of charismatic megachurch
preacher Dan Day (Pierce Brosnan). When Day accidentally shoots
an atheist professor (Ed Harris) and tries to blame it on Carl,
mayhem ensues.  The participants include a Mexican blackmailer, Carl’s
devout wife (Jennifer Connelly), Day’s bumbling henchman (Jim Gaffigan) and Honey (Marisa Tomei), a free-spirited security
guard who rekindles Carl’s love for the Dead.  George Ratliff’s satire, based on a novel by Larry
Beinhart, casts a jaundiced eye on extremists of all stripes.  Brosnan and Connelly are too sophisticated for their
backwater characters and it’s hard to believe that Kinnear’s
bland Carl was ever a Deadhead. Only the wonderfully zany Tomei
looks comfortable in this squirm-inducing debacle.  “Salvation Boulevard,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New
York and  Los Angeles . Rating: *1/2  ‘Life, Above All’  “ Life, Above All ” turns a cosmic issue -- the devastation
AIDS has wreaked on African children -- into an intimate drama.  It’s the story of Chanda, a 12-year-old South African girl
whose family is rocked by rumors following the death of her
infant sister. The baby died of AIDS, but no one is willing to
acknowledge it. That leaves an information vacuum that is filled
with gossip, making the family pariahs and forcing the mother to
flee.  Chanda’s search for her mom -- and the source of the trash
talk -- raises disturbing questions about a disease that is
widely misunderstood and feared. As if AIDS weren’t enough, the
young girl also must deal with a drunken stepdad and a best
friend who’s selling herself to local truckers.  Director Oliver Schmitz, who grew up in  South Africa , shot
the film in Elandsdoorn, a township about 125 miles northeast of
Johannesburg. The fine South African cast speaks the local
dialect, Sepedi, giving the movie an authentic feel.  “Life, Above All,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is
playing in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ‘Lucky’  Ever wonder what would happen if a serial killer won the
lottery? Me, neither.  Not so for screenwriter Kent Sublette and director Gil
Cates Jr., who find the subject fascinating enough for a
feature-length film.  After watching “ Lucky ,” I don’t think it’s even worth a
five-minute short.  Colin Hanks (Tom’s less talented son) plays Ben Keller, a
closet psycho who wins the Iowa lottery with a ticket belonging
to one of his victims. His newfound riches lead to a whirlwind
marriage to childhood friend Lucy (Ari Graynor), a gold digger
who sours on the relationship after discovering her husband’s
grisly hobby.  Ben’s doting mom (Ann-Margret, looking well preserved) also
knows about his secret, but dismisses it as a minor flaw like
acne or bad breath.  This is a black comedy with no comic or ironic flair. If
you’re looking for guilty laughs, you’re out of luck.  “Lucky,” from Phase 4 Films, is playing in  New York  and
Los Angeles. Rating: *  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 