-- 
HSH Nordbank Passes Stress Test; Criticizes Regulator’s Rules

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/hsh-nordbank-passes-stress-test-criticizes-regulator-s-rules.html
HSH Nordbank  AG, the Hamburg lender
that was bailed out during the global financial crisis, said
European Union regulators found it has sufficient capital to
withstand a recession and losses on sovereign debt.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was 5.5 percent in the test’s adverse
scenario, surpassing the 5 percent minimum required by the
European Banking Authority’s tests, HSH Nordbank said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The EBA has been criticized by German lenders, including
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, over the types of capital banks
can include in the tests. HSH Nordbank said today that if the
EBA had included contractual obligations that the lender has
with its owners to reduce its balance sheet, the core Tier 1
capital ratio would had been at least 9.1 percent in the test.  “This result doesn’t reflect the economic reality of our
bank in any way,” HSH Nordbank Chief Executive Officer Paul Lerbinger said in the statement. “The EBA has, in the
implementation of the  stress test  scenarios, disregarded valid
contractual obligations, for example our guarantee agreement
with the states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein or with the
Federal Agency for Financial Market Stabilization.”  Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, which  control  more than 80
percent of HSH Nordbank, provided 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion)
in capital and 10 billion euros in guarantees to cover potential
losses at the lender during the crisis. HSH Nordbank also tapped
 Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue fund for 17 billion euros in
guarantees, which it plans to fully redeem by July 2012.  Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen on July 13 refused to give the
EBA permission to publish all of its data as it disputes the
regulator’s measurements of core Tier 1 capital because they
don’t include some instruments allowed by German regulators.  While the bank, known as Helaba, said it passed the exams
with a capital ratio of 6.8 percent when counting contractual
changes around state funds of 1.92 billion euros, the EBA won’t
recognize such funding. That pushed the Helaba’s core capital
ratio below the 5 percent threshold required to pass the test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  