-- 
Singapore’s Retail Sales Rise in May on Luxury Goods, Computer Purchases

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-07-15T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/singapore-s-retail-sales-rise-in-may-on-luxury-goods-computer-purchases.html
Singapore ’s retail sales growth
accelerated in May as rising wages encouraged  consumer spending 
at department stores and spurred purchases of  luxury goods ,
telephones and computers.  The retail sales index rose 10 percent from a year earlier
after climbing a revised 8.5 percent in April, the Statistics
Department said in a statement today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 economists was for an 8.8 percent gain.  Singapore’s unemployment rate is at a three-year low as
employers expand payrolls to meet demand for goods and services,
boosting wages and increasing consumer spending. Tourists are
visiting the city in record numbers, bolstering earnings for
companies such as Genting Singapore Plc and Las Vegas Sands
Corp., whose casino complexes on the island include shopping
malls, hotels and restaurants.  “Wages are rising strongly,” Edward Lee, regional head of
rates strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore, said
before the report. “Tourist arrivals also remained strong in
May.”  Average wages before adjusting for inflation rose 8.5
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the Ministry
of Manpower said in June. The government will  release  second-
quarter jobs data on July 29.  Adjusted for seasonal factors, overall retail sales dropped
0.4 percent in May from April, when they rose a revised 6
percent, today’s report showed.  Tourist Arrivals  Singapore expects as many as 13 million tourists to visit
this year compared with 11.6 million in 2010, S. Iswaran, second
minister for trade and industry, said this week. Tourism
receipts are forecast to rise to S$22 billion ($18 billion) to
S$23 billion this year from about S$18.9 billion in 2010, he
said.  Last quarter, “tourism-related sectors such as hotels and
restaurants continued to register healthy growth due to strong
visitor inflows,” the trade ministry said yesterday.  The index measuring purchases excluding automobiles rose
8.3 percent from a year earlier after climbing a revised 10.5
percent in April.  Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling limited permits for each automobile category, and the
quotas may distort sales figures because motor vehicles are the
biggest component of the retail index, accounting for about a
quarter of the gauge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  