-- 
Singapore June Home Sales Post Biggest Drop in Six Months As Economy Cools

-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 
2011-07-15T06:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/singapore-june-home-sales-post-biggest-drop-in-six-months-as-economy-cools.html
Singapore ’s private home sales fell
25 percent in June, the most in six months, following the
government’s efforts this year to curb gains in housing prices.
The property index dropped to a three-week low.  The number of residential units sold last month dropped to
1,182 units in June from 1,575 in the previous month, according
to the Urban Redevelopment Authority’s  website . That’s the
lowest since February.  The drop in housing sales may ease concern the government
will impose more curbs after raising the down payment on second
mortgages and introducing more taxes on residential transactions
in January, according to Donald Han, Singapore-based managing
director at  Cushman & Wakefield .  “The cooling measures have taken some wind out of the
market and some of these investors have started to look at other
sectors, in particular industrials and offices,” Han said. “It
also reinforces the fact that the activity front is starting to
slow down so they shouldn’t put too much effort into trying to
cool the market further. It could be an overkill if they take
any more measures.”  Singapore’s economy shrank for the first time in three
quarters as manufacturing slumped, adding to evidence the
slowdowns in  Europe  and the U.S. are curbing growth in  Asia . The
island’s currency weakened from a record. Gross domestic product
fell an annualized 7.8 percent in the second quarter from the
previous three months, when it climbed a revised 27.2 percent,
the trade ministry said yesterday. The median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for no growth.  The index tracking property stocks in Singapore lost 0.6
percent to the lowest since June 23.  Singapore’s private home prices rose 1.9 percent in the
second quarter, the smallest gain in two years, according to the
Urban Redevelopment Authority’s data on July 1.  “This is further evidence that the cooling measures are
having an effect,” said Nicholas Mak, executive director of SLP
International Property Consultants in Singapore. “The cooling
measures don’t take effect overnight, they take a couple of
months to show effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  