-- 
Slovenia’s Nova Ljubljanska Banka Passes Europe Stress Test

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-07-15T17:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/slovenia-s-nova-ljubljanska-said-to-pass-european-stress-test.html
European Union regulators found Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Slovenia’s biggest bank, has sufficient
capital to withstand a recession and a sovereign debt crisis.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was 5.5 percent in the test’s adverse
scenario for this year and 5.3 percent for 2012, surpassing the
5 percent minimum required by the European Banking Authority’s
tests, it said in a statement today in the capital Ljubljana.  NLB, in which the government holds an indirect majority and
 KBC Groep NV (KBC)  is the second largest investor, last year barely
passed a less stringent EU examination. The bank said in June it
needs 250 million euros ($353 million) of capital after it
raised the same amount in a share sale in March. The lender is
reeling from the impact of the 2009 recession in Slovenia, which
caused a surge in bad loan provisions, mostly from the
 construction industry .  Nova Ljubljanska in 2010 reported a record loss of 202
million euros. It had its debt and deposit rating cut by Moody’s
Investors Service three levels to Baa3 last month on concern bad
loans will continue to weigh on its balance sheet.  Slovenia’s central bank, led by Governor Marko Kranjec who
said in May he believes both NLB and its smaller rival Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. will pass the EU examination, warned
the biggest threat to an economic recovery is the debt crisis in
 Europe .  NLB’s holdings of government securities of peripheral
nations with “no significant risk” to its finances, the person
familiar with the situation said.  The exposure of the Slovenian banking industry to
government bonds of  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland wouldn’t
threaten the stability of the banking system, central bank board
member Stanislava Zadravec Caprirolo said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  