-- 
Sony Nears Deal to Buy Ericsson’s Stake in Mobile Venture, WSJ Reports

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-10-06T17:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/sony-ericsson-posts-second-quarter-net-loss-of-50-million-euros.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  is getting closer to an
agreement to buy Ericsson AB’s stake in their mobile-phone
venture, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the matter.  The talks between the two companies, which held regular
discussions in recent years about the ownership structure of
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, may still fail, the
newspaper said. Ericsson spokesman Ola Rembe and Sony Ericsson
spokeswoman Holly Rossetti declined to comment. Sony’s spokesmen
in  Japan  couldn’t be reached outside regular office hours.  Full control of London-based Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications AB would add smartphones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android system to Sony’s device business, while freeing Ericsson
to concentrate on sales of wireless transmission equipment and
services.  Sony Ericsson  already makes a smartphone with a
slideout gaming keyboard that overlaps with Sony’s Playstation
games.  “This would make sense for both Ericsson and Sony,” said
Haakan Wranne, a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank Markets,
who said a deal may value Ericsson’s 50 percent stake at as much
as 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion) “The current venture
doesn’t maximize the potential of Sony’s presence and assets in
gaming, and is diluting what could be a bigger-profile Sony
offering.”  The 50 percent stake could be valued at between 1 billion
euros and 1.25 billion euros, the Wall Street Journal said,
citing unidentified analysts.  ‘No Point’  “‘There is no point” for Ericsson to “remain involved
and bear the risk of having to pay additional funds to the joint
venture,” Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Pierre Ferragu  said.  Ericsson and Sony formed the joint venture on Oct. 1, 2001,
giving themselves five years to dethrone Nokia Oyj as the
world’s biggest mobile-phone maker. Nokia is still the biggest
handset maker by units, while  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. passed it in the smartphone market in the second quarter,
according to  Strategy Analytics .  Sony Ericsson on July 15 reported its first quarterly loss
in more than a year. Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg said
at the time the company was ramping down its feature phone
business as the worldwide market for handsets without smartphone
software was “collapsing.”  The company’s efforts to replace its aging smartphone
portfolio with updated models such as the  Xperia Arc  were dented
by supply chain disruptions following the Japanese earthquake
and tsunami in March. The company shipped 7.6 million handsets
in the second quarter, falling short of the 9.1 million
estimated by analysts.  Sony Technologies  The company’s phones use Sony technologies produced in
northern Japan, such as camera sensors, displays and batteries.  Sony Ericsson was the world’s tenth biggest handset
manufacturer in the second quarter with a 1.7 percent share
according to market researchers Gartner Inc. It had a 3 percent
share a year earlier. Bigger competitors in the Android segment
include Samsung,  HTC Corp. (2498) , and Motorola Mobility Inc., which
was acquired this year by Google for $12.5 billion.  Ericsson can’t expect “to get anywhere close to that
amount,” Swedbank’s Wranne said. Google was keen to get
Motorola’s intellectual-property holdings “and was prepared to
pay up for it.” Sony is also the only realistic buyer for the
stake and Ericsson therefore “doesn’t have the opportunity to
play this one out.’’  Sony Ericsson has over 4,000 of its own telecom patents and
has a license to all the Nortel Networks Corp. patents that were
auctioned this year,  Gustaf Brusewitz , a spokesman for the joint
venture, said in August. Both Ericsson and Sony were part of a
group, which also included Apple and Microsoft Corp., that
agreed in July to pay $4.5 billion for a portfolio of patents
from the breakup of Nortel to keep them out of Google’s hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  