-- 
Spanish Banks Account for Most of Capital Shortfall; Seven Narrowly Pass

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-07-15T19:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/spanish-banks-account-for-most-of-capital-shortfall-seven-narrowly-pass.html
Five Spanish lenders, including
 Banco Pastor SA (PAS)  and  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM) , failed
this year’s round of European Union stress tests after
regulators found they didn’t have enough capital to withstand a
recession scenario.  Unnim and CatalunyaCaixa, two Catalan savings banks groups,
and Grupo Caja3 also failed the tests under the main results
category set by the European Banking Authority, according to
results published on the websites of Spain’s commercial and
savings banks associations. The banks, which were short a
combined 1.56 billion euros ($2.2 billion) of capital, according
to the EBA, won’t need to raise funds because they have extra
reserves and bonds that convert into shares to absorb losses,
the Bank of Spain said.  Spanish lenders make up more than a quarter of the 90
 European institutions  tested by the EBA as banks and regulators
step up efforts to convince investors they can withstand a
three-year property crash and soaring funding costs. The
government earlier this year imposed new minimum  capital
requirements  to speed up mergers of struggling lenders as the
Bank of Spain also forced them to report more details of loans
linked to real estate.  Tells Us ‘Zilch’  “It’s the more of the same old, same old, same old story -
-- some guys passed and some failed and no one could agree on
how to come up with the numbers,” said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an
economics professor at the University of Navarra’s IESE business
school. “My own view is that it tells us precisely zilch.”  Pastor’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, was 3.3 percent in the test’s adverse scenario,
missing the 5 percent required under EBA’s criteria. Under that
scenario, CAM’s was 3 percent, Caja3’s 4 percent, Unnim’s 4.5
percent and Catalunya Caixa 4.8 percent.  A further seven Spanish lenders, include  Bankinter SA (BKT)  and
 Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , only narrowly passed the tests with
core  capital ratios  between 5 percent and 6 percent under the
adverse scenario. Under those criteria, Spanish lenders would
post combined losses of 13.2 billion euros, with only three of
the 25 tested --  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Banca March -- staying in profit, according to
the EBA data.  “The stress tests show that there are institutions that
have a very different performance from others under adverse
scenarios,” said Manuel Gonzalez Cid, BBVA’s chief financial
officer, in a phone interview. BBVA would report 2011 profit of
3.2 billion euros under the adverse scenario, compared with 5.7
billion euros under the baseline.  Bankia IPO  BFA-Bankia passed the  stress test  with a core Tier 1
capital of 5.4 percent. In the adverse scenario of the stress
tests, the group would lose 2.4 billion euros this year.  The lender, a merger of seven savings banks led by former
International Monetary Fund head Rodrigo Rato, is due to price
its initial share sale on July 18. The lender is seeking to
raise as much as 4.16 billion euros.  “The best way not to fail an exam is not to sit it,” Bank
of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said at a news
conference, pointing out the Spanish tests covered 95 percent of
the country’s banking system. Spain’s priority should be to stop
its financing costs from increasing further by pushing ahead
with steps that will make the country’s economy more efficient
and reduce the  unemployment rate  from above 21 percent, he said.  Adverse Scenario  The adverse scenario stress test criteria for  Spain 
included a review of how lenders would weather a 1 percent
contraction of the economy in 2011 and 1.1 percent for 2012, the
Bank of Spain said in a statement. The probability of such a
trend developing is 0.5 percent, it said. The tests for Spain
also take into account a 30 percent drop in housing prices from
their peak to the end of 2012 and a 60 percent decline in land
prices.  Because EBA designed a single format for all banks
submitting to the tests, Spanish lenders couldn’t include so-
called generic provisions and some convertible bonds in the
calculation of capital. The Bank of Spain makes lenders set
aside the generic reserves when they make loans to provide an
additional buffer against loan losses.  Including items such as the generic provisions, all
convertible bonds and sales of assets not included in the main
calculation of capital, Pastor would have a “supervisory
recognized capital ratio” of 5.6 percent in December 2012,
according to the EBA stress test results. Unnim would have a 6.2
percent ratio, CatalunyaCaixa 6.3 percent, Caja3 6.6 percent and
CAM 5.1 percent.  “In the case of Pastor, the capital reinforcement measures
including generic provisions and 252 million euros of
convertible bonds, have been adopted, are fully effective and,
what’s more, are considered core Tier 1 by our national
supervisor,” said Jorge Gost, its chief executive officer, in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  