-- 
Stocks May Sink 35% in Worsening Sovereign-Debt Crisis, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-15T11:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/stocks-may-sink-35-in-worsening-sovereign-debt-crisis-deutsche-bank-says.html
Stocks worldwide may tumble 35
percent if Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis deepens as investors
flee risky assets and earnings drop, according to an analyst
team at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in London.  “While consensus is that equities are not overvalued at
current levels, we believe that investors and politicians
underestimate the impact that a full-blown financial crisis
would have,” the bank’s valuation and accounting team, led by
Francesco Curto, wrote in a report today. “On a milder
scenario, under which the crisis is contained and does not spill
over to the real economy, we would still expect the MSCI World
to fall by around 12 percent,” they added.  The MSCI World Index is headed for its worst week since
August 2010, having dropped 2.5 percent so far, after bond
yields for Italy and  Spain  rose to their highest since the euro
was introduced in 1999 amid the escalating debt crisis in
 Europe .  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday became the second company
this week to say it may cut the U.S.’s top credit rating.  In a “worst-case” scenario, the debt crisis would evolve
to a “full-blown financial crisis” like the one caused by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, they wrote.
The cost of equity capital would rise to levels last seen at the
market bottom of March 2009 and companies’ net income would
fall, they wrote.  In such a scenario, banks would trade at 0.32 times the
value of their assets, down from about 0.85 now, the report
said.  Equity Risk Premium  The extra return investors demand from European equities in
the form of earnings as a percentage of share prices has risen
to the highest relative to yields on German  government bonds 
since the end of 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  In the U.S., the so-called equity risk premium reached a
monthly record high in February 2009 as the credit crisis roiled
markets. The earnings yield on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that month topped the yield on 10-year Treasuries by 6.13
percentage points.  The team’s main scenario is that the  MSCI World (MXWO)  ends 2011
at 1,359, climbing 3.7 percent from yesterday’s close of
1,310.83.  “Prompt action from European authorities could avert this
worst-case outcome, however,” the analysts wrote. “But the
downside risks to our relatively mild scenario have undoubtedly
increased recently.”  The valuation and accounting team’s view differs from
forecasts by Deutsche Bank’s equity strategists.  Gareth Evans , a
London-based European strategist, predicts that the Stoxx 600
Europe Index will climb 18 percent from yesterday’s close
through year-end. Binky Chadha in  New York , the bank’s U.S.
strategist, predicts the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will end
2011 at 1,550, an 18 percent advance from yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 