-- 
Stress Assessments at European Banks Also Test Credibility: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-15T22:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/stress-assessments-at-european-banks-also-test-credibility-view.html
The European bank stress-test
results are in, and the good news is that, of 90 lenders
reviewed, only eight failed: five in  Spain , two in  Greece  and
one in  Austria . A ninth bank,  Germany ’s Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen, probably would have failed but refused to
disclose its data. Sixteen others narrowly passed, the European
Banking Authority concluded.  The bad news is that banking regulators say the eight test
flunkers will need to raise a mere 2.5 billion euros ($3.5
billion) in fresh capital by year-end. How can that be bad news?
Because the number lacks credibility. Almost no one believes
that’s all it will take to shore up Europe’s troubled
institutions, especially if Greece or another of Europe’s
fragile economies defaults on its debt, which looks increasingly
likely.  By contrast,  Standard & Poor’s  conducted its own analysis
of European banks and concluded in March that they needed as
much as 250 billion euros ($350 billion) -- or much, much more
than the EU’s figure -- to withstand a sharp increase in yields
and a severe economic downturn. The U.S. required nine banks to
raise $75 billion in new equity after stress tests were
conducted in the spring of 2009.  What most undermines the credibility of this latest attempt
to calm  Europe ’s financial fears -- the third in three years --
is that a sovereign-debt default wasn’t among the worst-case
scenarios under consideration, even though credit-default swaps
already indicate an 87 percent chance that Greece won’t be able
to repay its debts. Instead, European authorities looked at the
ability of banks to endure an economic contraction of 0.5
percent -- in other words, a mild recession -- as well as a 15
percent stock-market decline, rising unemployment, a drop in
housing prices and trading losses on government debt.  Step Forward  Even so, the unprecedented publication of bank data is
laudable. It represents a much-needed step toward improving
transparency in an otherwise opaque financial system that has
yet to recover from the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. As analysts pore over the data in the days ahead,
investors will finally be able to get a sense of how much of a
capital buffer each bank has, and what profitability estimates
look like for each in 2011 and 2012. The size and maturities of
sovereign-debt holdings by all 90 banks, spread over 21
countries, have also been laid bare, allowing analysts and
investors to run their own tests and identify the laggards.  Even if European leaders are in denial about the level of
fresh capital required to stem the contagion, they are at least
giving investors the tools to begin to figure it out themselves.
Stay tuned -- the stress tests could yet give Europe’s bankers
palpitations.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 