-- 
Sugar Advances on Brazil Supply Concern; Coffee, Cocoa Decline

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-07-15T15:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/sugar-advances-on-brazil-supply-concern-coffee-cocoa-decline.html
Sugar gained for the first day in
three on renewed concern that the crop in  Brazil , the biggest
producer and exporter, may decline more than forecast. Coffee
and cocoa declined.  The global sugar surplus may be 1 million metric tons
smaller than estimated in the season that begins on Oct. 1
because of lower output in Brazil, the  International Sugar
Organization  said yesterday. Unica, an industry group, on July
13 cut its output forecast for the Center South, Brazil’s
largest producing region, by 2.2 million tons.  “Anything about the condition of the crop in Brazil will
provide support to the market,” Luis Rangel, a vice president
of commodity derivatives at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City , New
Jersey, said in a telephone interview.  Raw sugar for October delivery rose 0.61 cent, or 2.1
percent, to 29.63 cents a pound at 11:01 a.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York . A close at that price would leave prices up
0.9 percent for the week, the 10th straight weekly advance.  The sugar-cane plants in Brazil have flowered, an
indication that the crop is under stress and a warning of the
poor harvest to come, the Financial Times  reported  yesterday.  Prices may extend the rally because of the drop in
Brazilian output, Sucden Financial Ltd. analyst  Thomas Kujawa 
said in a report today.  “We still seem in a strong uptrend with a fundamental
story to justify it,” Kujawa said.  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery fell 4.2
cents, or 1.6 percent, to $2.5415 a pound on ICE, heading for
the fifth decline in six sessions.  Cocoa futures for September delivery slipped $1 to $3,155 a
ton in New York.  In  London , refined sugar and cocoa gained, while robusta
coffee retreated on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 