-- 
UBS Data Disclosure on 255 U.S. Clients Was Legal, Court Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-07-15T13:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/swiss-court-says-disclosure-of-ubs-client-data-to-u-s-was-legal.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s disclosure of account data
on 255 clients to the U.S. authorities, ordered by the Swiss
financial regulator in 2009, was “lawful,” the Swiss Federal
Supreme Court ruled.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma,
“proceeded on the assumption that if this data hadn’t been
disclosed, the U.S.  Department of Justice  would have filed an
indictment against UBS, which would arguably have caused the
bank’s ruin and consequently have had serious repercussions for
the Swiss economy,” the Lausanne-based court said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The court reversed a ruling in January 2010 by the Federal
Administrative Court, which handled a complaint from UBS
clients. The administrative court ruled that the regulator
exceeded its authority in telling UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank, to hand over data to the U.S. as part of a deferred
prosecution agreement. The Department of Justice accused UBS of
conspiring to defraud the U.S. by helping Americans hide
accounts from the  Internal Revenue Service .  While the emergency-action provisions in the Swiss Banking
Act don’t provide “sufficient legal grounds for encroaching on
banking secrecy,” government authorities, including Finma, may
take steps to “avert serious imminent risks” even in the
absence of a specific legal foundation, the court said.  “Since Finma had compelling reasons to believe that not
relinquishing the customer data to the  U.S. Department of
Justice  would have seriously impaired Switzerland’s financial
markets and have led to serious repercussions for the Swiss
economy, the action taken by it was shown to be lawful,” the
court’s statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  