-- 
Syrians Hold Rallies to Bring Assad Down as 27 Protesters Reported Killed

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-07-15T21:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/syrian-security-kills-protester-as-rallies-demand-assad-ouster.html
Tens of thousands of Syrians took to
the streets to press for the ouster of President Bashar al- Assad, whose use of force and offers of dialogue have failed to
stop a four-month revolt.  At least 32 protesters were killed yesterday around the
country, including about 20 in the capital, Damascus, Al Jazeera
television said, citing activists it didn’t identify.  Security forces killed one protester in the southern city
of Daraa, where demonstrations against Assad’s rule began in
March, said Bahiya Mardini, head of the Arab Committee for Free
Speech, a Syrian rights group based in Cairo.  Syria ’s state-run
television said security forces were fired upon and two were
wounded.  The number of demonstrators totaled in the hundreds of
thousands, according to the  Associated Press , which called the
protests the largest since the uprisings began.  “The momentum is rising,” Mardini said in a telephone
interview from Istanbul, where she was attending a meeting of
Syrian opposition groups. “In the beginning we were worried
about the future of the revolt. Not anymore.”  The protests have posed the biggest threat to Assad since
he inherited power from his father 11 years ago. The uprising in
Syria is part of a wave of unrest that has swept parts of the
Arab world this year, toppling the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt ,
before spreading to other countries including Libya, Bahrain and
Yemen. Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,700 people
since March, according to human rights groups.  Condemned by Clinton  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  condemned
yesterday’s violence.  “What we are seeing from the Assad regime in its barrage
of words, false promises and accusations isn’t being translated
into any path forward,” Clinton said in Istanbul. “We have
said that Syria can’t go back to the way it was before, that
Assad has lost his legitimacy in the eyes of the Syrian people
because of the brutality of that crackdown.”  Thousands of protesters in the city of Hama chanted, “The
people want to bring the regime down,” according to footage
aired by Al Jazeera television.  Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while saying that the demands of demonstrators “have merit”
and that changes are needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaelder@bloomberg.net . 