-- 
Industrial Output in U.S. Climbed 0.2% Last Month on Mining, Utility Gains

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-15T13:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-industrial-production-rose-0-2-in-june-on-utility-gains.html
Industrial production  in the U.S.
rose less than forecast in June, restrained by declines in the
output of autos and business equipment.  The 0.2 percent increase in production at factories, mines
and utilities followed a revised 0.1 percent decrease the prior
month that was initially reported as a gain, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed today. Economists projected a 0.3 percent
rise in June, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Factory production was unchanged last month, while
utility use rebounded.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, may be restrained by slower consumer demand and a
buildup in inventories even as automakers rebound from parts
shortages after the Japan earthquake. The figures underscore
comments this week by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
that the recovery “still needs a good deal of support.”  “Production is somewhat sluggish,” said Neil Dutta, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York . ‘We’re
likely to see the supply shocks fade and auto production ramp
up. After that, manufacturing will settle into a trend-like
pace.”  Other figures from the Fed today showed manufacturing in
New York state unexpectedly contracted for a second straight
month in July. The so-called Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut , rose to
minus 3.8 from minus 7.8. Readings less than zero signal
contraction.  Consumer Prices  The Labor Department said today that the consumer-price
index decreased 0.2 percent in June. The so-called core measure,
which excludes more volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.3
percent.  Consumer confidence  slumped in July to the lowest level
since March 2009. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of sentiment decreased to 63.8 from 71.5 at
the end of June.  Stocks pared gains after the figures. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,311.51 at 9:56 a.m. in New
York. Treasuries were little changed, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note at 2.95 percent.  Forecasts for industrial production in June ranged from a
drop of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.7 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 80 economists.  Production of automobiles and parts fell 2 percent, the Fed
report showed. Excluding autos, manufacturing rose 0.2 percent
after a 0.1 percent rise.  Business Equipment  Business equipment production declined 0.7 percent in June
following a 1.2 percent increase. Output of computers and
electronic products slumped 0.7 percent after a 0.6 percent
gain. Furniture production dropped 2.1 percent last month.  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, held at 76.7 percent in June. The gauge compares
with the average of 79.5 percent over the past 20 years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased
0.5 percent. Utility output climbed 0.9 percent after a 2
percent drop. The average temperature was 70.7 degrees
Fahrenheit (21.5 Celsius) last month, the 26th warmest June in
117 years, according to the National Climatic Data Center.  Motor-vehicle assemblies decreased to 7.8 million units at
an annual rate in June, the lowest this year, today’s report
showed. The Fed said in its release that supply chain
disruptions following the earthquake in  Japan  in March curtailed
vehicle production as well as output in related industries.  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold at an 11.4 million annual pace,
down from 11.8 million annual rate in May and the lowest level
in a year, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Some of the drop in demand last month reflected a shortage
of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and tsunami
disrupted supplies. With inventories running low, companies
offered smaller discounts, which also deterred buyers.  Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co.’s U.S. deliveries
each fell 21 percent in June from a year earlier, while General
Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co. saw sales gain 10 percent, less
than estimates, according to industry data on July 2.  “When considering the headwinds that we faced this month,
June was fairly decent, comparing it year-over-year,” GM’s vice
president for U.S. sales  Donald Johnson  said on a conference
call July 1.  Recent data have pointed to slowing growth at factories and
the economy. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing
index rose in June from the lowest level since September 2009,
while overall job growth was the slowest in nine months.  Dollar, Exports  Manufacturing may benefit from growing overseas economies
and a declining dollar. The dollar has declined 8.5 percent
against the currencies of major trading partners in the past
year, making American-made goods more attractive abroad.  Midland, Michigan-based Dow Chemical Co. plans to add 6,000
jobs this decade, mainly in Michigan, Texas and  Louisiana , Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said in an interview July 8.  Dow is “selling well” to overseas markets, he said.
Smaller U.S. companies with a regional focus aren’t doing as
well, Liveris said. The path of economic recovery is “jagged,
somewhere between “anemic” and “robust,” he said.  The  U.S. economy  began 2011 on a weaker note, growing at a
1.9 percent annual rate in the first three months of this year
after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter,
according to Commerce Department figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  