-- 
Governors Call for Linking University Financing to Performance

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-governors-push-performance-based-support-for-colleges-1-.html
U.S. governors, who slashed higher-
education budgets by $5 billion this fiscal year, say financing
for public colleges and universities should be based on
graduation rates, “return on investment” of taxpayer dollars
and other performance measures.  The  National Governors Association  recommended that states
use metrics, such as the number of degrees per $100,000
appropriated, to set higher-education policy and funding,
according to a report released yesterday at a conference in Salt
Lake City.  “Education is absolutely key in putting America back to
work,”  Washington  Governor Christine Gregoire, chair of the
governors group, said at its opening session. Making sure people
are getting the education and training needed to compete in the
global economy is “one of the most important things we need to
consider as governors,” she said.  Facing the fourth straight year of budget deficits, U.S.
governors recommended cuts to colleges and universities that
were twice as deep as to public schools, according to a survey
from the  National Association of State Budget Officers  and the
NGA.  The  California State University  and  University of
California  systems, and public institutions in  Pennsylvania  and
 New Hampshire , where state funding was slashed almost by half,
have recently raised tuition as much as 12 percent to deal with
record state funding cuts.  Questions From Taxpayers  Gregoire said governors need to be prepared to answer
questions from taxpayers about how colleges are performing and
spending public funds. The NGA report highlights performance
measures used in Gregoire’s home state of Washington as well as
performance funding initiatives in  Indiana ,  Arkansas ,  Colorado 
and  Ohio , where some public support is tied to benchmarks such
as graduation rates and minority achievement.  The report on increasing accountability said higher-
education institutions should be evaluated by measures including
the number of undergraduate certificate and degree completions
per 100 students enrolled and the number of degrees awarded
compared with the number of adults in the state without
postsecondary certificates.  “While it is unfortunate that governors have had to reduce
the budgets for higher education, they also realize they aren’t
using the money as well as they could,” John Thomasian,
director of the governors’ Washington-based Center for Best
Practices, said in a telephone interview earlier this week.  “The post-secondary system is not often accountable to the
real world,” he said. “Governors are recognizing we are
investing in these systems. We need to make sure they are
performing to the level we need them to.”  Funding Return  Thomasian said the NGA is focused on higher education at
its meeting in  Salt Lake City  because governors recognize that
state funding will one day return to previous levels. He said
current college completion rates are not sufficient to provide
the graduates needed for future U.S. economic needs.  Massachusetts Institute of Technology President Susan Hockfield called on governors to make education more affordable,
support changes in the U.S. immigration system for highly
educated workers, press for federal research funding and support
entrepreneurial cultures at their state institutions.  While graduation rates need to be taken into account,
governors should also be careful how much financial support they
cut, Hockfield said in an interview before her speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Crawford in Salt Lake City at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  