-- 
U.S. MRAPs in Iraq Being Armored Against Iran-Made Bombs

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-15T20:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-mraps-in-iraq-being-armored-against-iran-made-bombs-1-.html
The U.S. military has begun fitting
new armor to its most heavily fortified wheeled vehicles in  Iraq 
because of improved bombs coming from Iran, the Defense
Department’s procurement chief said today.  The Caiman variant of the Army’s mine resistant, ambush
protected vehicles is getting new armor, said  Ashton Carter  at
the  Brookings Institution , a Washington study center. Caimans
are built  by BAE Systems Plc .  The Pentagon is modifying the vehicle’s side armor “with
EFP’s specifically in mind,” Carter said of Iranian-produced
Explosively Formed Penetrators designed to destroy the most
dense U.S. armor.  “This is a very important effort so those vehicles are
strengthened,” he said. “I am talking about armor plates on
the side of the Caiman,” he said.  The Pentagon MRAP program office set an accelerated
delivery schedule for 1,140 upgrade kits to be completed in the
next few months, said spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin . Forty kits so
far have been shipped to Iraq for installation, she said.  Iranian Threat  The Iranian threat to U.S. forces has increased “in the
last three or four months,” then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said in an interview last month.  Iran is supplying bigger EFPs and “improvised rocket-
assisted munitions,” or IRAMs, he said. IRAMs are bombs capable
of creating a more powerful explosion than a conventional mortar
shell, he said.  One of the achievements Gates touted for his 4 1/2 years in
office was forcing the Pentagon’s procurement system to focus on
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, particularly in developing
technology to better protect U.S. forces from roadside bombs.  He pressed to speed purchases of the mine-resistant,
ambush-protected vehicles, or MRAPs, in part to counter Iranian-
made EFPs. He then bore down to get all-terrain versions of the
vehicles, called MATVs, for  Afghanistan ’s rugged terrain. He
also established a task force to find other ways of intercepting
and countering the devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  