-- 
Treasury Bonds Decline Amid Debt Debate; Note Increase on Refuge Appeal

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-15T16:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-30-year-treasuries-fall-on-standard-poor-s-rating-signal-over-debt.html
Treasury 30-year bonds declined as
concern that the U.S. is closer to losing its top  credit rating 
and a report showed that consumer prices excluding food and
energy increased for a second month.  The bonds slid for a third day after  Standard & Poor’s 
followed Moody’s Investors Service in saying it may cut the AAA
rating of the U.S. as lawmakers hold debt reduction talks.  The
government has said it has until Aug. 2 before its ability to
make payment on $14.3 trillion of debt expires. Notes gained as
investors continued to seek a refuge in shorter-maturity debt
from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “It really comes down to the people in Washington,” said
 Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova
Scotia in New York. “It’s going to go right down to the end.
The economic data is a sideshow. It shows the  U.S. economy  is
behaving weakly and that’s already in the prices.”  The 30-year yield gained 2 basis points to 4.28 percent at
12:40 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 4.375 percent note due May 2041 fell 13/32, or $4.06
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 19/16.  Benchmark 10-year yields fell 2 basis points to 2.94
percent as regulators said eight European banks faced a $3.5
billion capital shortfall.  The U.S. House plans a vote next week on a measure that
would raise the government’s debt limit by $2.4 trillion, cut
spending, cap government expenditures and propose a balanced-
budget constitutional amendment, Republican lawmakers Sean Duffy
and Billy Long said. Duffy, of  Wisconsin , and Long, of Missouri,
described discussions in a closed-door meeting of House
Republicans on  Capitol Hill .  Gradual Approach  President Barack Obama downplayed the vote, saying in a
press conference in Washington today that he’s “ready to move”
when he is shown a “serious plan.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said lawmakers “don’t get” the
long-term implications of the debate over how to lower the
deficit. Lawmakers “need to approach it gradually” when it comes
to cutting spending, Gross said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” during an interview with  Tom Keene .
You can’t cut billions over a year or two and “expect the
economy to survive,” he said.  Longer-maturity debt will be hurt more if the credit rating
of the U.S. is downgraded, Gross said.  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index decreased 0.2 percent, compared
with the 0.1 percent drop median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in  Washington . The so-called core measure, which excludes
more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent for a
second month, more than forecast and the biggest back-to-back
gain in three years.  “The trend is for slightly rising inflation risks so it
implies higher yields” on the 30-year bond, said Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “ The market is looking at core CPI.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has declined to
2.27 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.67 percentage
points in April. The 10-year average is 2.11 percentage points.  “I’m not concerned about inflation until the Fed tells me
to be concerned,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in  New
York  at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 20 primary
dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “The economy is
growing, but growing slowly.”  Slowing Growth  Manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly
contracted for a second straight month in July as orders shrank
at a faster pace. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index rose to minus 3.8, less than the most pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from minus 7.8 the prior
month. The median forecast called for an index of 5. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the so-called Empire State
Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
Connecticut.  Industrial production in the U.S. rose by 0.2 percent, less
than the 0.3 percent forecast in June, restrained by declines in
the output of autos and business equipment. It followed a
revised 0.1 percent decrease the prior month that was initially
reported as a gain, figures from the Fed showed today.  Refuge Appeal  Treasuries are still headed for a second weekly gain even
as the U.S. sold $66 billion in debt this week, including $32
billion in three-year notes on July 12, $21 billion in 10-year
notes the next day and $13 billion 30-year bonds yesterday. The
auction yesterday sold at a yield of 4.198 percent, lower than
the 4.209 percent forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 10
primary dealers.  The 10-year yield is down seven nine points as investors
sought the safest assets amid concern that the U.S. recovery is
struggling and the European sovereign-debt crisis is worsening.  German  government securities  climbed, while Greek and Irish
two-year yields surged to a record before the publication of
stress tests on European banks.  Eight banks failed the European Union stress tests after
regulators said they had a combined capital shortfall of 2.5
billion euros ($3.5 billion), according to assessments by the
European Banking Authority. All banks tested in  Italy ,  Germany ,
 France , the U.K. and Ireland passed, the lenders said today.  “Safe havens like bunds and Treasuries still remain well
supported by the whole debt crisis and also this soft patch in
U.S. data,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  