-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Declines as Rally Spurs Sales

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-15T11:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-declines-as-rally-spurs-sales.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Falls in London as Rally to Record Spurs Investor Sales  Gold declined in London as some investors sold the metal
after debt and growth concerns in  Europe  and the U.S. boosted
prices to a record and increased scrap supply.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Gas Glut Produces Record U.S. Exports to Mexico: Energy Markets  U.S. natural gas is flowing to Mexico at a record pace as
demand for the fuel south of the border provides an outlet for
surging supplies that have battered prices.  Steel Bonds Extend Longest Losing Run Since 2009: India Credit  The convertible bonds of India’s biggest steelmakers are
extending their longest slump in more than two years as new
mining taxes threaten to erode their earnings.  BP Oil Still Washing Ashore One Year After End of Gulf Spill  Crude oil continues to wash ashore along the  Gulf of Mexico 
coast a year after BP Plc stopped the flow from its damaged
Macondo well, which caused the worst U.S. offshore spill, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said.  Itochu Targets Russia, Canada, Indonesia for Coal Investment (1)  Itochu Corp., Japan’s largest trader of power-station coal,
is seeking mine investment in Russia, Canada and Indonesia to
tap rising global demand as the Fukushima disaster fuels a
search for energy alternatives.  Pizza Demand in Asia Boosts U.S. Cheese Exports, Kraft’s Costs  Asia’s growing appetite for pizza and cheeseburgers means
the U.S. is exporting the most cheese ever, boosting costs for
Kraft Foods Inc.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Advance Before Reports on Manufacturing in the U.S.  Copper may rise in  London  before reports expected to show
stronger manufacturing in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest
consumer of the metal.  LME Doubles Minimum Delivery Rates for Top Metal Warehouses (1)  The London Metal Exchange will double the amount of metal
required to be delivered from the biggest stockpiles to ease a
backlog in  Detroit , home to a quarter of global stockpiles.  MINING:  DRDGold Sees Gold Production Rising by About 10% During 2011  DRDGold Ltd. said it expects gold production for the 12
months to June 2011 to be about 10 percent higher at about
265,000 ounces compared with a year earlier.  European Goldfields Increases Resources at Greek Gold Mines (1)  European Goldfields Ltd., a producer of the precious metal
in southern Europe, reported an increase in reserves at its
mines in  Greece .  BHP to Acquire Petrohawk for $12.1 Billion to Secure Gas (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
agreed to buy Petrohawk Energy Corp. for about $12.1 billion in
cash in its biggest acquisition, betting natural gas demand will
gain in the U.S.  PRECIOUS METALS:  European Central Bank Gold Sales Little Changed, Council Says  Gold sales by European central banks were little changed
from last month in the current central bank gold agreement which
began September, the World Gold Council said.  Gold Scrap Supply Is ‘Noticeably Above Normal Levels,’ UBS Says  Gold scrap supply is “noticeably above normal levels,”
UBS said today in an e-mailed report.  Gold May Gain on Fed Stimulus Signal, Debt Concern, Survey Shows  Gold may extend gains from a record as concern about more
U.S. economic stimulus and debt woes in the country and Europe
boost demand for a protection of wealth, a survey found.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton May Rebound to $1.30 in Fourth Quarter, Commerzbank Says  Cotton may rebound to $1.30 a pound in the fourth quarter
after falling below $1 a pound today for the first time since
October, Commerzbank AG said.  Wheat Slides as Importers May Favor  Russia  Over U.S., Europe  Wheat fell for a second day in Chicago on speculation
buyers of the grain will turn to Russian supplies and shun the
U.S. and the European Union. Rice slid.  Palm Oil  Slips as Biggest Two-Day Gain This Year Prompts Sales  Palm oil declined, trimming a second weekly advance, after
the biggest two-day gain since November encouraged some
investors to sell.  Ghana Cocoa Board Calls ‘Emergency Meeting’ With Coffee Buyers  The Ghana Cocoa Board called an “emergency meeting” with
licensed coffee buyers in the West African nation to discuss the
revitalization of the coffee industry.  SHIPPING:  EU Proposes to Cut Sulphur Dioxide Emissions From Ships by 90%  The European Commission proposed lowering the sulphur
content of shipping fuels to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by
as much as 90 percent, the commission said today in an e-mailed
statement.  India  Imported 10 Million Tons Coal in June, Ship Data Shows  Indian coal importers led by Adani Enterprises Ltd., Bhatia
International Ltd. and JSW Energy Ltd. received 10 million
metric tons of steam and coking coal in June, according to port
data.  ECONOMIES:  Yuan Gains to Accelerate, Best Forecasters Say:  China  Credit  The most-accurate forecasters of the yuan predict China’s
currency will be allowed to strengthen faster in the remainder
of 2011 to combat inflation, even as forwards traders bet gains
will be the slowest in a year.  China’s Foreign Investment Rises as Companies Woo Consumers (1)  Foreign direct investment in China rose 18.4 percent in the
first half of the year as companies such as Nestle SA and Ford
Motor Co. boosted their presence in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  Pimco Cautious on Asian Bonds on Risk of Europe, U.S. Fallout  Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, is staying cautious on Asia’s bond market as
the debt crisis in developed nations clouds prospects for China,
India and  Indonesia .  Power of ‘China Story’ Ebbs as Property, Credit Flash Warnings  Moody’s Investors Service says China has underestimated by
half a trillion dollars the exposure of state-owned banks’ loan
portfolios to local governments. Even after five interest rate
rises since October, inflation is running at 6.4 percent, the
fastest since 2008. Second-quarter gross domestic product grew
at 9.5 percent, its slowest pace in almost two years.  China to Expand Efforts to Curb Growth in Property Prices  China will expand its efforts to curb the growth in
residential prices to smaller cities after limiting home
purchases in Beijing and Shanghai, according to a summary of a
State Council meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  Europe Bank Stress Tests Compromised by Greek Non-Default (1)  European regulators’ attempts to bolster confidence in the
region’s banking industry today are being undermined by their
unwillingness to test for a Greek default and a mutiny by
Germany’s Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen.  Tests Will Stress Ties That Bind Banks to Nations: Euro Credit  Europe’s bank stress tests will reveal how reliant nations
are on their domestic lenders for funds, while detailing how
much government support the finance industry needs to stay
solvent.  Government Cuts to Lift  U.S. Economy  Ignore Math of Lost Growth  Advocates of reduced federal spending say shrinking the
U.S. government would boost the economy and create jobs. They
are wrong, according to Wall Street economists -- at least for
the short term.  Australia Rate-Rise Views Pushed Out as Westpac Sees Cut (2)  Australia’s central bank may push back its next interest
rate rise by three months as languishing  consumer spending  gives
it time to assess Europe’s debt crisis and whether a mining
investment boom will stoke inflation.  OTHER MARKETS:  Europe Stock-Index Futures Fall; Dollar, Treasuries Erase Loss  European stock-index futures fell before the release of
stress-test results for the region’s banks. The dollar and
Treasuries erased earlier losses spurred by  Standard & Poor’s 
review of the U.S.’s top credit grade.  Euro Fluctuates Versus Dollar on Stress Test, U.S. Debt Concern  The euro fluctuated against the dollar before European bank
stress-test results amid concern the U.S.’s AAA credit rating is
at risk.  U.S. Stocks May Slide 24% as Recession Looms, GMI’s Pal Says  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may fall as much as 24
percent and the euro might tumble to $1.20 if the U.S. economy
slows further and Europe’s debt crisis widens, said Raoul Pal,
the former GLG Partners Inc. fund manager currently writing the
Global Macro Investor strategy sheet.  BHP to Acquire Petrohawk for $12.1 Billion to Secure Gas (2)  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
agreed to buy Petrohawk Energy Corp. for about $12.1 billion in
cash in its biggest acquisition, betting natural gas demand will
gain in the U.S.  Obama Tells Congressional Leaders Time for Rhetoric Is Ending  President Barack Obama pressed Republican and Democratic
congressional leaders to give him options for a deficit-cutting
deal that lawmakers could support as part of raising the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit by an Aug. 2 deadline.  Oil Heads for First Weekly Decline in Three on U.S. Debt Concern  Oil headed for its first weekly decline in three weeks, as
concern U.S. debt ratings may be cut outweighed prospects for
economic expansion in the world’s biggest crude user.  Libya Contact Group Members to Recognize Rebels, Frattini Says  All the members of the so-called Libya Contact Group are
preparing to recognize the rebel’s National Transitional Council
as the legitimate interlocutors of the Libyan people, Italian
Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  told reporters during a meeting
of the group in Istanbul, citing a final draft of conclusions
currently being written.  IEA Taking ‘Close Look’ at  Saudi Arabia  Oil Production Levels  The International Energy Agency must take a “close look”
at the rising oil production levels of Saudi Arabia before
deciding on whether to release another stockpile of oil
reserves, Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka  told reporters in
Budapest today.  Clinton Meets With Allies to Discuss Libyan Succession Plans (2)  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and international
allies are seeking to ensure that Libya’s opposition is strong
enough to fill the vacuum left after the expected departure of
leader Muammar Qaddafi.  SPORTS:  British Open  Championship Second-Round Leaderboard  Following is the second-round leaderboard from golf’s
British Open at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich, England. Par for
the course is 70.  Tom Watson  Makes Hole-in-One in Second Round of British Open  Five-time champion Tom Watson made a hole-in-one on the
par-3, 178-yard sixth hole during the second round of the
British Open.  Bjorn Holds One-Shot Lead in Second Round of British Open  Denmark’s  Thomas Bjorn  holds a one- shot lead at 5-under
par in the second round of golf’s British Open.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  