-- 
U.S. July Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-15T13:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-july-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The July Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for New York manufacturers deteriorated for a second
consecutive month. The general business conditions index
remained below zero, at -3.8. The new orders index also remained
negative, while the shipments index increased to a level
slightly above zero. The indexes for both prices paid and prices
received were positive but lower than last month, suggesting
that price increases slowed. The index for number of employees
fell to a level near zero, indicating that employment levels
held steady, while the average workweek index dropped well into
negative territory. Future indexes bounced up after declining
steeply in June -- a sign that conditions were generally
expected to improve over the next six months -- but the level of
optimism was well below the levels observed earlier this year.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were
asked about changes in sales, employment, and  capital spending 
from 2010 to 2011. Similar questions had been asked in the June
and July surveys of 2010. In the current survey, the median
respondent anticipated a 6 percent increase in sales and a 3
percent expansion in employment. Capital spending plans, however,
were mixed. Considerably more respondents reported increases
than decreases in capital spending for 2011, but the median
estimated level of spending was down moderately from 2010. On
balance, manufacturers indicated that they would be spending
more this year than last on equipment (both computer and other),
but less on structures. This pattern is similar to the one
observed in last June’s survey.  Business Activity  Weakens for a Second Consecutive Month Although the general
business conditions index inched up four points to -3.8 in July,
it was negative for a second consecutive month, suggesting that
business activity had weakened slightly. This month, 23 percent
of respondents reported that conditions had improved over the
month, while 26 percent reported that conditions had worsened.
The new orders index was also below zero for a second
consecutive month. It fell two points to -5.5, indicating that
the volume of orders was down. The shipments index rose ten
points to 2.2, and the unfilled orders index fell twelve points
to -12.2. The delivery time index rose to 1.1, and the
inventories index dropped to -5.6.  Price Increases  Continue to Slow The indexes for both prices paid and
prices received retreated in July. The prices paid index fell
thirteen points to 43.3, posting a cumulative decline of 27
points over the past two months. These figures suggest that
price increases, while significant, continued to slow. The
prices received index followed a similar pattern. The index fell
six points to 5.6, for a cumulative decline of twenty-two points
since May. The index for number of employees fell nine points to
1.1, indicating that employment levels held steady, while the
average workweek index declined to -15.6, indicating that the
length of the average workweek was shorter.  Outlook  Relatively Positive Future indexes were generally positive
and bounced higher after a significant decline last month. The
future general business conditions index, which fell thirty
points last month, advanced ten points to 32.2, suggesting that
on balance, manufacturers expected conditions to improve in the
months ahead. The level of optimism, however, was well below the
relatively high levels seen earlier this year. The future new
orders and shipments indexes also climbed to higher positive
readings after a steep decline last month. The future prices
paid index fell four points to 51.1, while the future prices
received index rose eleven points to 30.0. The future number of
employees and average workweek indexes were both positive and
higher than last month, indicating that manufacturers expected
employment to rise over the next six months. The capital
expenditures index was down slightly, to 22.2, and the
technology spending index slipped to 12.2. 