-- 
U.S. AAA Rating May Be Cut by S&P

-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-07-15T02:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-debt-rating-may-be-cut-by-s-p-on-stalemate-over-plans-to-cut-deficit.html
The U.S. may have its AAA credit
rating cut by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which said
there is a growing risk of a policy stalemate enduring beyond
any near-term agreement to raise the debt ceiling.  The long-term rating may be lowered by one or more notches
into the AA category in the next three months if S&P concludes
Congress and President Barack Obama’s administration haven’t
achieved a credible solution to the rising U.S. government debt
burden and aren’t likely to achieve one in the foreseeable
future, according to a statement today.  “Owing to the dynamics of the political debate on the debt
ceiling, there is at least a one-in-two likelihood that we could
lower the long-term rating on the U.S. within the next 90
days,” S&P said.  The debt limit’s proximity has left investors unfazed, with
the Treasury attracting higher-than-average demand for a third
consecutive sale at an auction of 30-year bonds today. Benchmark
10-year note yields were at 2.97 percent at 11:23 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
heading for a second consecutive weekly decline.  The dollar weakened against most major peers after S&P
became the second ratings company this week to say it may
downgrade the U.S. The dollar fell to $1.4184 per euro as of
11:24 a.m. in Tokyo from $1.4143 in  New York . The currency was
at 79.11 yen from 79.14 yen.  Authority Expiring  Obama told lawmakers they have until tomorrow to decide
whether they can reach a deal to make significant cuts in the
deficit or settle for another way to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling before U.S. borrowing authority expires Aug. 2, two
Democratic officials said.  “Today’s action by S&P restates what the Obama
Administration has said for some time: that Congress must act
expeditiously to avoid defaulting on the country’s obligations
and to enact a credible deficit reduction plan that commands
bipartisan support,”  the U.S. Treasury Department said in a
statement sent by e-mail.  S&P reduced the outlook on the U.S. rating to negative from
stable on April 18. Since then, it said, the debate over long-
term budget cuts has “only become more entangled,” with the
result that “there is an increasing risk of a substantial
policy stalemate enduring beyond any near-term agreement to
raise the debt ceiling.”  Moody’s Move  The step by S&P followed a similar move yesterday by
Moody’s Investors Service. The U.S., rated Aaa since 1917, was
put on review for the first time since 1996 on concern the debt
limit will not be raised in time to prevent a missed payment of
interest or principal on outstanding bonds and notes even though
the risk remains low, Moody’s said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today there is
“no way to give Congress more time” on lifting the debt
ceiling. After meeting with Democratic lawmakers on  Capitol Hill ,
Geithner said that “it’s time we move.” Geithner has
repeatedly said the U.S. borrowing authority will end on Aug. 2
unless Congress acts.  “We’ve looked at all available options and we have no way
to give Congress more time to solve this problem and we’re
running out of time,” he said. “The eyes of the country are on
us and the eyes of the world are on us and we need to make sure
we stand together and send a definitive signal that we are going
to take the steps necessary to avoid default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivek Shankar in  San Francisco  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  