-- 
U.S. Treasury Stops Payments to Last Default-Prevention Program

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-07-15T19:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-treasury-stops-payments-to-last-default-prevention-program.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
will stop payments to the last of four programs designed to
prevent the world’s largest economy from exceeding its statutory
debt limit.  “Today, as previously announced, the Treasury Department
will suspend reinvestment of the Exchange Stabilization Fund,
the last of the measures available to keep the nation under the
statutory debt limit,”  Jeffrey Goldstein , under secretary for
domestic finance, said in a statement. “In order to prevent a
default on the nation’s obligations, Congress must enact a
timely increase of the debt ceiling.”  The White House has warned that it will be unable to pay
all the government’s bills, forcing higher borrowing costs, if
the debt limit isn’t raised by the Aug. 2 deadline. The Treasury
said the action announced today on the stabilization fund will
provide about $23 billion in “headroom.”  At a fifth consecutive negotiating session at the White
House yesterday, President  Barack Obama  told congressional
leaders to report to him by tomorrow on the type of deal their
members can support, Democratic and Republican officials said.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services announced yesterday it
may downgrade the U.S. top-level credit rating, saying there is
an increasing risk of a substantial policy stalemate enduring
beyond any near-term agreement to raise the debt ceiling.
Moody’s Investors Service placed the nation’s credit rating
under review for a downgrade on July 13.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in separate trips to the
Capitol yesterday, made their cases for lifting the debt limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  