-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Declines to 63.8 From 71.5 in Index

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-15T14:56:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-declines-to-63-8-from-71-5-in-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly fell in July to the lowest level in more than two
years, adding to concern that weak employment gains and falling
home prices may keep households from spending.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment decreased to 63.8, the weakest
reading since March 2009, from 71.5 the prior month. The gauge
was projected to rise to 72.2, according to the median forecast
of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Smaller jobs gains, falling home values and concern over
the outcome of government debt talks may be jarring Americans,
underscoring Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  comments
to Congress earlier this week. The figures raise the risk that
household spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, will continue to cool.  “There’s certainly been a lot of negative headlines, with
the very weak employment report a week ago and the ongoing debt
limit impasse,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF
Global Inc. in  New York , who predicted the gauge would fall to
68.0.  Stocks trimmed earlier gains following the confidence
report. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,311.16 at 10:51 a.m. in New York. The Treasury 30-year bond
declined, sending the yield up to 4.28 percent from 4.25 percent
late yesterday, on concern that the U.S. is closer to losing its
top  credit rating  and on a bigger-than-forecast increase in
consumer prices excluding food and fuel.  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 75 to 68,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 89 in the
five years leading up to the recession that began in December
2007.  Worse Reading  Today’s confidence figures are more dire than the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index, which climbed to minus 43.9 for the week
ended July 10. Even with the advance, the Bloomberg measure was
lower than at the start of the year.  The Conference Board’s monthly sentiment index, which more
closely mirrors the labor market, fell to a seven-month low in
June.  The Michigan survey’s index of current conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
decreased to 76.3, the lowest level since November 2009, from 82
the prior month.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 55.8, the weakest since March 2009, from 64.8 the
prior week.  Less Inflation  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.4 percent over the next 12 months, the
lowest since February, compared with 3.8 percent in the prior
survey.  Americans expected a 2.8 percent rate of inflation over the
next five years, the figures tracked by Federal Reserve policy
makers, compared with 3.0 percent the prior month. It was the
lowest price-expectation this year.  The cost of living in the U.S. fell in June for the first
time in a year as the biggest drop in energy costs since 2008
masked growing inflation in other goods and services like autos,
clothing and hotel rates, another report today showed.  The consumer-price index decreased 0.2 percent, compared
with the 0.1 percent drop median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, according to figures from the Labor Department.
The so-called core measure, which excludes more volatile food
and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent for a second month, more
than forecast and the biggest back-to-back gain in three years.  Factory Production  Also today, the  Federal Reserve  reported that industrial
production rose 0.2 percent in June, less than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, restrained by
declines in the output of autos and business equipment.  Slow employment gains are likely contributing to lagging
consumer sentiment. Employers added 18,000 jobs in June, the
slowest pace in nine months, as the unemployment rate climbed to
9.2 percent, the Labor Department reported last week.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said central bankers aren’t
ready to start a third round of quantitative easing in testimony
before the Senate yesterday.  “Households report that they have little confidence in the
durability of the recovery and about their own income
prospects,” he said on Wednesday.  Falling  home prices  are also weighing on consumers’ moods,
Bernanke said. Property values dropped 4 percent for the year
ended in April, the biggest decline in 17 months, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  Housing Slump  “The ongoing weakness in home values is holding down
household wealth and weighing on consumer sentiment,” Bernanke
told Congress on Wednesday.  Concern about declining household wealth may be keeping
consumers from opening their wallets. Sales at U.S. retailers
stagnated in June, the poorest performance in 2010, the Commerce
Department reported yesterday.  Unemployment and rising prices for staples such as milk and
eggs are weighing on consumers, pushing them to cut back on non-
essential items, said Gayle Fuguitt, vice president of consumer
insights at  General Mills Inc. (GIS)   “In developed markets around the world, unemployment rates
are stubbornly high,” Fuguitt, said on a July 13 conference
call with investors. “Consumer prices are rising and in the
U.S.,  consumer confidence  is at a historic low.”  The Minneapolis-based maker of Cheerios cereal projected a
profit for fiscal year 2012 on June 29 that trailed analysts’
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  