-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Climbs as Debt Ceiling Talks Drag On

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T17:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-climbs-as-debt-ceiling-talks-drag-on.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a fourth day this week as unresolved talks to
increase the U.S. government’s debt cap outweighed better-than-
estimated earnings from  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, gained 0.7 basis point to a mid-
price of 97.3 basis points as of 12:49 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Negotiations to raise the U.S. government debt limit are
stalling as House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican from  Ohio ,
told reporters his party won’t allow tax increases in a deal
that would include cutting the budget. The impasse overshadowed
second-quarter profit for New York-based Citigroup that climbed
to $3.34 billion, or $1.09 a share, which beat the 96 cent
average estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Hopefully more will get resolved over the weekend as far
as the budget situation here,” said Rich Gordon, a fixed-income
market strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Chicago . “Absent bad
news elsewhere, good news in earnings season could be a net
positive for the markets.”  No global corporate bond issuers defaulted this week,
leaving the tally for the year at 18, according to a report
published today by  Standard & Poor’s .  The credit swaps index, which typically rises when investor
confidence deteriorates, has climbed 4.9 basis points this week,
as Ireland’s debt ranking was cut to junk and government bond
yields soared in Italy.  European Stress Tests  The European Banking Authority released the results of
stress tests today that showed eight of 91 banks would have too
little capital in the event of an economic slowdown. Most
investors don’t give the tests “much credence” because they
aren’t rigorous enough to “actually stress out credit,” Gordon
said.  Clorox Co. (CLX)  led companies whose perceived credit risk rose.
Five-year default swaps on the Oakland, California-based company
climbed 33.9 basis points to 143.4 at 12:31 p.m., according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  is offering to buy the bleach
maker for about $10.2 billion.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  