-- 
Dodgers Shouldn’t Get $150 Million Loan From JPMorgan, Trustee Tells Judge

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-trustee-objects-to-150-million-loan-to-bankrupt-dodgers-over-fee.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers ’ request to
borrow as much as $150 million from a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit
should be rejected because a loan fee wasn’t properly disclosed,
the U.S. Trustee that oversees bankruptcies told a judge.  “The debtors did not properly disclose a significant fee
that is both material and essential” to the transaction, U.S.
Trustee Roberta DeAngelis said in a filing yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  The Dodgers sought permission for the loan when it filed
for  bankruptcy protection  on June 27, according to the filing.
The loan with JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management LLC
requires a $4.5 million fee and refers to a “fee letter”
without disclosing any additional amounts or obligations that
might be required of the Dodgers, the trustee said.  On July 11, the team sought permission to file the fee
letter under seal. Without disclosure, the Highbridge loan can’t
be meaningfully compared with an alternative financing proposal,
DeAngelis said. She said she would object to all fee payments
until all financing terms are fully disclosed and approved.  In a separate filing yesterday, the Dodgers asked the
 bankruptcy court  for permission to hire Blackstone Group LP as
an adviser to restructure some liabilities and to sell its media
rights.  Major League Baseball also accused the Dodgers of treating
two fired employees unfairly by not immediately seeking court
approval to give them severance payments.  ‘Highly Compensated’  The team, which has asked the court’s permission to pay
severance to some employees immediately, put off seeking the
authority to pay two “highly compensated” non-player workers,
attorneys for league Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a court
filing yesterday.  “This discriminatory practice should not be allowed,”
according to the filing, which didn’t name the employees or say
why the Dodgers haven’t sought quick payment for them.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy after Selig rejected a
proposed television-rights deal Frank McCourt, the team’s owner,
negotiated with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  “MLB’s objection is based solely on the fact that the
Dodgers are not paying severance to a former employee who is now
a well paid officer at MLB,” Sidney Levinson, a bankruptcy
attorney for the team, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
address the issue with the bankruptcy court next week.”  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  