-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Increases in Energy, Technology Shares

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-15T20:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-as-google-petrohawk-energy-rally.html
U.S. stocks rose, trimming the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s weekly loss, as gains in energy
and technology shares were enough to overcome concern that an
impasse over raising the federal debt limit is putting the
nation’s top credit rating in jeopardy.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  jumped 13 percent after reporting sales that
beat predictions, a sign that it’s making progress expanding
beyond search advertising.  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  rallied 62
percent as BHP Billiton Ltd. agreed to buy the oil and gas
company for $12.1 billion in cash. Gauges of energy stocks and
technology companies advanced at least 1.5 percent.  Clorox Co. (CLX) 
rose 8.9 percent after  Carl Icahn  offered to buy the company.  The S&P 500 rose 0.6 percent to 1,316.14 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The gauge fell 2.1 percent this week. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  added 42.61 points, or 0.3 percent, to
12,479.73 today.  “There’s a lot more company-specific issues driving stocks
now, even though there’s still macro uncertainty about the debt
negotiations in  Washington  and the European crisis,” Jeffrey Coons, president of Manning & Napier Advisors Inc. in Fairport,
 New York , said in a telephone interview. His firm manages $44
billion.  Stocks lost their gains this morning amid concern
negotiations toward raising the U.S. debt ceiling are failing to
progress. House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican from  Ohio ,
told reporters that his party wouldn’t accept any tax increases
as they work with President Barack Obama on a deal to lower
deficits and possibly raise the U.S. debt limit. Moody’s
Investors Service and S&P said this week that they may cut the
federal government’s credit rating if the issue isn’t resolved.  Higher Rates  Obama said a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit would
trigger a default on the nation’s obligations that could drive
up  interest rates  for everyone in the country.  “We could end up with a situation where interest rates
rise for everyone,” he told a Washington press conference. In
effect, it would be “a tax increase for everybody.”  The  S&P 500  rallied 93 percent from its low in March 2009
through yesterday as the  Federal Reserve  used large-scale asset
purchases to buoy the economy and companies posted earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates. Of the 13 S&P 500 companies that have
posted results so far this earnings season, 11 have beaten
forecasts for per-share profit.  Stocks fell from their highs of the day after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment fell to 63.8 in July from 71.5 the prior month. The
gauge was projected to rise to 72.2, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates
for the confidence measure ranged from 75 to 68. The index
averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession that
began in December 2007.  Stress Tests  Stocks briefly extended their advance after the European
Banking Authority said eight banks failed the European Union
stress tests with a combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion
euros ($3.5 billion).  Agricultural Bank of Greece SA,  Austria ’s Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG and Spain’s Banco Pastor SA were among the
failures. The companies were found to have insufficient reserves
to maintain a core tier 1 capital ratio of 5 percent in the
event of an economic slowdown, the European Banking Authority
said. All banks tested in Italy,  Germany  and the U.K. passed.  “The stress test results are coming in pretty much as
expected, at least at the headline level,” E. William Stone,
who helps oversee about $110 billion as chief investment
strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia, said in a
telephone interview. “Everybody is waiting for more news on the
U.S. debt ceiling and more about the EU sovereign debt
situation, and nobody wants to get too far on one side or the
other ahead of the weekend.”  Google, Clorox  Google soared 13 percent to $597.62, its biggest gain since
October 2008. Sales, excluding revenue passed on to partner
sites, rose to $6.92 billion. That topped the $6.57 billion
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Clorox advanced 8.9 percent to $74.55, its highest price
since at least 1980. Icahn, a billionaire, offered to buy the
maker of the namesake bleach for about $10.2 billion in a move
designed to draw out other potential bidders.  Petrohawk Energy rallied 62 percent to $38.17.  BHP
Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, agreed to buy the
company for about $12.1 billion in cash in its biggest
acquisition, betting natural gas demand will gain in the U.S.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  climbed 9.1 percent to $32.96. The
natural-gas driller would be worth $58 a share should it be
taken over based on the valuation of the Petrohawk acquisition,
Ticonderoga Securities LLC said in a note.  Energy Stocks  Energy companies rose 2.3 percent, the most among 10
industries in the S&P 500. Technology stocks added 1.6 percent
as a group.  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  fell 0.7 percent to $86, dropping for
a sixth straight day. The maker of Raisin Bran cereals and
private-label food brands plans to spin off Post Foods after
failing to sell the unit to rival foodmakers or private-equity
firms.  Flir Systems Inc. (FLIR)  fell the most in the S&P 500, slumping
9.9 percent to $28.92. The maker of night-vision cameras used by
U.S. combat forces reported second-quarter profit excluding some
items of 35 cents a share, trailing the average analyst estimate
by 4 cents, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  