-- 
U.S. June Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-15T13:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/u-s-june-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 industrial production  and capacity utilization report for June
released by the Federal Reserve.  Industrial production increased 0.2 percent in June after
having edged down 0.1 percent in May. For the second quarter as
a whole, total industrial production increased at an annual rate
of 0.8 percent. Manufacturing output was unchanged in June. In
the second quarter, supply chain disruptions following the
earthquake in  Japan  curtailed the production of motor vehicles
and parts and restrained output in related industries; the
production index for overall manufacturing was little changed
for the quarter. The output of mines rose 0.5 percent in June,
while the output of utilities climbed 0.9 percent. At 93.1
percent of its 2007 average, total industrial production in June
was 3.4 percent above its year-earlier level. The capacity
utilization rate for total industry remained unchanged at 76.7
percent in June, a rate 2.2 percentage points above the rate
from a year earlier but 3.7 percentage points below its average
from 1972 to 2010.  Market Groups  Production recorded a mix of gains and losses across the
major market groups in June. Output for the second quarter as a
whole moved up in most of the major market groups, although the
production of  consumer goods  decreased at an annual rate of 1.2
percent. Declines in the output of consumer goods occurred for
both durables and nondurables. In June, the production of
consumer goods was unchanged, with a decline of 0.5 percent in
durables offsetting an increase of 0.2 percent in nondurables.
Among  consumer durables , lower production of automotive
products; appliances, furniture, and carpeting; and
miscellaneous goods more than offset a small gain in home
electronics. Within consumer nondurables, the output of non-
energy nondurables was unchanged; increased output of chemical
products was offset by declines elsewhere. The index for
consumer energy products moved up 0.8 percent, with gains in the
indexes for fuels and for residential utilities.  The production of business equipment declined 0.7 percent
in June, with transit equipment and information processing
equipment recording decreases of 1.9 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively, and industrial and other equipment being little
changed. The output of business equipment increased at an annual
rate of only 1.2 percent in the second quarter after gains
averaging more than 12 percent over the previous five quarters.
An increase of 7.0 percent in the production of transit
equipment accounted for most of the rise in business equipment
in the second quarter; the output of information processing
equipment fell, and the output of industrial and other equipment
was little changed.  In June, the index for defense and space equipment
decreased 1.4 percent after having registered gains in each of
the previous five months.  The output of construction supplies increased for the
fourth consecutive month in June and climbed at an annual rate
of 6.4 percent in the second quarter. The production of business
supplies rose in June after having declined in both April and
May and was little changed for the second quarter as a whole.  The output of materials to be further processed in the
industrial sector increased 0.5 percent in June. The output of
durable materials rose 0.7 percent. The indexes for all of its
major categories advanced; the largest gain was an increase of
1.7 percent for consumer parts following two consecutive monthly
declines. The index for nondurable materials edged down in June,
while gains in both oil production and electricity generation
helped boost the index for energy materials 0.8 percent. For the
second quarter, materials output increased at an annual rate of
1.3 percent. The production of durable materials rose 1.1
percent, with gains in equipment parts and other durable
materials more than offsetting a sizable decline in consumer
parts. The output of nondurable materials moved down 3.9
percent; declines in chemical materials and paper materials more
than offset a large increase for textile materials. The index
for energy materials rose 5.2 percent.  Industry Groups  Manufacturing output was unchanged in June. For the second
quarter as a whole, the manufacturing index edged up at an
annual rate of 0.2 percent, a notably smaller gain than in any
quarter since the recession ended in the second quarter of 2009.
Capacity utilization for manufacturing was unchanged in June at
74.4 percent, a rate about 10 percentage points above its trough
in June 2009 but 4.6 percentage points below its average from
1972 to 2010.  The production index for durable goods manufacturing was
unchanged in June. Among its major categories, the largest
increases were for primary metals and fabricated metal products,
whereas the most significant decreases were for furniture and
related products, motor vehicles and parts, and wood products.
For the second quarter, durable manufacturing rose at an annual
rate of 1.4 percent. Robust gains were recorded in aerospace and
miscellaneous transportation equipment, nonmetallic mineral
products, and fabricated metal products. However, these gains
were mostly offset by a large drop for motor vehicles and parts
along with decreases for electrical equipment, appliances, and
components and for wood products.  The index for nondurable manufacturing increased 0.1
percent in June; higher output of textile and product mills,
petroleum and coal products, and chemicals slightly more than
offset lower output in other nondurable categories. For the
second quarter, nondurables output decreased at an annual rate
of 0.2 percent. Production in the non-NAICS manufacturing
industries (logging and publishing) decreased 0.5 percent in
June and dropped at an annual rate of 9.4 percent for the second
quarter as a whole.  In June, the production index for utilities increased 0.9
percent; its operating rate rose to 79.5 percent, but that rate
remained 7.1 percentage points below its 1972--2010 average.
Mining output increased for the fourth consecutive month in June
and rose at an annual rate of 6.7 percent for the second quarter,
primarily as a result of gains in natural gas extraction.
Capacity utilization in mining climbed to 88.9 percent in June,
a rate 1.5 percentage points above its average from 1972 to 2010.  Capacity utilization rates in June at industries grouped by
stage of process were as follows: At the crude stage,
utilization increased 0.2 percentage point to 87.2 percent, a
rate 0.8 percentage point above its long-run (1972--2010)
average; at the primary and semifinished stages, utilization
rose 0.4 percentage point to 74.1 percent, a rate 7.2 percentage
points below its long-run average; and at the finished stage,
utilization decreased 0.4 percentage point to 75.4 percent, a
rate 1.9 percentage points below its long-run average.  Note  The statistics in this release cover output, capacity, and
capacity utilization in the U.S. industrial sector, which is
defined by the  Federal Reserve  to comprise manufacturing, mining,
and electric and gas utilities. Mining is defined as all
industries in sector 21 of the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS); electric and gas utilities are
those in NAICS sectors 2211 and 2212. Manufacturing comprises
NAICS manufacturing industries (sector 31-33) plus the logging
industry and the newspaper, periodical, book, and directory
publishing industries. Logging and publishing are classified
elsewhere in NAICS (under agriculture and information
respectively), but historically they were considered to be
manufacturing and were included in the industrial sector under
the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system. In December
2002 the Federal Reserve reclassified all its industrial output
data from the SIC system to NAICS. 