-- 
Hugh Grant Sues London Police After Taping Reporter’s Phone-Hacking Claims

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-15T23:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/hugh-grant-sues-police-after-taping-reporter-s-hacking-claim-1-.html
British actor  Hugh Grant , the star
of the romantic comedy “Four Weddings and a Funeral,” sued
 London ’s Metropolitan Police, two months after he said he taped
a former tabloid journalist saying phone hacking was widespread.  Grant and Jemima Khan, a columnist for the Independent
newspaper, filed a lawsuit July 14 in London, according to court
records. In the past week, Grant has condemned News Corp.’s now-
defunct News of the World over claims reporters for the tabloid
hacked into the mobile phones of politicians, celebrities, and
murder and terror victims.  Mark Thomson, a lawyer for Grant and Khan, said in a
statement that the suit was filed for the Metropolitan Police
to disclose some documents seized by the police in 2006.  Complaints against the police have been a means for
possible victims, including former government minister
Tessa Jowell, to obtain evidence on whether their phones were
accessed. Jowell later filed a claim against  News Corp. (NWSA)  over
hacking.  Grant secretly taped a former reporter for the News of the
World talking about phone hacking at the paper. The reporter,
Paul McMullan, had previously told Grant his phone had been
hacked, according to the actor. He  transcribed  parts of the
conversation and published them in April in the New Statesman.  McMullan told him phone hacking was committed on an
“industrial-scale” at News of the World under former editor
 Andy Coulson , Grant  told the BBC  last week.  Separately, actor Jude Law, who has already sued News Corp.
over phone hacking at News of the World, filed a new complaint
in London on June 17, according to court records. The latest
suit involves News Corp.’s Sun newspaper, the  Associated Press 
reported.  ‘Deeply Cynical’  News International denies Law’s allegations that four
articles published in 2005 and 2006 were based on information
derived from illegally intercepted voice mails,  Daisy Dunlop , a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “We believe this is a deeply cynical and deliberately
mischievous attempt to draw the Sun into the phone-hacking
issue,” Dunlop said in the statement. “The allegations made in
this claim have been carefully investigated by our lawyers and
the evidence shows that they have no foundation whatsoever.”  Thomson, who also represents Law, said in a separate e-mailed
statement that News International’s “record speaks for
itself.”  “Accusations of cynicism and mischief making by News
International are ridiculous,” Thomson said. “By their own
admission, News International have misled the Police, Parliament
and the public for nearly 5 years about the extent of the
wrongdoing by their journalists and executives.”  A call to the Metropolitan Police wasn’t answered.  The case is: Hugh Grant v. The Commissioner For the Police
of the Metropolis, case no. 11-02424,  High Court  of Justice,
 Chancery Division  (London). The Jude Law case is: Jude Law v.
Newsgroup Newspapers, High Court of Justice Chancery Division,
No. HC11C02065.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  