-- 
Mulally Pushes Greener German Fords to Break Volkswagen: Cars

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-15T20:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/mulally-makes-ford-push-greener-german-vehicles-to-break-volkswagen-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , seeking to boost its
image and its prices in Germany, is up against car buyers like
Stefanie Weiland.  “Ford’s reputation over here is deplorable,” said
Weiland, 46, a former Ford owner, as she shopped at a Volkswagen
showroom in Berlin. “I want a car to still be in good
condition, both visually and in technology terms, after 10
years. That’s what you get with a VW; these cars are
unbreakable.”  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is aiming to
replicate in Germany what he achieved in the U.S.: Use fuel
economy and technology including voice-activated stereos to
command more respect and cash from car buyers. Ford says its
retail prices lagged VW by an average of 6.3 percent in the past
eight months.  The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker ranks fifth in
sales, with 7.5 percent of the German market, according to J.D.
Power & Associates. That’s less than half the 20.8 percent for
Volkswagen, the automaker founded in 1937 with a name that means
the “people’s car.” Ford also trails Daimler AG’s  Mercedes
Benz ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW, General Motor Co.’s
Opel brand and Audi,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s premium line.  To take on VW, Ford is promoting its ties to Germany and
trying to position itself as a technology leader. This month, it
outfitted 1,100 German sales people with iPads loaded with a
special Ford sales application that demonstrates fuel-saving
technology. It is doubling the size of its stand at the
Frankfurt auto show in September, adding a test track and hands-
on displays that will make it “an adult science museum,” said
 Jim Farley , Ford global marketing chief.  ‘Discount Brand’  “We’re a discount brand to Volkswagen, the data is pretty
clear and compelling,” Farley said in an interview yesterday.
“We feel that the product facts are not in line with the
perceptions of our brand.”  The automaker ran newspaper ads touting the 40 million
vehicles it has built in 80 years of carmaking in  Germany . At
press conferences at its plants in Cologne, where Ford also has
its European headquarters, and Saarlouis, Ford has highlighted
that it employs 29,000 Germans and is the largest U.S. investor
in the country.  “One of the things we need to do is stop being shy about
all of the things we’ve done in Germany,” Stephen Odell, chief
of Ford of Europe, said in a July 8 interview. “In Germany,
we’re possibly considered less German. Maybe that’s our fault.”  Ford’s outsider status is partially to blame for its
transaction prices lagging VW in Germany, said Colin Couchman, a
European auto analyst for IHS Automotive. German consumers view
VW and other indigenous automakers as having better
craftsmanship and more high-tech engines and features than Ford.  ‘An American Brand’  “The Ford brand is seen as wholly mainstream, whereas VW
has a more upscale image,” said Couchman, based in  London .
“Opel is very much seen as a German brand. But Ford is still
seen as an American brand.”  Ford’s model line in Germany ranked near the bottom of a
2010 consumer survey of the most exciting automotive brands
conducted by  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
Bergisch-Gladbach. VW ranked among the top five, Bratzel said.  “For a company that’s been active in Germany for 80 years,
Ford has an extremely unexciting image,” Bratzel said. “People
simply don’t know their offerings, whereas VW is a household
name.”  Brandishing its German bona fides may backfire with the
country’s fiercely nationalistic consumers, said  Jeremy Anwyl ,
an analyst with Edmunds.com, based in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Risks For Ford  “Ford has been in Germany for a long time, but if they
promote that too much it can seem contrived,” Anwyl said.
“Audi has an R&D center in California, but how many Americans
know that or factor it into their purchase decision?”  Boosting German demand for Ford models will take years of
overhauling the product line with new technology and designs,
said  Jeff Schuster , an analyst with  J.D. Power  in Troy,
 Michigan .  “This is a long process and takes a significant investment
in marketing and product development,” Schuster said. Achieving
parity with VW will be “a difficult and uphill battle,” he
said.  Ford’s Farley agreed that matching VW’s premium prices is
“a pretty tall task,” while he didn’t rule it out.  “German consumers and Volkswagen have a very special
connection,” Farley said. “It’s not our ambition to be a
premium to Volkswagen, but in certain segments and on certain
vehicles that may happen. Our real key focus is to close the
gap.”  In the U.S., Ford has said its revenue per car has grown by
$4,100 since 2008 as it improved quality, fuel economy and added
technology such as voice-activated stereos and phones.  Technology Push  Mulally visited Hanover in March and spoke at the Cebit
technology convention. That was intended to signal Ford’s aim to
become a technology leader, Farley said.  Mulally announced that Ford’s voice-activated Sync
communication system, installed in 3 million models in  North
America , will debut in Germany in 2012. Ford also will introduce
hybrid and electric models in Germany in 2013.  “Germany likes technologically advanced products,” Odell
said. “If you put the right product out there with the right
quality and technology, the Germans are pretty discerning.”  Ford’s quality rating in J.D. Power’s study of German
consumers rose to 840 this year from 823 in 2010. The automaker
trailed the industry average of 848, which was down from 857.  Malfunctions of dashboard touch-screens on U.S. models led
Ford to fall to 23rd from fifth in J.D. Power’s new-car quality
survey released last month. Mulally has said Ford is fixing
those problems and compared the glitches to flaws consumer
electronics makers can encounter as they introduce new products.  ‘Learned a Lot’  “We have learned a lot and we are addressing and have
addressed all the issues,” Farley said. “By the time these
systems launch in  Europe , we’ll have addressed those.”  Germany matters to Ford not just because it is Europe’s
largest single market, accounting for about 3 million vehicle
sales annually. It’s also a bellwether for consumer acceptance
of new designs, pricing and technology, Odell said.  “It’s almost the litmus test for what you can do across
the rest of Europe,” Odell said. “I don’t believe you could be
successful as a European manufacturer unless you have a strong
enough base in Germany.”  Ford said yesterday its sales in Germany rose 19 percent
this year to 131,100 vehicles. New models, such as the C-Max
wagon and Focus compact car are attracting buyers with higher
levels of technology than competitors, Odell said.  Falling Stock Price  “Germany is a very important part of our profit
performance in Europe overall,” Farley said. In the first
quarter, GM broke even in Europe on an operating basis while
Ford reported an operating profit of $293 million.  Ford had a surprise $51 million pretax loss in Europe in
2010’s fourth quarter, which began a downward slide in its stock
this year that hasn’t stopped. Ford is off 22 percent this year.
The shares were unchanged at $13.09 at 4 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  “We are expecting Ford’s second quarter 2011 European
automotive business to deteriorate,” Buckingham Research Group
analyst Joseph Amaturo wrote in a July 13 note. He rates the
stock “neutral.”  Prices and profits will grow throughout Europe if Ford can
elevate its reputation in Germany, Farley said.  “As goes Germany, so goes the rest of Europe in terms of
our image,” he said. “So this is really very important for
us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  