-- 
Tullett Plans to Boost Brazil Staff By 50% After Convencao Buy

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-15T18:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/tullett-plans-to-boost-brazil-staff-by-50-after-convencao-buy.html
Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) , a London-based
inter-dealer broker, said it will expand its Brazilian office by
50 percent to 120 people in the next two years to boost product
offerings after acquiring a local firm.  Tullett, which won government approval this week to acquire
Brazil’s Convencao Corretora de Valores e Cambio SA, plans to
add energy and equity products to services it offers in fixed
income, foreign exchange, options, rates and commodities, said
Richard Higgs, managing director for emerging markets.  “We are hiring into every category we currently offer, and
then there are new products that will also be looking for the
right resources” Higgs said in a phone interview from Jersey
City,  New Jersey . “Brazil will end up being a top-five office
in terms of revenue and profit.”  Economic expansion fueled by record surges in credit and
employment is boosting trading at firms that operate in Brazil,
increasing the need for brokers. Demand is also coming from
Tullett’s clients in Asia,  North America  and  Europe  who want
access to the Brazilian market, Higgs said. Tullett has more
than 20 offices globally.  Tullett’s main rivals have also acquired firms to tap
growth in Brazil.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the largest broker of trades between
banks, acquired Brazilian broker Arkhe in 2009. BGC Partners
Inc. bought Liquidez DTVM Ltda. in 2008, gaining the second-
biggest currency brokerage on Brazil’s BM&FBovespa SA exchange.  Convencao, a Sao Paulo-based inter-dealer broker, has the
infrastructure and the ability to operate a much larger
business, Higgs said. Revenue rose 100 percent in 2010 from the
previous year, the executive said, declining to provide details.
Convencao employs 80 people including 40 brokers.  “We will see growth both in headcount and revenue,” Higgs
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  