-- 
Mumbai’s Diamond Market Closes for Day of Mourning After Blasts Kill 17

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T05:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/mumbai-s-diamond-market-shuts-in-mourning-after-bombings-kill-at-least-17.html
India ’s largest diamond market in
Mumbai will be closed today for mourning the dead from the
biggest terrorist strikes in the city since 2008.  “Every office will remain closed,” Vasant Mehta, board
member with the  Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council , which
represents 5,500 diamond and jewelry exporters, said by phone
from the city. “The market has decided to close today out of
respect for the dead.”  The bombings on July 13 occurred near the neighborhoods of
Dadar, Zaveri Bazaar, the biggest gold market located in south
Mumbai, and the Opera House, the main diamond-trading hub,
killing at least 17 people. India, the biggest diamond processor,
cuts and polishes nine out of 10 of the world’s diamonds, with
gem and jewelry exports totaling $43 billion in the fiscal year
ended March 31.  “People are feeling frustrated -- it’s a mixed feeling of
anger, frustration and helplessness,” said Mehta. “Going
forward, we will have extra security.”  The Opera House area is home to seven buildings which house
diamond offices with more than 100,000 industry workers,
according to Mehta. The area derives its name from an opera
house that was inaugurated by Britain’s King George V in 1912.  The bomb blast was the third attack near the congested
Zaveri Bazaar, after blasts in 1993 and 2003. Jewelry shops were
closed in the two century-old market yesterday with road access
blocked to cars and other vehicles.  Businesses in Zaveri Bazaar will be open today, Prithviraj Kothari, president of the Bombay Bullion Association, said today.
The nation is the world’s largest bullion user, with gold demand
at a record in 2010.  Most offices in the diamond market opened for half a day
yesterday and will reopen tomorrow for business, Mehta said.  -- Editors: Thomas Kutty Abraham, Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 