-- 
Hungary’s Lazar Says Government to Keep Some Form of Special Tax

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-15T08:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/hungary-s-lazar-says-government-to-keep-some-form-of-special-tax.html
Hungary may retain some form of
special taxation on energy, financial, telecommunication and
retail companies after the current levies expire, said Janos Lazar, head of the ruling Fidesz party’s parliamentary group.  Lazar, who also discussed a new central bank law and the
role of state-owned MVM Zrt. and Mol Nyrt. in the  energy
industry , spoke in an interview in Budapest.  On the special industry taxes, which were imposed last year and
expire at the end of 2012:  “The extraordinary tax in this form will be discontinued,
but the tax burden can’t end there. It does mean a reduction in
the tax burden compared with the current extraordinary tax.  “The affected industries will continue to have a tax
burden, but this shouldn’t exceed the European level. Tesco will
have to proportionally pay as much tax as in other European
countries or let’s say in the U.K.  “The industry tax is a temporary measure, but politically
our aim is that in the future the tax burden shouldn’t be more
or less than the European average for these industries. If the
tax burden is more, then let’s reduce it. If it’s less, then
let’s add to it.  “This is the political conviction of the Fidesz
parliamentary group, not the government’s position.”  On energy:  “We want to establish a competitive state player in the
energy sector. I see great potential in MVM in building it up on
the national and regional level.”  “There are areas where the state needs to have strong
positions. Mol and MVM can be the breakout points.  “The opportunities determine whether we reach these strong
positions through acquisitions or through agreements, but
certainly we have to act as market players.  “The energy sector is an area where the Hungarian state
can definitely be competitive. Mol and MVM are opportunities for
us in central  Europe . We have a competitive edge in the region
and we shouldn’t miss out. There’s a lot of money to be made
here, a lot of money.”  On the planned central bank law:  “We want to finish the new central bank law by November at
the latest.  “The law will strengthen the central bank’s independence,
against the expectation that it will weaken it. In fact, we want
to give the central bank more power. In cases where the central
bank, as an independent institution, sees risks, it should have
the tools not only to form an opinion but also to act, possibly
to regulate, for example in the case of risks relating to
foreign-currency lending.  “The ouster of the central bank president is not on the
agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  