-- 
Meredith Whitney Loses Credibility as Muni Defaults Fall 60%

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-15T13:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/muni-default-plunge-belies-whitney-prediction-as-borrowers-shun-insolvency.html
Time is running out on the
credibility of Meredith Whitney, who has yet to acknowledge that
her eight-month-old prediction of widespread defaults this year
in the market for state and local government debt is proving
unfounded.  Defaults fell 60 percent in the first half of 2011 compared
with the same period last year, including a $12.5 million
Austin, Texas, apartment project that made a late payment in
June, according to Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter.  Whitney, the analyst who rose to prominence by predicting
Citigroup Inc.’s 2008 dividend cut, predicted “hundreds of
billions of dollars” of municipal defaults within 12 months in
a Dec. 19 “60 Minutes” broadcast, fueling a wave of selling in
the $2.9 trillion market. Instead, the number has fallen as
cities slashed spending to balance budgets and state lawmakers
stepped in to guard against insolvency and local bankruptcies.  “The data is not helping Meredith,” said Matt Fabian, a
managing director at Municipal Market Advisors, a financial-
research company based in Concord,  Massachusetts . “It’s always
been a possibility there would be a wave of defaults. You can’t
say that it’s zero but it’s given no sign of starting.”  From January through June, defaults fell to 24 totaling
$746 million, according to the newsletter from Miami Lakes,
Florida-based Income Securities Advisor. That compares with 60
in the first half of last year, totaling $2.29 billion, and 144
in the first six months of 2009, at $4.89 billion.  ‘Dirt-Bond’ Bubble  The failure of property developments financed with tax-
exempt debt led to a record $8.15 billion of municipal defaults
in 2008, the middle of the 18-month recession that ended in
2009, and accounts for the slowing pace, according to Jack Colombo, who edits Distressed Debt newsletter. There are simply
fewer of the so-called dirt bonds left to falter, he said.  Jefferson County,  Alabama , was the last local government to
trigger a default, when it couldn’t meet payments on about $3
billion of securities tied to a sewer system in 2008 after the
complex financing unraveled, he said. The county is home to
Birmingham, the state’s biggest city.  Communities such as Georgia’s DeKalb County have sought to
cope with financial stress by raising local taxes, while in
municipalities such as  Newark ,  New Jersey ’s biggest city, mayors
have slashed jobs to cut costs. In some cases, such as New York
and Pennsylvania, state governments have intervened to prevent
fiscal meltdowns at the local level.  Standard & Poor’s  counted 28 municipal-market defaults
totaling $511 million in the first six months of 2011, compared
with 53 totaling about $1.55 billion in the first half of last
year, according to a report from the New York-based credit-
rating company.  ‘Not Even Close’  “The facts just aren’t supporting” Whitney’s forecast,
said J.R. Rieger, vice president of fixed-income indexes at S&P.
“They’re not even close.”  Whitney, 41, who started New York-based Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group LLC in 2009 after leaving Oppenheimer & Co.,
predicted 50 to 100 “sizable” municipal defaults as states
slashed spending, in the interview with CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes.” As for timing, she said it would be “something to
worry about within the next 12 months.”  “There’s absolutely nothing about our thesis that has
changed,” she said on July 12 in an interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” show in  New York .
“There are not enough revenues to go around and service all of
the debt obligations or debt commitments outstanding.”  Whitney also sought to amend her prediction in the radio
interview, saying that she said in December “you’d start to see
defaults within 12 months.” She didn’t respond to telephone
calls and e-mails seeking additional comment.  Rare Events  Municipal defaults are rare. Moody’s Investors Service said
in a study released in February 2010 that the 10-year average
cumulative rate in the municipal market was 0.09 percent from
1970 to 2009 for the securities it ranks, compared with 11.06
percent for corporate debt. Most were concentrated among
nonprofit health-care and housing projects. Just three were
general-obligation bonds, out of 54 in all, Moody’s said.  U.S. Bank National Association , the trustee for Austin’s
Rutland Place Apartments project, made a partial payment of
about $150,000 last month, according to a regulatory filing. The
payment was on debt issued in 1998 to mature in 2033 with a 6.5
percent coupon, according to the Distressed Debt newsletter.  Moody’s said in January that no state and only a few local
governments would default this year on debt it rated, after none
did in 2010.  “A locality is going to lay off a teacher before they
default on their bonds,” said Iris J. Lav, a senior adviser at
the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit research
group in  Washington . “There are other things they can do.”  Falling Spending  State and local-government spending declined at a 3.3
percent annual pace in the first three months of this year,
according to a U.S. Commerce Department report in April. It was
the steepest drop since a 3.8 percent tumble in the same quarter
last year, and the second-most since a 7.4 percent drop in the
three months ending in June 1981, the figures showed.  States and localities have cut more than 580,000 jobs since
payrolls peaked in 2008, according to U.S. Labor Department data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Municipalities are also seeking new revenue as tax
collections lag behind fiscal 2008 levels and state aid is
slashed. In suburban Atlanta, DeKalb officials this week
increased the property-tax rate 26 percent to rebuild the
county’s finances after losing its Standard & Poor’s bond rating
in March.  Cash Levels  “We’re not at the point where cash levels for most
governments are so weak that there’s a tradeoff between running
the essential services and making debt-service payments,” said
 Richard Ciccarone , a managing director at McDonnell Investment
Management LLC in Oak Brook,  Illinois . The company manages more
than $7 billion of municipal debt.  State intervention in  Pennsylvania , through a mechanism
called Act 47, has given cities on the verge of insolvency an
alternative way to resolve fiscal difficulties. In Harrisburg,
where the City Council voted to prepare for a bankruptcy filing
last month, state lawmakers crafted legislation to suspend aid
for the municipality should it seek court protection.  New York put suburban Nassau County, one of the nation’s
wealthiest, under control of an oversight board after finding
that its budget was in deficit. Michigan enacted a law this year
giving state-appointed fiscal managers the power to take control
of financially stressed local governments.  Small Part  States from Wisconsin to Ohio, New Jersey and Massachusetts
have also taken steps this year to reduce employee costs for
local governments. From curbing contract bargaining to imposing
higher employee contributions for health care and pensions,
legislatures and governors have sought to ease fiscal burdens
for municipalities.  Debt service is generally less than 10 percent of a state
or local government’s budget, and in many cases it’s much less,
Richard Raphael, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in New York, said
in a report last November.  Whitney’s “60 Minutes” comments fanned mounting concerns
that focused on municipal financial stress.  Six months earlier,  Warren Buffett  said  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , where he is chairman and chief executive officer, had been
trimming its investment in municipal debt. He told a hearing of
the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in New York that a
“terrible problem” was brewing in the market.  By November, Republicans including Newt Gingrich, the
former speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, were urging
Congress to consider letting states go bankrupt as a way to
break union contracts and restructure pensions.  States Excluded  A Depression-era law that lets municipalities reorganize
their finances under Chapter 9 of the U.S. bankruptcy code
excluded states.  Investors began an exodus from municipal-bond mutual funds
last year, pulling out $30 billion. The weekly net withdrawals
that began in November didn’t end until last month, according to
Lipper US Fund Flows in Denver.  In January, billionaire investor George Soros weighed in,
telling CNBC that municipal finances would be the “drama” for
the year while former President Bill Clinton said at the World
Economic Forum in Davos,  Switzerland , that local governments
needed “some reform” in the way they handle their finances.
 Jamie Dimon ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s CEO, said some cities would
use bankruptcy courts to rewrite union contracts and pensions.  Market Roiled  Then in a February report, Roubini Global Economics LLC,
started by New York University economist Nouriel Roubini,
predicted $100 billion of municipal defaults during the next
five years, which would require an annual pace that is more than
twice the record reached in 2008. Roubini in 2005 predicted a
bubble in U.S. housing prices and correctly forecast the global
credit crisis.  Municipal bond prices plummeted, pushing yields higher. A
Municipal Market Advisors index of yields on top-rated 20-year
municipal debt climbed from about 3.6 percent at the end of
August, the lowest since the index began, to almost 4.8 percent
by Jan. 14, the highest in 22 months. The index yield stood at
4.2 percent this week.  Prediction Disputed  By then, investors including Bill Gross, who runs the
world’s biggest bond at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Newport Beach,  California , were publicly disputing Whitney’s
prediction. In April, McDonnell Investment’s Ciccarone said
municipal-cash figures showed Whitney was on the wrong track.  The market has rebounded as the wave of defaults she
predicted failed to materialize. The benchmark iShares S&P
National AMT-Free Bond Fund, with a $2.17 billion market
valuation, has had a total return of 7.2 percent since Whitney’s
“60 Minutes” appearance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “She’s been a tremendous marketing tool for us because
she’s been out there challenging the industry,” said Anson Clough, managing director of fixed income at Appleton Partners
Inc. in  Boston , which oversees $4.4 billion of assets.  “That’s why we invest in municipal bonds -- municipalities
have the ability to get through this,” he said. “They have
that taxing power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  