-- 
Murdoch Meets Murdered Girl’s Parents

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-15T18:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/murdoch-meets-murdered-girl-s-parents-apologizes.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
held his head in his hands as he met the parents of a murdered
schoolgirl whose phone his journalists hacked, telling them he
had fallen below his parents’ standards, according to the
family’s lawyer.  “I said I was appalled to find out what happened,”
Murdoch said after meeting the Dowler family. “I apologized and
I have nothing else to say.”  The July 4 revelation that reporters working for the News
of the World had in 2002 deleted messages from the voicemail of
missing schoolgirl, Milly Dowler, turned the phone-hacking saga
from something that interested a few lawmakers to a national
scandal. In the 11 days since, it has cost Murdoch the News of
the World newspaper, his bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  and today his British protégé Rebekah Brooks.  “He was humbled,” lawyer  Mark Lewis  told reporters after
the meeting in  London  today. “I don’t think anybody could have
held their head in their hands so many times to say that they
were sorry.”  Murdoch, 80, has been in London since the weekend as the
scandal escalated and politicians of all parties called on him
and his son, James, to take responsibility for what happened.
News Corp. will publish an apology in all national newspapers in
Britain tomorrow,  James Murdoch , the company’s deputy chief
operating officer said in a letter to employees today.  Father’s Standards  Inside the meeting, Murdoch referred to his father, Sir
Keith Murdoch, an Australian newspaperman, according to Lewis.
“He said this was not the standard set by his father, who was a
respected journalist, this was not the standard set by his
mother.”  Murdoch’s mother, Dame Elisabeth Murdoch, is now 102 years
old.  “We told him that his papers should lead the way to set a
standard of honesty and decency in the field and not what had
gone on before,” Lewis said. “He was very humbled, very
shaken, and very sincere. He apologized many times. Money was
not discussed. There was no question of any discussion that
would have tainted a meeting that was a heartfelt apology.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWSA)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 