-- 
Murdoch May Offer Discounts to Win Readers to Sunday Sun

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-15T10:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/murdoch-may-offer-ad-discounts-for-sunday-sun.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
preparing to start a new Sunday tabloid to replace the News of
the World, may have to offer steep advertising discounts or even
give the paper away for free to regain readers.  Advertisers such as supermarket chain operator  J Sainsbury
Plc (SBRY) , Boots chemists,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
withdrew from the News of the World after accusations that
employees hacked phones of murder and terror victims and paid
police for stories. News Corp. shut down the 168-year-old
newspaper after its final edition on July 10.  News Corp. is discussing a Sunday edition of its best-
selling U.K. tabloid the Sun, which may be introduced as early
as next month, said a person familiar with the matter, asking
not to be named because the plan isn’t public and a final
decision hasn’t been made. The big brands may be willing to come
back to a Murdoch Sunday tabloid for a price, said Marc Mendoza,
chief executive officer of  Media Planning Group , which places
ads for companies such as  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and Hugo Boss AG.  “Previous News of the World advertisers will be offered
large incentives to try the Sun on Sunday for the first few
weeks until it proves itself,” said Mendoza, whose company is
part of  France ’s second-biggest advertiser,  Havas SA. (HAV)  “They’ll
get discounts in the Sun on Sunday and in other titles.”  Advertisers will likely want coverage of the phone-tapping
scandal in other media to have died down before they associate
their brands with a new Murdoch tabloid, Mendoza said.  For Free?  (To read about an FBI investigation into possible phone-
hacking by News Corp. employees, click here. For a story on
Rebekah Brooks resigning, click here.)  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International, News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit, declined to comment. Quashing
speculation News Corp. is discussing the sale of its U.K.
newspaper assets, Murdoch told the Wall Street Journal in an
interview yesterday that such talk is “pure and total
rubbish.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The company may even have to offer the newspaper for free
initially to build up circulation and maintain a strong
association with The Sun to prevent readers from associating it
with News of the World, said Doug McCabe, an analyst at media
research firm Enders Analysis in  London .  Still, the scandal may have soured News Corp. investors on
owning newspaper assets altogether, said Alex De Groote, an
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. The company would
have to delay a new publication until next year to allow the
scandal to die down enough, he said.  ‘Crime Scene’  “It would seem somewhat crass to re-launch a Sunday two to
three weeks after closing the previous paper, which is now
effectively a crime scene,” said De Groote, who estimates that
the News of the World generated annual ad sales of about 40
million pounds ($65 million). “Shareholders in News Corp. are
not positive on this asset. I don’t think the political,
regulatory process in the U.K. is likely to improve in the short
term.”  The political backlash to the allegations forced News Corp.
to drop a bid for British pay-television operator  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least nine people have been arrested
in connection with the scandal.  News Corp. faces at least four investigations over the
phone-hacking scandal. Rupert Murdoch, his son James, and former
News International CEO Rebekah Brooks have agreed to attend a
July 19 parliamentary committee meeting to give evidence. Brooks
resigned today.  Murder Victims  The  Guardian newspaper  reported on July 4 that the News of
the World hacked into the voice mails of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler in 2002 and deleted messages. Advertisers have been
pulling out of News of the World since then. The hacking
scandal, which had been going on for four years, previously
centered on celebrities, politicians and athletes.  News of the World had the highest circulation of any Sunday
tabloid in Britain, making it particularly valuable for
advertisers. Its circulation reached 2.66 million in May, more
than twice its closest competitor in the national Sunday market,
the Sunday Mirror, according to media researcher ABC.  Maurice Levy , CEO of the world’s third-biggest advertising
company Publicis Groupe SA, said last week that News Corp. may
quickly regain advertisers if the company creates “a new News
of the World with much more ethical behavior.”  The final edition of the News of the World didn’t carry
commercial advertising, devoting the ad space to charities.
Still, Mendoza said that News International can’t let the
advertising revenue from the closed newspaper remain in limbo
and will likely use a Sunday version of The Sun to fill the gap.  “Why do people pay a lot of money to advertise in the
newspaper?” Mendoza said. “It reaches a lot of people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  