-- 
Turkey Posted a Budget Surplus of 3.1 Billion Liras in June

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-07-15T10:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/turkey-posted-a-budget-surplus-of-3-1-billion-liras-in-june-1-.html
Turkey  posted a budget surplus of
3.1 billion liras ($1.9 billion) in June compared with a 5.4
billion-lira deficit the year earlier, Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said.  In the first six months of the year, the budget produced a
surplus of 2.9 billion liras, compared with the target for the
full year of a 33.5 billion-lira deficit, Simsek told reporters
in the capital, Ankara, today. It was the biggest six-month
surplus in 40 years, he said.  The economy expanded 11 percent in the first quarter from
the year-earlier period, the fastest pace among the Group of 20
major economies, swelling  tax revenue . A government offer to
waive penalties on overdue taxes is also adding to revenue,
Simsek said today.  The surplus excluding interest payments on debt was 4.7
billion liras last month, compared with a shortfall of 2.1
billion liras in the same month last year, he said. In the first
six months, the ex-interest surplus was 25.3 billion liras,
almost double the year-end goal of 14 billion liras.  The government aims to save the bulk of the additional
revenue, Simsek said today, telling ministries that any requests
for additional cash will be rejected unless they are for
investments that develop high-tech industry or improves
infrastructure.  ‘Magnificent’  The expansion in the $735 billion economy helped Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  win a third term in elections on
June 12. The economic performance, which followed 8.9 percent
growth in the whole of 2010, is “magnificent,” Erdogan said in
a speech to his party’s lawmakers on June 30.  Non-interest spending in the first half of the year was 121
billion liras, 10.9 percent more than the same period last year.
The government’s budget plans see 8 percent expenditure growth
this year.  Turkish authorities are battling a current-account deficit
that has widened to the biggest since records began in 1984 as
the expanding economy draws in oil, raw materials and  consumer
goods . Central bank limits on bank lending will help to narrow
the gap by the end of the year, and the government is working on
longer-term steps to encourage local production, Simsek said.  “We will need a more interventionist industrial policy
over the next four years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 