-- 
Venezuela to Investigate Opposition’s Capriles for Graft

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-16T02:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/venezuela-to-investigate-opposition-s-capriles-for-graft-1-.html
Venezuela’s  Supreme Court  authorized
the Attorney General to begin an investigation into alleged
corruption by opposition leader and governor of Miranda state,
Henrique Capriles Radonski.  Capriles is being accused by Gerson Perez Suarez, a member
of President  Hugo Chavez ’s United Socialist Party, of giving
public contracts to companies that are owned by family members,
according to a  statement  published on the  Supreme Court ’s
website.  The  Attorney General  will now determine whether there is
sufficient evidence to ask the Supreme Court to strip Capriles
of his immunity that he has as governor, to proceed with the
investigation.  Armando Briquet, head of Capriles’s campaign, said Perez’s
accusations are “political tricks” seeking to spread panic and
uncertainty about Capriles.  “This government appears to fear progress when we see
attitudes like that of Perez Suarez, who is using legal
artifices and charges without foundation, and has the sole aim
of derailing those they perceive as their enemies,” Briquet
said in an e-mailed statement.  Primary Campaign  Capriles plans to take part in an opposition primary
election in February to select a single candidate to run against
Chavez, who has been in power since 1999. The National Electoral
Council has yet to set a date for the 2012 presidential
elections.  In a March 11-25 survey of 2,000 people taken by
Consultores 21, Capriles had a 55 percent approval rating. His
closest rival, Leopoldo Lopez, a former mayor of the Caracas
municipality of Chacao, had 49 percent while Chavez had 45
percent, according to the poll, which had a margin of error of
2.24 percentage points.  Lopez was disqualified for running for public office in
2008 for alleged corruption during his time as mayor and for
having accepted a donation from the state oil company while at
an NGO in the late 1990s. He’s fighting to have the ban
overturned in time to run in the primaries.  Twice mayor of the predominantly middle-class municipality
of Baruta, in Caracas, Capriles became the youngest president of
 Venezuela ’s Congress at age 26. He was jailed for four months on
charges of leading a mob that attacked the Cuban Embassy in the
capital during a failed coup against Chavez in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  