-- 
Volksbank Revamp to Be ‘Closely Monitored’

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/volksbanken-fails-eu-stress-test-with-4-5-capital-ratio.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s
revamp is being “closely monitored” by supervisors after
Austria’s fourth-biggest lender failed this year’s round of
European Union stress tests because regulators found it had
insufficient capital.  The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, was 4.5 percent in the test’s adverse
scenario, missing the 5 percent minimum required by the European
Banking Authority, the bank said in a statement yesterday.
Volksbanken is one of eight companies to fail the exam.  The bank, which on July 14 agreed to sell its eastern
European business VBI to OAO Sberbank, is seeking to sell its 5
percent stake in Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG before
the end of the year to boost its capital ratio, Chief Executive
Officer Gerald Wenzel told journalists in Vienna yesterday.  Together, the two measures would raise the capital ratio by
1.4 percentage points in the adverse stress scenario. That’s
because the sale of the eastern European business reduces risk-
weighted assets, while the RZB stake sale will generate a book
gain, Wenzel said. An internal asset revamp will further
increase the capital ratio, he added.  Assets Reduction  Volksbanken expects the VBI sale to reduce risk-weighted
assets by 7 billion euros, about a quarter of the total,
according to the  stress test data . The RZB stake sale is
expected to result in a book gain of 164 million euros.  The lender, which got 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of
state aid in 2009, last year sold the Europolis real estate unit
and also is seeking buyers for its leasing unit and VBI’s
Romania business.  “If Volksbanken carries out in a timely manner the
restructuring measures it has agreed upon with the Financial
Markets Authority and the Austrian Central Bank and already has
started to implement, its core Tier 1 capital ratio will be
raised to between 6.5 percent and 7 percent,” the two
regulators said in a joint statement.  The test result “confirms that the restructuring measures
that were started are necessary,” said Andreas Ittner, the
central bank’s director responsible for bank supervision. The
central bank said that it is closely monitoring Volksbanken’s
restructuring. Helmut Ettl, co-chairman of supervisor FMA, said
that he didn’t expect  Austria  will have to inject more capital
into banks.  Austria “stands ready” to provide more aid if needed and
has 6 billion euros left in its financial stability fund, the
Alpine republic’s finance ministry said in a  statement .  Disqualified Capital  One of the main reasons for Volksbanken’s failure in the
test is that about 850 million euros of capital, equivalent to
3.2 percentage points, were disqualified under EBA’s rules for
the exam, the CEO said. In EBA’s adverse stress scenario,
Volksbanken suffered the biggest hit from its asset-backed
securities portfolio, he said.  Volksbanken’s main owners, a group of regional cooperative
Austrian banks, said in April they plan to buy back this year a
first tranche of the state aid Volksbanken received. That plan,
which would effectively replace 300 million euros of the state
capital by new common stock, is still intact, Chairman Hans Hofinger said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  