-- 
WaMu Fight Over Bankruptcy Exit, Insider Trading to Extend Into Next Week

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-15T19:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/wamu-court-fight-over-insider-trading-claim-delayed-to-july-18.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , former owner
of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail, may need four more days of
testimony before a judge can rule on claims of  insider trading 
that threaten to disrupt the company’s plan to exit bankruptcy,
lawyers said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath agreed to end court
early today and start again July 18 so the lead lawyer defending
hedge fund Aurelius Capital Management LP from the insider
trading allegations can attend. That delay and the slow pace of
questioning witnesses means the hearing may stretch into July
21, WaMu bankruptcy attorney  Brian Rosen said in court today.  “Our great concern is making sure we can fit in all the
witnesses,” Rosen said.  Walrath had originally scheduled three days this week for
WaMu’s bankruptcy-exit hearing, the second time she has held a
trial on the proposal, with multiple witnesses, dozens of
lawyers and thousands of pages of evidence.  In that first trial last year, Walrath approved the main
settlement that the bankruptcy exit plan is based on. She is now
being asked to approve the plan itself, which would distribute
more than $7 billion to WaMu’s creditors.  The current court fight involves the value of the
reinsurance company that will be the only part of WaMu to
survive bankruptcy, and whether Aurelius and three other  hedge
funds  used confidential information to trade in the company’s
debt.  Get Nothing  Shareholders would get nothing under a reorganization plan
that was negotiated with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the four hedge
funds and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The shareholders
have asked Walrath to again reject the reorganization plan,
arguing it is tainted by the allegations of insider trading.  Aurelius and the other hedge funds, Centerbridge Partners
LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset Management LP,
all deny that they engaged in insider trading. They have argued
in court papers and in hearings that the information they used
to buy and sell WaMu’s debt was either publicly available or
wasn’t “material,” and therefore its use was legal.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan for $1.9 billion. WaMu’s
Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The dispute over the insider-trading allegations will be
the final issue in the hearing.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 