-- 
Gross Says Debt Debate Implications Not Understood: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-15T17:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/washington-doesn-t-get-debt-debate-gross.html
Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment
Management Co. said U.S. lawmakers “don’t get” the long-term
implications of deficit reduction even if a resolution is
reached to lift the debt ceiling.  “The U.S. basically has a $60 trillion net present value
liability burden, and that constitutes Medicare, Medicaid and
Social Security in combination,” Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” during an interview with Tom Keene. ‘It certainly
exceeds those liabilities in Greece or  Portugal  or  Spain .
Ultimately the U.S. has a big, big problem.”  Lawmakers need to take a gradual approach to cutting the
deficit, as suggested yesterday by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , and address the longer-term liabilities, Gross
said. U.S.  House Republicans  plan a vote next week on a measure
to cut spending, cap expenditures and condition a $2.4 trillion
increase in the debt ceiling on passage of a constitutional
amendment to balance the budget that will likely fail in the
Democratic-controlled Senate. The Treasury has said it risks
default after Aug. 2 if an extension isn’t granted on the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  “You can’t cut two or three trillion of spending over a
year or two and expect the economy to survive.” Gross said from
Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California .  A compromise that cuts less than $4 trillion of spending is
likely to push yields on 30-year Treasuries higher, Gross said.
A smaller package of savings would suggest “the deficit really
not solved and so the long end gets hurt based on inflationary
expectations and demand going forward,” Gross said.  Total Return Fund  A $1.5 trillion package would amount to a “fake it till
you make it type proposition,” Gross said. “To the extent we
don’t get a $4 trillion package, it’s the long-end that gets
hurt the most.”  The 30-year yield rose 1 basis point to 4.26 percent at
1:42 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 4.375 percent note due May 2041 fell 3/32, or 94
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 29/16.  Gross boosted his $243 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in U.S. government securities to 8 percent of assets
in June from 5 percent in May, according to a report this week
on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s  website . Bonds in
developed markets outside the U.S. rose to 13 percent of
holdings from 10 percent. Cash and equivalents dropped to 29
percent from 35 percent.  More Treasuries  Pimco, which has been criticized for missing this year’s
rally in Treasuries, revised how it listed asset holdings last
month to show that its flagship fund held  U.S. government debt .
In an interview on CNBC this week, Gross said he bought two- to
three-year notes since U.S. bills are returning close to zero
and the purchases shouldn’t be viewed as endorsement of the
Treasury market.  Holdings in the category now classified as government-
Treasury were previously known as government and government-
related debt. The category of swaps and liquid rates added last
month was unchanged at minus 9 percent.  The Total Return Fund handed investors a 6.23 percent gain
in the past year, beating 71 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month return is 0.44
percent, outpacing 28 percent of its competitors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  