-- 
Zillow Raises Price Range for Initial Offering to as Much as $18 Per Share

-- B y   J u l i e   A l n w i c k   a n d   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 
2011-07-15T13:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-15/zillow-raises-price-range-for-initial-offering-to-as-much-as-18-per-share.html
Zillow Inc., the Seattle-based
online real-estate information service, raised the proposed
price range for its initial public offering to as much as $18 a
share.  The company is offering 3.46 million shares at $16 to $18
apiece to raise as much as $62.3 million, according to
regulatory filings. Zillow earlier set a range of $12 to $14.  Zillow, led by Chief Executive Officer Spencer Rascoff,
announced its IPO in April, joining a flood of filings to go
public. In the three months through June, companies registered
for initial offerings at the fastest pace since 2007, according
to Bloomberg data. Zillow plans a placement of about $5.5
million of shares with two private investors alongside the IPO.  Zillow’s website allows home buyers, sellers, renters and
managers to list and search for properties, home-price estimates
and other information. Sales more than doubled to $11.3 million
in the quarter ended March 31. In May, 22 million unique users
visited Zillow through its website and mobile applications, more
than double the number a year earlier.  At the offering’s midpoint price of $17 and assuming
completion of the private placement, Zillow would be valued at
$458.3 million, according to data disclosed in today’s filing.  All of the shares in the IPO are being offered by Zillow,
and the company is selling the private-placement shares to
Technology Crossover Ventures and PAR Investment Partners,
according to the  SEC filing .  Citigroup Inc. is leading Zillow’s offering. The shares
will list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol Z.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Alnwick in London at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 Lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  