-- All Blacks Seal Rugby Championship Sweep as Wallabies Beat Pumas
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-06T01:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/all-blacks-seal-rugby-championship-sweep-as-wallabies-beat-pumas.html
New Zealand beat  South Africa  38-27
to retain the Rugby Championship title with its second straight
sweep of the southern hemisphere competition.  Australia  routed
 Argentina  54-17 to leave the Pumas winless in last place.  Liam Messam touched down twice as the All Blacks outscored
South Africa five tries to four yesterday in a match featuring
five changes of lead at Johannesburg’s Ellis Park.  Bryan Habana 
got two tries for the Springboks, who entered the game needing a
bonus-point victory by more than seven points to take the trophy
and ran the ball at every opportunity.  “That’s a hell of a match to win,” All Blacks captain
Richie McCaw said at the post-match presentation. “I haven’t
seen the Springboks play a game like that for a long time. I’m
just proud of the way the boys just dug in. There were a couple
of times when we just lost momentum but kept believing.”  The All Blacks have now won all 12 of their matches in the
southern hemisphere’s annual championship since Argentina joined
last year. They also secured 10 of the 16 editions of the Tri-Nations, the competition’s predecessor.  New Zealand  finished atop the standings with 28 points,
nine more than the Springboks. South Africa could have snatched
the title by earning the maximum five points for winning and
scoring at least four tries and stopping the All Blacks from
getting a bonus point of their own.  “Rugby’s about attack and defense and unfortunately our
defense wasn’t up to it,” said Springboks captain Jean de Villiers. “We would have loved to have won this game. The rugby
that was dished up was a great advertisement for rugby all
around the world. We can be proud in the way that we played.”  Record Breaker  After South Africa’s Morne Steyn opened the scoring with a
penalty, All Blacks winger  Ben Smith  scored his eighth try of
the competition to set the record for a single tournament. Aaron Cruden converted to give the Kiwis a 7-3 lead.  Habana touched down twice in two minutes to give the
Springboks a 15-7 lead before going off with a hamstring injury.
Messam then scored his two tries, the second coming in first-half added time after his fellow back-row forward Kieran Read
stole a turnover. Cruden converted both to put New Zealand 21-15
up at half time.  The All Blacks were reduced to 14 men early in the second
half as Messam was sin-binned by referee Nigel Owens. South
Africa immediately regained the lead 22-21 on Willie Le Roux’s
try and Steyn’s conversion.  Beauden Barrett’s penalty put New Zealand back in front
before de Villiers powered over for the Springboks’ fourth try,
earning the bonus point, for a 27-24 lead.  Solo Try  Barrett got the All Blacks’ fourth try, securing the bonus
point needed to guarantee the title, with a solo effort in the
60th minute that he converted himself.  With the All Blacks a man down again after prop Ben Franks
was yellow carded, No. 8 Read finished off a breakaway down the
narrow side to run in under the posts and Barrett converted to
close the scoring 15 minutes from the end.  “The guys are shattered right now,” Read said after being
named man of the match. “It was a huge effort. The Springboks
really brought it to us. To get a win up here is massive from
our point of view.”  In the tournament’s closing match in Rosario, the Wallabies
ran in seven tries against Argentina and racked up their biggest
points total in Tri-Nations/Rugby Championship history.  Full-back Israel Folau scored a hat trick with wingers Adam Ashley-Cooper and Joe Tomane, prop  Benn Robinson  and replacement
fly-half Bernard Foley also touching down. Marcelo Bosch and
Martin Landajo got Argentina’s tries and Nicolas Sanchez booted
two conversions and a penalty.  Christian Leali’ifano,  Quade Cooper  and Foley, making his
Test debut, kicked the other 19 points as the Wallabies secured
their second win from six matches under new coach Ewen McKenzie.  “It’s a real confidence booster for us,” Australia
captain  James Horwill  said in a televised interview. “We’ve
been working very hard and it’s good to see some of the things
we’ve been working on come off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  