-- Aluminum Producer Mulls $811 Million Refinery: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-10-07T04:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/aluminum-producer-mulls-811-million-refinery-corporate-india.html
National Aluminium Co. (NACL) ,  India ’s
biggest state-owned producer, may invest 50 billion rupees ($811
million) to boost its alumina refining capacity and revive
earnings that are forecast to slide to a three-year low.  The company will enhance its annual ability to process
alumina by 43 percent to 3.3 million tons over the next two
years, and will export any surplus, Chairman Ansuman Das said in
an interview. The planned expansion is the second in three years
to benefit from higher margins offered by alumina, a white
powder derived from the ore bauxite, as prices of the end
product aluminum slump.  “We’ll take a decision to set up a new alumina line by
December,” Das said. “Lower metal prices have made selling
alumina more lucrative.”  Nalco, as National Aluminium is known, has shuttered a
third of its 460,000 metric tons smelter because of a coal
shortage and lower aluminum prices, causing earnings to decline
in five of the last six years. Profit margin from alumina sales
was 45 percent in the year ended March 31, while the lightweight
metal used to make beverage cans and aircraft parts fetched no
more than 6 percent.  The metal fell 7 percent on the London Metal Exchange since
April 1, making large smelting capacities across the globe
unprofitable.  Gujarat Venture  Nalco is also seeking to form a venture with Gujarat
Mineral Development Corp. to set up another 1 million ton
refinery in the western state, Das said. The company will hold a
51 percent stake, while Gujarat Mineral has evinced interest for
26 percent, he said.  Nalco’s  profit  is set to drop 8 percent in the year ending
March 31, according to the median of 17 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income fell 30 percent to 5.9 billion
rupees last fiscal year. Net income in the quarter ended June 30
declined 28 percent to 1.6 billion rupees.  Shares of the company based in Bhubaneswar in the eastern
state of Odisha fell as much as 1.2 percent to 33.05 rupees and
traded at 33.20 rupees as of 9:34 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock has
slipped 32 percent this year compared with a 1.6 percent gain in
the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index of Indian stocks.  Alumina production may rise 17 percent to more than 2.1
million tons this fiscal year, while metal output may slide as
much as 24 percent from last year’s 403,384 tons, Das said.  Indonesia Curbs  Nalco will benefit should  Indonesia , one of the world’s
largest producers of bauxite that exported 66 percent of its
output this year, curb overseas sales of the ore. The southeast
Asian nation’s move to block outbound shipments of unprocessed
ore in 2014 may raise prices of alumina and costs for global
aluminum producers, Bloomberg Industries analysts Kenneth Hoffman and Andrew Cosgrove said in a report on Oct. 2.  Nalco decided to scrap plans for a $4 billion project to
build a 500,000 ton aluminum smelter, power plant and  coal mine 
in Indonesia, Das said, without giving details. The venture with
the Indonesian government, which was announced in June 2008, got
delayed after the company failed to secure a supply accord with
MEC Coal Pte for the project in Kalimantan province.  The company expects aluminum premiums to fall starting next
fiscal year if the London Metal Exchange’s proposed rule changes
take effect starting April 1, increasing supplies in the  spot
market , Das said. Premiums are paid by the buyers on top of the
exchange’s prices for immediate delivery.  Global Glut  About 66 percent of aluminum producers would be losing
money because of declining premiums should the LME approve rules
to cut waiting times at its warehouses, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said in a report e-mailed on Aug. 30. About 60 percent of the
industry is losing money even with higher premiums, according to
that report.  “While the outlook on prices is uncertain, I believe
current levels are the bottom,” Das said. “There is a surplus
in the global market, which is weighing on prices.”  Aluminum stockpiles total about 14 million tons, including
5.36 million tons in warehouses monitored by the LME, according
to Edinburgh-based researcher Wood Mackenzie Ltd. As much as 80
percent of the inventory is tied up in financing transactions,
and unavailable to consumers, Societe Generale SA estimates.  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through “unfair” rules that allow Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan and other warehouse owners to slow
deliveries, Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based
MillerCoors LLC., said in a written testimony before his
appearance July 23 at a U.S. Senate subcommittee hearing in
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  