-- Areva Urges Customers to Buy Uranium as Price Rebounds
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-07T11:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/areva-urges-clients-to-buy-uranium-as-price-rebounds.html
Nuclear power plant operators
benefited from a slump in uranium prices following the reactor
meltdown in Japan’s Fukushima facility.  Areva SA (AREVA) , the second-biggest producer of the metal, says that’s about to end.  Power utilities need to boost orders of uranium by 2015 or
face potentially soaring prices as new atomic plants come on
line in addition to reactivated reactors in Japan, Olivier Wantz, who heads Areva’s mining division, said in an interview
last month.  “It would be wise for buyers to make decisions in 2015 at
the latest,” he said at the company’s headquarters near Paris.  Uranium prices in August plunged to the lowest level in
more than seven years, still suffering from a drop in demand
following the March 2011 meltdown of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant that was caused by an earthquake and a tsunami. Even with
some western nations such as  Germany  shutting nuclear plants,
new reactors in  emerging markets  such as  China  and  India  are now
reversing that trend, Areva said.  “All new nuclear plants will significantly boost demand in
coming years, even taking into account the phasing out of German
plants” by 2022 and other possible closures,Wantz said. “We
see first a stabilization of prices, with the start of a pick-up
as soon as 2014.”  Demand Forecast  Global uranium demand will probably rise 48 percent by
2023, according to the  World Nuclear Association . Sixty-eight
reactors are under construction, including  28  in China, 10 in
 Russia , 7 in India and 5 in  South Korea , according to the WNA.
About 435 reactors around the world with combined capacity of
more than 370 gigawatts already consume about 78,000 tons of
uranium concentrate annually, the association said.  In the wake of the 2011 nuclear disaster,  Japan  idled its
50 remaining reactors and Germany immediately shut some of its
17 plants.  The spot price of uranium, which climbed as high as $138
per pound in June 2007, dropped to as low as $34.50 two months
ago and recently held at $35.75, according to the Metal
Bulletin.  “That doesn’t seem to reflect a lasting market trend as
prices for long-term contracts are higher,” at about $54, Wantz
said. Prices will also get a boost as uranium supplied from
reprocessed nuclear weapons under a U.S.-Russian agreement will
no longer be available.  Weapon Stockpiles  Highly enriched uranium from weapon stockpiles supplied
about 9,720 tons of U3O8, its tradeable form, each year,
representing about 13 percent of global reactor requirement,
according to the WNA.  Areva shares fell 0.2 percent to 14.09 euros as of 1:29
p.m. in Paris, extending a slump since the Fukushima disaster to
61 percent and valuing the company at 5.4 billion euros ($7.33
billion). Canadian competitor  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s third-largest uranium producer, has declined 49 percent. Kazakhstan’s
state-owned Kazatomprom is the world’s biggest producer.  To reflect falling uranium prices and delayed production,
Areva wrote down the value of its mines by a total 1.62 billion
euros in the 2011 to 2012 period, following the $2.5 billion
acquisition of Toronto-listed UraMin in 2007. Areva, which also
faced construction delays at a nuclear plant in  Finland , sold
1.2 billion euros of assets last year and plans to cut costs by
1 billion euros between 2012 and 2015.  Turnaround Progress  “We’re certainly not considering new asset writedowns” in
mines, Wantz said. The company also has “no reason to consider
selling a stake” in the mining division, as the turnaround plan
is “well under way” and demand is rising.  In the first half, earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and divestments climbed 41 percent to
315 million euros at Areva’s mining unit, representing 66
percent of group earnings. In 2012, the division accounted for
15 percent of Areva’s sales.  Areva benefited from increasing prices and the end of some
“less favorable contracts,” Wantz said. “It will be slightly
less favorable in the second half, without being problematic.
We’re among producers that are least exposed to spot prices,
we’re rather strongly exposed to long-term prices.”  Niger Mine  Last year, the company’s output of uranium concentrate
known as  yellowcake , which is later converted, enriched and
fabricated into fuel rods, reached a record 9,760 tons,
including 3,661 tons at a joint venture in  Kazakhstan , and 3,065
tons at Areva’s Somair mine in  Niger .  Wantz predicted Areva will produce a similar amount of
uranium concentrate this year as in 2012, as increased
production in Kazakhstan will make up for a shortfall at Somair,
where processing was temporarily curbed after a terrorist attack
in May.  Niger, which owns 36 percent and 31 percent of the Somair
and Cominak mines, respectively, wants more “balanced” mining
conventions with Areva to replace those expiring at the end of
2013, Prime Minister Brigi Rafini told journalists yesterday.  In 2012, Niger received 70 percent of the value created by
these activities, while Areva and other shareholders got 30
percent, Wantz said. Areva and those investors, Overseas Uranium
Resources Development Company Ltd. and Empresa Nacional des
Uranio SA, “are willing to leave to Niger a legitimate and
major share of the benefits, but they also need some return on
their investments.”  Areva is also developing the Imouraren mine in Niger, where
first ore extraction is due in 2015. The site, whose development
bill will probably reach 1.7 billion euros by the start of
yellowcake production at the end of 2016, will yield 5,000 tons
of the metal per year, according to Wantz.  Canada ’s Cigar Lake mine, in which  Cameco (CCJ)  owns 50 percent
and Areva 37 percent, is due to open next year.  “Cigar Lake will operate for at least 15 years, and maybe
longer because we’ll probably find additional resources,” Wantz
said. “It will be an extremely profitable mine. The output will
be 6,900 tons per year when the ramp-up is completed in several
years.”  “We’ll be totally in line with the demand curve of the
market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ; 