-- Argentine President to Rest a Month After Head Trauma
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-10-06T17:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/argentine-president-to-rest-a-month-after-head-trauma.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has been ordered to rest for a month as
doctors yesterday said she suffered a head trauma after
complaining of a headache and irregular heartbeat.  Fernandez, 60, on Aug. 12 suffered a previously undisclosed
head trauma for which tests had been negative, presidential
spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro said in a statement late
yesterday.  “A month of rest has been prescribed as well as a
continual and strict clinical tracking,” Scoccimarro said in
the  statement .  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  declared her solidarity
via twitter today with her Argentine counterpart, while  Buenos
Aires  governor Daniel Scioli expressed his “preoccupation.”  Responsible decisions will be taken to cure “the health of
the president and not expose her to a greater risk like the
demands of this work,” Scioli told a local radio station,
according to La Nacion. “We must continue with all our work and
the management agenda.”  Fernandez, who last spoke in public on Oct. 4, will turn
day-to-day operations over to Vice President  Amado Boudou  during
the period of rest. Her medical issues arise as  Argentina 
prepares to hold midterm congressional elections on Oct. 27. In
primaries to select candidates, Fernandez’s ruling alliance
received just 26 percent of the nationwide vote, its worst
result in a decade.  ‘Significant Development’  “The vast majority of decisions recently have been taken
by the president,” Fabian Perechodnik, an analyst with
Poliarquia Consultores, said by phone from Buenos Aires. “If
she’s not there for a month, exactly when there are elections,
it’s a significant development. It’s going to change the
political dynamic.”  Fernandez, who was re-elected to a second four-year term in
2011, has canceled trips and events in the past due to low  blood
pressure  and had been diagnosed with thyroid cancer before
doctors determined the tumors removed in January 2012 weren’t
cancerous.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  