-- Arsenal Tops League After Draw; Chelsea, West Ham, Saints Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-10-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/arsenal-tops-league-after-draw-chelsea-west-ham-saints-win.html
Arsenal returned to the top of
English soccer’s Premier League yesterday with a 1-1 draw at
West Brom.  Tottenham was upset 3-0 at home by West Ham, Chelsea scored
two late goals to win 3-1 at Norwich and Southampton had a 2-0
home victory over Swansea.  Arsenal and Liverpool have 16 points, the Gunners leading
the Reds on goals scored. Chelsea moves up to third, two points
behind the leaders and level with Southampton. Tottenham drops
to sixth, on 13 points with  Manchester City .  “West Brom showed why they won at  Manchester United  last
week and we had a hell of a task to come back, but we showed
character and we had chances to go on and win it,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky after his team’s run of eight
away league wins ended. “Over the whole game I think it’s a
fair point. They are strong on the break, they are quick and go
forward with some quick players. We tried desperately to score
the second goal and we had the chances late on to do it.”  Claudio Yacob gave the Baggies the lead in the 42nd minute
yesterday, heading in from Morgan Amalfitano’s cross.  Nicolas Anelka  should have made it 2-0 against his former
team, missing two chances early in the second half. First he
miscued from a few yards out, then he shot wide from left of
goal.  Jack Wilshere , who’d struggled to make an impact on the
game, leveled the scores in the 63rd minute, his shot taking a
deflection off defender Jonas Olsson.  Olivier Giroud looked set to give Arsenal the lead until
Boaz Myhill dived to block his effort. Arsenal survived an
injury-time appeal for a penalty kick after a challenge by
Laurent Koscielny on  Shane Long  and held out for the point.  West Ham Blitz  West Ham held Tottenham to 0-0 at half time at White Hart
Lane, then stunned the home team with three goals in 13 minutes.
Winston Reid and Ricardo Vaz Te scored before Ravel Morrison
added the third with a solo effort after he collected the ball
inside his own half and went on to beat goalkeeper Hugo Lloris.  “He’s 20, he’s quite old in terms of years but he’s learnt
so much in a short period of time,” West Ham coach Sam
Allarydce said of Morrison. “He’s enjoying his football, he can
do something no one else can do and we saw that today.”  Oscar gave Chelsea a fourth-minute lead with a right-foot
shot after Demba Ba set up the chance. Norwich leveled in the
68th minute when Ricky van Wolfswinkel headed down for Anthony
Pilkington to put the ball in from close range.  Chelsea went ahead in the 85th minute when Norwich
goalkeeper  John Ruddy  allowed Eden Hazard’s shot to squirm under
him and go over the line. A minute later Willian slammed a
curling left-foot shot past Ruddy into the far corner.  ‘Deserved and Difficult’  “The win is important and deserved and difficult,”
Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  said. “So when it’s important,
deserved and difficult at the same time, we have only reasons to
be very pleased with that.”  Adam Lallana and Jay Rodriguez got Southampton’s goals in
the 19th and 83rd minutes as the Saints defeated Swansea.  Two days ago, Liverpool went to the top of the table
temporarily with a 3-1 win over Crystal Palace. Defending
champion Manchester United won 2-1 at bottom club Sunderland.
Manchester City handed Everton its first league defeat, 3-1, and
Fulham had a 1-0 victory over Stoke. Newcastle won 2-1 at
Cardiff and Hull drew 0-0 with  Aston Villa .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  