-- Thatcher Papers Reveal Fury With BOE Chief, Drinks With Spy
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/thatcher-papers-reveal-fury-with-boe-chief-drinks-with-spy.html
Margaret Thatcher  vented her fury at
the governor of the Bank of England after he raised  interest
rates  in 1983 while she was contemplating calling elections,
newly released papers reveal.  The documents, published today by the  Thatcher archive  at
Churchill College, Cambridge, also show that she wanted to
appoint then Conservative Party chairman Cecil Parkinson as her
foreign secretary, until he confessed to having an affair.
Another file shows she had drinks with a British mole inside the
Soviet KGB.  Thatcher had a tense relationship with Gordon Richardson,
who was in charge of the central bank when she came to office
in 1979, believing him to be an obstacle to her economic
policy. In January 1983, the  Bank of England   interest rate  was
raised to 11 percent from 10 percent while she was visiting the
Falkland Islands.  “If I had been here, you would not have put up rates,”
Thatcher told Richardson on her return, according to the diary
of her economic adviser Alan Walters, one of the documents
released. In the margin, he wrote: “Governor got a
bollocking.”  Days later she was still angry. “I’ll never be able to go
away again,” she told Walters. According to his diary, a major
factor in the decision was pressure from  Barclays Bank , which
wanted to raise its own mortgage rate by 2 percentage points.
Thatcher saw this as profiteering.  Election Decision  She was especially concerned about rates because she was
considering calling an election that year, capitalizing on her
popularity following Britain’s victory over  Argentina  in the
Falklands War in 1982. When she took the decision, Walters
recorded husband Denis as saying “the critical thing in calling
the election early was the City and sterling,” which had been
depreciating sharply against the dollar.  Richardson, who died in 2010, didn’t get a third period as
governor when his term expired in 1983. He was replaced by Robin Leigh-Pemberton.  While the outcome of the June 9 election was in little
doubt, Thatcher, asked by her press adviser Bernard Ingham to
discuss the media plan for the day afterwards, replied, “Let’s
not count our chickens.”  Still, she was privately planning what her new government
would look like. On a scrap of paper, she jotted the initials of
the men she wanted to promote, and the jobs she planned to give
them. Top of the list was Cecil Parkinson, then aged 52. Next to
his name, she wrote the initials: “F.S.”  Designating Successor  A promotion to foreign secretary, one of the top three
jobs in the British government, would have left Parkinson with
only two ways to advance: becoming chancellor of the
exchequer or succeeding her as prime minister. She seems to have 
kept this plan secret from her advisers, whose notes to her
contain no mention of it.  “She knew that by promoting him in this way she was going
to create an atmosphere around him,” said  Chris Collins , a
historian at the Margaret Thatcher Foundation and the only
person to have studied the papers. “It’s possible she thought
she was designating her successor.”  The night of her election victory, according to the then
chancellor, Geoffrey Howe, Thatcher offered Parkinson the job.
He then confessed to a long-running affair with his former
secretary, Sara Keays. The next day, the prime minister received
a letter from Keays’s father, saying that his daughter was
pregnant. Thatcher burned the letter in the fireplace at
Chequers, her country residence outside London.  ‘Fire Them All’  She instead gave Parkinson the less prominent role of trade
and industry secretary, with an expanded brief from that of his
predecessor. He resigned in October of that year after the
affair became public. He returned to the cabinet in 1987 as
energy secretary.  Thatcher’s attack on Richardson is not the only example of
her temper in the diaries. At one stage in February, frustrated
by negotiations with Geoffrey Howe about his impending budget,
she told Walters “she would do the Budget Speech herself -
‘fire them all.’”  The files also cover relations with the  Soviet Union .
Contrary to her reputation as “The  Iron Lady ” -- a nickname
given her by  Russia  -- she was making overtures even before the
arrival of  Mikhail Gorbachev .  One reason for her change of stance was the intelligence
she was receiving from a KGB double agent, Oleg Gordievsky. He
had told his British handlers that the Russians had genuine
fears of a Western “first strike” nuclear war.  Among the diplomatic observers listed as present when she
addressed a Young Conservatives event in February was “Mr
O.Gordievski from the Soviet Embassy.” He was writing a profile
of her for the KGB.  “I was fascinated that she might have met him,” said
Collins. “She probably didn’t know his name, and there he was
in the room swapping stories over cheap champagne.”  Thatcher died in London in April, aged 87. The 1983 papers
are available online at the Margaret Thatcher Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  