-- Bank of Korea Seen Needing Global Expertise When Kim Exits
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-10-07T03:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/bank-of-korea-seen-needing-global-expertise-when-governor-exits.html
The Bank of  Korea  needs a successor
to Governor Kim Choong Soo with a global focus and firm grasp of
international economics, given the nation’s reliance on trade,
said an adviser to President Park Geun Hye’s administration.  “We need people like Kim who can quickly capture the full
picture of the global economy when making a key policy
decision,” Lee Il Houng, 55, head of the Korea Institute for
International Economic Policy, said in an interview last week in
Seoul. “South Korea is a very open economy.”  Any successor to Kim, whose four-year term ends March 31,
will face challenges from record household debt and a stagnant
property market to the prospect of market volatility from an
eventual reduction in U.S. Federal Reserve stimulus. While the
governor can be reappointed for a second term under the Bank of
Korea Act, only two of 23 governors before Kim served more than
four years, one in the 1950s and another in the 1970s.  Shin Hyun Song, a Princeton University professor who is set
to become research chief at the Bank for International
Settlements in May, was the top pick for the next governor in a
survey of experts by the Korea Economic Daily. Seventy
economists, academics and government officials were asked in the
poll to choose two favorites, with Shin receiving 24 votes,
followed by former BOK senior deputy governors Park Cheul with
14 and Lee Ju Yeol with 12.  Global Status  The Kospi index was down 0.2 percent in Seoul at 12:14
p.m., while the won gained 0.1 percent to 1069.73 per dollar.  Also on the 12-name list were Sogang University professors
Cho Yoon Je and Kim Kwang Doo, former financial regulator Kim Seok Dong, former central bank board member Choi Do Soung, and
former finance minister Yoon Jeung Hyun.  “The BOK’s global status has advanced much under Kim’s
leadership, which is an important asset, especially in times of
crisis. This push toward globalization should be further
enhanced,” said Lee, who was previously an International
Monetary Fund Chief Resident Representative in  China .  Asked if he is interested in becoming governor, Lee said,
“I just got new jobs here and have a mission to complete. I
will try my best to make full use of my international experience
and professional expertise to contribute to President Park’s
vision of Korea as an advanced and responsible player on the
global stage.”  While Lee’s name wasn’t mentioned in the survey, some
observers said he could still be a candidate.  G-20 Sherpa  “Lee can be a dark horse given his expertise on the global
economy, a key requirement for any central banker following the
global financial crisis,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, an analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul . “When President Park appointed
her first finance minister in February, Hyun Oh Seok was a big
surprise. This could happen for the Bank of Korea top post.”  Lee joined the South Korean government in May as Group of
20 sherpa for President Park and took another post in August to
head the KIEP, a state-funded research institution. Last month,
he accompanied Park to a G-20 summit in  Russia , her debut at the
forum.  Lee worked for the IMF from 1989 to 2013, first as an
economist in Washington D.C. and then as an adviser in the Asia-Pacific region including Vietnam and China. He graduated from
the London School of Economics and received a master’s degree at
Essex University and a doctorate degree in economics at Warwick
University in Coventry, United Kingdom.  Financial Instability  While at the IMF, Lee wrote research papers including
 “Monetary Transmission of Global Imbalances in Asian
countries ” (2010), and “ Two Sides of the Same Coin?
Rebalancing and Inclusive Growth in China ” (2013).  South Korea’s economy faces potential risks, with the U.S.
government grappling with its first partial shutdown in 17 years
and the Fed poised to reduce its bond-buying programs, Lee said.  “For South Korea, the challenge in the short run is to
sail unscathed through possible financial instability that might
arise from any tapering,” he said. “More importantly, the task
for the longer-term is how best to reposition the country in
this fast-changing global economic landscape.”  Global Growth  The finance ministry cut its growth estimate for next year
to 3.9 percent from 4 percent last month when it unveiled its
2014 budget draft. The BOK will provide its latest outlook on
Oct. 10 when its policy board will probably hold the benchmark
interest rate at 2.5 percent after a cut in May, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. It forecast a 4 percent expansion for
2014 in July.  “Based on past experience, the U.S. government shutdown
will likely have only a limited impact on the real economy,
which will continue to improve,” Lee said. “The Fed will make
sure that any QE tapering will take place smoothly given its
potential impact on U.S. as well as on global financial
markets.”  The global economy faces a slow expansion even after policy
makers around the world extended monetary and fiscal support
during the global financial crisis, he said. Macroeconomic
policies can’t solve structural problems that weigh on growth,
he said.  “The era of super-low interest rates is nearing an end,”
Lee said. “The policies undertaken since the global financial
crisis can’t continue forever and will have to be normalized
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  