-- CLP Billionaire’s Wind Farms Plan Bond Debut: India Credit
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-07T06:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/clp-billionaire-s-wind-farms-plan-bond-debut-india-credit.html
India’s top wind utility is planning
its debut debt sale, offering investors a chance to fund an
industry that’s forecast to grow faster than the U.S. this year.  CLP Wind Farms (India) Pvt., a unit of Hong Kong
billionaire Michael Kadoorie’s  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , said an
overseas bond is one option as it seeks to borrow $250 million a
year to fund expansion, Managing Director Rajiv Mishra said in a
Sept. 27 interview. It now pays project finance rates of about
13 percent, compared with the 3.64 percent yield on the seven-year notes of its parent. The average rate on Asian securities
is 4.64 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc data show.  CLP’s plan to back the proposed bond with earnings from
multiple wind farms reduces risk and will attract investors,
according to SJS Markets Ltd., even after turbine-maker Suzlon
Energy Ltd. defaulted on debt payments last year. India will add
2,050 megawatts of wind power capacity in 2013, exceeding
increases in the U.S. for the first time, according to a
September forecast by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The pooled wind farm assets will be a considerable safe
investment, as the company would have enough cash flows to
service the debt,” Hemant Dharnidharka, Bangalore-based head of
credit research at SJS Markets, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Oct. 3. “The credit rating for such a pool will be
better than that which an individual project would attain.”  Bond Advantage  CLP India may issue the bonds in about a year, helped by
its agreement last month with its biggest creditors Standard
Chartered Plc, IDBI Bank Ltd. and IDFC Ltd. to club its 1,050
megawatts of assets together to create a common revenue pool,
said Mishra. That evens out risks from performance variations
between individual farms and will allow the firm to earn the
minimum B1+ rating required to sell a corporate bond, he said.  CLP India will save on interest costs by selling foreign-currency notes as rates remain relatively higher at home. Top-rated  five-year  rupee company bonds pay 9.52 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  average  yield on Indian dollar
debt is 5.90 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  The advantage of a bond over local-currency loans “is both
the cost as well as the certainty,” CLP’s Mishra said. “Any
potential lender sees a lot more certainty when it looks at the
pooled cash flows than at any individual project.”  Billionaire’s Backing  CLP Holdings Chairman Kadoorie is the Asia-Pacific region’s
32nd richest person with a $7.7 billion fortune, according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He has stakes in Hong Kong &
Shanghai Hotels Ltd., which owns the Peninsula luxury hotel
chain, and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company.  CLP lost HK$212 million in India in the first half of 2013,
more than 10 times the amount a year earlier, as its coal-fired
power plant in the northern state of Haryana fell short of fuel
supplies, according to its mid-year report.  CLP’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, is now 3.5 times its interest expenses,
ranking it among the top 9 percent of the companies included in
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng stock index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed its A2 credit
rating, the sixth-highest investment grade, on the company in
March. CLP’s wind energy projects in India are performing as
expected and it sees output rising to 1,000 megawatts by the end
of 2014, according to its interim report.  Wind Power  Wind energy generation in India is set to recover this
year, following a record 42 percent drop in installations in the
12 months through March, after the government reintroduced a
cash incentive in August. Asia’s third-largest economy, which is
fighting blackouts that hold back growth, is  seeking  to cut
dependence on imported fossil fuels and double clean energy
capacity to about 59 gigawatts by 2017. Wind capacity may
increase to 2,300 megawatts in 2014, according to BNEF.  The country’s 10 largest wind-power developers, including
Mytrah, Green Infra Ltd. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.-backed
ReNew Wind Power Pvt., have plans to put up 15,000 megawatts of
capacity in the next 10 years. Goldman and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have
led about $1.1 billion of private-equity buyouts, project and
company acquisitions in the industry since 2010 as the cost of
generating electricity from windmills has become lower in some
states than from new coal-based power plants.  The nation’s wind industry will require 1.4 trillion rupees
($23 billion) of investment by 2020 in order to meet its
targets, Sanjay Chakrabarti, a Mumbai-based partner at Ernst &
Young LLP, said in an Oct. 4 e-mail.  Going Mainstream  “We’re getting to the point where renewables are becoming
mainstream in India,” Sumant Sinha, chief executive officer of
ReNew Wind based in Gurgaon near New Delhi, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 19. “The advantage of renewables is that you
know what the cost is going to be forever. Who knows what will
happen to coal prices in 25 years?”  India’s cabinet in August approved the proposal to revive
the generation-based incentive of 500 rupees a megawatt-hour and
also agreed to raise the cap on the total subsidy a wind-based
power producer can claim over 10 years by 61 percent to 10
million rupees. Farms built between 2012 and 2017 will be
eligible for the subsidy,  Ministry of New and Renewable Energy 
Joint Secretary Alok Srivastava said Aug. 13.  CLP’s bond-sale plan comes as the risk on Indian debt
eases. Credit-default swaps insuring the bonds of State Bank of
India, a proxy for the sovereign, against non-payment for five
years have fallen 60 basis points from a 14-month high of 372 on
Aug. 20, according to data provider CMA. The yield on the 7.16
percent government notes due 2023 fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, today, while the rupee weakened 0.6 percent to
61.83 per dollar.  “Pool financing will help CLP raise funds more quickly and
reduce borrowing costs,” Shantanu Jaiswal, a New Delhi-based
wind energy analyst for BNEF, said in a Sept. 24 e-mail. “This
would definitely be new in  India . This is a signal of a maturing
wind market that is adopting global best practices and
innovating on existing financing structures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  