-- Djokovic Beats Nadal for Fourth China Open; Serena Williams Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-06T17:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/djokovic-beats-nadal-for-fourth-china-open-serena-williams-wins.html
Novak Djokovic beat  Rafael Nadal  in
straight sets yesterday to win the China Open tennis tournament
for the fourth time in five years.  Serena Williams  of the U.S.
took the women’s title.  No. 1 seed Djokovic of  Serbia  defeated second-seed Nadal 6-3, 6-4 in Beijing a day before his opponent replaces him atop
the ATP rankings. It was Nadal’s first loss in his 27 hard-court
matches in 2013.  Djokovic, 26, secured a break of serve in each set to end a
run of three straight defeats against Nadal. Since beating the
Spaniard in the final of the Monte Carlo Masters in April,
Djokovic lost to Nadal in the French Open and Rogers Cup
semifinals and the U.S. Open final.  “It’s been an incredible week again for me,” Djokovic,
who didn’t take part in the China Open in 2011, told reporters.
“Still haven’t lost a match here. I just love the conditions. I
love the court and the atmosphere that goes around the
tournament. Center court is exceptional, I enjoy it. I try to
cherish every moment that I spend here, every year.”  Nadal, 27, only needed to reach the title match in Beijing
to supplant Djokovic when the ATP World Tour releases the new
rankings today. He was last No. 1 in July 2011.  Top seed Williams defeated No. 8 seed Jelena Jankovic of
Serbia 6-2, 6-2 to take her 10th WTA title of the year, the
first player to achieve the feat since  Justine Henin  in 2007. It
was her 56th WTA title.  “Everyone is beatable, I think, at some point. I know I
am,” Williams told reporters. “Everyone is a threat, you know.
I don’t feel like I’m above anyone. I’m just playing and doing
the best I can, that’s all I can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  