-- Hedge Fund Canosa Said to Double Assets in Five Months’ Trading
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/hedge-fund-canosa-said-to-double-assets-in-five-months-trading.html
Canosa Capital LLP, the hedge-fund
manager started by two former Rubicon Fund Management LLP
executives, more than doubled assets under management since
trading began May 1, said two people with knowledge of the fund.  Canosa, founded by Tim Attias and Santiago Alarco in
partnership with  Brummer & Partners , began with $272 million in
assets and had about $575 million at the end of September, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the London-based firm is private.  The fund has had positive returns every month, climbing 7.5
percent through Aug. 30, according to a performance report
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s HFRI
Macro Index, which tracks similar global macro hedge funds, fell
3.8 percent over the period.  Jacob Lannero, a spokesman for Canosa and Stockholm-based
Brummer,  Sweden ’s largest hedge-fund manager, declined to
comment on the performance.  As a global macro hedge fund, Canosa seeks to profit from
broad economic trends by trading stocks, bonds and currencies,
and has a focus on fixed-income and foreign exchange.  Brummer, which has $16.4 billion in assets, took a minority
equity stake in Canosa Capital, investing $250 million through
its Brummer Multi-Strategy Fund, the firm said in a May
statement. Canosa’s principals contributed the balance.  Canosa, whose clients include family offices of wealthy
individuals, is in talks with pension funds and other
institutional investors, one of the people said. The  Brummer
Multi-Strategy Fund (BRUMHEL)  made an additional investment in June, a
separate performance report said. The amount wasn’t disclosed.  Attias, 47, and Alarco, 50, were joint chief investment
officers at London-based Rubicon and oversaw about $1 billion at
the firm’s global macro fund until leaving in early 2011. The
fund climbed 15 percent in 2010, compared with an average 4.4
percent gain for macro funds that year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  