-- Egyptian Police Clashes With Islamists Kill More Than 50
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-10-07T06:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/egypt-police-clash-with-brotherhood-backers-on-war-anniversary.html
Security forces and supporters of
ousted Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi clashed in Cairo and
other cities, leaving at least 51 dead, as protests against the
military erupted on the anniversary of the war with  Israel .  At least 268 people were injured, Health Ministry official
Khalid al-Khatib said by telephone yesterday.  The Muslim Brotherhood is facing its toughest crackdown in
decades after Mursi was pushed from power by the military on
July 3 after days of mass protests. The army-backed government
sent police to clear Islamist protest camps in August, leaving
hundreds dead. Since then Brotherhood leaders have been targeted
by a wave of arrests.  Brotherhood members “tried to spoil celebrations” marking
the 40th anniversary of the war, the Interior Ministry said in
an e-mailed statement. The Brotherhood-affiliated Freedom and
Justice Party accused police and “thugs” of attacking unarmed
protesters, according to its Facebook page.  Security forces detained more than 400 Brotherhood
supporters yesterday, the Interior Ministry said.  The turmoil that has engulfed  Egypt  since the 2011 ouster
of President  Hosni Mubarak  has battered the economy, leaving the
most populous Arab country dependent on aid from Gulf Arab
states to stem a decline in foreign reserves. The economy may
expand 2.9 percent in 2014, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, falling short of the
government’s target of at least 3.5 percent.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  sold its Egyptian and Lebanese
business to Yusuf Bin Ahmed Kanoo of Bahrain for 6.5 million
($10.4 million) in cash, the U.K. tour operator said.  Egypt’s $1 billion of Eurobonds due April 2020 fell last
week for the first week in seven, sending the yield up 22 basis
points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 7.3 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed Khalilelsayed in Cairo at 
 akhalilelsay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  