-- Merkel’s Flirtation With Greens Raises Pressure on SPD
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-07T13:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/merkel-s-flirtation-with-germany-s-greens-raises-pressure-on-spd.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
party allies said a partnership with the environmental Greens is
realistic, raising pressure on the Social Democrats as SPD
leaders showed signs of compromise on proposed tax increases.  Jostling over policies and positions continued over the
weekend after Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and their CSU
Bavarian allies agreed to hold a second round of exploratory
talks on forming a coalition with the Social Democrats on Oct.
14. Before then, on Oct. 10, Merkel’s bloc will hold initial
discussions with the Greens.  “We’re approaching these talks with the same seriousness
as we do with the Social Democrats,” Hermann Groehe, the CDU’s
general secretary and a member of his party’s seven-person
negotiating team, told reporters today in Berlin. He said the
party didn’t pre-judge any outcome with the Greens.  Negotiations with the one-time protest party offer the
prospect of a governing constellation untried at federal level
while giving Merkel more leverage in her talks with the Social
Democrats. After winning re-election on Sept. 22, the chancellor
is first seeking to establish enough common ground with the SPD
to form a “grand coalition” for her third term, mirroring her
first term from 2005 to 2009.  While tax policy is a sticking point, SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel signaled flexibility on his party’s election platform of
an increase in the 42 percent income-tax rate to 49 percent,
plus introduction of a “wealth tax.”  Higher taxes are necessary to reduce government debt and to
increase spending on education and infrastructure, Gabriel told
 Bild newspaper , yet an increase “isn’t an end in itself.”  Stances ‘Incompatible’  Gabriel’s comments show that the SPD will “have to move”
in negotiations, Stanislaw Tillich, the CDU prime minister of
Saxony state and another member of Merkel’s negotiating team,
told reporters today. The SPD is coming to realize that “some
positions are incompatible” with Merkel’s bloc, he said.  With 311 seats in the 630-seat lower house, or Bundestag,
Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc is five short of an absolute majority. CDU
and CSU leaders say they favor a “stable” coalition, ruling
out a minority government and meaning that Merkel will have to
find a partner in the SPD or Greens to avoid new elections.  A partnership with the Greens presents the only alternative
to a grand coalition. While the factions would have to overcome
differences on tax policy, Peter Altmaier, the CDU environment
minister and a Merkel confidant, said the prospect of forming a
government with the Greens is greater now than it was
immediately after the election.  Conceivable Alliance  “The chances for an alliance with the Greens have gone
from ‘theoretical’ to ‘conceivable’ in the last few days,”
Altmaier told this week’s  Der Spiegel  magazine. “The conditions
have to be right in the end. The tax issue will be very
central.”  Negotiations with the Greens on taxes could still prove
daunting. The Greens under lead candidates Juergen Trittin and
Katrin Goering-Eckardt centered their campaign on a call for tax
increases for the wealthy, a strategy that many in the party
blamed for its losses in the polls.  The Greens aim to raise the top income-tax rate to 49
percent on incomes above 80,000 euros ($108,000) from as low as
42 percent. Merkel railed against proposed tax increases
throughout the campaign as “poison” for the economy, and her
party’s leadership has dug in on its rejection of hikes.  Claudia Roth, the Greens co-leader who spoke in favor of a
coalition with the Social Democrats at the SPD party convention
in April, said in Berlin today that her party will enter into
exploratory talks with Merkel “on the basis of the program for
which we were elected,” even though she was skeptical of the
chances of success.  ‘Never Axiomatic’  Fellow Greens leader Cem Oezdemir told reporters that tax
increases were “never axiomatic” for his party, though without
them it’s hard to see how needed infrastructure improvements can
be paid for, he said.  Other Green leaders have been more supportive of coalition
talks. Winfried Kretschmann, the Greens premier of the
southwestern state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, has said he favors
showing voters that the party is able to govern.  Some CDU officials reached out to individual Green leaders
last week to assure them that the party’s overtures were
substantive rather than tactical, the  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported on Oct. 4, without saying where it got the
information.  Energy Policy  The Greens and Merkel’s faction both stress the urgency of
accelerating Germany’s shift toward renewable energy as the
country plans to shut its nine remaining nuclear reactors by
2022, a process known as the “Energiewende.” While the Greens
are calling for faster expansion of renewable energy and
municipal ownership of power generation, Merkel says she prefers
a more market-based approach to rein in prices.  Even as Bild reported that Merkel plans a meeting on Oct.
11 to discuss the schedule for possible coalition talks with SPD
leader Gabriel and CSU chief Horst Seehofer, a potentially more
substantive barrier was erected by SPD lawmaker Johannes Kahrs.
Kahrs, who leads a market-oriented faction within the SPD, told
Die Welt that his party assuming control of the Finance Ministry
in a grand coalition was “non-negotiable.”  That assertion drew a rebuke from Volker Bouffier, the CDU
state premier of Hesse and a member of the negotiating team, who
said that “now is not the time” to discuss cabinet posts.
Instead of other parties making demands and setting conditions,
“I’d like to read a bit about how the others think that they
might give in a bit on their positions,” Bouffier said.  Andrea Nahles, the SPD’s general secretary, said that Kahrs
was speaking for himself and not on the behalf of the party.  “We have to keep our options open,” Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, Saarland’s CDU prime minister, told reporters in
Berlin. “At the end of the day, we have to see with whom we can
best carry out our policy priorities for  Germany .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  