-- Letta Channels Machiavelli to Check Berlusconi in Survival Fight
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/letta-channels-machiavelli-to-check-berlusconi-in-survival-fight.html
When  Silvio Berlusconi  surrendered in
his failed bid to topple the Italian government, Prime Minister
Enrico Letta grinned, knowing others had struck the fatal blow
for him.  As the 77-year-old ex-premier told the Senate on Oct. 2
he’d support the ruling coalition in a confidence vote that he
himself had forced, Letta’s expression broadened into a smile.
“What a great man,” the victor said in a stage whisper to
Deputy Premier  Angelino Alfano , who had led the mutiny against
Berlusconi, and was sitting beside him in the chamber.  That moment in Rome capped Letta’s five-day fight for
survival against the billionaire who has dominated the country’s
politics for the past 20 years and was now capitulating to a
career politician three decades his junior. It marked a triumph
of the old-school methods Berlusconi had challenged when he
emerged attacking insiders and using his media empire to support
his political ambitions.  “Letta is a master tactician,” Francesco Galietti founder
of Rome-based research firm Policy Sonar said in an interview.
“His teachers were the grand masters of  Italy ’s corridor
politics.”  Letta, 47, had already been in politics as head of the
youth section of the European  People’s Party  since 1991, when
Berlusconi launched his first campaign in 1994. While the tycoon
publicly berated the governing coalition last week fighting for
his political life in the wake of a tax-fraud conviction, Letta
quietly countered. He built alliances aimed at draining his
opponent’s power and support.  His weapon was Alfano, 42.  Young Leaders  Their relationship dates to the early 1990s when they were
rising stars in the  Christian Democrats . The party ruled the
post-World War II political landscape, even amid an everchaging
series of coalitions, until a corruption scandal blew it up.  The two parted ways after Berlusconi’s entry into politics
when Alfano joined the media mogul’s newly formed Forza Italia.
Some links remained. They crossed paths at meetings of Vedro,
the bipartisan think tank founded by Letta in 2005 that gathered
Italy’s new generation of political, social, business and
opinion leaders at annual meetings that included team-building
soccer and ping-pong, political debates, and a final evening of
dancing to the beat of ’80s music.  Behind the ball-playing, Letta was weaving alliances with
people from all sides of the political spectrum. These links
would bolster him last week.  Closing Ranks  As Berlusconi sat in his study surrounded by loyalists
reviewing his options, calls poured in from moderates in his
party, business leaders and Catholic Church officials appealing
for him to support the government, said a Berlusconi adviser who
was at the meetings and asked not to be named because the
conversations were private. Part of the pressure came from those
with personal links to Letta, the person said.  “This is the return of politics after years of
theatrics,” Federico Niglia, an international history professor
at  Rome ’s Luiss University, said in an interview. “Italians
invented this, the renaissance courts, Machiavelli. It’s pure
politics in its highest form and Berlusconi who initially won
the game by opposing this style is now succumbing to what is
simply superior technical ability.”  Once the dust settles, Italy’s slumping economy and debt
levels remain to be confronted. Letta may also have to pass a
new election law to reduce the probability of political
stalemates like the one that led to his coalition government.  Italy, whose economy has contracted since the second half
of 2011, needs stability to maintain the budget and economic
targets agreed upon with the EU. The country has  Europe ’s
second-biggest debt after  Greece , at about 130 percent of gross
domestic product, and its  unemployment rate  is 12.2 percent.  Declining Yields  Italian 10-year notes yielded a record 7.48 percent in
November 2011 at the height of the euro region’s financial
crisis, underscoring the lack of confidence in Berlusconi that
forced a premature end to his third stint as premier. The debt
now yields about 4.3 percent.  The son of a mathematics professor and holder of a PhD in
law from the Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies in Pisa, Letta
calls himself “post-ideological.” He has defied critics by
explaining that there is no shame in compromise.  “Politics is made of possible options,” Letta said in an
interview on Italian state television the eve of the confidence
vote, when asked why he had formed an alliance with Berlusconi,
his party’s traditional archenemy.  Relevance Sought  “We are in a parliamentary democracy, in which, if there
is no majority you have to govern and give people answers,” he
said. He dismissed those who don’t negotiate as people who
relegate themselves into “a role of political irrelevance.”  His uncle, Gianni Letta, remains a Berlusconi adviser known
for his discretion, which earned him the right to liaise with
the highly complex world of the Vatican Curia.  Seven-time former Premier Giulio Andreotti was among the
“iconic figures” of his childhood, Letta said during a 2005
book presentation, defending the political style of the
Christian Democratic Andreotti, who embodied the byzantine world
of Italian post-war politics until the corruption scandals of
the 1990s decimated his party.  Letta also named Jacques Delors,  Nelson Mandela  and  Helmut Kohl  among his heroes in an interview with La Stampa, all bridge
builders between countries, races, and ideologies.  An adamant supporter of the euro and the European Union,
Letta speaks English and is fluent in French having grown up in
Strasbourg. His attention to European affairs was evidenced by
his decision to travel to see German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
Europe’s most powerful politician, 24 hours after his
inauguration April 28.  Breaking Deadlock  Letta was a compromise choice as premier after February’s
inconclusive elections. Pier Luigi Bersani, the Democratic Party
candidate, failed to win a majority in the Senate, requiring a
coalition with Berlusconi. The price included the installation
of Berlusconi’s ally Alfano as deputy premier.  The uneasy truce was rattled within three months after
Berlusconi’s tax-fraud conviction and the fight between his
loyalists and the  Democratic Party  over whether that required
his expulsion from the Senate.  The drama began to climax Sept. 28 when Berlusconi ordered
Alfano and his allies to quit Letta’s Cabinet. Three days later,
Berlusconi’s bid to bring down the government collapsed when
Alfano turned on his political patron. Letta had persuaded him
not to bring down the government, preserving his coalition and
leaving Alfano with the dominant influence in the People of
Liberty party that Berlusconi had founded.  Letta and Alfano represent a generation of “old-young
men,” journalist Filippo Ceccarelli wrote in the newspaper La
Repubblica. They come from “a world of courteous cynicism and
narcotic shamelessness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  