-- Gecamines of Congo Studies Selling Stake in Glencore Mine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-10-07T14:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/gecamines-of-congo-studies-selling-stake-in-glencore-copper-mine.html
Gecamines, the Democratic Republic of
Congo’s state-owned mining company, may sell its 20 percent
stake in  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s Kamoto Copper Co. to raise money
for other projects, said Chairman Albert Yuma.  “We’ve been in discussions with 14 groups who’ve gone
through a tender and the process is ongoing,” Yuma said in an
Oct. 3 interview in the Congolese capital, Kinshasa. Glencore’s
 Katanga Mining Ltd. (KAT) , which owns 75 percent of KCC, would have
right of first refusal of any sale, he said.  KCC’s copper output may climb to 300,000 metric tons by the
end of next year, according to Glencore’s 2012 annual report,
which would make it Congo’s biggest miner. The company produced
93,000 tons of copper in metal and concentrate form and 2,100
tons of cobalt last year, it said. A January Bank of America
Merrill Lynch report on the merger between Glencore and Xstrata
Plc valued Katanga Mining’s stake in KCC at $5.2 billion.  Yuma said KCC missed production targets for the past five
years and has too much debt after investing in an underground
mine and plant expansion to be profitable for Gecamines. The
company’s shares in KCC “are not strategic,” he said. “The
value today of KCC is now negative.”  Glencore spokesman Charles Watenphul declined to comment.  Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler’s Fleurette Group is among
the 14 bidders for Gecamines’ stake, Yuma said. He did not
immediately provide the names of other bidders. Gertler already
has shares in Katanga Mining and bought Gecamines’ stakes in
Glencore’s Mutanda Kansuki mining project in 2011.  “We don’t comment on speculation,” a spokesman for
Fleurette said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Reorganization Plan  Gecamines may halt the sale if it can find financing for
its $2.75 billion reorganization plan, Yuma said. The company
wants to build a coal-fired power plant and new processing
factories to begin exploiting several fully owned mining sites
it recently bought from former partners.  In 2011, Export-Import Bank of China requested that
Gecamines use its stake in KCC as collateral for a possible $200
million loan deal, according to board minutes published on the
company’s website. Gecamines did not receive the financing.  Congolese Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said he had no
response to Gecamines’ proposal in a Oct. 4 mobile phone
message. Congo’s government is the sole shareholder of
Gecamines, which is legally a commercial company.  To make the company more attractive to investors, Gecamines
is spinning off its minority stakes in joint ventures and
creating a new offshore company, Yuma said.  Debt Disconnection  Payments from its partners including royalties and
dividends will flow through the subsidiary, which “will be
disconnected from Gecamines’ debt” of about $1 billion, he
said.  “This revenue flow will be a guarantee for the borrowing
we’ll do on the markets,” he said. “If we can raise the
financing through our subsidiary, that would be worth more”
than selling assets, he said.  Renaissance Capital, the Russian investment bank controlled
by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , is advising Gecamines on the
plan, Yuma said.  Last year, the International Monetary Fund canceled its
loan program with Congo after the government failed to provide
requested information about a 2011 Gecamines deal with Gertler
for a stake in London-based  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ’s
Comide copper project. Congo lost about $225 million in IMF
loans because of the cancellation.  Gecamines’ other partners include Phoenix, Arizona-based
 Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and Australia’s  Tiger
Resources Ltd. (TGS)   Congo is the world’s eighth-largest producer of copper and
the biggest source of cobalt, which is used in rechargeable
batteries. Copper prices have fallen 9.2 percent since the
beginning of the year and traded 0.8 percent lower at $7,204.25
a ton by 3:35 p.m. in  London  on Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  