-- GFH Surges to Three-Month High After Board Change: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-06T14:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/gfh-surges-to-three-month-high-after-board-change-dubai-mover.html
Gulf Finance House climbed to the
highest in more than three months as the Bahrain-based
investment bank replaced its chairman.  The shares surged 11 percent to 57.3 fils in Dubai, the
highest since June 20, bringing the gain this year to 37
percent. Gulf Finance House shares listed in Bahrain rose 7.7
percent and those traded in  Kuwait  advanced 6.5 percent.  The  investment company  said Chairman Essam Janahi resigned
last week and will be replaced by Ahmed Al-Mutawa. Trading
volumes reached record levels in the past two weeks, with Gulf
Finance House attributing the increase to a rebound in regional
markets.  “The  United Arab Emirates  has strong momentum, and retail
investors are looking at shares under one dirham with some
excitement,” Tariq Qaqish, a director at Dubai-based fund
manager Al Mal Capital PSC, said by phone. Some investors may
also be taking advantage of the price difference in Gulf Finance
House shares by buying in Kuwait and selling in Dubai, he said.  Dubai’s benchmark DFM General Index retreated 0.3 percent,
while Kuwait’s measure gained 0.4 percent. Gulf Navigation
Holding PJSC, which owns and operates a tanker fleet, fell 2.1
percent in Dubai after saying it’s in talks to resolve disputes
over two detained oil supertankers.  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark index gained 0.3 percent, while
Oman’s climbed 0.1 percent. Qatar’s measure fell 0.3 percent and
Saudi Tadawul All Share Index dropped 0.2 percent.  Egypt ’s
market was closed for a holiday.  Opko Entry  In  Israel , the TA-25 index gained 1.4 percent, led higher
by Perrigo Co., a generic drug maker, and Cellcom Israel Ltd.
The gauge dropped 1.1 percent on Oct. 3 in a rebalancing for the
entry of Opko Health Inc. into the index.  “The market is correcting higher after a technical sell
off during Thursday’s close on an index rebalancing, with Opko
entering the index,” Steven Shein, a trader at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. said by phone.  Opko dropped 2.9 percent to 35.75 shekels after rising 10
percent on Oct. 3. Perrigo advanced 3.3 percent to 460.9
shekels, or $129.86, after gaining 3.1 percent to $129.05 in the
U.S. on Oct. 4 on bets sales will rise to a record. Elbit
Systems Ltd., a defense systems developer, gained 2 percent
after a unit won a $33 million contract in  Asia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  