-- Gray, Athletics Top Tigers in Ninth; Red Sox Extend Playoff Lead
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-06T05:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/gray-athletics-top-tigers-in-ninth-red-sox-extend-playoff-lead.html
Sonny Gray pitched eight scoreless
innings as the Oakland Athletics evened their best-of-five
American League division series with the  Detroit  Tigers at one
game apiece, while the Boston Red Sox took a two-game lead over
the Tampa Bay Rays.  Gray, a 23-year-old rookie, allowed four hits and struck
out nine in Oakland’s 1-0 win yesterday, his first career Major
League Baseball postseason start. The Athletics won the game on
a walk-off single by catcher Stephen Vogt in the bottom of the
ninth.  “It’s just really nice to come out in front of these home
fans in a must-win game for us and come out with a win,” Gray
said in a televised interview after the game. “It’s just an
awesome feeling.”  The National League division series continue today,
starting with the Pittsburgh Pirates hosting the St. Louis
Cardinals at 4:37 p.m. Eastern time, followed by the Atlanta
Braves at Los Angeles Dodgers at 8:07 Eastern. Both series are
tied at one game apiece.  In yesterday’s first game Jacoby Ellsbury had three hits
and scored three runs as the Red Sox beat the Rays 7-4 at Fenway
Park.  Red Sox, Rays  The Red Sox took a 2-0 lead in the first inning off a
Dustin Pedroia sacrifice fly and a David Ortiz home run and
never trailed. Pedroia drove in three runs and Ortiz added a
second home run in the eighth inning as the Red Sox combined for
11 hits.  Boston has scored 19 runs in two games so far in the ALDS
series. The Rays will face elimination when they host Game 3 of
the series tomorrow in St. Petersburg.  Rays starting pitcher David Price allowed nine hits and
seven earned runs before being removed with no outs following
Ortiz’s second home run. James Loney, Desmond Jennings and Yunel
Escobar each had two hits for the Rays.  In Oakland, Detroit’s Justin Verlander matched Gray’s
start, allowing four hits over seven scoreless innings with 11
strikeouts. The first seven hitters in the Tigers line-up,
however, were a combined 1-for-24 at the plate against Gray and
Oakland closer Grant Balfour, who pitched a scoreless ninth and
was awarded the win.  The Athletics loaded the bases with no out in the ninth
inning against Detroit reliever Al Alburquerque. After the
Tigers brought in Rick Porcello, Vogt lined the game-winning
single, which plated Yoenis Cespedes for the game’s only run.  The defending American League champions, the Tigers have
not scored since the first inning of Game 1. Game 3 is tomorrow
in Detroit.  -- Editor: Garry Smith  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  