-- Gulf of Mexico Workers Return to Platforms After Karen Weakens
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-10-07T05:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/gulf-workers-return-to-offshore-platforms-as-karen-downgraded.html
Gulf of Mexico oil producers
including  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  returned workers to
offshore platforms after the passing of Tropical Storm Karen.  The remnants of Karen were over southeastern  Alabama ,
extending southward over the waters of the north-central Gulf,
the National Hurricane Center said  in a bulletin  at 8 p.m.
eastern time yesterday. The disturbance was moving eastward at
about 15 miles (24 kilometers) per hour with almost no chance of
reforming into a storm, the center said.  Before Karen was downgraded, the approach of the storm shut
almost 62 percent of Gulf oil production, some 866,000 barrels
of oil per day, and 48 percent of natural gas output, or 1.8
billion cubic feet daily, as of yesterday, according to the U.S.
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement. Those numbers
were cut today as workers returned to their platforms.  BHP was resuming normal operations as it returned workers
to platforms, the company said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  was also moving staff back,
the company said. The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port  planned to
resume tanker loadings, Barbara Hestermann, a spokeswoman, said
by e-mail. LOOP, the only U.S. port capable of offloading ultra-large crude carriers, had suspended tanker operations, the
Covington, Louisiana-based company said on its website.  Destin Pipeline had personnel on its MP260 platform who
were completing assessment and recovery operations, according to
a notice on its website. It said earlier it may end a force
majeure in the next 12 to 24 hours. BP oil and natural gas
production remained shut in as the company worked to confirm
platforms were able to operate safely.  Enbridge’s Manta Ray system was preparing to return to
service, the company said yesterday in a notice. The company
 ended  a force majeure for its Mississippi Canyon gas pipeline on
Oct. 5, at which time another notice said workers returned to
the  Garden Banks  gas pipeline today. The Nautilus system was
accepting nominations yesterday, the company’s site showed.
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  returned workers to its Ewing Bank site.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 330,000-barrel-a-day Pascagoula,
Mississippi refinery was back to normal, the company said
yesterday.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  had cut rates at its 85,000
barrel-a-day plant in Mobile, Alabama, and Motiva Enterprises
LLC reduced output at the 250,000 barrel-a-day Norco, Louisiana,
refinery due to delays caused by Karen.  Karen was  the 11th named storm  of the  Atlantic hurricane
season  that began June 1 and ends Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  