-- In China, Golf Has a New Hazard: Killer Smog
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-06T20:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/in-china-golf-has-a-new-hazard-killer-smog.html
This weekend, the Ladies Professional
Golf Association demonstrated its willingness to sacrifice
player safety for its own long-term financial health.  The occasion was the conclusion of the  Reignwood LPGA
Classic  -- the LPGA’s  first tournament in China . The importance
of this event for the association’s desired future in China’s
 rapidly expanding  golf market cannot be underestimated. At the
top of the  leader board  going into Sunday’s final round was
Guangzhou-born  Shanshan Feng . As the LPGA website  announced ,
“This week is all about .... Shanshan Feng.”  Unfortunately for the LPGA, this week has also been all
about air pollution. Since  last weekend,  Beijing has been
swamped in polluted air that intermittently breaches “hazardous”
levels, as determined by the U.S. embassy in Beijing’s  air-quality monitor  (the Beijing government’s  air-quality stations 
have measured similar levels). The situation has been ugly
enough that according to guidelines  posted by  the U.S.
Department of State, “active” adults and children “should avoid
all outdoor exertion.”  A professional  golf tournament  may not require the physical
exertion of a soccer game, but it does require quite a
significant amount of time outdoors. At the Reignwood LPGA
Classic, days traversing golf courses have taken their toll.
“The smog that’s coming in right now, it’s making it heavy, and
it’s harder to breathe out there,” American  Jessica Korda  said
 on Friday . “You cough a lot.” Players and caddies have been
 photographed  wearing face-masks against a smoggy backdrop
(notably, none of those images appear on the LPGA website).  On Saturday, the LPGA  delayed third-round tee-times for 90
minutes , but  then allowed  the tournament to go on -- despite the
fact that the U.S. embassy air-quality readings remained at
“hazardous” levels for much of the day. These dangerous air-pollution levels persisted into the night and led the U.S.
embassy to issue an emergency alert for American citizens early
Sunday morning. It  read , in part:  “The Embassy would like to notify you that the Beijing
Embassy air monitor Air Quality Index (AQI) readings have
averaged over 300 in the 24-hour period beginning at 8:00 pm on
October 4, and were over 400 overnight.  “According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
recommendations, AQI levels above 301 are considered hazardous.
The EPA recommends that, at AQI levels above 301, everyone
should avoid all physical activities outdoors.”  The final round of the Reignwood tournament was scheduled
to tee-off at  8:25 a.m. Sunday . The LPGA, perhaps realizing the
magnitude of the public-relations hit it might endure if it
allowed golfers to play a highly publicized final round in such
hazardous conditions, but unwilling to offend the Chinese hosts
of its new tournament, posted an  announcement  to its website:  “REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC FINAL ROUND DELAYED FOR HEAVY FOG,”
it read. “Due to low visibility, the start of the final round
has been delayed by 90 minutes to 9:55.”  Fog -- real fog -- has delayed LPGA events in the past (as
 recently  as in June at the U.S. Women’s Open in Southampton,  New
York ), and thus it’s entirely possible that the LPGA was making
a sincere effort to deal with low visibility, rather than the
negative health effects of the air. Yet the fact that the LPGA
resorted to using the state-owned Chinese news media’s long-time
favorite means of downplaying the dangers of smog -- simply
 label it  “fog” -- suggests the association may have known the
scope of the problem and decided to minimize it. That doesn’t
exactly show a commitment to player and spectator health and
safety. As detailed on the U.S.  embassy’s website , the effects
of breathing what by 9:55 a.m. had been officially downgraded to
“very unhealthy” air include:  “Significant aggravation of heart or lung disease and
premature mortality in persons with cardiopulmonary disease and
the elderly; significant increase in respiratory effects in
general population.”  That’s an improvement over the “hazardous” air that players
and spectators would have been breathing at 8 a.m. But it still
doesn’t reflect favorably on the LPGA, which has shown that
nothing -- not even the health of its star players -- is so
important as the financial benefits of establishing itself in
 China ’s golf market. Toward that end, it certainly didn’t hurt
that early Sunday evening Shanshan Feng  won  the tournament.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for Bloomberg’s
World View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 