-- Indonesia to Work With Australia on Asylum Seekers, Bishop Says
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-06T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/indonesia-to-work-with-australia-on-asylum-seekers-bishop-says.html
Indonesia  accepts more action is
necessary to halt the flow of asylum-seeker boats, Australia’s
Foreign Minister  Julie Bishop  said following talks on the issue
between the leaders of the two nations.  “We have set the relationship in the right course to
resolving the people smuggling issue,” Bishop told Television
New Zealand’s Q+A yesterday, according to a transcript.
Indonesia realizes “more needs to be done bilaterally between
Australia and Indonesia, and that’s what will happen,” she
said.  Australian Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  is seeking to deliver
on his pledge to “stop the boats,” made before a Sept. 7
election in which his Liberal-National coalition returned to
government for the first time since 2007. His vow to return
boats to Indonesian waters was criticized in Jakarta, and talks
with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono produced few specifics
on addressing a practice that’s led to the deaths of at least
800 people trying to enter  Australia  since October 2009.  “Australia and Indonesia want to stop the deaths at sea
that are occurring in the waters between our two countries,”
Bishop said. “I’m confident that we will be able to achieve
that in close cooperation.”  Abbott and his Indonesian counterpart held a “very frank
discussion on the issue of sovereignty,” the Australian leader
said Sept. 30 as he visited Jakarta on his first overseas trip
as prime minister.  At least 334 asylum seekers have been transferred to
offshore processing centers since Australia’s government asked
the military to lead work to deter boat arrivals, Air Marshal
Mark Binskin, vice chief of the Defence Force, said Oct. 4. One
asylum boat arrived in Australia last week, Binskin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  