-- Indonesia Dollar Debt Gains as Rupiah Plummets: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-10-07T09:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/indonesia-dollar-debt-gains-as-rupiah-plummets-southeast-asia.html
Indonesian dollar bonds are beating
rupiah debt as investors seek to tap the country’s long-term
growth potential without the risk of holding assets in the
worst-performing emerging-market currency.  Global notes gained 7 percent since the start of September,
after losing 18 percent in August in the worst performance since
2008, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. That
exceeded the 4.3 percent advance in local securities, which
snapped a four-month decline. The rupiah fell for a seventh
month in September, losing 5.7 percent, the most among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Kokusai Asset Management Co. says the dollar bonds will
enable investors to cushion themselves against the rupiah, the
most volatile currency in Asia, while UOB Asset Management Ltd.
said it favors the foreign-currency notes.  Inflation (IDCPIY)  slowed last
month from a three-year high in August and the country’s trade
balance returned to surplus for the first time in five months
following a record deficit in July, data showed last week.  “As the rupiah is still seeing high volatility, buying the
dollar debt of Indonesia is one good option to expose yourself
to the improving macroeconomic picture,” Takahide Irimura, the
Tokyo-based head of emerging-market research at Kokusai,  Japan ’s
biggest mutual fund, said in an Oct. 1 interview. “Economic
stabilization will bring the country back to a sustainable
growth path and compress the credit-risk premium.”  ‘Bounce Back’  The yield premium investors demand to own Indonesia’s
dollar notes over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 88 basis points, or
0.88 percentage point, to 285 from a four-year high of 373 on
Sept. 4, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Plus Index.  The yield on  Indonesia ’s 5.375 percent dollar notes due
October 2023 fell four basis points to 5.23 percent today, the
lowest level in two weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate for the similar-maturity rupiah securities
was steady at 8.11 percent.  Indonesia’s government has a debt-to-gross domestic product
ratio of 23 percent, the lowest in Asia, while its budget
deficit of 1.14 percent matches that of  China  and is the
smallest in the region after  Taiwan ’s 0.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Asset Management is buying more Indonesian dollar
bonds, while being underweight on the rupiah, Pierre-Yves Bareau,
the London-based global head of emerging-market debt, said in an
interview in Singapore last month. Indonesia’s economy has the
capacity to “bounce back,” given its low debt-to-GDP figure,
he said.  ‘Structurally Bearish’  Morgan Stanley prefers Indonesia’s dollar bonds over those
of  Turkey  and South Africa and sees scope for the securities to
outperform, London-based strategist Robert Tancsa wrote in a
Sept. 26 report. Along with  India  and  Brazil , the three
countries have been dubbed the “fragile five” emerging-market
economies by the U.S. lender because of their high current-account deficits.  Indonesia’s foreign debt is 29 percent of GDP compared with
43 percent for Turkey and 36 percent for South Africa, according
to the Morgan Stanley report. The bank remains “structurally
bearish” on the rupiah, and says Indonesia needs to rebuild its
foreign-exchange  reserves , according to the report. Reserves
rose 2.9 percent to $95.7 billion in September, official data
showed today, paring the decline this year to 15 percent.  The rupiah’s Sharpe ratio, which measures returns adjusted
for price fluctuations, was minus 1.5 over three months, the
least among 23  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. Its three-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, more than doubled to 15.04
percent this year. That’s the highest in Asia, followed by 14.02
percent for India’s rupee and 10.78 percent for Japan’s yen.  ‘Better Liquidity’  “We like Indonesia’s dollar bonds because they have better
liquidity, while for rupiah-denominated bonds there is a need to
consider the currency risks,” Chia Tse Chern, head of Singapore
and Asia fixed-income at UOB Asset Management, which oversees
S$41.5 billion ($33 billion), said in a Oct. 1 interview.  Inflation in Southeast Asia’s largest economy accelerated
from 5.47 percent in May to 8.79 percent in August as the
government raised the price of subsidized fuel in June and the
weaker currency pushed up the cost of imported goods. Consumer-price gains eased to 8.4 percent last month.  The August trade surplus was $132 million, following a $2.3
billion shortfall in July, official data show. The current-account deficit reached $9.8 billion in the three months through
June, the largest in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1989, following shortfalls in the previous six quarters.  Policy Response  Bank Indonesia raised its benchmark interest rate by 1.5
percentage points to 7.25 percent since mid-June in an attempt
to slow the economy and reduce the deficits. It will increase
the rate by 25 basis points tomorrow and another 25 basis points
in November, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. research
report on Oct. 4. The government announced in August that it
would allow more shipments of unprocessed mineral ores for the
rest of this year and increase a tax on luxury imported goods.  Amundi, a Paris-based asset manager that oversees about $1
trillion, and BNP Paribas Investment Partners said they are
increasing investments in both Indonesia’s dollar and local-currency bonds. The measures to improve the trade balance will
have an effect in the coming months, Mark Capstick, a London-based portfolio manager at BNP Paribas, which oversees 478
billion euros ($649 billion), said in a Sept. 26 e-mail.  “The repricing of Indonesian assets has brought valuations
much closer to where we see fundamental relative value,” he
said. “We are however still very concerned over the fragility
of the currency in the context of the external environment so
are very slightly underweight.”  Cyclical Challenges  Indonesia’s economy will probably grow 5.78 percent this
year, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Gross domestic product increased 6.23 percent in 2012 and has
risen by an average of 5.74 percent over the last 10 years.  The cost to protect the country’s bonds from non-payment
using five-year credit-default swaps fell 58 basis points to 245
basis points on Oct. 4 from a 22-month high of 303 on Aug. 27,
according to CMA prices.  “Indonesia’s long-term economic potential remains intact
with very low debt-to-GDP and conservative budget deficits,”
Raymond Lim, head of Asian bonds in  Singapore  at Amundi, said in
a Oct. 1 e-mail. “The challenges faced by Indonesia are
cyclical in nature.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  