-- Iran’s Zarif Seeks Shift Away From ‘Lose-Lose’ Sanctions
-- B y   A n n   H u g h e y   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-10-06T09:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/iran-s-zarif-seeks-shift-away-from-lose-lose-sanctions.html
Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif
said he welcomes his country’s shift away from the diplomatic
isolation and the sanctions weighing on his country’s economy.  Zarif said initial diplomatic discussions about  Iran ’s
nuclear-fuel production marked a “good beginning.”  “Nobody has benefited from this pattern of relations that
we’ve had over the last eight years,” he said, according to a
transcript of his interview with  CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,”
airing today.  “There is need for change,” he said. “I hope that
everybody realizes that we need to change that process, put an
end to something that was a lose-lose situation and hopefully
begin something that will be to the benefit of everyone.”  The comments reflect the thaw in Iran’s relations with the
international community under President Hassan Rouhani, who took
office in August pledging to improve the country’s world
standing and an economy hurt by sanctions imposed because of the
country’s pursuit of nuclear technology.  “We have very serious sanctions that are hurting the
Iranian people,” Zarif said on CNN. Iran’s inflation rate is
almost 40 percent, economy minister Ali Tayyeb-Nia said today,
according to state television.  Rouhani spoke by phone with U.S. President  Barack Obama 
during the trip to the  United Nations  last month, in the
highest-level diplomatic encounter between the two countries
since Iran’s 1979 Islamic revolution. Rouhani has criticized the
confrontational approach of his predecessor,  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who had held the office since 2005.  Zarif met last month with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and counterparts from five other world powers and proposed
a goal of reaching an agreement over its nuclear program within
a year.  Khamenei’s Support  Iran’s supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , said he
supports government diplomacy along with “whatever happened”
during President Hassan Rouhani’s trip to  New York , the state-run Iranian Students’ News Agency reported yesterday. Khamenei
has the final say on all state matters.  Iran’s crude oil output, once second to  Saudi Arabia ’s
among the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has
fallen to its lowest since 1990 under U.S. and European
sanctions. The  International Energy Agency  said Oct. 2 that
U.S.-Iranian talks are “very important” for oil markets.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has said that
Iran is six months away from having the capability to produce a
nuclear weapon. Obama said in an interview with the  Associated
Press  published today that the U.S. considers such a step about
a year or more away, though he understands Netanyahu’s
skepticism of Iran’s overtures given the history of hostility
between the two countries.  Uranium Enrichment  In his interview with CNN, Zarif said Iran has been
enriching uranium in order to create fuel for nuclear  power
plants , and said  Israel  has for decades been saying that Iran is
on the verge of obtaining a nuclear bomb.  “We don’t have a bomb because we don’t see it in our
interests,” he said. Alternative energy sources are now a
“major policy option that, both from an environmental
perspective, as well as from sustainable development
perspective, is being suggested and promoted at the
international level,” he said.  In separate comments, reported by Iran’s Press TV, Zarif
said he’s ready to give the U.S. an opportunity to show its
goodwill.  Nuclear Sabotage  Iran today announced that it has arrested four people on
suspicion of preparing to carry out an act of sabotage on its
nuclear facilities. The country has repeatedly said, including
as recently as last month at the United Nations, that its
scientists have been killed and research facilities targeted by
Western powers.  “For what crimes have they been assassinated? The United
Nations and the  Security Council  should answer a question. Have
the perpetrators been condemned?’” Rouhani said at the UN.  Last week, Iran’s Revolutionary Guards rejected reports
that the head of the country’s cyber warfare program had been
assassinated, saying only that it was probing the death of an
employee it didn’t identify.  “This statement denies all the news about assassinating
one of our workers after a very sudden incident happened to
him,” the Imam Hassan Mojtaba division of the Revolutionary
Guards Corps said in a statement on the Alborz website. “We are
investigating the incident and the intention of the attacker or
attackers.”  The U.K. Daily Telegraph  newspaper  had earlier reported
that cyber warfare chief Mojtaba Ahmadi was shot dead in a
targeted assassination, citing what it said was an earlier
report on Alborz. He was killed by two bullets to the heart,
according to the daily.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  