-- Japan Tobacco to Expand in Smokeless Products Via M&A
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-10-06T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/japan-tobacco-to-expand-in-smokeless-products-via-m-a-tie-ups.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  plans to expand
its range of smokeless tobacco products and is looking at tie-ups or acquisitions as consumers demand alternatives and
regulations tighten worldwide.  “There are many ways to enjoy tobacco, so it doesn’t
necessarily have to be cigarettes,” Akira Saeki, an executive
deputy president who heads the tobacco business, said in an
interview in Tokyo. “Cigarettes’ appeal may be diminishing” as
more people are bothered by smoke, he said.  Asia’s largest listed tobacco maker is expanding in smoke-free alternatives as domestic demand rises and it faces stiffer
laws on the sale and consumption of cigarettes overseas. While
acquisitions are a possibility, the Tokyo-based company is also
looking to develop more of its own smokeless products as the
proportion of cigarette users declines in Japan, its biggest
market, Saeki said.  “It won’t be the pillar of their sales. I think smokers
still prefer smoke,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund manager  at
Tokyo-based Shinkin Asset Management Co., who declined to
disclose his holdings. “But regulations will be tougher in the
future and it’s not a bad thing for them to try out a new 
option.”  Japan Tobacco fell 0.4 percent to 3,465 yen on Oct. 4 in
Tokyo trading. The stock has risen 42 percent this year,
compared with a 35 gain for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  The company sees more growth opportunities in regions such
as  Africa ,  South America  and some parts of Asia, Saeki said Oct.
1. Japan Tobacco has a relatively smaller presence in these
places, where  population growth  is faster than in developed
nations, he said.  Southeast Asia  Japan Tobacco plans to expand in  Indonesia , Southeast
 Asia ’s most-populous nation, possibly through acquisitions or
ventures with local companies, the executive said, without
giving specific details.  The company sells its smokeless-tobacco products under the
“Zerostyle” label in Japan.  Zerostyle Mint , featuring a
mouthpiece with a cartridge of tobacco leaves, went on sale in
2010.  The company began selling  snus , a type of powder tobacco
that’s usually tucked under the upper lip, in  Osaka  in August.
Sales that month were twice as much as Japan Tobacco had
expected and the company may extend its availability nationwide
depending on demand, said Saeki, who didn’t provide figures.  It has also invested in San Francisco-based  Ploom , a maker
of pocket-sized devices that vaporize nicotine from tobacco
leaves without emitting smoke.  Japan  Tobacco currently sells the
device in  Austria  and plans to offer it in more countries this
year, according to its  annual report .  Rising Profit  In April, Japan Tobacco forecast net income will climb 21
percent to 415 billion yen ($4.3 billion) while sales will gain
12 percent to 2.37 trillion yen in the year ending March 31.  A weaker yen is boosting the value of revenue from tobacco
operations overseas, which  accounted  for about 49 percent of the
company’s total in the first quarter, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Tobacco products made up about 80 percent of
revenue in the same period, with the remainder coming from
operations including food, beverage and drugs.  Japan Tobacco sees “certain demand” from smokeless
products, Ryohei Sugata, a company spokesman, said by phone.
“There is an increasing number of smokers who try to be
thoughtful to people around them.”  Stiffer laws on smoking have contributed to this trend,
Sugata said. He said the sales contribution from smokeless
products was small and declined to give specific figures.  Plain Packs  Russia implemented a law in June that bans smoking in
public areas including workplaces and areas near schools and
hospitals.  Australia  became the first country to mandate plain
packaging for cigarettes on Dec. 1.  Global retail sales of smokeless tobacco were equivalent to
about 2 percent of that for cigarettes last year, according to
Euromonitor International. Cigarette sales will probably rise 26
percent from this year to about $906 billion in 2017, while
smokeless-tobacco sales may gain 18 percent to $13.3 billion.  Smokers made up about 21 percent of Japan’s population last
year, down from 26 percent in 2007, according to the company’s
annual report.  Japan’s government will raise the  sales tax  to 8 percent in
April from 5 percent at present. The company, which plans to
pass on the increase to customers, will decide on the price hike
for its products by early next year, Saeki said.  Japan Tobacco completed 11 acquisitions totaling $1.1
billion in the past five years, the largest of which was the
purchase of Belgium-based roll-your-own cigarette maker Gryson
NV for 475 million euros ($647 million) in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It also bought Nakhla, a waterpipe
tobacco company in  Egypt , for an undisclosed sum this year.  The company had 142.7 billion yen in  cash  and equivalents
as of March 31, based on its financial statement.  “We have been focusing on areas that are a little
different from cigarettes in the past few years,” Saeki said.
“Bringing local companies to the global market is one of the
values we can provide through acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  