-- NBC Ignores Criticism of Tape-Delayed Olympics to Smash Records
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-06T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/nbc-ignores-criticism-of-tape-delayed-olympics-to-smash-records.html
NBC, criticized for its tape-delayed
coverage of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, is going to do
it again this winter in  Russia  for a simple reason: It works.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal division, which owns U.S.
rights to the Sochi 2014 Games, will delay most television
coverage while streaming action on the Internet as it happens.
That strategy led to record viewership from London, even while
some fans berated the network for not broadcasting events live.
NBC announced late last month that it already had sold a Winter
Olympics-record $800 million worth of advertising for Sochi.  “I can’t create a primetime event live if it’s the middle
of the night where the event is taking place,” Mark Lazarus,
chairman of NBC Sports Group, said in an interview about the
network’s plans for the games that run Feb. 6-23. “There’s no
events at four in the morning to do live in Sochi. We have to do
it taped in primetime. We have no choice.”  CNN show host Piers Morgan and Time magazine TV critic
James Poniewozik were among those to echo social media criticism
of NBC’s coverage in 2012.  Andy Donchin, director of media investments for Carat North
America, an advertising firm that buys air time during the
games, believes the criticism on social media sites about tape-delayed coverage was restricted to a “vocal minority,” while
more positive messages helped boost viewership.  “This is a very blatant case of social media driving
viewers to the event,” said Donchin, whose company’s clients
include General Motor Co. “The events in  London  speak for
themselves. They generated higher ratings and I think all that
noise on social media actually pushed people to go and watch.”  The London Games brought record viewership, NBC said, with
219.4 million people tuning in to make it the most-watched
television event in U.S. history. The company said it made “a
small profit” from London, while the winter games in  Vancouver 
two years earlier were a bust, with the network losing $223
million.  Lazarus, speaking last month at the International Olympic
Committee’s annual meeting in Buenos Aires, said criticism of
its London coverage was unfair because NBC offered paid live
coverage of every event on the Internet.  “Olympics fans are not by and large people who watch
sports year-round,” Lazarus said. “It’s everybody. It’s
families, it’s parents and children, it’s a multi-generation
gathering in front of sets together.”  Among the most eagerly awaited events of the Sochi Games
could be skier  Lindsey Vonn ’s defense of her downhill title. Her
gold-medal run in Vancouver was tape delayed, and this time her
race will take place at 2 a.m.  New York  time.  ‘Non-Live Scenario’  Vonn, 28, who has been dating golfer Tiger Woods, is
returning from a serious knee injury at the end of last season.  “How we take what went on during the day and package it
with interesting stories that let people connect with the
athletes is a recipe for us that leads to huge prime-time
viewership even in a non-live scenario,” Lazarus said.  NBC’s contract with the IOC is the sports organization’s
biggest, representing about half of its total global television
revenue. The U.S. broadcaster signed a contract in 2011 that
runs through the 2020 Games in  Tokyo  and is worth $4.38 billion,
according to the IOC.  “It is a good business for us,” Lazarus said. “We only
invest what we believe we can get a good return for our
shareholders on, and the Olympics have proven to be that over
the years and will continue to be that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  