-- Nobel Jury Out of Touch as Booker Embraces Americans
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-10-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/nobel-looks-out-of-touch-as-booker-embraces-americans.html
As usual, somebody who really
shouldn’t appear in the same sentence with  Nobel Prize in
Literature  is hogging the odds.  Meet Jon Fosse, the angst-filled Norwegian journalist and
novelist who turned to playwriting in his 30s and now, at 53,
finds himself among the favorites to win this year’s prize.  Over the course of a few days, bookmaker Ladbrokes cut his
odds of winning from 100-1 to 9-1.  The favorite at 3-1 is  Japan ’s Haruki Murakami, who was
also the top candidate ahead of last year’s announcement.
American Joyce Carol Oates is at 6-1, followed by Hungarian
Peter Nadas at 7-1 and South Korean Ko Un and Algerian Assia
Djebar at 10-1.  Philip Roth  trails the pack at 16-1.  Two decades have passed since literature’s Nobel was
bestowed upon a U.S. author, and recent changes in the landscape
of literary prizes highlight the perversity of this enduring
snub to the likes of Roth, Oates, Thomas Pynchon and Cormac McCarthy.  Add to that  Canada ’s Margaret Atwood.  How ironic that in order to maintain its competitive edge,
the U.K.’s prestigious  Man Booker Prize  feels compelled to open
itself to talent from the very nation  Stockholm  routinely
ignores. Starting this year, any book written in English and
published in the U.K. will be eligible.  That will mainly have the effect of opening the prize to
Americans, since authors from Britain, Ireland and the
Commonwealth were already considered.  Bad Idea  For what it’s worth, I think the Man Booker Foundation’s
decision is shortsighted.  Admitting U.S. authors betrays the prize’s DNA and risks
promoting homogeneity via a certain brand of “global
literature” that might hail from anywhere.  Perhaps the most honest prizes are those with the most
precisely defined missions. Consider, for instance, the
 Anisfield-Wolf Book Awards , which recognize books that have made
significant contributions to our understanding of racism and our
appreciation of diversity.  The  Dayton Literary Peace Prize  celebrates the written
word’s power to promote peace, while the newly created
 Charleston-Chichester Award  celebrates a lifetime’s achievement
in short fiction.  In their specificity, these prizes remind us of
literature’s infinite scope. They also underscore the vastly
different qualities that we each seek out as readers -- and, by
extension, the prejudices we come armed with.  Thanks to dwindling review coverage and reduced browsing
opportunities in brick-and-mortar bookstores, literary prizes
have an ever-more-crucial role to play in bringing exceptional
literature to the reading public’s attention.  Folio Prize  Yet book prizes themselves operate in an increasingly
competitive marketplace. An unstated reason for the Man Booker’s
rule change is surely the advent of the  Folio Prize , which will
be awarded for the first time in 2014 and is open to all works
of fiction written in English and published in the U.K.  The  Nobel Prize  for Literature is supposed to be bigger
than that, a recognition of greatness that knows no boundaries.
But until it can see its way to a more complete inclusiveness,
the Swedish Academy damages the prize’s legacy and does its
winners no favors, either.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 