-- Mongolia at Investment ‘Turning Point,’ Cabinet Secretary Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-10-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/mongolia-at-investment-turning-point-cabinet-secretary-says.html
Mongolia aims to show its
relationship with foreign investors has reached a “turning
point” by progressing on development of two of the country’s
largest mines, Cabinet Secretary Saikhanbileg Chimed said.  The nation needs to follow last week’s passage of a law
ending different treatment of foreign and local companies with
“a good chain of events,” Saikhanbileg said in an Oct. 3
interview in Ulaanbaatar. Progress on funding the second phase
of the Oyu Tolgoi mine being developed with  Rio Tinto Group Plc (RIO) 
and preparations to list the state-owned Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi
mine are among steps that would bolster confidence, he said.  “When we make a final decision, there should not be any
political interference,” said Saikhanbileg, 44, a graduate of
George Washington University’s School of Law. “When we make the
initial talks of course maybe the politics comes up but the
final approach in terms of policy should be a normal business
practice. A practical decision should be followed.”  Following record economic growth of 17.5 percent in 2011,
Mongolia’s mineral resource boom has slowed during a year-long
election cycle that raised the level of resource nationalism,
taking a toll on investor confidence. Worries over the economy
peaked in August when failure to agree on terms of a $5.1
billion expansion of Oyu Tolgoi led to 1,700 worker layoffs.  By September, Mongolia’s currency, the tugrik, lost one-fifth of its value and foreign investment plunged 47 percent
year-on-year.  Number One Priority  Saikhanbileg, who by the age of 29 was already Mongolia’s
Science and Education Minister, said resolving the Oyu Tolgoi
financing package is his government’s “number one priority,”
adding that he’s hopeful a solution will be made by the
company’s directors, rather than politicians.  The Oyu Tolgoi dispute centers on approval of a $4 billion
financing package that will allow the company to develop the
underground portion, where 80 percent of the mine’s wealth lies.
The Mongolian government and Rio are still negotiating over 15
points of dispute that include an audit on cost overruns during
the first phase.  “Oyu Tolgoi needs to be resolved purely on business
decisions, not political ones,” said Saikhanbileg, speaking in
his office where photographs of him and other world leaders and
business people cover one wall.  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela
Merkel , whom he called an ’Iron Lady’, was one of the world
leaders he was most honored to meet.  Saikhanbileg said it was “high time” to resolve other
delayed mining projects, including the expansion of the Erdenes
Tavan Tolgoi coal mine.  Increasing Value  Part of his ’good chain of events’ is preparation for an
initial public offering of state-owned Erdenes TT, which
requires substantial infrastructure, including a power plant,
coal-washing facilities and a railway to  China .  “We need to increase the value of the company,” said
Saikhanbileg, whose life outside politics includes watching
Denver Broncos football and heading Mongolia’s power-lifting
federation. Once the company is better placed to turn a profit,
an IPO could ensue “within two or three years,” he said.  Another goal of his cabinet is to improve the clarity of
the government’s message, Saikhanbileg said, indicating an
awareness of the bad press Mongolia has been subjected to over
the past year and a half.  “We have a missing link in expressing the government
position to the rest of the world,” said Saikhanbileg, adding
that the government plans a promotional team that can travel
outside the country to explain its actions.  “We are going to set up this kind of channel, so everyone
can get info about Mongolia,” he said. “The new agency called
Invest Mongolia will do this.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  