-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Shutdown, Goldman, Stocks, Schwarzman
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-06T06:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/most-read-on-bloomberg-shutdown-goldman-stocks-schwarzman.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. First U.S. Shutdown in 17 Years Unavoidable With No Talks  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. government stands poised
for its first partial shutdown in 17 years at midnight tonight,
after a weekend with no signs of negotiations or compromise from
the Congress or the White House.  2. Government Shutdown Begins as Congress Divides on Spending  Oct. 1 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. government began its first
partial shutdown in 17 years, idling as many as 800,000 federal
employees, closing national parks and halting some services
after Congress failed to break a partisan deadlock by a midnight
deadline.  3. Goldman Said to Make $1.5 Million Error in Ford Bond Issue  Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. mistakenly
added about $1.5 million of interest costs to a Ford Motor Co.
bond sale last week by using the wrong Treasury note as a
benchmark for the security, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  4. Global Stocks Drop, Treasuries Gain as Government Shutdown
Looms  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Global stocks fell the most in a
month, trimming the biggest quarterly advance since the start of
2012, before a potential U.S. government shutdown. Treasuries
pared early gains while crude oil slid to the lowest level in
three months.  5. Schwarzman Says Selling BlackRock in 1994 Was ‘Heroic’ Error  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Blackstone Group LP’s  Steve
Schwarzman  said his decision 19 years ago to sell what would
become the world’s largest money manager was a “heroic”
mistake.  6. Stocks Climb as Treasuries, Commodities Fall Amid U.S.
Shutdown  Oct. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks rebounded from yesterday’s
slide as investors speculated the economic effects from the
shutdown of the U.S. government will be limited and counteracted
by Federal Reserve stimulus. Treasuries fell as gold tumbled and
the dollar recovered from early losses.  7. Stocks Drop on U.S. Government Shutdown as Yen, Treasuries
Gain  Oct. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks slid around the world and gold
rallied as the U.S. government shutdown entered a second day and
a report showed American employers added fewer jobs than
forecast. The dollar fell, while the yen and Treasuries rose.  8. Seaport Agrees to Merge With Global Hunter to Build Boutique  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Seaport Group LLC, the  credit-market brokerage founded in 2001, agreed to merge with boutique
investment bank Global Hunter Securities LLC to create a full-service firm with more than 300 employees.  9. Debt Ceiling Wall of Worry Is Another Reason for Investing  Oct. 1 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. congressional standoff that
shut down the government for the first time in 17 years is a
buying opportunity for stock investors, if history is any guide.  10. Broncos’ Point Spread Against Jaguars Seen Being NFL Record  Oct. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Peyton Manning’s record-setting start
to the season -- 16 touchdown passes as the Denver Broncos have
marched to 4-0 -- has oddsmakers eyeing what may be the highest
point spread in National Football League history.  COLUMNS  1. JPMorgan’s Big Mistake Was Valuing Trades: William D. Cohan  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- In the end, what have we learned
from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $7.1 billion “London Whale”
trading debacle? For those who have lost track, the derivatives
trades resulted in losses of $6.2 billion plus an additional
$920 million in fines -- so far.  2. Steve Jobs Never Worried About Debt Ceiling: Caroline Baum  Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Everyone knows, or has heard the
cliche, that markets hate uncertainty. It’s also a given that
the future is always uncertain. How, then, do markets ever
manage to function -- or, for that matter, businesses, which
must make decisions today about investments that will pay off in
the future?  3. As Party Splinters, Boehner’s Leadership Collapses: Ezra
Klein  Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) -- We’re used to brinkmanship in
 Washington  resulting from conflict between Democrats and
Republicans. But this shutdown is different. It’s a fight
between Republicans and Republicans -- or, more specifically,
Republicans and the Tea Party.  4. Worried About Cancer? Ask Someone to Marry You: Virginia
Postrel  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- When I mentioned my bout with
breast cancer to a new acquaintance, his first question was,
“Are you married?”  5. Republicans Aren’t Crazy for Fighting Obamacare: Ramesh
Ponnuru  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- For many supporters of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, continued resistance to the
law isn’t just mistaken. It’s downright pathological.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says ECB Ready to Act to Control Money Markets  Oct. 2 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi speaks at a news conference in Paris about euro-area
inflation, money-market rates, economic activity and the process
of an asset-quality review.  2. Bitcoin Price Swings as Startups Draw Regulators’ Glare  Oct. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Bitcoin, the digital currency, has
gained prominence this year for its wild price swings and for
piquing the interest of regulators from New York to  Germany .
Bloomberg’s Stephanie Baker reports.  3. Italy’s Letta Urges Lawmakers to Seize the Moment  Oct. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
addresses lawmakers in the Senate in  Rome  seeking their support
to save his government in a confidence vote. (This report is in
Italian.)  4. Cruise the Med on a Super-Yacht for $444,000 Per Week  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg Television takes a trip
from Nice to  Monaco  in the Mediterranean Sea on a super-yacht
that costs $444,000 a week to rent.  5. The Million Dollar Cars of Christian Von Koenigsegg  Sept. 27 (Bloomberg) --  Bloomberg’s Joel Weber reports on
the rare, million dollar cars of Christian Von Koenigsegg. He
speaks with  Deirdre Bolton  on Bloomberg Television’s “Money
Moves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  