-- Most Read on Bloomberg in September: Washington Shooting, Fed
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-06T06:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/most-read-on-bloomberg-in-september-washington-shooting-fed.html
The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports during September.  STORIES  1. Texas Man Seen Behind Washington Shooting That Left 13 Dead  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- A 34-year-old Navy veteran from
 Texas  was identified by the FBI as the suspected gunman in
shootings at the Washington Navy Yard that left at least 12
others dead.  2. Fed Refrains From Taper as It Seeks Signs of Sustained Growth  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- The  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
refrained from reducing the $85 billion pace of monthly bond
buying, saying it needs more evidence of lasting improvement in
the economy and warning that an increase in interest rates
threatened to curb the expansion.  3. At 77 He Flips Burgers Earning Former Hourly Wage in Week  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- It seems like another life. At the
height of his corporate career, Tom Palome was pulling in a
salary in the low six-figures and flying first class on business
trips to  Europe .  4.  Microsoft Will Buy Nokia’s Handset Business for $7.2 Billion  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Microsoft Corp. is spending 5.44
billion euros ($7.2 billion) to buy Nokia Oyj’s handset unit so
it can gain ground on Apple Inc. and Google Inc. in a smartphone
market it let get away -- gaining a possible new chief executive
officer in the process.  5. Summers’s Withdrawal Said to Put Yellen as Fed Front-Runner  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is
the leading candidate to replace Ben S. Bernanke following the
withdrawal of  Lawrence Summers  from consideration, a person
familiar with the process said.  6. Gross’s Trade Sours as Bonds Lose Faith in Fed Guidance  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bond investors are losing
confidence in the Federal Reserve’s pledge to keep benchmark
interest rates at about zero into 2015 as the  U.S. economy 
accelerates.  7. Apple Drops as IPhone Models Reflect Shift From Pioneer: Tech  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. fell the most in almost
five months after unveiling two iPhones that were criticized by
analysts as lacking enough new features or a sufficiently low
price to attract a broad range of new customers.  8. Verizon Produces $2.54 Billion Windfall for Bond Sale Buyers  Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) -- Verizon Communications Inc.
rewarded investors with a profit of about $2.54 billion for
agreeing to buy the record $49 billion of bonds it sold
yesterday as the price of the securities surged.  9. Oil Advances on  Syria  as Stocks Rise, Treasuries Drop on
Economy  Sept. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Crude oil and gold advanced amid
concern America is moving closer to striking Syria, while U.S.
stocks rose and Treasuries retreated for a second day as a
report showed faster-than-forecast growth in manufacturing.  10. Jobs Gain Less Than Forecast as Workers Drop Out: Economy  Sept. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Payrolls in the U.S. climbed less
than projected in August and gains for the prior two months were
revised down, pointing to an expansion that’s struggling to gain
momentum.  COLUMNS  1. JPMorgan’s Big Mistake Was Valuing Trades: William D. Cohan  Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- In the end, what have we learned
from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $7.1 billion “London Whale”
trading debacle? For those who have lost track, the derivatives
trades resulted in losses of $6.2 billion plus an additional
$920 million in fines -- so far.  2. Why Not Make Everyone Rich With $50  Minimum Wage ?: Caroline
Baum  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Last week, fast-food workers staged
a one-day strike in 60 U.S. cities to demand a minimum wage of
$15 an hour, more than double the current federal minimum of
$7.25. The nationwide effort, “Fight for 15,” was organized by
the  Service Employees International Union .  3. Meet the New IPhones, Same as Old IPhones:  Rich Jaroslovsky   Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Ever since the launch of the first
iPhone in 2007, Apple has introduced one new model a year.  4. Good Times Are Rolling Again in Hamptons: William D. Cohan  Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- The most disappointing fact about
how little things have changed on  Wall Street  five years after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is not that the
Dodd-Frank Act is ineffective.  5. Why Do We Even Care About Chemical Weapons in Syria?: Ezra
Klein  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- The  United Nations  estimates that
more than 100,000 Syrians have died since the country’s civil
war began in March 2011. More die every day. But the U.S. is not
considering military action to save them.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says Confidence Indicators Confirm Better Growth  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  speaks at a news conference in  Frankfurt  about the
decision to keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
record low of 0.5 percent for the fourth month.  2. Boomers Find They Need to Work to Support Retirement  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- At the height of his corporate
career Tom Palome was a vice president at Oral-B Laboratories,
earning a salary in the low six-figures. Today the 77-year-old
works two part-time jobs, at about $10 an hour, to support his
retired lifestyle.  3. Bernanke Says Asset Purchases Aren’t on ‘Preset Course’  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  speaks about the central bank’s asset purchases,
interest rates and U.S. economic conditions.  4. Erdoes a ‘Force’ in Asset Management: Bloomberg Markets  Sept. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s Dawn Kopecki talks about
her profile of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset management’s chief
executive Mary Erdoes as part of Bloomberg Markets “50 Most
Influential” list featured in the magazine’s October issue.  5. A Must-Have for Yachts: Personal Submarines  Sept. 26 (Bloomberg) -- There’s a new toy seeking a home
among sailings super rich.  The Monaco Yacht Show is featuring
the launch of personal submarines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  