-- House Passes Retroactive Pay Bill for Furloughed Workers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/house-passes-retroactive-pay-bill-for-furloughed-workers.html
(Corrects figure on budget deficit as a percentage of GDP
in ninth paragraph. For more on the shutdown, see EXT2.)  The partial shutdown of the U.S.
government entered its sixth day with no signs of a breakthrough
as House lawmakers yesterday passed a bill to eventually
reimburse furloughed federal workers for lost pay.  The measure, which passed 407-0, was part of an effort to
“ease the pain” of the first shutdown since 1996, said House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia . He and fellow
Republican leaders called on President  Barack Obama  and Senate
Democrats to negotiate on a spending bill.  “He’s here this weekend, we are here this weekend,”
Representative Kevin McCarthy of  California , the No. 3
Republican in the House, told reporters yesterday, saying Obama
canceled an Asia trip because of the shutdown. “This can all
end.”  The government shutdown has furloughed about 800,000
federal employees and is becoming a prolonged impasse that is
merging with the debate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  The U.S. Defense Department said yesterday it would call
back most of its 400,000 furloughed workers. Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel said legislation signed by Obama, which ensures
service members are paid on time, allows the military to call
back civilian employees. About half of all furloughed federal
employees work for the Pentagon.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he’d determine how
to handle the House retroactive pay measure when the Senate
receives it. Yesterday, he continued to blame Republicans for
the government shutdown.  ‘Alice in Wonderland’  Reid said if the shutdown lasts three or four weeks, the
costs to the economy could rival those from  Hurricane Sandy . He
also likened the House’s pay plan to an “Alice in Wonderland”
trick, saying Republicans spent the past two years seeking to
undermine federal employees and their benefits.  “It’s really cruel to tell workers they’ll get their back
pay once the government opens and then refuse to open the
government,” Reid said, calling on the House to pass a spending
bill without conditions.  The U.S. budget deficit in June was 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 10.1 percent in February 2010 and
the narrowest since November 2008, when Obama was elected to his
first term, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
Treasury Department and the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  Republican Proposal  Republicans’ most recent proposal for ending the shutdown
would postpone for one year the mandate for individuals to
purchase health insurance, mirroring the delay the
administration granted to employers. It also would remove
employer contributions toward health insurance for members of
Congress, their staffs and political appointees.  “When we have a crisis like we’re in the middle of this
week, the American people expect their leaders to sit down and
try to resolve their differences,” House Speaker John Boehner
said Oct. 4, insisting that Democrats make concessions on the
2010 Affordable Care Act.  Obama repeated his position last week that Boehner should
split with the majority of House Republicans and vote on a
short-term spending bill without policy conditions.  “If Speaker Boehner will simply allow a vote to take
place, we can end this shutdown,” Obama said Oct. 4 during a
lunchtime walk to a sandwich shop near the White House. “And a
whole bunch of families not just here in  Washington  but all
across the country will have the certainty that paychecks will
be coming.”  Broader Agreement  A growing group of House Republicans, including Blake Farenthold of  Texas  and Dennis Ross of  Florida , who both have
ties to the limited-government Tea Party movement, say they’d
support a broader agreement that doesn’t include Obamacare
changes as the cornerstone. A third Tea Party-backed Republican
lawmaker, Representative Doug Lamborn of  Colorado , said he’s
willing to back off demands on the health-care law.  “We’ve tried a lot of things and used just about every
arrow in our quiver against Obamacare,” Lamborn said yesterday.
“It has not been successful, so I think we do have to move on
to the larger issues of the debt ceiling and the overall
budget.”  Obama, in an interview released by the Associated Press
yesterday, said he expects Congress will reach an agreement to
raise the nation’s $16.7 trillion  debt  limit in time to avert a
default.  Shutdown Effects  U.S. stocks rose on optimism lawmakers would come to an
agreement on the shutdown and the debt ceiling, after BlackRock
Inc.’s Laurence D. Fink and Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said they expect that the standoff will be resolved
without a debt default.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.7 percent in New
York Oct 4.  Ten-year Treasury yields  rose from almost a seven-week low, increasing four basis points to 2.65 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The effects of the shutdown continued to ripple through the
government and the country.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics didn’t release its monthly
report on unemployment last week, repeating what it did in the
1996 shutdown. U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said in
a statement that the government wouldn’t be able to participate
in next week’s second round of negotiations on the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership in Brussels.  Lockheed Martin Corp., the largest U.S. defense contractor,
said it will furlough about 3,000 employees on Oct. 7 because of
the effects of the shutdown, including the inability of workers
to get to their jobs in shuttered federal facilities and a halt
to government inspections.  ‘Even Care’  Other government services continued, including Social
Security benefits, mail delivery and air traffic control.  Representative John Fleming, a Louisiana Republican, said
Boehner told members Oct. 4 that he had no intention of
“rolling over” to Democrats’ demands for spending and debt-limit bills without policy conditions. Fleming said his
constituents aren’t concerned about the shutdown.  “All they want to talk about was the drag of Obamacare,”
Fleming told reporters. “I don’t think many of my constituents
even know that there is a shutdown, or even care.”  House Republicans continued their strategy of passing bills
to fund parts of the government, such as national parks, weather
monitoring and infant nutrition.  Republicans’ best hope was to keep sending piecemeal bills
and wait for public sentiment to change, said Representative Hal Rogers of  Kentucky , chairman of the House Appropriations
Committee.  “The public is going to finally say to the president,
‘Look, at least sit down and talk,’” he said.  Veto Threat  The Obama administration has threatened to veto the
separate spending measures. Giving in now would only embolden
Republicans to seek more concessions, said Senator Charles Schumer, a  New York  Democrat.  “The hope is maybe once the Tea Party has realized it’s
not getting its way on shutting down the government, that they
won’t try the same stunt on the debt ceiling,” Schumer said.
“If they do, by the way, the heat on them will be much, much
greater than it is now.”  The U.S. will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and
will have $30 billion in cash after that. The country would be
unable to pay all of its bills, including benefits, salaries and
interest, sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  Boehner Strategy  Boehner said he doesn’t want the U.S. to default on its
debt. He also said he will reject Obama’s call for a debt-limit
increase free of policy conditions.  “If we’re going to raise the amount of money we can
borrow, we ought to do something about our spending problem and
the lack of economic growth in our country,” he said.  Last month, Boehner outlined a debt-ceiling strategy that
included lighter regulations, cuts in entitlement programs and
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  The outline also called for changes to Medicare and
eliminating social services block grants. Also being considered
was a proposal to eliminate a requirement that gives regulators
the authority to seize and dismantle financial firms if their
failure could damage the stability of the U.S. financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  