-- Pearson Drops as Investors Call for Faster Drive to Digital
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-07T19:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/pearson-declines-as-investors-call-for-faster-drive-to-digital.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  shares have lagged behind
peers since hitting a 12-year high in July as a restructuring at
the publisher of everything from textbooks to Tom Clancy’s
thrillers failed to convince investors of its digital strategy.  The owner of the Financial Times newspaper has dropped 9
percent since the end of July, when it reported sales that
topped analysts’ estimates. While the stock is up about 4
percent this year in  London , it’s the worst performer in the 48-company Bloomberg World Media Index.  Reed Elsevier  NV jumped 30
percent and  Wolters Kluwer NV (WKL)  climbed 24 percent.  Pearson shares, which dropped 2 percent on Oct. 2 when
best-selling author Clancy died, have been volatile through its
first year under Chief Executive Officer John Fallon, who
succeeded Marjorie Scardino in January. This year, adjusted
earnings per share will probably decline 7.2 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, falling to 2010 levels. Sales --
which beat estimates in the first half -- will probably shrink 3
percent this year and drop again in 2014, the data show.  That’s been a tough pill for investors to swallow,
especially after seeing sales triple during 15 years under
Scardino, who was the first female CEO of a major U.K. company
and made a Dame of the British Empire in 2003.  Scardino Halo  “Under Scardino, Pearson had a halo and it performed well
and delivered earnings growth,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media
analyst at Panmure Gordon in London. “With the new CEO,
earnings growth has gone into reverse. Sales are irrelevant;
it’s about profit.”  The London-based company said in February it anticipated
operating profit to be little changed this year and Fallon
unveiled a firm-wide reorganization in May, increasing spending
to accelerate its push into digital services. Pearson reiterated
in July its projection for full-year adjusted earnings per share
that are little changed from 82.6 pence for 2012, before net
restructuring costs of about 100 million pounds ($161 million).  Pearson is streamlining its diverse businesses, which
include educational materials, the Financial Times Group
business information provider, and book publisher Penguin Random
House, which was created from a merger with Bertelsmann AG’s
Random House division. Since July, Pearson no longer fully
accounts for the unit’s revenue.  In January, the operations will be split along business
units -- School, Higher Education and Professional -- and
geographical lines, for  North America , Core for countries that
are traditional areas of strength like the U.K., and Growth, for
 emerging markets  such as Brazil and  China .  Accelerating Migration  “The point is Pearson is migrating and accelerating the
migration,” said Steven Liechti, an analyst at Investec
Securities Ltd. “They’ve also been acquiring and transitioning
to services assessment, teaching systems and administration
systems that are incremental and new to Pearson. It’s not
straightforward and there are bound to be bumps.”  A Pearson spokesman said the company’s stock decline
followed a 15 percent increase for the month of July, and that
the company has been at the forefront of the shift to digital in
education and publishing.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Financial Times in providing financial news and information.  Today, Pearson rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,240 pence in
London after falling as much as 1.1 percent.  Pearson is spending on the reorganization and push to
digital services as it faces new rivals such as  Rupert Murdoch ’s
Amplify, as well as longtime competitors. While business-to-business publishers Wolters Kluwer and Reed Elsevier are almost
fully digital, it accounted for  just half  of Pearson’s sales
last year.  $50 Books  DeGroote said he sees parallels between the publishing and
music industries in how they’ve confronted the challenges
brought by the Internet and digital products, from piracy to new
consumer habits.  “Students that are 19 to 21 years old with no money or
limited money are not spending $50 on a book when they can get
it off the Internet for free,” he said. “Or they will buy
chapters, not entire books, just like we no longer buy an album
but a single song.”  CEO Fallon called the music industry analogy
“fundamentally flawed” when asked about it during an analyst
presentation in July.  “You can’t learn just by consuming content either in print
or digital formats,” Fallon said. “So if all we were doing as
a business was trying to migrate printed textbooks to digital,
then I would understand the analogy. That is fundamentally not
what we’re doing. It’s this connected learning that really
transforms the business of scale, and it opens up a much bigger
opportunity for us.”  New Rivals  Pearson has supporters such as Sanford C. Bernstein analyst
 Claudio Aspesi , who in an Oct. 4 note called the stock  “our
top pick for the longer term.” Pearson has been hindered by
schools’ reluctance to move online, he said in an interview last
week, adding that the company is highly equipped to “drive the
transition to digital education.”  New competitors are also shifting the landscape for
educational companies.  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  has made
inroads in science publishing and charging lower prices than
Pearson because they can “piggyback on things they are
producing already for their core business,” Aspesi said.  And Murdoch has stepped in with Amplify, which has teamed
up with  AT&T Inc. (T)  to develop a tablet-based curriculum for K-12
students.  Pearson’s transition “introduces a level of uncertainty
over outcomes which has no parallel in the recent history of the
company,” Aspesi said. Still, “we are confident the transition
to digital education represents a significant opportunity for
Pearson.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  