-- Petronas Moves Ahead With Canada LNG Project Hailed by Najib
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-06T20:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/petronas-plans-35-billion-lng-project-in-canada-najib-says.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state energy company, is pressing ahead with plans to build a
liquefied natural gas plant in the Canadian province of British
Columbia.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak hailed the company’s
plans, announced last year, at a press conference yesterday with
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper in Putrajaya, outside of
Kuala Lumpur. “This is a very significant landmark decision by
Petronas, done in the wake of our friendly relationship,” Najib
said.  Petronas, as Petroliam Nasional is known, completed the
C$5.2 billion ($5.1 billion) takeover of  Canada ’s Progress
Energy Resources Corp. in 2012, after Harper’s government
initially blocked the deal. Najib confirmed in April that he
wrote a letter to his counterpart giving assurances of minimal
state interference in the oil and gas group’s daily operations.  “We view Petronas investments very positively, and all the
indications I have is that Petronas is looking at further
investments,” Harper said yesterday. “The government of Canada
is very excited by that possibility as are all those I’ve talked
to in the energy sector.”  The acquisition gave the Southeast Asian group ownership of
the second-biggest stakeholder in the Montney shale-gas area of
British Columbia, and full control of three Progress Energy
fields in which Petronas previously held stakes.  TransCanada Pipeline  The Petronas terminal will be located in Prince Rupert,
British Columbia. It’ll process natural gas extracted by
Progress Energy and shipped through a pipeline built by
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , according to the project’s  website .  Najib reiterated yesterday Petronas will invest C$36
billion to develop the LNG project.  The C$36 billion figure includes Petronas’ cost of
acquiring Progress Energy, building the terminal and the
pipeline, and completing upstream activities such as drilling
wells, said Greg Kist, president of Pacific NorthWest LNG, the
Petronas-owned company that will operate the LNG terminal.
Shipments are expected to begin in 2018, he said.  “We have not changed course,” Kist said in a telephone
interview today from outside Calgary. “We’re certainly very
positive about continuing to move this forward, but the final
investment decision will be taken at the end of 2014.”  On Aug. 26, Petronas CEO Shamsul Azhar Abbas said it may
cut its Progress Energy holding and is talking with potential
buyers. The company already agreed in April to sell a stake to
 Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  