-- Poland Watchdog Urges Paying Utilities to Avoid Blackouts
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-10-07T11:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/poland-power-watchdog-urges-paying-utilities-to-avoid-blackouts.html
Poland  needs measures to encourage
power station operators to build plants and prevent them from
closing existing ones to avoid blackouts, according to the
country’s energy market watchdog.  The work on introducing a law for a capacity mechanism,
which guarantees producers a price for generating backup
electricity, may start in the first quarter, Marek Woszczyk, the
head of Urzad Regulacji Energetyki, said in Warsaw. As an
interim measure, the regulator may offer from January an
operational reserve that would encourage utilities not to close
plants, he said.  Poland’s power shortfall may be as much as 1,100 megawatts
at peak demand times in 2017, enough to supply more than 2
million European homes, the  Economy Ministry  said in July. Prime
Minister Donald Tusk’s government has pushed for new
installations such as the 1,800-megawatt coal-fed Opole plant, a
11.6 billion-zloty ($3.7 billion) project revived by state-owned
utility PGE SA in June after canceling it two months earlier
because it was unprofitable.  “We need to protect the market from premature idling of
generation units and from the lack of investments,” Woszczyk
said in an Oct. 3 interview. “Time is running out as 2016 and
2017 are critical in terms of potential capacity shortages.”  Poland is preparing regulations similar to those drafted in
the U.K., which would pay operators to run plants when prices
don’t cover costs. Legislation drafted in Britain includes plans
for capacity auctions, which would offer payments for making
units available during times of peak demand.  Prices Plummet  “I like the path chosen by Britain,” Woszczyk said.
“It’s a market-driven approach.”  Polish electricity prices for next-year delivery averaged
about 160.85 zloty a megawatt-hour in the past 12 months, about
20 percent less than a year earlier, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contract gained 0.2 percent to 156.30
zloty a megawatt-hour at 1 p.m. in Warsaw.  A capacity market is necessary to build Opole and prices
would have to rise at least 43 percent for the investment to pay
off, PGE Chief Executive Officer Krzysztof Kilian was cited by
Bloomberg Businessweek Polska as saying on Sept. 2.  Poland will find “means and ways” for PGE to build the
project, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said in June.  “Investors in electricity generation need to trust the
market to be able to recoup the money they spent,” Woszczyk
said. “Capacity remuneration mechanisms, or CRM, can reduce the
 investment risk ” and “stabilize future revenue” from the
projects, he said.  Operational Reserve  Until that legislation is in place, the operational reserve
should encourage power generators not to shutter unprofitable
units, according to Woszczyk. The standard capacity margin that
the country should keep in reserve is 18 percent of average peak
demand, he said.  PSE Operator SA, the country’s grid operator, will have 300
million to 500 million zloty at its disposal to pay utilities in
its first year, he said.  “The amount may increase in following years if it turns
out it’s not enough to keep an adequate capacity reserve,”
Woszczyk said.  Earlier this year, PGE wrote down almost the entire value,
or 1.49 billion zloty, of its 1,500-megawatt coal-fed Dolna Odra
power plant, saying it’s not profitable.  Dolna Odra’s share in the operational reserve budget will
be “significant,” Waldemar Szulc, the deputy CEO of PGE’s
generation unit, told reporters in Warsaw on Oct. 3.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  