-- Republican Insurgents Forget Their Political ABCs
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-10-06T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/republican-insurgents-forget-their-political-abcs.html
“I am not a member of any organized
political party,” the humorist Will Rogers said. “I am a
Democrat.”  Even Will Rogers would be shocked at the disjointed and
self-destructive congressional Republican Party of today. By
forcing a government shutdown and possibly a credit default in a
few weeks, a minority of rank-and-file Republican members have
run roughshod over the leadership. They are pushing a futile
effort to kill President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, enacted
in 2010, upheld by the Supreme Court and hotly debated in last
year’s presidential campaign.  In so doing, this band of proud right-wingers has violated
almost every important political precept, including:  HAVE AN ENDGAME: In war, football, politics or other
pursuits, it’s incumbent to fight with an endgame in mind;
sometimes the goal isn’t achieved and needs adjusting. The
Republicans forcing this crisis planned no endgame other than
their hope that the president would cave to their demand to gut
the  Affordable Care Act . Republicans such as Bob Corker and John McCain in the Senate, and Paul Ryan and even Speaker John Boehner in the House, warned this was a fool’s errand, To no
avail.  The range of possible endgames now illustrates the chaos or
lack of strategy: killing the medical-device tax, which would
add $30 billion to the  deficit  over time; eliminating some
government regulations; or mandating approval of the Keystone XL
pipeline. This battle was supposed to be about curbing deficits
and debt.  Debt Ceiling  There is a sensible endgame: adopt a continuing resolution
on the budget and extend the  debt ceiling  for several years
(ultimately, it should be terminated). Congress then could
replace the mindless across-the-board discretionary spending
cuts under sequestration with a combination of cutbacks in
entitlements, including some means-testing and changes to cost-of-living adjustments for Social Security and other programs as
well as increased revenue from modest reductions in deductions
for the wealthy, without raising rates.  This would narrow the already declining budget  deficits 
slightly in the short run, more substantially down the road, and
leave some money for smart investments in areas such as
infrastructure and health research. It’s a good bet that markets
and business confidence would soar after such a deal.  With White House pressure, this would command support from
a majority of congressional Democrats -- but not Republicans.  AVOID ANGER: Many of the core Tea Party conservatives
despise the president and are convinced Obamacare is an assault
on freedom. Their stance reflects personal animosity as much as
principle. Hard-right Tea Party types such as Representatives
Louie Gohmert of  Texas , Steve King of  Iowa , Michelle Bachmann of
 Minnesota  and Ted Yoho of  Florida  are in this category and are
the face of the House Republican caucus.  Regardless of whether the Affordable Care Act is better
than the current system, it isn’t a government takeover, as is
often charged; a public option was rejected by the White House
and the Democratic Senate. Now opponents say the individual
mandate amounts to government coercion. That would be more
convincing if the plan weren’t originally a Republican idea and
the centerpiece of then-Governor  Mitt Romney ’s successful
health-care reform in  Massachusetts .  KNOW HISTORY: The misinformation about previous conflicts
is stunning. Leading the chorus is former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , the Republican leader during the previous major
partisan shutdown in 1995-96. Gingrich, always eager to get
attention, has urged Republicans to hang tough, arguing that he
and his party benefited from the earlier showdown.  Gingrich Overreach  In reality, it was a disaster. The Republicans lost two
seats in the next House elections, and the deadlock paved the
way for President Bill Clinton’s big re-election. What did
Gingrich get? Clinton agreed to provide the outlines of a long-term balanced budget, a commitment he relished. The subsequent
balanced budgets had little to do with the shutdown.  Gingrich also claims this is nothing new, that shutdowns
were routine when Speaker Tip O’Neill, a Democrat, was in
charge. There were fights, but government kept operating even
when budget authority expired; when the attorney general ruled
that impermissible, shutdowns occurred for several days, usually
over a weekend, and were of little practical consequence --
until the Gingrich miscalculation of 1995-96.  PLAYING SHORT BALL: Republican hard-liners insist it won’t
hurt politically this time, never mind what the polls say. This
showdown arouses the party’s base, they argue, and will help
candidates in next year’s congressional elections.  Perhaps, but they confuse short-term gain with long-term
damage, as occurred 17 years ago. Another example: In 1994,
California Republicans rode a tide of anti-immigration sentiment
to electoral victories but alienated Hispanics, which has cost
them in elections since.  The shutdown and possible damage to the nation’s
creditworthiness are Republican-induced crises. The president
isn’t blameless. The Republicans are able to keep the Affordable
Care Act in political play because the administration has done
such a poor job of convincing and educating voters; compare
Obamacare with public attitudes toward Medicare or the
prescription drug law three years after they were enacted.  Jack Danforth, the former Republican senator from Missouri,
says the president and especially Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid “have too often told Republicans to go sit in the corner
and be quiet, you’re shut out of this.”  Still, he shakes his head at what he considers the naive
and dangerous attitude of Tea Party Republicans, that “politics
is not about compromise, it’s about purity.”  Someone else whose head would shake is Will Rogers. In the
 Capitol Building’s Statuary Hall , each state gets two statues;
Rogers is one of  Oklahoma ’s. The humorist’s condition for
allowing this was that his statue would be on the House of
Representatives side so he could “keep an eye” on them. These
days, he wouldn’t want to look.  (Albert R. Hunt is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in  Washington  at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 