-- Stocks Drop With Oil on U.S. Deadlock as Yen, Bonds Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-10-07T20:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/s-p-futures-drop-asian-index-contracts-rise-yen-gains.html
Stocks declined, sending the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to an almost one-month low, and the yen
strengthened as U.S. lawmakers remained deadlocked over
extending the debt limit to avoid default. Oil dropped, while
 government bonds  advanced.  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 0.6 percent to 381.33
at 4:19 p.m. in  New York  while the S&P 500 sank 0.9 percent to
1,676.12 and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent.
 Japan ’s currency strengthened against all 16 major peers,
reaching the strongest level versus the dollar since August. The
10-year Treasury yield fell 1.5 basis points to 2.63 percent.
Oil and nickel declined at least 0.6 percent, while natural gas,
silver and gold climbed at least 1 percent.  With the U.S. set to exhaust measures to avoid breaching
its debt ceiling on Oct. 17, House of Representatives Speaker
 John Boehner  said lawmakers won’t raise the limit without
packaging it with other provisions. President  Barack Obama 
reiterated that he won’t negotiate with Republicans over the
partial government shutdown and the U.S. debt limit as Senate
Democrats began preparing for a test vote on a clean debt-ceiling bill.  “The issue of the debt ceiling is the real driver for
nervousness in the market,” Darren Bagwell, director of
research at Thrivent Asset Management in Minneapolis, said in a
phone interview. His firm oversees about $82 billion. “Every
day that passes makes the potential for a policy mistake to be
that much greater,” he said. “Absent  Washington , there was
nervousness anyway as we headed into the third-quarter”
earnings season.  No Votes  There aren’t enough votes in the House to “pass a clean
debt limit,” Boehner said in an interview on the ABC network’s
“This Week” program yesterday. The country could end up in
default should Obama not negotiate on the issue, he said.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, who made appearances on
four of the major Sunday TV talk shows, said the administration
would only be willing to negotiate after a partial government
shutdown, now in its sixth day, comes to an end and the debt
ceiling is increased. He also warned of the dangers of default.  “Everyone assumed there would be more action over U.S.
shutdown and debt-ceiling talks over the weekend, and now
reality has set in,” Veronika Pechlaner, who helps oversee
about $2.3 billion as an investment manager at  Jersey , Channel
Islands-based Ashburton Ltd., said by phone. “Investors will be
nervous until some sort of compromise is reached.”  Market Movers  Gauges of consumer-discretionary, financial and commodity
stocks dropped at least 1.2 percent to lead declines in nine of
the 10 main industry groups in the  S&P 500. (SPA)   Bank of America Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co . lost about 1.7
percent each to pace declines among banks. Alcoa Inc., which is
scheduled to release third-quarter results tomorrow, ended
little changed. International Business Machines Corp. declined
1.1 percent as Barclays Plc advised investors to pare holdings.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, the
benchmark gauge of U.S. equity options known as the VIX, jumped
16 percent to 19.41 today, the highest level since June.  The S&P 500 has retreated 2.9 percent from its last record
on Sept. 18, when the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained
from reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. Three
rounds of Fed stimulus have helped drive the gauge up almost 150
percent from a 12-year low in 2009. The benchmark index has
rallied 18 percent this year on better-than-estimated earnings
and as data from manufacturing to housing and the labor market
improved.  Commodity Producers  Commodity stocks , lagging behind the  S&P 500  by the most in
15 years, are poised to rally as analysts estimate profits will
rise almost twice as fast as the rest of U.S. industry in 2014.  Mining companies and chemical producers in the S&P 500 will
increase earnings by 18 percent in 2014, compared with a 11
percent gain for the equity gauge, according to the average of
more than 9,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Commodity
stocks were the worst-performing S&P 500 group during the first
six months of the year, before climbing the most in almost two
years last quarter. Raw-materials companies are on track to lag
behind the U.S. stock index for a third straight year, the
longest stretch since 1998.  The Stoxx 600 closed at the lowest level since Sept. 9 as
16 of 19 industry groups retreated. Burberry Group Plc slid 1.2
percent after the luxury-goods maker’s chief executive officer
told the Les Echos newspaper that a slowdown in Chinese sales
may not be temporary.  Volatility Climbs  The VStoxx Index, a gauge of the cost of using options to
hedge against moves in the Euro Stoxx 50, climbed 3.1 percent to
the highest level since Sept. 9 after surging as much as 11
percent earlier.  U.S. government data from payrolls to retail sales will be
delayed as long as the shutdown continues.  Partially closing the U.S. government for one week would
probably shave 0.1 percentage point from economic growth,
according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists conducted last week.  “We have a vacuum as there is no economic data and the
earnings season hasn’t started yet,” said Robert Royle, who
helps oversee $21 billion as manager of the North American Trust
at Smith & Williamson Investment Management LLP in  London . “A
default is a much a bigger issue, but they will likely have to
come to an agreement.”  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for the first time in
five days, losing 0.3 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index in  Hong Kong  dropped 0.9 percent. Mainland Chinese
markets, which have been closed since Oct. 1 for the National
Day holidays, resume trading tomorrow.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa slid
0.9 percent while Poland’s WIG Index retreated 0.5 percent and
benchmark gauges in  South Africa ,  Thailand  and  Turkey  declined
at least 0.4 percent.  Japan’s currency rose 0.6 percent to 96.86 per dollar and
climbed 0.5 percent per euro. The dollar was down 0.1 percent at
$1.3577 per euro.  German 10-year  bunds  advanced with  U.S. Treasuries , pushing
yields on the securities four basis points lower to 1.80
percent. U.K. 10-year gilt yields dropped three basis points to
2.71 percent.  West Texas Intermediate oil dropped 0.8 percent to $103.03
a barrel as  Gulf of Mexico  production resumed after Tropical
Storm Karen weakened. The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities was
little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  