-- Sable Wins Right to Export Guinean Ore Through Liberia
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-10-07T15:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/sable-said-to-receive-export-decree-for-guinea-iron-ore-mine.html
Sable Mining Africa Ltd. (SBLM)  has won
permission to export iron ore from its Nimba mine in Guinea
through neighboring Liberia, increasing prospects that it will
start production in 2015.  The Guinean decree will enable Sable to transport the
steelmaking ingredient to the port of Buchanan, the company said
in a statement today. Sable rose 7.8 percent to 10.25 pence by
the close in London trading, the highest since March 6.  Sable was last week granted a mining license for Nimba,
which contains a reserve of about 135 million metric tons of
iron ore. The company said it would seek to transport the ore by
train from the project in southeast Guinea through Liberia,
where ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, operates a
mine and rail line to the harbor at Buchanan.  “The issuance of our export decree, the first granted by
the Government of the Republic of  Guinea , is a major endorsement
for Sable Mining and represents yet another critical milestone
achieved by our team,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew Groves
said in the statement.  The Guinean government is reviewing some mining licenses as
it seeks to improve transparency in the industry. Besides
bauxite, an aluminum ingredient, Guinea has vast reserves of
iron ore, gold and diamonds. Rio Tinto Group, BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the biggest mining company, and Vale SA are among those with
projects in the country.  Rio, the world’s second-largest mining company, said last
month that its $20 billion Simandou iron-ore project in Guinea
may start in 2018 at the earliest, three years behind the
initial target, pending completion of funding.  Sable was founded by Groves and former England cricketer
Philippe Edmonds. The pair previously operated Central African
Mining & Exploration Co., which they sold to Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. for about 584 million pounds ($943 million) in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  