-- Scotland Would Have Fewer Than 5,000 Army Troops, U.K. Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-10-06T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/scotland-would-have-fewer-than-5-000-army-troops-u-k-says.html
An independent  Scotland  would have
fewer than 5,000 combat troops in its army and would face
substantial costs setting up its defense capability, according
to a report due to be published today by the U.K. government.  Scotland currently benefits from the U.K.’s 34 billion-pound ($54 billion) annual  defense budget , one of the world’s
largest, according to e-mailed extracts of the report.  “An independent Scottish state would face a very
significant challenge to establish, man and equip its armed
forces and wider defense and security structures,” the 86-page
analysis will say.  Independence is the flagship policy of Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond ’s ruling  Scottish National Party  and a
referendum is being held on Sept. 18 next year. Defense has been
at the center of debates between supporters and opponents of
separation.  The SNP, which runs the semi-autonomous government in
Edinburgh, last year reversed its 30-year opposition to
membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on
condition that all existing nuclear weapons on Scottish soil are
removed. The U.K.’s nuclear deterrent is based 30 miles from
Glasgow, Scotland’s largest city.  An independent Scotland would prioritize air and naval
defenses focusing on protecting fisheries and offshore oil and
gas facilities, Salmond said in July.  Independence would not allow Scotland to co-opt units
recruited or based there, while individual members of the U.K.
armed forces could not just be moved to the Scottish military,
the defense ministry said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  