-- South African Union Ends Monthlong Car Parts Industry Strike
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-10-06T12:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/south-african-union-ends-monthlong-car-parts-industry-strike.html
About 30,000 South African car
industry employees will return to work tomorrow after the
National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa accepted a wage
offer from companies to end a monthlong strike.  The union accepted a 10 percent pay increase in the first
year and an 8 percent raise in both the second and third years
from major employers, Numsa General-Secretary Irvin Jim told
reporters in Johannesburg today. Small-to-medium-sized companies
will only raise wages by 9 percent in the first year, followed
by two annual raises of 8 percent each, he said.  Workers at seven carmakers operating in South Africa,
including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , went
on strike in August and September, resulting in a loss to
manufacturers estimated by the industry at 20 billion rand ($2
billion). This was followed by a stoppage by workers in the auto
component and retail industries.  South African vehicle sales fell for a second month in
September and exports dropped 75 percent as strikes hit
carmakers’ operations, the Pretoria-based National Association
of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa said in an e-mailed
statement on Oct. 1.  The strikes prompted BMW, the largest luxury vehicles
manufacturer, to say on Oct. 3 that it would stop a planned
expansion in South Africa.  Numsa’s leaders are seeking a meeting with BMW’s country
managers to discuss the plans, which amount to “blackmail,”
Jim said. The move is an attempt to prevent future strikes in
the industry, he said.  BMW “can only be profitable if they continue to invest in
 South Africa ,” Jim said. “They will not find the kind of cheap
labor as they find here. We will not accept the BMW blackmail.
We expect them to bring back that investment.”  Wage talks with tire producers will probably be resolved
without the need for a strike, Jim said.  South African workers in mining, construction and aviation
have also gone on strike this year to demand higher salaries,
disrupting production and curbing economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  