-- South Africa Biofuels Seen Raising Sorghum Output Fivefold
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-10-07T11:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/south-africa-biofuels-push-seen-raising-sorghum-output-fivefold.html
South Africa ’s plan to source all
grain needed for biofuels production locally means sorghum
output will have to climb at least fivefold, the nation’s
biggest representative of commercial farmers said.  Biofuel must comprise at least 5 percent of diesel and 2
percent to 10 percent of gasoline starting Oct. 1, 2015, Energy
Minister Ben Martins said in a Sept. 30 Government Gazette.
South Africa’s sorghum harvest probably increased 11 percent to
151,064 tons in the season that ended in April from a year
earlier, the Pretoria-based Crop Estimates Committee said in its
final forecast on Sept. 26.  “We need an additional volume of 620,000 tons of sorghum
to produce enough bioethanol to meet the 2 percent inclusion
rate,” Wessel Lemmer, a senior economist at Grain South Africa,
said in an e-mail. That would equate to output of about 771,000
metric tons. “The grains need to be produced locally, providing
additional jobs in the value chain.”  Forty-seven percent of South Africa’s sorghum, the
country’s biggest summer crop after corn, soybean and sunflower
seed, is grown in the Free State province, according to the
committee. The grain is used as a staple food in some rural
communities, livestock feed and to make traditional beer.  “ Food security , in terms of availability or affordability,
will not be impacted negatively,” Lemmer said.  One ton of sorghum produces about 400 liters (106 gallons)
to 440 liters of bioethanol, according to Lemmer.  Competitive Prices  Sorghum futures rose 1.5 percent to 3,350 rand ($333) a ton
on Oct. 4 on the South African Futures Exchange, the highest
since at least May 2010. They were unchanged by midday today.  “The biofuels industry will be able to offer competitive
prices for sorghum, enabling producers to plant a profitable
crop,” said Lemmer. “This will incentivize producers to
increase the production of sorghum.”  In August last year, Grain SA estimated sorghum production
would have to increase by 600,000 tons.  The only available starch crop for bioethanol is sorghum,
while for biodiesel soybean, sunflower seed and canola can be
used, Lemmer. Corn, one of the country’s staple foods, has been
excluded from bioethanol production, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  