-- U.S., Russia Commend Assad for Complying With Agreement
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-10-07T19:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/syrians-start-destroying-chemical-weapons-under-un-supervision.html
Secretary of State John Kerry
commended Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad for starting to destroy
his chemical weapons, and said the U.S. and Russia are pushing
to convene a peace conference next month.  It’s “a credit to the Assad regime for complying rapidly
as they are supposed to,” Kerry said after meeting his Russian
counterpart on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Bali, Indonesia. “It’s a good beginning,
and we should welcome a new beginning.”  Following condemnation by the U.S. and its European allies
of an Aug. 21 poison-gas attack near Damascus that President
 Barack Obama  said killed more than 1,400 people, Kerry and
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov brokered a deal last
month for Syria to account for and destroy its chemical weapons.
Russia is a longtime backer of Assad, while the U.S. has
supported rebel groups fighting to oust him since 2011.  Assad’s government “is cooperating blamelessly with
international inspectors,” meeting its commitments to the
chemical weapons deal, and it is ready for peace talks with the
opposition, Lavrov told reporters at the joint news conference.  “We don’t need to do anything to convince Damascus to send
its delegation” to a peace conference, Lavrov said, saying the
regime was ready “months ago.” It’s the opposition that needs
to be persuaded to attend without preconditions, he said. Lavrov
and Kerry both said talks may start in mid-November.  U.S. Position  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said
Kerry’s comments about Syrian cooperation don’t reflect a change
in the U.S. position that, by attacking his own people, Assad
has lost the right to govern.  “What Bashar al-Assad has done is horrific,” Harf told
reporters in Washington. “He has no legitimacy. Nobody is
giving him any praise.”  While the government’s actions in the early days of the
chemical weapons removal effort are “clearly a step in the
right direction,” Harf said that “does not confer political
legitimacy on them to lead their country going forward.”  Lavrov said today that the U.S. and Russia have an
understanding that the future peace conference must include
“all parties” inside  Syria  and “important international
players,” a possible reference to neighboring  Iran , which
supports Syria with money and weapons. U.S. officials have said
they oppose Iran’s participation.  ‘More Favorably’  If Iran accepts a 2012 international agreement calling for
peace talks aimed at establishing an interim Syrian government,
Harf said today, the U.S. would view its participation in the
Geneva conference “more favorably.”  Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons, a watchdog group based in The Hague, verified
yesterday that Syria destroyed missile warheads and production
equipment, according to an official from the joint  OPCW -UN
mission who asked not to be identified.  The development came a week after the UN Security Council
approved an agreement demanding the elimination of Syria’s non-conventional arms following the August attack, which the U.S.
and allies said was carried out by Assad’s forces. Assad and
 Russia  say the rebels were responsible.  ‘Undue Concern’  In an interview with Der Spiegel last week, Assad said the
international community should not worry about the security of
chemical weapons stores because they’re under government control
and “the stored materials haven’t been activated.”  “It is not as bad as it is portrayed by the media and
believed in the West. There is no need for any undue concern,”
Assad said. He also said that a negotiated solution with
“militants” won’t be possible.  The Security Council approved an on Sept. 27 to eliminate
all of Syria’s chemical weapons, though the resolution didn’t
attach consequences for failure to comply or assign blame for
the attack.  Syria’s civil war has claimed the lives of more than
115,000 people, according to the opposition Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights, a U.K.-based monitoring group. The fighting
pits the mainly Muslim Sunni opposition against backers of
Assad, whose Alawite faith is an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Bali,  Indonesia  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  