-- U.K. Home Deposits Plunge on Cameron’s Policy Help
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-10-07T11:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/u-k-home-deposits-plunge-on-cameron-s-policy-help.html
The average deposit needed for a U.K.
home purchase under the government’s Help-to-Buy policy fell 75
percent to 11,108 pounds ($17,800) after a new phase of the
program started today, property website Zoopla Ltd. estimated.  The plan’s goal of a 5 percent minimum down payment means a
home purchase is possible for less than 10,000 pounds in six of
10 regions in U.K., the London-based company said today in an e-mailed statement. The lowest average deposit required under
Help-to-Buy is 8,129 pounds in the Yorkshire & The Humber area,
where the typical price of a home is 162,588 pounds.  Prime MinisterDavid Cameron last month said he would bring
forward by three months the second phase of the plan, which
allows people to buy a home costing as much as 600,000 pounds
with a 5 percent deposit instead of the standard 20 percent down
payment. The first part gave interest-free loans for buyers of
newly built homes and began in April. That’s contributed to the
strongest housing market since the financial crisis.  “ House prices  are beginning to rise, savings rates are
low, inflation is consistently above target and wage increases
aren’t keeping pace. It makes saving for a 20 percent deposit on
a property very difficult,” Lawrence Hall, a Zoopla director,
said in the statement. “The new scheme helps address that
problem, making the first rung of the ladder much lower for
would-be buyers who want to get a foot on it.”  Saving Billions  There are 665,000 homes for sale in the U.K. that are
eligible for the second phase of the Help-to-Buy program, Zoopla
said. Reducing deposits to 5 percent from 20 percent cuts the
cost by 33,325 pounds on average. If all the eligible homes saw
such a reduction, the total savings would be 22.1 billion
pounds.  The lending  program has drawn warnings from the
International Monetary Fund and U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable that it could over-inflate home prices. Bank of England
Markets Director Paul Fisher on Oct. 2 said he didn’t see a
bubble in the market and officials will be “vigilant” on risks
from the housing market’s revival.  “I don’t see any evidence of bubble behavior as yet, with
mortgage lending still subdued relative to what is likely to be
normal levels of activity,” Fisher said in a speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  