-- U.S. to Default If Debt Ceiling Not Raised, Lew Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-10-06T15:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/u-s-to-default-if-debt-ceiling-not-raised-lew-says.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said
Congress needs to pass a debt-ceiling increase by Oct. 17 or the
U.S. will be “dangerously low” on cash and risk defaulting on
its payments.  “On the 17th, we run out of our ability to borrow, and
Congress is playing with fire,” Lew said on CNN’s “ State of
the Union ” today. “If they don’t extend the debt limit, we
have a very, very short window of time before those scenarios
start to be played out.”  “If the United States government, for the first time in
its history, chooses not to pay its bills on time, we will be in
default,” Lew said. “There is no option that prevents us from
being in default if we don’t have enough cash to pay our
bills.”  In response to Obama administration calls for a debt-limit
increase without policy conditions, House Speaker John Boehner
said today he doesn’t have votes to pass such a bill.  Republicans have sought to end the shutdown by passing
legislation that would also delay for one year the mandate for
individuals to purchase health insurance, a part of President
 Barack Obama ’s 2010 Affordable Care Act. Lew didn’t specify when
the U.S. might default on its obligations.  “I know the speaker well,” Lew said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program today in response to Boehner’s remarks. “I
know the speaker doesn’t want to default. He also didn’t want to
shut down the government. He needs to give the majority a chance
to vote.”  Little Cash  Lew is projecting that the U.S. will exhaust its
“extraordinary measures” to stay under the $16.7 trillion
federal debt limit no later than Oct. 17. At that time, the U.S.
will have about $30 billion in cash, which will be short of
expenditures that can reach as high as $60 billion in subsequent
days.  That “is a dangerously low level of cash, and we’re on the
verge of going into a place we’ve never been, not having cash to
pay our bills,” Lew also said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
today. “Even getting close to the line is dangerous.”  A one-week shutdown will probably shave 0.1 percentage
point from economic growth, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with the damage accelerating
if the closing persists. The shutdown costs at least $300
million a day in lost output at the start, according to  IHS
Inc. (IHS) , a Lexington, Massachusetts-based global research firm.  ‘Reserve Currency’  “This brinkmanship over and over again is bad for the
economy,” Lew said on “Fox News Sunday” today. “We’re the
world leader.  We’re the strongest, deepest economy in the
world. Our currency is the world’s reserve currency.”  Treasury said breaching the debt limit could freeze the
credit markets, weaken the dollar, push U.S. interest rates up,
and reverberate on global markets, causing a crisis similar to
the one in 2008, according to an Oct. 3  report .  So far, the financial-market response to the political
gridlock has been muted.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury increased two
basis points last  week , trading between 2.66 percent and 2.58
percent. While the yield is up from the record low of 1.38
percent in July 2012, it’s below the average of about 6.7
percent since the early 1980s, the start of the three-decade
long bull market in bonds.  The dollar has appreciated about 2.48 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlated Weighted Indexes, which
measures the greenback against the euro, yen, pound and six
other major currencies. The measure for the dollar, while down
about 3 percent in the past month, is still poised for its best
year since gaining 15.5 percent in 2008.  Investor Outlook  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink and Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said on Oct. 3 that the budget
standoff will be resolved without a debt default.  The U.S. budget  deficit  in June was 4.3 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 10.1 percent in February 2010 and
the narrowest since November 2008, when Obama was elected to his
first term, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
Treasury Department and the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  In an Oct. 4 letter to Senator Orrin Hatch, a Utah
Republican, Lew declined to say how much Congress should raise
the debt limit.  “Congress must choose how long to extend the debt limit,”
Lew wrote. “A longer period of certainty would help protect our
economy from future political brinksmanship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  