-- Tiger Woods Gets Winning Point as U.S. Retains Presidents Cup
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-10-06T20:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/u-s-team-takes-five-point-presidents-cup-lead-into-final-day.html
Tiger Woods  got the winning point as
the U.S. claimed a fifth straight victory against a team of
international players in golf’s  Presidents Cup .  World No. 1 Woods beat Richard Sterne of South Africa by
one hole to take the U.S. past the 17 1/2 points it needed for
victory at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin, Ohio. The host
nation, which led 14-8 going into today’s 12 singles matches,
won the biennial event by a score of 18 1/2 to 15 1/2.  The U.S. has an 8-1-1 record in the matches, which began in
1994 against players from countries outside Europe.  Play was suspended yesterday because of darkness with four
foursome matches -- in which teammates alternate hitting shots
with the same ball -- still on the course. Those matches
concluded this morning, with the tee off times for the singles
brought forward because of a threat of rain.  Jason Day got the first point of the day with a 6-and-4
demolition of Brandt Snedeker, meaning the Australian led by six
holes with four left to play.  Hunter Mahan then defeated Japan’s Hideki Matsuyama 3-and-2
and Jason Dufner beat Brendon de Jonge of Zimbabwe 4-and-3 to
make the match score 16-9 to the U.S.  Moments after Graham DeLaet of Canada defeated Jordan
Spieth by one hole,  Zach Johnson  won 4-and-2 against South
African Branden Grace to leave the U.S. needing another half
point for victory.  Adam Scott of Australia made it 17-11 with a 2-and-1
victory against Bill Haas and Ernie Els of South Africa cut the
deficit to five points with a one-hole victory over  Steve Stricker .  Marc Leishman from Australia kept the match alive with a
one-hole win against Matt Kuchar before Woods gave his team an
insurmountable 18-14 lead with the final two matches still on
the course. Woods took the lead for good when Sterne made a
bogey at the par-3 16th hole.  Webb Simpson  halved his match against  Louis Oosthuizen  of
South Africa and  Angel Cabrera  of Argentina won the final two
holes against  Phil Mickelson  to pull out a 1-up victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 