-- United Technologies Cancels 4,000 Potential Staff Furloughs
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-06T23:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/united-technologies-cancels-2-000-sikorsky-aircraft-furloughs.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the sixth-largest U.S. government contractor, reversed plans to furlough
as many as 4,000 workers after the Pentagon said most civilian
employees sent home in the federal shutdown will be put back to
work.  The Hartford, Connecticut-based company had planned to put
2,000 workers on leave beginning tomorrow at its Sikorsky
Aircraft unit, which makes Black Hawk helicopters, after
military inspectors required to monitor production work were put
on leave. Another 2,000 workers at the contractor’s  Pratt &
Whitney  and UTC Aerospace Systems had faced furloughs if the
shutdown extended into this week.  The Pentagon now says 90 percent or more of about 350,000
workers it furloughed last week will be coming back, including
inspectors who review contracted work.  United Technologies  was
the first of the top military contractors to reverse furloughs,
while other vendors, including Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , hadn’t called off plans to put staff on leave as
of 6 p.m. in Washington.  “United Technologies greatly appreciates the efforts of
those in the administration and Congress who facilitated the
recall of the furloughed civilian employees,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  Robert Hale, undersecretary of defense, said he had no
concrete estimate for how many civilian defense employees would
remain off the job during the shutdown. Some of those who won’t
return include staff in  information technology , auditing and
public affairs, he said.  Ending Shutdown  “We haven’t solved all the problems,” Hale told reporters
on a conference call yesterday. “We still hope Congress will
act very quickly to end this shutdown.”  The Aerospace Industries Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group, said in a statement last week that
companies had voiced concerns that if the shutdown continued,
they would be forced to furlough tens of thousands of workers.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, said on
Oct. 4 that it had identified about 3,000 of its employees for
furloughs starting tomorrow. It’s still too early to tell if
those plans will change, said Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for
the company.  “We’ll continue to be in close contact with the Pentagon
and are hopeful that our programs and contracts can move
forward,” Johndroe said in an e-mail.  Awaiting Assurances  Many contractors are likely to follow Lockheed’s lead and
wait for some assurances from the Pentagon or Congress before
ending plans for furloughs, said Mark Amtower, who owns a
Clarksville, Maryland-based government-contracts consulting
firm.  “Are they going to pay them now? Are they going to get
paid later?,” Amtower said in a phone interview. “A little
clarification from Congress would be nice.”  A U.S. unit of London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said last week
it had excused from work about 1,000 employees in its
intelligence and security division.  As many as 10 percent to 15 percent of the 34,500 U.S.-
based employees of BAE Systems Inc., its U.S. unit, may be
affected by the shutdown, the company said last week.  Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for the division, didn’t
provide immediate comment on whether any of its workers may be
reinstated or protected from the government closing after the
Pentagon decision.  Intelligence Personnel  “Many of those 1,000 workers who were excused by their
government agencies” support intelligence agencies, not the
Defense Department, Roehrkasse said in an e-mail.  Boeing Co. (BA) , the No. 2 contractor, said last week it may
begin “limited furloughs” this week. The Chicago-based company
hasn’t received “specific information” from its Defense
Department customers about the plans to reinstate workers, said
Meghan McCormick, a Boeing spokeswoman.  “Therefore it would be inappropriate to speculate about
what it might mean for Boeing employees and operations,”
McCormick said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in  Washington  at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  