-- Vettel Closes in on Formula 1 World Championship With Korea Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-06T15:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/vettel-wins-korean-grand-prix-to-extend-formula-one-series-lead.html
Sebastian Vettel won his third
straight Korean Grand Prix to move to the brink of a fourth
Formula One world championship in a row.  The  Red Bull  driver kept his composure after two safety-car
restarts and preserved his wearing tires to finish ahead of
Lotus pair Kimi Raikkonen and Romain Grosjean yesterday at the
Korea International Circuit in Yeongam.  Vettel’s fourth straight victory and eighth in 14 events
this season lifted him 77 points clear of Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  atop the drivers’ standings with five races remaining.
Vettel could take the title as early as next week if he wins in
Japan and Alonso finishes out of the top eight.  “There are still a lot of points to get, even though it
looks very good for us,” Vettel said in a news conference.
“There’s still a chance for Fernando, so we have to stay on top
of our game, but to be honest, I think I said on the podium,
we’re just having a good time.”  Sauber’s  Nico Hulkenberg  fended off  Lewis Hamilton  of
Mercedes for fourth place in a race during which the field twice
bunched up following safety-car periods.  Vettel, who started from pole position, twice had to
restart from the front after the safety car was called onto the
track in quick succession. Each time he managed to pull away
from Raikkonen to finish 4.2 seconds ahead of the Finn and claim
his third win in the four editions of the Korea race.  “It’s not great getting stuck behind the safety car,”
Vettel added. “Fortunately we had enough pace to always open up
a little bit of a gap.”  Tire Trouble  The right-front tire on Sergio Perez’s McLaren unraveled on
lap 32, throwing out debris that needed clearing from the track.
Racing resumed with 19 laps left before the safety car was out
again two laps later after  Mark Webber ’s Red Bull was taken out
by  Adrian Sutil ’s spinning Force  India  and burst into flames,
billowing out thick black smoke.  Vettel took a 1.4-second lead over Raikkonen following the
second restart and extended his advantage over the closing laps
even after being told by his race engineer to ease up to avoid
wearing out his right-front tire.  “Well done Seb, that was a very disciplined drive, but a
very, very good drive,” Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner said over the team radio as Vettel punched the air after
taking the checkered flag.  Fire Frustration  Following his collision with Sutil, Webber climbed out
unharmed and was left staring at his burning car while race
marshals tried to reach the wreckage with fire extinguishers.
The Australian driver also had to contend with a puncture picked
up from the debris from the Perez incident.  “It was somewhat frustrating to see our car on fire for
what seemed to be an age,” Horner added.  Raikkonen’s runner-up spot, his eighth podium finish of the
year, lifted him above Hamilton into third place in the
standings. Vettel leads with 272 points ahead of Alonso (195),
Raikkonen (167) and Hamilton (161).  Alonso finished sixth yesterday to pick up eight
championship points.  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes was seventh ahead
of McLaren’s Jenson Button. Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  and Perez
rounded out the point-scoring positions.  Red Bull heads the constructors’ standings with 402 points,
118 more than Ferrari, and requires seven more to guarantee a
fourth straight team title. Mercedes is one point further back.  The Japanese Grand Prix, held at a Suzuka track Vettel
described as one of the highlights on the 19-race calendar, is
scheduled for Oct. 13.  “I think it’s the best track in the world,” said Vettel,
who’s won three of the past four races at the Japanese circuit
“The fans are crazy, completely crazy in a positive way, so I’m
really looking forward to  Japan .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  