-- Workers Using Their Own Mobile Devices Propel Globo Shares
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-07T08:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/workers-using-their-own-mobile-devices-propel-globo-stock-surge.html
Globo Plc (GBO)  is the top performer on
 London ’s FTSE AIM 100 Index this year as a surge in people
bringing their own mobile phones to work increases demand for
its software in markets from Asia to  Latin America .  The stock has almost quadrupled this year, giving the
Athens-based company a market value of 276 million pounds ($443
million). The number of bring-your-own-devices in the U.S.,
U.K.,  Germany , India, China and  Brazil  will climb to 405 million
by 2016 from 198 million this year, according to  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest maker of computer-networking equipment.  “We expect the BYOD trend to continue to accelerate, and
this gives us a very good push to offer our technologies in
different countries and in different market segments,” Globo
Chief Executive Officer Costis Papadimitrakopoulos said in a
phone interview from Athens. “We have managed to build
different offerings on this platform to attract different sizes
of customers.”  Globo secured contracts this year to develop mobile-phone
applications for companies including  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) ,  Dixons
Retail Plc (DXNS)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz luxury-car division.
First-half revenue from Globo’s Go!Enterprise product to build,
deploy and manage secure mobile applications for employees’ own
devices more than doubled from the previous six months to 10.2
million euros ($13.9 million), with sales in 16 countries.  The stock, which is traded in London, rose 0.3 percent to
81.25 pence as of 8:59 a.m., taking the advance to 292 percent
this year.  Dramatic Growth  BYOD is “a new sector,” Kostas Ntounas, an analyst at NBG
Securities SA in Athens, said in an interview. BlackBerry Ltd.,
a traditional supplier of business smartphones, “is now falling
apart and there is room for all these companies to grow going
forward.”  In February, Globo signed an agreement with  Ingram Micro
Inc. (IM) , the world’s largest technology distributer, to supply BYOD
products to U.S. retailers.  “Investors are really starting to focus on the fact that
international revenue is growing quite dramatically,” said
Darren Freemantle, who holds 700,000 shares in Globo for the
28.9 million-pound  MFM Techinvest Technology Fund. (CFTTECA)  “Looking
forward, it’s all about the BYOD market, where Globo has emerged
as a major player.”  Globo’s  total sales jumped  28 percent last year to 58.1
million euros, as Latin American revenue soared to 11.6 million
euros from 2.2 million euros, and Asian sales rose 72 percent to
10.6 million euros.  U.S. Competitors  Globo was founded in 1997 in  Greece , where sales fell 13
percent to 20.3 million euros last year. Globo divested part of
its Greek assets at the end of 2012 to focus on international
clients, and retains manufacturing in the country.  The company has gained exposure to emerging-market growth
through its CitronGo! and Go!Social brands, which help with
access to e-mail and social networks on non-smartphones,
Papadimitrakopoulos said. The systems contributed 17.9 million
euros of revenue in the first half, or 56 percent of the total,
and were sold in 32 counties.  Globo faces competition in the BYOD market, particularly
from the U.S., where companies such as Airwatch LLC, MobileIron
Inc. and Good Technology are seeking the same customers.  Globo’s share price may increase further if there’s an
initial public offering of Good Technology, Ntounas said.  Greek Divestment  “Globo still trades at a discount versus comparable
companies,” Ntounas said. “A Good Technology IPO will be a
benchmark in terms of valuation and multiples for Globo and may
cause the share price to rise.”  Good Technology was in talks with investment banks about a
potential IPO, the Wall Street Journal reported in March, citing
people familiar with the move. A spokeswoman for the company
described talk of a stock sale as “speculation,” when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  on Oct. 4.  At the end of last year, Globo divested 51 percent of a
Greek software operation.  “One of the things that was holding the company back over
the last year or two was its connection to Greece,” said
Freemantle of MFM Techinvest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  