-- WTI Declines as Gulf of Mexico Output Resumes After Storm
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-07T12:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/wti-crude-declines-as-gulf-of-mexico-output-resumes-after-storm.html
West Texas Intermediate declined as
oil production in the  Gulf of Mexico  resumed after Tropical
Storm Karen weakened and the U.S. came closer to breaching its
debt ceiling.  Futures slid as much as 1.3 percent after companies
including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  returned staff to platforms
as Karen was downgraded to a depression and passed offshore
facilities.House of Representatives Speaker  John Boehner  said
yesterday the chamber can’t pass an increase to the U.S. debt
ceiling without packaging it with other provisions, which
President  Barack Obama  has resisted. Shipments of North Sea
crudes will increase in November to the most in 21 months.  “When we had fear about a hurricane and missing supply in
the Gulf of Mexico, we had a reaction upwards, and now as this
fear wanes the price moves down,” said Frank Klumpp, an analyst
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany , who
predicts Brent will slide toward $100 a barrel by year-end.
“The market will continue to be supply-driven, and the larger
moves in price will come from supply factors.”  WTI for November delivery slipped as much as $1.34 to
$102.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. It was at $102.92 as of 1:19 p.m. London
time. The volume of all futures traded was about 34 percent
below the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement fell as much as $1.57 to
$107.89 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark was at a premium of $5.82 to
WTI, little changed from $5.62 on Oct. 4.  Loadings Increase  Brent futures dropped as loading programs showed a 10
percent gain in November supplies of the four grades that make
up the Dated Brent benchmark. Daily exports of Brent, Forties,
Oseberg and Ekofisk crudes will rise to 980,000 barrels next
month, from 890,323 in October, shipping schedules obtained by
 Bloomberg News  showed. That’s the most February 2012.  Brent’s premium over WTI will average $9 a barrel next year
as the U.S. Gulf Coast “progressively becomes saturated with
domestic light sweet crude,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
report today. The bank raised its estimate from $8.50.  Gulf Resumption  About 866,000 barrels a day of oil production from the Gulf
of Mexico and 48 percent of the region’s natural gas output, or
1.8 billion cubic feet daily, was shut as of Oct. 6, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  was resuming normal operations as it
returned workers to platforms, the company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port  planned to
resume tanker offloading, said Barbara Hestermann, a
spokeswoman. LOOP, the only U.S. port capable of handling ultra-large crude carriers, had suspended tanker operations, the
Covington, Louisiana-based company said on its website.  The remnants of Karen were located over southeastern
 Alabama , extending southward over the waters of the north-central Gulf, the National Hurricane Center said in a  bulletin 
at 8 p.m. New York time yesterday. The disturbance was moving
eastward at about 15 miles (24 kilometers) per hour with almost
no chance of reforming into a storm, the center said.  The failure of U.S. lawmakers to approve a budget and avert
a government shutdown last week is causing concern that they
won’t agree to raise the $16.7 trillion debt limit. The Obama
administration has said it won’t negotiate with Republicans over
funding the government or raising the ceiling, arguing that it’s
part of the basic functions of Congress and shouldn’t be used as
point of leverage.  “The signals are bearish for oil markets,” said Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Manaar Energy Consulting and
Project Management in Dubai. “The economic signals coming out
of the U.S. are bad.”  Boehner said on ABC’s “This Week” program yesterday that
he doesn’t intend to let the government default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  