-- Xi Seeks Political Solutions on Taiwan After Closer Trade Ties
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-10-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/xi-seeks-political-solutions-on-taiwan-after-closer-trade-ties.html
China  and  Taiwan  should resolve their
long-standing political disagreements, Chinese President Xi Jinping said yesterday, as he seeks to address a six-decade
division after forging closer economic ties.  China is willing to hold talks with Taiwan on an equal
basis under the “One China” principle, Xi said in a meeting
with Taiwanese envoy Vincent Siew while the two were attending
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Bali,  Indonesia ,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  “We cannot hand those problems down from generation to
generation,” Xi said, according to Xinhua.  China’s closer economic ties with Taiwan helped boost the
island’s growth as tourist spending surged and trade increased
under President Ma Ying-jeou’s administration. Ma must balance
improved relations with concerns that the mainland would
dominate its smaller neighbor.  “They want to remind the Taiwanese that they can’t deepen
economic ties without political negotiations forever,” Jean-Pierre Cabestan, political science professor at Hong Kong
Baptist University, said by telephone. “It shows a bit of a
gentle impatience.”  Civil groups across the  Taiwan Strait  will hold the first
peace forum Oct. 11 to 12 in  Shanghai , an initiative that is
supported by the Chinese government, which sees it as paving the
way for furthering formal political talks.  Siew, a former Taiwan vice president who is representing Ma
at the APEC meeting, told reporters yesterday in Bali that his
discussion with Xi focused on economic and trade cooperation and
regional integration.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  also met with Siew in
Bali to discuss steps both sides are taking to advance
“substantive unofficial relations” between the U.S. and
Taiwan, according to a separate State Department statement.  Mutual Trust  Improving mutual trust is key to ensuring peaceful
development of cross-strait relations, Xi said, according to
Xinhua. The two sides must also continue economic cooperation in
order to face challenges, he said.  Taiwan has had a separate government since Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalist Party retreated to the island in 1949
following a civil war with Mao Zedong’s Communists. The
Communist Party still deems Taiwan a breakaway province that
must be unified with China, by force if necessary.  China had more than 1,100 short-range ballistic missiles
aimed at Taiwan by the end of last year, according to the U.S.
Department of Defense’s Annual Report to Congress.  China’s top Taiwan affairs official, Zhang Zhijun, and his
Taiwanese counterpart, Wang Yu-chi, held discussions while Xi
and Siew were meeting and agreed to hold reciprocal visits,
according to Xinhua.  Since Taiwan opened for Chinese tourists in 2008, the
visitors spent NT$292.6 billion ($10 billion) as of June 30,
according to the Tourism Bureau. The two sides signed trade
pacts to allow each others’ companies greater access to services
markets.  Hong Kong  Xi also met separately with  Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung
Chun-ying, the city’s third leader since China took back
sovereignty from the U.K in 1997.  Xi told Leung that Hong Kong must follow its constitution
in implementing democratic reforms as it moves toward universal
suffrage.  Political reforms must follow the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s
mini-constitution, and the decisions of China’s National
People’s Congress Standing Committee, Leung said Xi told him.  China has pledged to introduce universal suffrage to Hong
Kong by 2017, while Leung and his two predecessors were chosen
by a committee. The city’s government has yet to reveal details
of the 2017 election and pro-democracy activists have vowed to
occupy the financial district next year if the proposals fall
short of international standards.  The Basic Law states that candidates for the chief
executive position have to be nominated by a “broadly
representative” committee, Zhang Xiaoming, director of China’s
Liaison Office in Hong Kong, wrote last month in an open letter
to Civic Party leader Alan Leong. Zhang’s comments were the
clearest China had made in rejecting activists’ demands for an
open nomination.  China’s “One Country, Two Systems” policy granted Hong
Kong its own legal system under the Basic Law for 50 years from
1997. The city allows residents civil liberties including a free
press and freedom of assembly not permitted in the mainland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  