-- Xi Says Hong Kong Political Reforms Must Follow Constitution
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-10-06T08:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/xi-says-hong-kong-political-reforms-must-follow-constitution.html
Hong Kong  must follow its
constitution in implementing democratic reforms, Chinese
President Xi Jinping told Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who
leads the city while it moves toward universal suffrage.  Political reforms must follow the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s
mini-constitution, and the decisions of  China ’s National
People’s Congress Standing Committee, Leung said Xi told him at
a meeting the two had while attending the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit in Bali,  Indonesia .  China has pledged to introduce universal suffrage to Hong
Kong by 2017, while Leung and his two predecessors were chosen
by a committee. The city’s government has yet to reveal details
of the 2017 election and pro-democracy activists have vowed to
occupy the financial district next year if the proposals fall
short of international standards.  The Basic Law states that candidates for the chief
executive position have to be nominated by a “broadly
representative” committee, Zhang Xiaoming, director of China’s
Liaison Office in Hong Kong, wrote last month in an open letter
to Civic Party leader Alan Leong. Zhang’s comments were the
clearest China had made in rejecting activists’ demands for an
open nomination.  Hugo Swire, a minister in the U.K.’s Foreign Office, last
month wrote in the  South China Morning Post  that his country
offers its support, and that it is important that the city’s
people have a “genuine choice.”  China, which took back sovereignty over Hong Kong from the
U.K. in 1997, said the city doesn’t need assistance from British
or any other foreign governments to bring in universal suffrage.  Xi today affirmed the Hong Kong government’s work, Leung
said, and he briefed Xi on its plans to boost economic
development by forging closer domestic and international ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  