-- Dollar Slides Versus Yen as U.S. Debt Limit Looms; Rupee Weakens
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-07T21:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/yen-climbs-against-peers-as-u-s-debt-limit-spurs-safety-demand.html
The dollar sank to its lowest level
in eight weeks against the yen amid concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling and
keep the nation from defaulting.  Switzerland ’s franc gained versus the greenback after
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday Congress must
boost the debt limit by Oct. 17 or the U.S. may be unable to pay
its bills. The partial government shutdown persisted for a
seventh day. The euro rose versus the dollar even as confidence
in the 17-nation region waned.  India ’s rupee slid as the central
bank made its second  interest-rate  cut in a month.  “Dollar-yen is basically the only game in town,” Brad Bechtel, a managing director at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “The government
shutdown and debt-limit issues are keeping players on the
sidelines. People are using dollar-yen as the primary hedge
vehicle to express any risk associated with that.”  The dollar lost 0.8 percent to 96.71 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time and touched 96.67 yen, its weakest level since Aug. 12. The
Japanese currency added 0.6 percent to 131.32 per euro. The
franc appreciated 0.5 percent to 90.29 centimes per dollar, and
the euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3581.  The yen strengthened beyond its 200-day moving average
versus the greenback for the first time since November. The
technical indicator, which some currency traders see as a
potential turning point, was at 96.68. The yen tends to gain
during periods of financial and economic turmoil because  Japan 
isn’t reliant on foreign capital to fund its deficits.  Stocks fell, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declining
0.9 percent.  Lower Volume  Currency swings as measured by the JPMorgan Global
Volatility Index fell to as low as 8.76 on Oct. 4, the least
since May 9. It was 8.79 today, versus a 2013 average of 9.38.  The  Indian rupee  declined versus all of its 31 most-traded
counterparts as the  Reserve Bank  of India cut an interest rate,
taking advantage of a recent climb in the rupee to ease a cash
squeeze imposed to support the currency. It slid 0.6 percent to
61.7950 per dollar after falling 0.8 percent, the most on an
intraday basis since Sept. 20, to 61.9550.  Sterling gained versus most of its major peers after a
report showed optimism in the U.K.’s financial industry reached
a 17-year high in the third quarter, underlining the strength of
the British economy. Sterling rose 0.5 percent to $1.6097 after
increasing as much as 0.6 percent, the most since Sept. 27.  The dollar will resume its advance after an accord on the
debt ceiling is reached, gaining to 100 yen to 105 yen by year-end, said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
103 yen at year-end and 105 by the end of the first quarter.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “There were some expectations that  Washington  would get a
bit closer to a deal over the weekend, and markets may be
disappointed more progress wasn’t made,” Brian Daingerfield, a
Stamford, Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said in a phone
interview. “This is weakening the dollar amid  risk aversion .”  President  Barack Obama  reiterated today he won’t negotiate
with Republicans “under the threat of economic catastrophe.”
He spoke during a visit to the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  in Washington. Lew said yesterday on CNN that “Congress
is playing with fire” and renewed his call for extending the
$16.7 trillion debt limit.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday on ABC the nation
may be headed for default if Obama won’t negotiate. The House
can’t pass an increase to the debt ceiling without packaging it
with other provisions, he said.  Currencies Gauge  The dollar fell 2.7 percent in the past month, the worst
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen declined 0.2
percent, while the franc rose 1.4 percent and the euro gained
0.6 percent. The pound advanced 0.5 percent.  The most accurate foreign-exchange forecaster in the past
quarter predicts the U.S. currency will rebound against the euro
and pound. Hendrix Vachon, an economist and currency strategist
at Desjardins Group, a Canadian credit union, foresees a quick
resolution to the congressional standoff that will help the
greenback rally, as U.S. growth outpaces  Europe .  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, fell 0.2 percent to 1,008.13, the
sixth decline in seven days.  Europe’s common currency traded at almost its strongest
level since February against the dollar. It reached that level,
$1.3646, on Oct. 3.  Confidence Falls  An index measuring investor  confidence  in the euro region
fell to 6.1 this month from 6.5 in September, the Limburg,
Germany-based Sentix research institute said in an e-mailed
statement. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted
an increase to 8.5.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $20 billion, from $23 billion on Oct. 4, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.9 billion, the largest share of
trades at 24 percent. Options on euro-dollar rate totaled $2.9
billion, or 14 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 52 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
98 percent above average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  