-- Typhoon Fitow Slams Okinawa on Way to China Followed by Danas
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2013-10-06T07:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-06/typhoon-fitow-slams-okinawa-on-way-to-china-followed-by-danas.html
Winds gusting to 55 meters per second
(125 miles per hour) halted air traffic and caused power outages
on Okinawa’s Miyakojima island as Typhoon Fitow blew through on
course for northern  Taiwan  and  China ’s coast, with a second
storm following close behind.  Taiwan’s  Central Weather Bureau  hoisted a typhoon warning
as Fitow neared the island’s north coast today, while Chinese
maritime authorities issued red alerts, the highest level, for
storm tides and waves, Xinhua News Agency reported.  Fitow  was heading west-northwest at about 20 kilometers per
hour, some 220 miles (350 kilometers) north of Taipei at 1 p.m.
Japan time, the Japan Meteorological Agency reported. Its
central atmospheric pressure was 960 hectopascals with maximum
sustained winds of 40 meters per second.  Typhoon  Danas , with a central pressure of 970 hectopascals,
was about 650 miles southwest of Okinawa’s main island, moving
west-northwest at 35 kilometers per hour, according to JMA. The
storm is forecast to curve northward after passing over Okinawa
tomorrow, brushing past the southwest coast of Kyushu and
southern South Korea before turning northeast through the Sea of
 Japan .  Fitow caused blackouts of 6,800 homes in Miyakojima city,
public broadcaster NHK reported. It also forced delays and
cancellations of some flights to and from Okinawa,  All Nippon
Airways Co.  and  Japan Airlines Co.  said on their websites today.  Fitow is forecast to make landfall between east China’s
Fujian and Zhejiang provinces tomorrow morning, Xinhua said.
Storm tides are expected to rise as much as 2 meters above
normal along the coast, Xinhua said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  