-- ‘Love Hormone’ Promises Safer Births After Pfizer Flop
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-05-20T22:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/-love-hormone-promises-safer-births-after-pfizer-flop.html
A hormone treatment based on
technology used in  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc.’s failed inhalable insulin shows
promise in fighting the leading cause of maternal mortality.  Six years after Pfizer pulled Exubera from the market at a
cost of more than $2.8 billion, scientists at  Melbourne ’s  Monash
University  are revisiting the inhalable technology to deliver a
life-saving medicine to stop post-delivery hemorrhage.  The  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  is  backing  the effort
to produce a better way to give oxytocin, a brain chemical that
helps the uterus contract after birth and is sometimes referred
to as the “love hormone” because of its role in orgasm and
bonding. The project is one of several testing inhalations to
deliver medicines, salvaging the know-how of a product that was
taken off the market after just 14 months of lackluster sales.  “Exubera was the first generation,” said John Patton, one
of the original inventors of Pfizer’s inhaled insulin technology
system. “When you’re first, you take a lot of bullets. With the
developments in the industry, it’s just a matter of time before
we will be inhaling lots of medicine.”  The lead scientist for the Monash project,  Michelle
McIntosh , says her group plans to start testing a dry-powdered
form of oxytocin by early 2014. Patton’s company  Dance Biopharm
Inc. , is working on an inhaled insulin, as is  Mannkind Corp. (MNKD) ,
the biotech company founded by billionaire investor  Alfred Mann .  Stopping Death  Inhalations may not only avoid unpleasant injections. In
the case of oxytocin, the need for refrigerated storage and
sterile needles has limited the hormone’s use in  Africa , where
post-partum hemorrhage, the primary cause of almost a quarter of
maternal deaths globally, is most frequent. Inhalers get around
that problem.  “The injection works extremely well,” said McIntosh, the
Monash scientist, in a telephone interview. “But in some parts
of the world, the injection just isn’t always available.”  The Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences got more
than  $1 million  from the Gates Foundation to develop a method
for delivering oxytocin via a disposable inhaler that requires
no specific training or refrigeration. Fewer than half of births
in Africa are attended by someone skilled in midwifery,
according to the  World Health Organization .  Oxytocin is an  essential medicine  that countries should
stockpile, says the WHO, which  recommends  the hormone be offered
to all women during childbirth to prevent hemorrhage, or the
loss of more than a pint of blood. The highest  prevalence  is in
Africa, where about 10.5 percent of women encounter excessive
bleeding after childbirth, according to the Geneva-based agency.  Scientists’ Challenge  Used preventively, oxytocin can cut the rate of post-delivery bleeding complications by half by causing muscles in
the uterus to contract, closing off damaged blood vessels.
McIntosh’s group plans to start testing their product in 18
healthy volunteers in  Australia  by early next year, she said.  Doctors already use inhaled products to address respiratory
conditions such as asthma and influenza. The delivery system
also has potential to help with  weight loss  and pain, according
to Dance Biopharm’s Patton.  The challenge for scientists is to come up with a dry-powdered formulation of liquid drugs that can be absorbed into
the bloodstream via the tiny blood vessels in the lungs without
losing potency.  “The door is open -- it’s the engineering that needs to be
done to get these aerosols in,” Patton said. His former
company,  Nektar Therapeutics (NKTR)  Inc., worked with Pfizer on Exubera
until 2007. The 66-year-old scientist is now chief executive
officer of Dance Biopharm in  San Francisco .  No Needles  In the case of insulin, the hormone diabetics need to
prevent sugar from pooling in their blood, the goal for a
company like Valencia, California-based Mannkind is to make the
inhaled drug better than the shot.  Mannkind, which has seen its stock price more than  double 
this year, is slated to report results of late-stage tests in
August involving Afrezza, an insulin taken at mealtime from a
whistle-sized inhaler. Mannkind  rose  2.3 percent to $5.31, the
highest since Feb. 8, 2011, in Nasdaq trading today.  The product has the potential to “revolutionize the
treatment of diabetes” because the inhaled hormone acts faster
to control blood-sugar levels, Chief Financial Officer Matthew Pfeffer said in a telephone interview.  Pfizer’s Exubera, by contrast, “was relatively crude by
today’s standards,” he said. “From the perspective of a
diabetic, the only thing it offered was a way to avoid
injection.”  Hairspray Can  The science may be especially useful for drugs based on
short chains of amino acids, known as peptides, which help
regulate bodily functions such as metabolism. Peptides are
denatured by gastric enzymes, making them difficult to
administer in pill form, according to Patton.  “The deep lung is the one place that can get these things
into the body without using a needle,” he said.  That advantage is what first persuaded Pfizer in 1995 to
partner with Patton’s company on Exubera. But patients were
dissuaded from switching over because the product was bulky --
about the  size  of a hairspray can -- cost more, and worked no
better than its injected predecessor.  Pfizer is no longer developing inhaled insulin. The company
“will continue to evaluate inhaled approaches in inflammatory
conditions affecting the lungs,” Trupti Wagh, a Singapore-based
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. At the time,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and
 Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  also dropped experimental inhaled insulins.  “When Exubera was pulled, it was a huge hit to the whole
inhaled-drug industry,” Patton said. “Today, with developments
from groups such as Mannkind and the Australian oxytocin
research team, it’s all coming back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  