-- ‘Star Trek’ Sequel Is Top Weekend Film With $70.6 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-19T19:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/-star-trek-sequel-opens-as-top-weekend-film-with-70-6-million.html
“Star Trek Into Darkness,” the
second film in J.J. Abrams reboot of the venerable film
franchise, was the top movie at U.S. and Canadian theaters this
weekend, taking in $70.6 million for Paramount Pictures.  “Iron Man 3” dropped to second place with sales of $35.2
million, after two weeks in the top spot,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in a statement. The film from Walt Disney
Co.’s Marvel has generated $1.07 billion worldwide since it
opened on May 3.  The two movies have helped to re-energize the box office at
the start of the summer movie season, which stretches to
September. Next weekend, two more high-grossing franchises
return to theaters -- “The Hangover III,” from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. unit, and “Fast & Furious 6,” from  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures.  While “Star Trek” had a “strong opening by normal
standards, more was expected,” said Phil Contrino, chief
analyst for researcher BoxOffice.com.  “The lesson here is that Hollywood needs to spread out
movies more,” he said. “Right now you have big title after big
title opening back to back, and when that happens, some of the
movies will naturally be hurt.”  Sales Down  U.S. and Canadian movie sales have picked up since April,
thanks to such films as “Iron Man 3” and “The Great Gatsby,”
though they have failed to match the pace set by  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s record-breaking “The Avengers” last year. Year-to-date
sales of $3.6 billion are down 11 percent, compared with a year
earlier, according to  Hollywood.com , another researcher.  “Star Trek Into Darkness,” made for about  $190 million ,
opened on May 16, a day earlier than originally planned, and
took in $84.1 million over those four days. It was forecast to
take about $100 million in that period, the estimate of
 Boxoffice.com .  The three-day forecast for the movie, from May 17, was for
$85 million, according to the researcher. The film’s debut was
moved forward to capture a larger share of college students
recently returned home for the summer, a studio spokeswoman said
last week.  “Star Trek,” Abrams’ first reboot of the sci-fi franchise
in 2009, was also made by Paramount, a unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  It
generated $257.7 million domestically and had a worldwide total
of $385.7 million, according to  Box Office Mojo , another
researcher.  ‘Great Gatsby’  In the sequel, the USS Enterprise is sent to battle an
ingenious villain, played by Benedict Cumberbatch, following a
devastating surprise attack on Starfleet. Chris Pine returns as
the younger version of Captain James T. Kirk and Zachary Quinto
again plays Spock. The picture won positive ratings in 87
percent of 199 reviews surveyed by the website
 Rottentomatoes.com .  “Star Trek Into Darkness” was the only new film opening
in wide release this weekend.  In “Iron Man 3,” the ingenuity and confidence of Downey’s
billionaire industrialist character, Tony Stark, are tested
after a surprise attack destroys his laboratory and the armored
suits he dons to become Iron Man.  Ben Kingsley stars as The Mandarin, the apparent terrorist
who threatens the world order. Don Cheadle returns as Stark’s
friend, James Rhodes, and Gwyneth Paltrow reprises her role as
Pepper Potts.  Among other returning films, “The Great Gatsby,” from
Warner Bros. and Village Roadshow Pictures, dropped to third
from second place with $23.4 million.  ‘The Croods’  The film, director Baz Luhrmann’s interpretation of the F.
Scott Fitzgerald novel about unrequited love set in the Roaring
’20s, has taken in $90.2 million since it opened on May 10. The
movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio as the enigmatic Gatsby and Carey
Mulligan as Daisy Buchanan, the object of his obsession.  “‘Gatsby’s’ continued success speaks volumes about the
kind of movie that can perform well in the summer movie
season,” Contrino said. “It doesn’t just have to be superhero
and action films that do well. There is an audience for serious
films even in the summer.”  Paramount’s “Pain & Gain” finished fourth with $3.1
million, followed by Fox’s “The Croods,” whose receipts
totaled $2.75 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 8.1 percent to
$146.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance is down 11 percent year to date.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
17 and May 18 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  