-- Aldar Properties, Sorouh Surge Most Since 2005: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-05-19T13:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/aldar-properties-sorouh-surge-most-since-2005-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and Sorouh Real
Estate PJSC, the Abu Dhabi companies set to merge next months,
soared the most in almost eight years.  Aldar surged 15 percent, the most since September 2005, to
1.95 dirhams as trading volume of the shares jumped to almost
five times the three-month daily average. Sorouh, the smaller of
the two, also gained 15 percent, the most since the stock was
listed in December 2005. Trading volumes soared almost six fold.
The benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 1.4 percent to the
highest since October 2008. The measure has rallied 35 percent
this year.  Shares in the United Arab Emirates are advancing, with
Dubai’s benchmark climbing 45 percent this year, as the economy
and property prices recover. Shares of Dubai-based  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES)  have more than doubled this year and are up 16 percent this
month, while those of National Bank of Abu Dhabi are up 32
percent in 2013.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the
world’s tallest tower, gained 3.5 percent as it rose for a
fourth day.  Stocks of large companies in Dubai have witnessed a lot of
activity in the past few weeks without news that would justify
the moves, said Fadi Al Said, a senior fund manager at ING
Investment Management in Dubai. It seems speculative investors
are now focusing on large companies in Abu Dhabi as “the
momentum in the U.A.E. markets is encouraging speculators.”  A spokesman for Aldar, who asked not to be identified in
line with company policy, said the developer had no comment and
hadn’t announced any developments that would result in the
share’s surge. A spokesman for  Sorouh (SOROUH)  didn’t immediately respond
to calls seeking comment.  Regulatory changes in neighboring  Saudi Arabia (SASEIDX)  may have led
to the increased activity in the U.A.E.’s markets, said Al Said.
Saudi Arabia’s Capital Market Authority’s board on May 13 issued
a resolution to limit the stock price fluctuation on the first
trading day of a share to 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  