-- Aquino’s New Philippine Senate Majority Boosts Political Mandate
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/aquino-s-new-philippine-senate-majority-boosts-political-mandate.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
won control of the 24-member Senate in mid-term elections,
giving him a political boost as he starts the process of
choosing his successor.  Candidates backed by Aquino, who’s halfway through his
single six-year term, won nine of 12 Senate seats contested in
the May 13 vote, according to the  official results , meaning his
allies now hold 13 seats in the upper house. Aquino’s  Liberal
Party  continued to be the single-biggest bloc in the  House of
Representatives .  Aquino, who has overseen an  economic revival  during his
three years in office, wants a tighter grip on the Senate to
push for stronger anti-graft measures, speedier trials and a
more efficient procurement system. The 53-year-old leader is now
in a better position to anoint a successor who will continue his
reforms, Joseph Abaya, who heads the Liberal Party, said in a
mobile-phone message.  “Aquino’s endorsement power allowed his candidates to win
by a wide margin in both national and local posts,” said  Ramon Casiple ,  executive director  at the Institute for Political and
Electoral Reform. “He needs to continue his anti-poverty and
anti-corruption agenda to maintain his popularity, while
anointing somebody who also has a good image.”  Senators are elected nationally, while the House, which has
more than 280 members, is chosen from candidates representing
local districts. Bills must pass both houses.  Fresh Mandate  Even without a Senate majority, Aquino has managed to enact
key bills such as raising tobacco and liquor taxes and providing
free contraception. He also ousted the country’s top judge,
appointed by his predecessor  Gloria Arroyo , for illegally
concealing his wealth.  “With the fresh, strong mandate, the president is in a
better position to implement more reforms to cement his
legacy,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at  BDO
Unibank Inc. (BDO)  in Manila. “He can fix the mining issue, open more
sectors to foreign investors and give a clearer signal that the
 Philippines  is open for business.”  The constitution reserves ownership of land and media to
Filipinos and restricts foreign stakes in public utilities to 40
percent. In July, Aquino expanded a mining ban and suspended new
projects until he has convinced Congress to approve a higher
government share in resource deals. Xstrata Plc’s stalled $5.9
billion gold and copper Tampakan project in South Cotabato would
be the nation’s biggest foreign investment.  Formidable Opposition  Aquino said in a May 8 interview that he wants to reduce
the number of Filipinos who work abroad, and the bureaus of
customs, immigration and corrections will be on his radar after
the elections. Almost 1.7 million Filipinos working overseas
remit about $20 billion a year. There are more than 85,000 in
 Taiwan , which this month threatened to ban the hiring of
Filipinos after one of its fishermen was killed by a Philippine
anti-illegal fishing patrol.  The election also showed that Aquino’s political opponents,
including Vice President and 2016 presidential hopeful Jejomar Binay, could be a formidable force, said Nicole Curato, a
sociology professor at the University of the Philippines.
Binay’s daughter Nancy, who has no previous government
experience, finished No. 5 in the Senate race.  “His daughter Nancy’s win in the Senate indicates broad
public support for the Binay brand,” Curato said.  ‘Anointed One’  Joseph Victor “JV” Ejercito, son of ousted president
 Joseph Estrada , will join half-brother Jinggoy Estrada in the
Senate. Estrada, ousted in 2001 for corruption, is now the mayor
of Manila City.  Aquino’s “chosen candidate will be the man to beat,”
GlobalSource Partners wrote in a May 16 research note. “Within
the Liberal Party, Interior Secretary Mar Roxas, who yielded to
him as the party’s nominee for the presidency three years ago,
is currently the likely anointed one.”  If Roxas drops out, other possible candidates are re-elected Senators Francis Escudero, Alan Peter Cayetano, and
political neophyte Grace Poe, GlobalSource said in the note.  Once known as the ‘Sick Man of  Asia ’ due to its sluggish
economic performance, the Philippines expanded at the fastest
pace in the region last year after  China . It has been rewarded
with investment-grade credit ratings from Fitch Ratings Ltd. and
Standard & Poor’s this year, helping push the  Philippine Stock
Exchange (PCOMP)  Index to a record high this month. The peso has gained
4.2 percent against the dollar in the past 12 months, Asia’s
second-best performer.  Jobless Rate  The economic growth masks unemployment and poverty levels
that have remained almost unchanged since Aquino took office.
The jobless rate rose to 7.1 percent in January, according to
government data released in March, among the highest in the
Asia-Pacific.  “Almost all the reforms Aquino started require time, so
these need to be continued by his successor,” said Casiple at
the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform. “Otherwise he
will be remembered in history as somebody who started something
and didn’t finish it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  