-- Blankfein Tells Welt Euro Breakup Risk Is Lower Than a Year Ago
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-05-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/blankfein-tells-welt-euro-breakup-risk-is-lower-than-a-year-ago.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein told a German newspaper the
risk of a euro-region breakup or member country bankruptcy is
lower than a year ago as the political will behind the common
currency remains intact.  Blankfein told the Berlin-based  Welt am Sonntag  newspaper
in an interview published today that economically stronger
European nations will need to prop up their weaker neighbors.
The New York-based bank chief drew comparisons with the U.S.
economy, citing the American South’s transition from an agrarian
economy to a site for industry.  “Americans have a history of underestimating the political
will of the Europeans to see through the successful creation of
a united Europe,” Blankfein said, according to an e-mailed
transcript of the interview in English. “I’m not going to make
the same mistake.”  The sovereign debt crisis is set to cause a second
consecutive year of recession in the euro region, with  France 
slipping into recession and the German economy expanding less
than expected in the first quarter. Debate among member
countries is shifting from cost-cutting to pro-growth policies.  “It would be extremely bad for Europe and the rest of the
world if the European experiment were to fail,” Blankfein, 58,
was quoted as saying.  In the interview, he defended the role of large, global
banks, saying that size allows for a more diversified business
and that “a big bank doesn’t go bankrupt if it loses $1
billion.”  Proprietary Trading  The European Union is weighing how far to go in forcing a
breakup of large lenders by shifting some of their trading
activities into separately capitalized units, according to a
copy of the plans published on the European Commission website
on May 17. One version of the plan would funnel higher-risk
activities such as private-equity investments into a trading
entity that is legally separate from other parts of the bank.  Meanwhile, in  Germany , Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government plans to force banks to separate proprietary trading
from commercial banking units starting in 2017.  Segregating proprietary trading in a way similar to that
envisioned in the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker rule doesn’t solve
banks’ risks either, Blankfein was quoted as saying.  “It creates new problems of its own,” Welt quoted him as
saying. “I cannot recommend the Volcker rule to Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  