-- Senators Beat Penguins in Two Overtimes After Bruins Top Rangers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-20T05:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/bruins-beat-rangers-5-2-to-lead-nhl-playoff-series-2-0-in-games.html
The  Ottawa Senators  rallied to beat
the top-seeded Pittsburgh Penguins 2-1 in two overtimes after
being half a minute away from a three-games-to-none deficit in
their National Hockey League playoff series.  The Senators trailed 1-0 and were a man down when  Daniel Alfredsson  scored a shorthanded goal with 29 seconds left in the
third period last night in Ottawa. Colin Greening then scored
the winner for Ottawa 7:39 into the second overtime, the longest
game so far of the NHL’s postseason.  “We had a lot of energy from our fans, rallied around our
troops and we found a way,” Senators goaltender Craig Anderson,
who made 49 saves, said in a television interview.  The Senators’ win came after the  Boston Bruins  beat the  New
York  Rangers 5-2 for a two-games-to-none lead in the NHL’s other
Eastern Conference semifinal series.  The Detroit Red Wings host the Chicago Blackhawks tonight
in Game 3 of their Western Conference series, which is tied at
one game apiece. The  San Jose Sharks  host the defending Stanley
Cup-champion Los Angeles Kings tomorrow trailing 2-1 in games.
All series are best-of-seven.  The Penguins went ahead 1-0 on a second-period goal from
Tyler Kennedy and appeared to be on the verge of taking a
commanding series lead when Ottawa’s Erik Karlsson was sent off
for a slashing penalty with 1:27 left in the third period.  “You like to think that you can hold onto the puck for the
last 1:27 with the power play, but that wasn’t the case and they
came up with the huge goal,” Penguins coach Dan Bylsma said at
his postgame news conference.  Tying Goal  Ottawa gained control of the puck, with Milan Michalek and
Sergei Gonchar bringing it up ice and sending a pass in front of
the net to Alfredsson, who flipped it over the shoulder of
Penguins goalie Tomas Vokoun.  In the second overtime, Vokoun stopped a wrist shot by
Andre Benoit before Greening sent a backhanded shot into the net
for the winning goal.  Ottawa will also host Game 4 on May 22.  The Bruins-Rangers series heads to New York’s Madison
Square Garden for Game 3 tomorrow.  Boston  snapped a 2-2 tie at home yesterday on Johnny
Boychuck’s goal midway through the second period.  Brad Marchand 
and Milan Lucic added third-period goals for the Bruins, the
fourth seed in the East.  Torey Krug and Gregory Campbell also scored for Boston,
while  Ryan Callahan  and Rick Nash had goals for the Rangers, who
went 0-for-5 on the power play. New York is 0-for-21 with a man
advantage on the road this postseason and has two power-play
goals in 36 chances overall in the playoffs.  “It’s frustrating,” Nash said. “That’s when you’re
supposed to crawl back into a game or take a lead. It’s on the
players and the guys out there to execute.”  The Rangers are now 1-5 on the road this postseason. They
also lost their first two games in  Washington  in their previous
playoff series before recovering to win in seven games.  “We’ll be excited to get home and play in front of our
fans,” Nash told reporters. “We’ll look forward to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  