-- Cape Town Soccer World Cup Ground Seeks Rugby Rescue
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-05-20T12:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/cape-town-soccer-world-cup-ground-seeks-rugby-rescue.html
Cape Town is hoping to attract sport
teams and nightclubs to the rarely used, loss-making stadium it
built for the 2010 soccer  World Cup , according to Councilor
Grant Pascoe.  “We are looking at an anchor tenant, which will be one of
the bigger sports, so that’s rugby,” Pascoe said in a phone
interview on May 17. “We’re also looking at the possibility of
some nightclubs to be accommodated within that precinct, which
will help lower the cost of the stadium.”  The local Cape Town council is trying to find tenants and
uses for the 68,000-capacity Cape Town Stadium, which cost 4.5
billion rand ($479 million) to build and hosted eight World Cup
matches including the semi-final between the Netherlands and
Uruguay. The city is trying to lift restrictions on the stadium
that prevent commercial activity on non-event days, Pascoe said.  Ajax  Cape Town , a local soccer team, played South African
Premiership champions Kaizer Chiefs at the arena on May 1, while
the stadium also hosted teenage pop star Justin Bieber’s sell-out concert on May 8. Pop singer Rhianna is scheduled to play
three dates at the venue in October.  The Western Stormers rugby team are the city’s biggest
sporting attraction and play matches in a different part of the
coastal city at the 51,900-capacity Newlands Stadium, which
hosted its first match in 1890 and is the world’s third-oldest
rugby stadium.  Cape Town Stadium cost 56 million rand to operate in its
most recent financial year and generated income of 14 million
rand, Pascoe said. Even if the city gets regular tenants for the
stadium, it will probably still be unprofitable, he said.  Break Even  “We’re hoping to break even, but I think we’re looking at
a 5 percent operating cost we would be happy to accept,” the
councilor said. “Maximum 10 percent if that’s tolerable for the
rate payer. But that stadium needs to start paying for itself.”  The search for different users for Cape Town stadium could
echo the use of the U.K.’s Wembley stadium, which will host
National Football League matches between the Pittsburgh Steelers
and  Minnesota Vikings  in September and the San Francisco 49ers
versus  Jacksonville Jaguars  in October.  Ajax Cape Town defeated Durban-based Golden Arrows 3-0 on
May 18 to keep hold of 14th place in  South Africa ’s 16-team
 Premier League .  A spokesman for the Western Stormers, which plays in the
Super 15 rugby tournament against teams from  New Zealand  and
 Australia  as well as South Africa, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  