-- Chelsea Grabs Third in Premier League as Arsenal Holds Off Spurs
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-19T23:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/chelsea-grabs-third-in-premier-league-as-arsenal-holds-off-spurs.html
Chelsea defeated Everton 2-1 at home
to clinch third place in English soccer’s Premier League while
Arsenal’s 1-0 victory at Newcastle allowed the Gunners to grab
the final Champions League spot.  Juan Mata scored in the seventh minute and Everton’s Steven Naismith tied yesterday’s match seven minutes later. Fernando Torres scored his first league goal since December in the 76th
minute to earn the win for Chelsea.  It was the last game for Rafael Benitez, who became interim
manager at Chelsea in November and won the Europa League title.
Blues fans didn’t warm to the former Liverpool coach and he said
in February that he would depart after the season.  “It’s not just what we achieved, it’s the team we achieved
these things with,” Benitez said. “It’s a team in transition
with young players and a lot of circumstances surrounding it.”  Arsenal needed to win to ensure a spot in the Champions
League, Europe’s top club competition, for the 16th straight
season. The victory at Newcastle secured fourth place, one point
ahead of north London rival Tottenham, which will play in the
Europa League next season.  The Gunners took the lead when defender Laurent Koscielny
volleyed Theo Walcott’s free kick into the net in the 52nd
minute. Walcott hit the post in stoppage time.  “It’s the most nervous I’ve ever been,” Walcott said.
“We had to dig deep.”  Bale Scores  At White Hart Lane, Spurs needed to beat Sunderland to have
any chance of finishing ahead of Arsenal in the standings. The
visiting team was reduced to 10 men with 15 minutes left when
David Vaughan was shown the red card. Tottenham couldn’t take
advantage until the 90th minute when Gareth Bale scored his 21st
league goal of the season.  Also on the last day, champion Manchester United twice blew
a three-goal lead in drawing 5-5 at West Brom in Alex Ferguson’s
1,500th and final match in charge. Romelu Lukaku’s hat trick
helped West Brom earn the home draw .  Shinji Kagawa, Alexander Buttner and an own-goal from Jonas
Olsson gave United a 3-0 lead, before James Morrison was able to
pull one back. Lukaku scored in the 50th, 81st and 86th minutes
with Youssouf Mulumbu scoring in the 81st as well. Robin van Persie and Javier Hernandez got United’s other goals in the
first 5-5 draw since the Premier League began in 1992.  Memorable Finish  “He is going to remember this game,” Hernandez said of
Ferguson. “It’s probably the first time United have been 5-2
ahead and not won.”  Manchester City, last season’s champion, lost 3-2 at home
to Norwich six days after firing manager Roberto Mancini.  Jack
Rodwell  scored twice for City, which gave up goals to Anthony
Pilkington, Grant Holt and Jonathan Howson.  Liverpool beat Queens Park Rangers 1-0 on a 23rd-minute
goal by Phillippe Coutinho, while Southampton came back with a
Rickie Lambert goal to tie Stoke 1-1 at home.  Kevin Nolan scored a hat trick to propel West Ham to a 4-2
home win against Reading, while Fulham won 3-0 at Swansea as
Alex Kacaniklic, Dimitar Berbatov and Urby Emanuelson scored.
Wigan Athletic and Aston Villa drew 2-2.  F.A. Cup champion Wigan, Reading and Queens Park Rangers
had already been assured of dropping out of the 20-team elite
division entering the final day of the season.  Cardiff City and Hull City won Premier League promotion by
finishing first and second in the Championship. Watford and
Crystal Palace playoff for the other berth May 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  