-- Danone Invests in Mengniu as Chinese Demand Food Safety
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-20T10:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/danone-unit-to-take-8-3-stake-in-mengniu-to-expand-in-china.html
Danone (BN) , owner of Activia yogurt and
Evian water, will spend about 325 million euros ($417 million)
to form a joint venture and invest in China’s biggest dairy
producer to expand its brands in the most populous nation.  Danone will have an initial indirect interest of about 4
percent in  China Mengniu Dairy Co. (2319) , with the aim of increasing
that in the future, the Paris-based company said in a statement
today. It will also set up a venture with Mengniu for yogurt
products in China. Mengniu shares surged the most in four years.  The tie-up will help Danone boost sales in China’s yogurt
market, which Euromonitor International estimates will grow 57
percent to 71.6 billion  yuan  ($11.7 billion) by 2015. Mengniu
gains the investment as food scandals including contaminated
baby formula, rat meat sold as mutton, and excessive antibiotics
in chicken have fueled demand for better quality control in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “The deal will help strengthen the research and
development and capability of Mengniu’s yogurt business, and
potentially help them increase market share in China,” said
Charlie Chen, a Hong Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas
Securities Asia. “Through its ventures with Arla and Danone,
Mengniu is also building a better brand image among consumers.”  Market Share  Mengniu closed 10.4 percent higher at HK$27.05 in Hong Kong
trading today, the biggest gain since April 14, 2009. It formed
a strategic partnership with Danish dairy firm Arla Foods in
2012 to improve quality inspection techniques and explore
further co-operation. Danone shares were little changed at 58.03
euros as of 12:16 p.m. local time.  Today’s agreement is the first partnership for the French
company in China since the end of the one with Chinese drinks
maker Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co. in 2009, Agnes Berthet-d’Anthonay, a spokeswoman for Danone, said today. The companies
were embroiled in more than 30 lawsuits as Danone accused Wahaha
Chairman  Zong Qinghou , now China’s richest man, of unlawfully
selling Wahaha-branded juice and tea outside their partnership.  Mengniu and Danone first disclosed plans to form a venture
to sell yogurt products in China in 2006, the Danone spokeswoman
said. The companies terminated the tie-up a year later due to
“administrative reasons” and left the door open for future
collaboration, she said.  The local partnership will increase the reach of Danone
brands in China, the Paris-based company’s Chief Executive
Officer Franck Riboud said in a statement today. It will own 20
percent of the yogurt venture with the rest owned by Mengniu,
according to the statement.  Market Share  Mengniu had a 16.8 percent market share in  China ’s yogurt
market in 2012, with Danone holding a 1.6 percent share,
according to Euromonitor.  Danone will benefit from Mengniu’s extensive distribution
channels in China, and also possibly gain access to the Chinese
dairy company’s production bases there, said Olive Xia, an
analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd. in  Shanghai .  Danone, which sells Activia yogurt under the brand Bio and
Dumex infant formula in China, operates 22 factories and employs
about 10,000 employees in the country, according to its official
 website . The Asian nation formed about 6 percent of the group’s
consolidated sales in 2012, its fourth-largest market after
 Russia ,  France  and the U.S., according to the company’s 2012
annual report.  Food Safety  Danone Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said
last month that its first-quarter baby-nutrition revenue jumped
17 percent led by a need for “safety” in China and that
exporting more from Europe to China isn’t sustainable.  Food quality and safety incidents affected  consumer
confidence  and sales, Mengniu said in a March 27 statement. In
2008, Mengniu was among the 22 dairy companies found to have
sold products containing melamine, a toxic chemical used to make
plastics. The tainted milk killed at least six babies.  In 2011, the company said moldy cattle feed led to
excessive toxin levels in its milk. Since then, the Hohhot,
Inner Mongolia-based company has run marketing campaigns
emphasizing product quality to draw consumers back.  Under the agreement announced today, Prominent Achiever
Ltd., a venture 49 percent owned by Danone, will acquire an 8.3
percent stake from Mengniu’s biggest shareholder COFCO,
according to a  filing  to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today.
COFCO, the Chinese state-backed agricultural and food industry
supplier, owns 51 percent of Prominent Achiever.  Mengniu sells liquid milk products including UHT milk and
yogurt under its namesake brand in China. It also produces ice
cream and other dairy products such as cheese and milk powder.
The company has the biggest share in China’s drinking milk
market, controlling more than 34 percent share in 2012,
according to Euromonitor International.  Mengniu this month agreed to buy 26.9 percent of  China
Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117)  for HK$3.18 billion ($409 million) to
gain greater control of milk supplies amid food safety concerns
in the country.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  