-- Dollar Near Six-Week High Against Euro on Bets Fed Set to Taper
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-19T20:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/dollar-near-six-week-high-against-euro-on-bets-fed-set-to-taper.html
The dollar traded near the strongest
in more than six weeks against the euro amid bets the Federal
Reserve will slow asset purchases on signs the world’s biggest
economy is accelerating.  The greenback rose versus all of its 16 most-traded peers
last week as U.S. retail sales unexpectedly gained and a
consumer-confidence gauge climbed. The euro dropped against the
dollar by the most in almost two months as the currency bloc’s
economy shrank for a sixth straight quarter. The dollar declined
against the yen today, retreating from a more than four-year
high. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testifies to Congress this
week on the economic outlook.  “There’s been a lot of excitement about the U.S. economic
data,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview May
16. “So far, the interpretation of any tapering has been quite
hawkish. The dollar is riding on optimism rather than a
significant shift in fundamentals.”  The U.S. currency was at $1.2843 per euro as of 5:30 a.m.
in  Tokyo , after strengthening 1.2 percent to $1.2839 last week
in New York, the biggest advance since the five days ended March
29. It touched $1.2797 on May 17, the strongest since April 4.
The dollar slid 0.4 percent to 102.81 yen after reaching 103.31
at the end of last week, the strongest level since October 2008.  The greenback rallied 5.4 percent this year as of May 17,
the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has advanced
2.3 percent, while the yen fell 13 percent in the largest loss.  The Australian dollar rose 0.3 percent today to 97.60 U.S.
cents, after tumbling 2.9 percent last week in the biggest drop
among the Group of 10 currencies.  Dollar Longs  Futures traders increased their wagers that the yen and
euro will fall against the greenback, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the  yen  compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 88,407 on May 14,
compared with net shorts of 78,560 a week earlier. Net-short
bets that the  euro  will fall against the dollar rose to 46,921,
from 33,533 a week earlier.  Futures traders reversed bets the Australian dollar will
gain against its U.S. peer.  Net shorts  on the Aussie totaled
13,450, the most since June 2012, versus net longs of 6,630 a
week earlier.  Fed Tapering  The U.S. dollar extended gains after Fed Bank of San
Francisco President John Williams said May 16 that quickening
economic growth and gains in the job market may prompt the
central bank to begin tapering its bond buying as soon as this
summer. Williams was one of the first Fed officials to advocate
open-ended bond purchases. Philadelphia Fed Bank President
Charles Plosser said a week earlier he’d favor a June reduction.  The Fed is buying $85 billion a month of Treasury and
mortgage bonds to push down borrowing costs and spur growth.
Bernanke is scheduled to speak to the Joint Economic Committee
of Congress on May 22. Minutes of the Fed’s last policy meeting
will be released the same day.  U.S.  retail sales  rose 0.1 percent in April, after a 0.5
percent drop in March, the Commerce Department said May 13. The
Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators increased
0.6 percent in April, and the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of U.S.  consumer sentiment  climbed to
83.7 in May, the highest since July 2007, data showed May 17.  ECB, BOJ  “It’s the U.S. economy that’s in the vanguard, and that
explains why the dollar continues to advance,” Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co., said
in New York. “You also have very much in the forefront that the
Federal Reserve might exit its quantitative easing sooner than
later, while the Bank of  Japan  is going to do more QE and the
European Central Bank is favored to do more.”  The euro fell for a second week against the greenback as
data showed  gross domestic product  in the 17-nation area shrank
0.2 percent last quarter. ECB President Mario Draghi pledged on
May 2 to lower rates again if needed following a cut in the
benchmark to 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  