-- Metro-North Removes All Damaged Train Cars in Connecticut
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-05-19T19:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/metro-north-removes-most-of-damaged-train-cars-in-connecticut.html
Metro-North Railroad  said repairs of
rail line torn up by a rush-hour derailment and collision in
 Connecticut  will take days to complete, as the agency finished
removing all the damaged cars from the tracks.  All 16 rail cars were cleared by this afternoon,
Metropolitan Transportation Authority spokesman Aaron Donovan
said in an e-mail. The  Connecticut Department of Transportation 
and Metro-North will announce a plan for tomorrow’s rush-hour
commute by this evening.  Metro-North will need to rebuild 2,000 feet (609 meters) of
damaged track, overhead wires and the signal system, Metro-North
Railroad President Howard Permut said in an earlier statement.
The repairs will require multiple days of around-the-clock work
to rebuild the track and wires, which will also need to be
inspected, tested and requalified, he said.  Connecticut and federal authorities yesterday told
commuters to make alternate plans while asking for patience as
investigators examine the site of the May 17 accident.  Nine patients are still hospitalized in Bridgeport,
Connecticut, hospitals. One remains in critical condition.  Amtrak today said there is no service between  New York  and
 New Haven , Connecticut, and limited service between  Boston  and
New Haven. Metro-North said trains between South Norwalk and New
Haven were suspended indefinitely.  Metro-North Railroad, which is run by the MTA, is the
second-largest commuter railroad in the U.S., taking passengers
from Grand Central Station to Connecticut and the northern
suburbs of  New York City . The rail line carries about 282,000
passengers on weekdays, according to its website.  The accident occurred when an eastbound  New York City-to-New Haven train  derailed about 6:10 p.m. local time near an I-95
highway overpass in Bridgeport. A train traveling in the
opposite direction on an adjacent track then struck the derailed
train.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  