-- Fertility Clinic Virtus Seeks Expansion in Asia, Deals After IPO
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-05-19T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/fertility-clinic-virtus-seeks-expansion-in-asia-deals-after-ipo.html
Virtus Health Pty is planning an
Asia-Pacific and Middle East expansion as well as seeking
acquisitions after an initial public offering said to have
raised A$338 million ($329 million),  Australia ’s largest share
sale this year.  Australia’s biggest provider of fertility services will
“look for acquisitions,” Virtus Chief Executive Officer Sue
Channon said yesterday on the Financial Review program on
Channel 9. “The other area of growth for us will be an
international expansion. The Asia-Pacific, China, India and
Middle East markets are very immature and highly fragmented.”  Virtus, part-owned by buyout firm Quadrant Private Equity
Pty before the IPO, sold shares at A$5.68 each, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. The offering raised more
than Sydney-based Virtus initially expected after Quadrant sold
its entire stake in the company, while the holdings of the
company’s doctors were cut in half to about 23 percent, the
people said.  Sydney-based Quadrant originally planned to reduce its 46.5
percent holding to about 10 percent.  The company’s 33 fertility clinics in Victoria, Queensland
and New South Wales provided 35 percent of the IVF treatment
cycles performed last year in Australia, according to a
presentation obtained by  Bloomberg News  this month. The stock
will start trading on June 14 and part of the funds raised will
be used to pay off debt, the presentation material said. The
share sale was managed by  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according
to the presentation.  Including the Virtus sale, Australia’s IPO market has
raised $578 million so far this year, the most since 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Virtus’s IPO is said to be the
country’s largest since  Shopping Centres Australasia Property
Group (SCP) , spun off from Australia’s largest retailer  Woolworths
Ltd. (WOW) , raised $483 million in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  