-- Freeport Said to Meet Plains Shareholders to Salvage Bid
-- B y   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-05-20T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/freeport-said-to-meet-plains-shareholders-to-salvage-bid.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
has been meeting with  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) 
shareholders to salvage support for its proposed acquisition,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Freeport Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson said
during meetings with Plains shareholders last week that its
offer is no longer “best and final,” said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the process is private.
Freeport has been in talks with some of the shareholders to
potentially put together a new bid, the people said.  A failure to secure majority support from Plains’s
 shareholders  could derail the biggest oil and natural gas
transaction of the year. It would also thwart Freeport’s plans
to expand into the more profitable oil and natural gas space in
the U.S. and to mitigate the largest publicly traded copper
producer’s vulnerability to metal prices.  Freeport’s stock price has dropped about 15 percent since
it agreed in December to acquire Plains for $6.9 billion, or $50
a share in cash and stock at the time. Plains shareholders
became increasingly outspoken about their opposition to the
merger after the value dropped to less than $45 a share.  Neither Freeport spokesman Eric Kinneberg nor Plains
spokesman Hance Myers responded to phone calls or e-mails
seeking comment.  Simple Majority  Freeport, based in Phoenix, rose 2 percent to $32.68 at the
close in New York on May 17, valuing its bid for Plains at about
$46 a share. Houston-based Plains gained about 1 percent to
$45.55.  Votes that had been returned through May 17 suggested that
support for the deal was in jeopardy, according to one of the
people familiar with the results. Freeport, which needs a simple
majority to succeed, is likely to postpone today’s voting
deadline and make a new offer, the people said.  On May 9, Freeport said in a statement that it considered
the agreed deal terms to be “best and final” and that it
didn’t intend to increase its offer.  Arrowgrass Capital Partners LP joined CR Intrinsic
Investors LLC this month in opposing the deal as the value fell.
CR Intrinsic said it owns 3.8 percent of the common stock
including shares underlying call options, while Arrowgrass said
it owns about 4.6 million shares.  Institutional Shareholder Services, a proxy adviser, has
recommended that investors vote against the acquisition. Plains
may “conservatively” be valued at $45.64 to $52.32 a share on
a stand-alone basis, ISS said in a May 6 report.  At the same time Freeport announced the takeover offer for
Plains, it said it was acquiring New Orleans-based  McMoRan
Exploration Co. (MMR) , a business that was spun off from Freeport-McMoRan Inc. about 19 years ago.  Freeport shares plunged 16 percent, the most in four years,
the day the offers were disclosed as shareholders punished the
mining company’s return to oil and gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  