-- Japan Biotech Firms Jump as Abenomics Cash Spurs Speculation
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-05-20T06:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/japan-biotech-ventures-surge-as-abenomics-cash-spurs-speculation.html
Japanese biotech ventures promising
to make jet fuel from algae and to produce synthetic cartilage
are soaring in  Tokyo  trading as cash pumped into the economy by
the central bank cascades into speculative investments.  Five of the 10  best-performing stocks  this year traded on
JASDAQ, which has lower minimum profit requirements than Japan’s
main bourse, are biotech firms.  The companies have surged as the  Bank of Japan  last month
voted to double debt-buying to more than 7 trillion yen ($68
billion) a month to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s  proposal  this month to provide 110
billion yen in support to stem cell research over the next 10
years is also helping the shares.  “The market expects quantitative and qualitative easing to
continue long term, boosting liquidity and drawing investors to
speculative shares like biotech,” said Kazuyuki Terao, chief
investment officer at Allianz Global Investors  Japan , in an
interview. “Abe raised health-care reform as a part of his
growth plan and that’s also supporting the buy.”  Japan’s regenerative medicine market will probably increase
by 62 times to 1.6 trillion yen by 2030 from 26 billion yen in
2012, the economy ministry estimates.  D. Western Therapeutics Institute Inc., a maker of
medicines for glaucoma and blood clots, surged 23 percent today
as of the close of Tokyo trading, making it the best performer
on the JASDAQ Index this year, soaring 19-fold. The company has
formed a partnership with Tokyo-based Wakamoto Pharmaceutical
Co. to develop eye treatments.  Algae Fuel  The JASDAQ index has climbed 83 percent this year, while
the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has advanced 48 percent
as Abe vowed to do whatever is necessary to end deflation, and
as the yen’s 20 percent plunge boosts exporters.  Euglena, a venture formed by the  University of Tokyo , has
soared 10-fold this year for the second-best performance on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange Mothers Index. The company is developing
single-cell algae based products including jet fuel, which it
expects to supply steadily by 2018, President Mitsuru Izumo, 33,
said in an interview.  The venture is valued at about 157 billion yen and its
technology was cited in discussions by a panel set up by Abe to
discuss government stimulus measures in the biotech and energy
industries.  Japan Tissue Engineering Co. has surged 10-fold this year
after winning insurance-reimbursement approval from Japan’s
Health Ministry for two types of manmade cartilage and skin,
Mayumi Miura of the company’s corporate control division, said
in an interview.  Abe’s Push  “Abe’s push on health care is the underlying reason for
the health-care stock rise,” Kiyokazu Yamazaki, an analyst at
Ichiyoshi Research Institute Inc., said in an interview.  Abe has pledged to reform the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law to
facilitate research and development in biotechnology, including
 stem cells  that can be genetically reprogrammed for use in
tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.  The health ministry intends to submit an amendment for that
law to the current session of parliament on June 27, said
Hidekazu Kinugasa, a Health Ministry deputy director, in an
interview.  The prime minister also said last month he would set up a
Japanese version of the  National Institutes of Health , a U.S.
government-funded medical research center, and ease regulations
for stem cell research to accelerate development of treatments
for incurable diseases. He plans to unveil the details of his
health-care plans next month, he said.  Speculative Plays  Still, Japan’s fastest-rising biotech companies have yet to
produce steady profit, so the investors’ bets are speculative,
said Terao of Allianz Global.  Euglena trades at about 335 times forecast earnings, while
D. Western Therapeutics, which began trading on JASDAQ in 2009,
is projecting a 203 million yen loss this fiscal year and hasn’t
reported a profit since at least 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan Tissue Engineering has reported
annual losses since at least 2005, the data show.  The JASDAQ index had an average price earnings ratio of
about 22, based on analyst estimates for the year, while the
Tokyo Stock Exchange Mother’s Index, which includes Euglena,
averaged about 74 times earnings estimated by analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The multiples for many of the companies aren’t
prohibitively high, said Tomohiko Ikeno, an analyst at Ace
Research Institute.  “It is still a good time to invest in some Japanese
biotech ventures to hold long term,” Ikeno said. “The stocks
will be volatile in the short term, but still have great
potential for gains.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  