-- N.Z. Home Prices Pressure RBNZ to Tighten, English Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-05-19T23:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/n-z-home-prices-pressure-central-bank-to-tighten-english-says.html
Rising home prices will increase the
pressure on the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  to raise interest
rates, Finance Minister  Bill English  said.  “These households heading into quite high debt to buy
highly priced houses need to be aware at some stage the RBNZ
will increase interest rates, particularly if the housing market
keeps growing at rapid rates,” English said yesterday in an
interview broadcast on Television  New Zealand ’s  Q+A .  Low interest rates have helped fuel demand for property,
raising prices at the fastest pace since 2007 and prompting the
central bank to signal its concern about the risks if the
housing bubble bursts. Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler is
reluctant to increase the official cash rate from a record 2.5
percent because it may boost demand for the currency.  “I’m just stating the fact that  interest rates  are likely
to rise at some stage,” English said. Home-loan interest rates
are at 50-year lows and borrowers “don’t want to believe that’s
permanent,” he said.  The government doesn’t want borrowing costs to go as high
as they did in the previous housing boom in 2006-07 when the
cash rate climbed to as much as 8.25 percent, English said. Last
week it agreed with the central bank on new tools to potentially
curb lending, and also announced plans to increase the supply of
housing to ease pressure on prices.  “Rather than rely on the interest rate tool, which is what
was used last time around, we’ve spent the last two or three
years working out what the tool kit is that we need to beat the
housing cycle,” he said.  Weak Inflation  Wheeler can delay a rate rise until December because the
strong currency and global conditions are curbing inflation,
Robin Clements, chief New Zealand economist at UBS AG, said in a
research note today. He previously forecast a quarter point rate
rise in September.  Six of 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  in mid-April forecast a rate rise this year. Nine saw no change.  The central bank may need to raise its interest rates if
rising  house prices  and household borrowing fan inflation, the
 International Monetary Fund  said this month. Rising house prices
off an already elevated level were a growing concern, the
Washington-based fund said May 15 in its annual economic
assessment of New Zealand. The nation’s economy will grow about
2.25 percent this year in the face of headwinds from a strong
currency, a drought and government spending cuts, the IMF
forecast.  House prices gained 9.8 percent from a year earlier in
April, the biggest annual rise since 2007, according to an index
published May 13 by the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand
Inc., prompting Governor Wheeler to urge banks to limit risky
home lending.  “The steps the government has taken over the last week
with the  Reserve Bank  tool kit and the accords with councils are
going to change the market over the next two or three years, and
it’s going to bring more houses to the market,” English said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  