-- Nadal Routs Federer in French Open Tuneup Final; Williams Wins
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-19T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/nadal-defeats-federer-in-final-of-rome-clay-court-tennis-event.html
Rafael Nadal  beat  Roger Federer  in
straight sets in the final of the Internazionali BNL D’Italia,
winning the clay-court tennis tournament for the seventh time as
he prepares to defend his  French Open  title.  The Spaniard took 69 minutes to defeat Federer, the second
seed, 6-1, 6-3 in  Rome  yesterday. Fifth-seeded Nadal broke the
Swiss player’s serve five times and made just eight unforced
errors on the way to his 14th win in 20 finals between the pair.  Nadal, 26, had needed a victory to gain a top-four seeding
for the French Open, which he’s won seven times. He’s compiled a
36-2 record in winning six of his eight events since returning
in February following a seven-month layoff because of a knee
injury. The French Open starts next week.  “If you told me four or five months ago that after eight
tournaments I would have won six titles from eight finals, I
would say ‘you are crazy,’” Nadal said. “I’m just enjoying the
moment. I value it more than ever because I know where I was
just a few months ago.”  In the women’s tournament, world No. 1  Serena Williams 
improved to 16-0 on clay this season by beating  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus 6-1, 6-3.  Williams only lost 14 games in five matches in winning her
51st WTA title.  “It wasn’t easy, nothing is ever easy,” Williams said.
“The difference today was I took the opportunities when I had
them and came up with some really good shots.”  Williams has won 24 matches in a row, a career-best for the
American. Azarenka, the No. 3 seed, was returning after two
months out with an ankle injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  