-- Nigerian Troops Kill 10 Militants, Arrest 65 in Northeast
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-05-19T19:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/nigerian-troops-kill-10-militants-arrest-65-in-northeast.html
Nigerian troops killed 14 Boko Haram
Islamist insurgents and arrested 20 others in clashes yesterday
around the northeastern city of Maiduguri, a military spokesman
said.  The Islamists have deserted their camps and are retreating
towards the country’s northeastern border, struggling to move
scores of vehicles in their possession, Chris Olukolade, a
Defense Ministry spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement
from Abuja,  Nigeria ’s capital.  “Fourteen terrorists were confirmed dead,” Olukolade
said. “Twenty terrorists were apprehended as they fled.” Three
soldiers died and seven were wounded, he said. Seven vehicles
used by the insurgents were recovered, he said.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the local Hausa language, has carried out gun and bomb
attacks across Nigeria’s north and Abuja since the police killed
its founder,  Mohammed Yusuf , while in custody for his role in
clashes with the security forces in Maiduguri in 2009. The group
says it wants Islamic rule in  Africa ’s biggest oil producer.  President Goodluck Jonathan on May 14 declared emergency
rule in the three northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa
to tackle the insurgency that has killed thousands since 2009.
Parts of the country’s northeast were being taken over by
Islamist militants, Jonathan said. Africa’s most populous
country of more than 160 million people is almost evenly split
between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian
south.  Baga Deaths  Jonathan’s action followed violence in Baga, a fishing town
on the shores of Lake Chad, that killed as many as 228 people
after security forces responded to an attack by militants on
April 16, according to local officials. The army says 30
insurgents, six civilians and a soldier were killed, and 30
houses were burned down. New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said
satellite images of Baga show at least 2,000 homes were
destroyed.  Fighting on May 17 in the Gamboru district of the Borno
state capital left 10 militants dead, while 65 others fleeing
military attacks on their camps in the northern and central
parts of the state were arrested trying to enter the city,
Olukolade said yesterday.  Troops mounted air and ground attacks three days ago on
camps used by the militants, destroying anti-aircraft and anti-tank weapons, according to the army. A 24-hour curfew was
imposed yesterday on eight Maiduguri districts, including
Gamboru, as the joint military  task force  operating in the area
hunts for militants, Sagir Musa, a military spokesman in the
city, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  