-- Nissan to Sell First Joint Minicar to Expand in Japan Market
-- B y   M a   J i e ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-05-20T08:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/nissan-expands-in-japan-s-minicar-market-with-first-joint-model.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  will start selling
its first minicar jointly developed with  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) 
in Japan next month amid increasing demand for smaller, cheaper
vehicles.  Nissan began production of the minicar at Mitsubishi’s
Mizushima plant in Okayama prefecture today, the companies said
in a statement. The model will be sold as the Nissan DAYZ and
Mitsubishi eK Wagon starting in June.  Nissan, which previously sold rebadged minicars made by
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and Mitsubishi, is targeting to gain market
share in a category that now accounts for 38 percent of new-car
sales in Japan. Known as “Kei” cars and favored for their low
cost and ease of handling, sales of this segment are projected
to rise this year even as total industry demand shrinks with the
end of government incentives, according to IHS Automotive.  “It’s important to introduce mini vehicles if you want to
expand in the domestic market,” said  Kohei Takahashi , an
analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . “In the Japanese
market, which is shrinking, this is one of the very few growing
segments.”  Nissan started a joint venture with Mitsubishi two years
ago to develop minicars for the Japanese market and plans to
introduce a second model early next year. The Nissan DAYZ will
compete with Honda Motor Co.’s N-box, the bestselling minicar
model this year, and  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262) ’s Move.  “We have been involved from the development stage of this
car,” Toshiyuki Shiga, chief operating officer at Nissan, said
today at a ceremony to mark the first day of production. “So we
were able to make a minicar that we’d like to see, and make it a
car with Nissan’s characteristics.”  Nissan will also continue to sell rebadged minicars made by
Mitsubishi, Shiga said.  Yellow Plates  In  Japan , minicars are distinguished by their yellow number
plates and were originally created as a cheap means of
transportation as the country industrialized after World War II.
Last month, minicars accounted for seven of the 10 bestselling
models, according to data from the Japan Automobile Dealers
Association and Japan Mini Vehicles Association.  With engines smaller than 0.66 liters, minicars became
popular in recent years after the government lowered the
purchase tax and insurance premiums, and in most rural areas,
exempted them from a requirement to prove there is adequate
parking space available.  Still, margins are slim and automakers need to sell about
10 minicars to make the same profit for a normal passenger
vehicle, according to estimates by Koji Endo, an auto analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.  Honda introduced its N-Box minicar line in 2011 and plans
to unveil five minicar models by 2015. The Tokyo-based carmaker,
which almost doubled its market share in the category to 18.4
percent in 2012 from a year earlier, expects about one in every
two vehicles it sells in Japan this year to be a minicar, Senior
Managing Officer Sho Minekawa said on May 13.  That could propel it past  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  subsidiary
Daihatsu, which saw its market share fall to 33 percent in 2012
from 36 percent a year earlier. Suzuki accounted for less than
30 percent of minicar sales in the year ended March for the
first time since at least 2007.  Nissan and Mitsubishi target a combined minicar market
share of 20 percent in the mid-term, compared with the current
11 percent, according to Mitsubishi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  