-- Obama Tells Morehouse Graduates to Be Responsible for Others
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-05-19T19:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/obama-tells-morehouse-graduates-they-re-responsible-for-others.html
President  Barack Obama  told graduates
at a historically black university that they had
“responsibilities” to help others rise above joblessness,
depressed wages and widespread violence in their communities.  “If we’re being honest with ourselves, too few of our
brothers and sisters have the opportunities you’ve had here,”
Obama said a commencement addresses at Morehouse College in
Atlanta. “In troubled neighborhoods all across the country -
many of them heavily African-American - too few of our citizens
have role models to guide them.”  In his second commencement address this year, Obama touted
the health care overhaul that he signed into law in his first
term, and defended the role of government to improve people’s
lives. He also tailored his message for his audience, recounting
some of his own personal struggles, as well as the excuses he
made for them.  “I have to confess, sometimes I wrote off my own failings
as just another example of the world trying to keep a black man
down,” he said. “But one of the things you’ve learned over the
last four years is that there’s no longer any room for
excuses.”  “There are some things, as black men, we can only do for
ourselves,” he said. “There are some things, as Morehouse Men,
that you are obliged to do for those still left behind.”  While the graduating class will confront a job market that
may be affected by the automatic spending cuts that went into
effect March 1, Obama told them that their prospects were
bright.  Improving Outlook  “You’re graduating into a job market that’s improving,”
he said. “You live in a time when advances in technology and
communications puts the world at your fingertips.”  American employers added more workers than forecast in
April, sending the  unemployment rate  down to a four-year low of
7.5 percent. More Americans than projected filed claims for
jobless benefits last week and manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly shrank in May, signs that a slowdown in
growth is rippling through the  U.S. economy .  Later, at a fundraising event for the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, Obama offered a less rosy view of the
economy.  Speaking of the Morehouse graduates, Obama said “they are
entering into a job market that is still challenging.”  Sequester’s Effect  “Because of some policies in  Washington , like the
sequester,” Obama said of the $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts
that took effect March 1, “growth may end up slowing and we may
see once again the job market stall.”  Founded in 1867, Morehouse offers an all-male undergraduate
education and counts civil rights leader Dr.  Martin Luther King 
among its alumni. King, who entered Morehouse at age 15 “wasn’t
the coolest kid on campus,” Obama said.  “For the suits he
wore, his classmates called him ‘‘Tweed.’’’  The president wove details of his own story into his
address, how he struggled as a young man and the role his mother
and grandparents played in his life and the hole left by a
father who wasn’t there to raise him.  ‘‘I was raised by a heroic single mother and wonderful
grandparents who made incredible sacrifices for me,’’ he said.
‘‘But I still wish I had a father who was not only present, but
involved.’’  ‘‘And so my whole life, I’ve tried to be for Michelle and
my girls what my father wasn’t for my mother and me,” he said.  Thunder accompanied Obama to the podium under a covered
stage on the campus’s outdoor quad, and as he started to speak,
rain began to fall. Addressing audience members, many of them
wearing plastic trash bags, he acknowledged the obvious. “I
also have to tell you you’re all going to get wet,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  