-- How Obama Can Rescue His Presidency From Faux Scandals
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-05-19T14:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/how-obama-can-rescue-his-presidency-from-faux-scandals.html
Here’s the White House view of the
current trilogy of so-called scandals: Republicans are trying to
destroy President  Barack Obama ’s second term by magnifying
bureaucratic miscues and distorting policy realities. This isn’t
without some merit.  On none of these issues -- the deadly debacle at the U.S.
diplomatic outpost in  Libya , the  Internal Revenue Service ’s
targeting of conservative groups, or the  Justice Department ’s
secret and sweeping seizure of Associated Press phone records in
an anti-leaks case -- is there any suggestion of wrongdoing by
Obama.  Republicans, ranging from the usually sensible South
Carolina Senator  Lindsey Graham  to  Darrell Issa , the gun-slinging chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, are playing politics.  Nevertheless, the controversies are undermining the
president; his slow, reactive, alternately passive and cavalier
responses are playing into critics’ hands. Experienced
Democrats, outside the White House, want Obama to be more
proactive, assertive and forthright to salvage his second term.  Special Counsel  Among the bolder actions they want him to consider:  -- Appoint a special counsel in the IRS transgressions. Tap
a knowledgeable outsider of the agency (say, former Treasury
Secretary  Paul O’Neill ) to quickly assemble a small staff to
supplement career Justice Department investigators, with a
target of a full report by Oct. 20. These findings, unlike an
inquiry under Attorney General Eric Holder, would have
credibility.  -- Accept Holder’s resignation. A favorite target of
Republicans, the attorney general now has few fans among
prominent Democrats. Given his record, his departure would be
important substantively as well as symbolically.  -- Abandon widely discussed consideration of making United
Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  the head of the National Security
Council later this year. She isn’t responsible for Benghazi and
has been unfairly pilloried by critics such as Graham. Still, in
her five network television appearances immediately after the
tragedy, she displayed poor judgment. While head of the NSC
isn’t a post requiring Senate confirmation, appointing Rice
would reignite the firestorm in this largely faux scandal.  To be sure, it isn’t difficult to understand the
administration’s complaints that many of the salient facts in
these controversies are overlooked.  It’s a canard to say Benghazi is a classic case of the
cover-up being worse than the crime. There was no crime. There
were inexcusable security inadequacies in Libya. Once the attack
began, there was no way U.S. forces could have prevented those
tragic murders, asserts, among others, Bob Gates, defense
secretary under Presidents  George W. Bush  and Obama.  The surreptitious subpoena of the AP’s phone records is
outrageous. It reflects Obama’s obsession with preventing leaks;
this Justice Department has prosecuted more whistle-blowers,
including journalists, than under Attorneys General  John
Mitchell , Ed Meese and John Ashcroft combined.  Going back to  Henry Kissinger  and  Richard Nixon , such
obsessions invariably produce more problems than benefits. Yet
congressional Republicans were the driving force for the leak
investigations.  There is no defense for America’s tax agency targeting
particular groups because of their perceived ideology. Still,
it’s also true that the tax status of many of these groups, on
the left and on the right, should be scrutinized, as many may
falsely claim their purpose is to promote social welfare, not
politics. If their tax status is questionable, the IRS has to
ask political questions.  Confirmation Battle  There are decided downsides to taking any of these actions.
Outside counsels notoriously spin out of control and outlast
their purpose. If Holder is pushed out, the White House would
face an ugly confirmation battle over his successor.  Forceful action, however, is the only way the president can
counter the steady partisan assaults and get back to talking
about his agenda: immigration, implementing the  Affordable Care
Act , fiscal fairness and background checks for purchasing guns.  The trade-offs aren’t impossible. Outside counsel can act
expeditiously; in the 1980s, the legendary Washington lawyer
 Jake Stein  took less than six months to investigate Attorney
General-designate Ed Meese. If the misdeeds at the IRS are
limited to relatively low-level bureaucrats, such an inquiry
should take even less time.  As for the attorney general, his credibility on these hot
issues is gone. As a replacement, Obama might have to search for
a fair-minded, moderate Republican, and no White House wants an
attorney general of the opposite party. That would be better
than the status quo. And anything that adds fuel to the phony
Benghazi clamor is a political and policy distraction.  When it comes to the leaks, the president should be sobered
by an interesting new book, “Fighting for the Press: The  Inside
Story  of the Pentagon Papers and Other Battles.” The author,
James Goodale, served as counsel to the  New York  Times for the
Pentagon Papers, the famous 1971 case involving Nixon’s attempts
to censor the press. “In many respects” on press issues,
Goodale writes, “President Obama is no better than Nixon.”  This story is a conundrum. This is the most scandal-free
administration in recent memory. The word scandal is a misnomer
for each of these three distinctly different matters.  Yet Washington works as much on perception as reality.
Together, these controversies -- and especially the IRS uproar -
- threaten to dominate all summer, which would politically
imperil any second-term agenda. Last week, the president began
to act more decisively. Democrats see that as a start.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 