-- Petrobras Said to Struggle Pumping Oil at Iara Discovery: Energy
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-05-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/petrobras-said-to-struggle-pumping-oil-at-iara-discovery-energy.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR)  is finding it
hard to pump oil at one of Brazil’s largest prospects, three
people with knowledge of the project said, signaling its venture
with  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Galp Energia SGPS SA may have higher costs
or slower development than at other offshore fields.  Petrobras, the world’s biggest producer in deep waters, has
encountered low permeability at sections of the Iara field, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because results
haven’t been made public. That means more costly techniques,
such as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, may be needed to get
oil flowing at Iara, where single deep-water wells have already
cost more than $100 million apiece, one of the people said.  BG of the U.K. and Portugal’s Galp are relying on Petrobras
as concession operator to accelerate output at their wells in
the Iara discovery. Petrobras instead may prioritize areas of
the field that flow better rather than employ fracking miles
below the South Atlantic seabed, said Cleveland Jones, a geology
professor at  Rio de Janeiro  State University.  “The option is to go for the easy stuff and the difficult
stuff later, the path of least resistance,” Jones, who has
researched fields with the same geology, said by phone from Rio.
“Why drill a much more expensive well when you don’t need to?”  Iara , about 230 kilometers (143 miles) out to sea from Rio,
is one of Brazil’s five largest discoveries. It’s in the same
exploration block as Lula, the world’s biggest discovery in more
than a decade. That’s where Petrobras beat production
expectations and individual wells pump as much as 36,000 barrels
a day. Both fields are known as “pre-salt” -- in a reference
to their geological formation over time.  ‘Special Techniques’  In 2008, Petrobras estimated as much as 4 billion barrels
of recoverable reserves at Iara, or enough to meet Brazilian
demand for more than five years. The recent tests suggest the
quality of the pre-salt reservoirs aren’t uniform.  Brazil  plans
an auction for more exploration licenses in November.  The state-run producer may eventually use “special
techniques for stimulation and well geometry” at areas of Iara
to optimize productivity, Petrobras said May 13 in an e-mailed
reply to questions. The Rio de Janeiro-based company said it
will finish a fourth well and start a fifth before the end of
the year at the field where it maintains positive expectations.  Petrobras declined to comment on any possible changes to
the reserve estimates and said in the e-mail that its business
plan calls for two production systems at the area by the end of
2018. That compares with seven at the Lula field.  ‘Slightly Poorer’  BG, the U.K.’s No. 3 gas producer, has said it expects
existing assets in Brazil to deliver more than a third of its
production in 2020. Lisbon-based Galp has said it’s counting on
Brazilian crude to help curb dependence on refining and fuel
sales in  Portugal  and  Spain .  Pre-salt fields will double Petrobras’s output by 2020
after it started production in 2009, according to the company’s
business plan.  The partners are examining plans to expand Iara, which has
“similar oil in place to Lula, but with slightly poorer
reservoir properties,” BG CEO Chris Finlayson said May 14 in
 London . A press officer for BG’s Brazil unit, who isn’t an
authorized spokesperson, referred questions on Iara to operator
Petrobras. Pedro Marques Pereira, a spokesman at Lisbon-based
Galp, also referred questions to Petrobras in an e-mail.  BG has a 25 percent stake in the BM-S-11 block that
includes Iara, and Galp has 10 percent. Growing output at
Brazil’s pre-salt helped both BG and Galp beat  earnings
estimates  in the first quarter.  ‘Different Ballgame’  The Brazilian producer is already developing pre-salt
fields it discovered after Iara at a faster pace. Franco, which
Petrobras bought from the government in 2010 as part of a $70
billion share sale, is set to start production in 2016 from two
separate production systems. The field, where Petrobras will
sell all of the oil itself, will have five systems in place by
the end of 2019, according to the business plan.  Petrobras drilled its first pre-salt well at BM-S-10 in
2005, where it discovered the Paraty field. Drilling a single
well in the area has cost in excess of $200 million. It costs
about 50 percent more to drill horizontal wells and frack
offshore reservoirs, said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at Banco
Santander SA in Edinburgh.  “You’re now in a different ballgame of drilling, it’s
about as complex as a well can get,”  Gianna Bern , president of
Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in  Chicago , said by
telephone, without giving a cost estimate. “They’ll assess
where it fits with the larger strategy. They’ll always go for
the most economical barrels first.”  Returned Areas  Petrobras has lowered drilling costs in the pre-salt by
reducing times to 70 days in 2012 from 134 in 2006, according to
the company’s  business plan . The region as a whole has beaten
the company’s targets. In 2010 Petrobras planned to be pumping
241,000 barrels a day from the pre-salt by 2014. In March
Brazil’s pre-salt oil and gas output reached 349,600 barrels a
day, according to the National Petroleum Agency, or ANP.  Petrobras has returned areas of the pre-salt to the
government after initial exploration failed to show commercial
potential. The biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000 feet
returned 28 percent of BM-S-10 exploration block, including the
 Macunaima  prospect it discovered in 2011, to the oil regulator
last year, according to ANP’s website.  Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Hess Corp. (HES)  and Petrobras returned the
BM-S-22 block to the regulator a year ago after failing to find
commercial deposits.  “Not all the news has been good,” Fernando Siqueira, a
former Petrobras manager and current vice-president of the
association of Petrobras engineers, said by phone from Rio.
“Exxon drilled three wells and found nothing.”  First Oil  Petrobras plans to pump its first barrels from Iara in 2017
after installing a production vessel at the site, according to
its business plan. The output will come from the  Iara Horst 
well, 8 kilometers from the initial find.  Iara Horst has “better reservoir characteristics” than
the first well it drilled in the area, Petrobras said in a March
2011 statement. It was the second pre-salt field, after Lula,
where Petrobras gave specific reserve estimates.  Petrobras’s overall success rate in the pre-salt is at 82
percent, higher than the 64 percent rate for its entire Brazil
operations, according to information on its website. Globally,
about 35 percent of wells find oil and natural gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio De Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  