-- MacArthur Genius Storms Princeton in Nigerian Love Story
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-05-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/princeton-meets-lagos-in-adichie-s-nigerian-love-story.html
Ifemelu and her boyfriend, Obinze,
are middle-class Nigerians, hardly “starving, or raped, or from
burned villages” but still “mired in dissatisfaction.” They
consider Lagos a backwater and they want out.  Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie ’s fascinating, infuriating novel
“ Americanah ” recounts their respective experience of the U.S.
and Britain and, later, of the Nigeria they return to.  At 35, Adichie is already distinguished. Her 2006 novel
“ Half of a Yellow Sun ,” about the Biafran War, won the Orange
Prize for Fiction, and in 2008 she received one of the MacArthur
Foundation’s  “genius” grants . She writes beautifully polished,
semiformal prose with a slight English accent.  And she likes to argue. Ifemelu could be speaking for the
author when, told that one of her opinions is “pretty strong,”
she shoots back, “I don’t know how to have any other kind.”  “Americanah” jumps around in time and space, from
Ifemelu’s present at Princeton to her past in Lagos, to her
early American years in Philadelphia and Baltimore, to Obinze’s
difficult period as a paperless foreigner in  London , and finally
back to Lagos, where, after many years, they meet again.  Insofar as this big, baggy novel has a structure, it’s
their love story. But the real action is in their sharp
observations of the alien cultures they encounter and their
equally withering takedowns of their native land.  Sunny People  Adichie reserves a special viciousness for privileged
liberals, like Ifemelu’s first American beau and his friends,
“sunny and wealthy people who existed on the glimmering surface
of things.” She has no patience with their kindhearted
cluelessness and finds them grotesquely insensitive about race.  “Racism should never have happened and so you don’t get a
cookie for reducing it,” Ifemelu writes (or rants) on the blog
that becomes her ticket to success.  Um ... you don’t? The white volunteers who lost their lives
in  Mississippi  during the struggle for civil rights -- don’t
they at least deserve a pat on the back? Ifemelu is such a
porcupine of racial resentments that I was stunned when her blog
addressed the following advice to white Americans:  “American Blacks are not telling you that you are to
blame. They are just telling you what is. If you don’t
understand, ask questions.”  Not me. Ifemelu is about the last person to whom I’d
address a possibly vexing question about race, given her
alacrity for dressing people down. I had started to think
Adichie simply dislikes white liberals when she supplied Ifemelu
with a black liberal boyfriend who’s even worse:  After Obinze  “He cooked organic vegetables and grains ... He ran every
morning and flossed every night.” A virtuous stiff, and an
academic to boot. Ifemelu can hardly seem to bear any of the men
she sleeps with after Obinze.  I wouldn’t find Adichie’s generalized contempt so annoying
if she didn’t exempt her protagonists. With very few exceptions,
she reduces the other characters, white and black, Nigerian and
American and British, to easily satirized types while granting
Ifemelu and Obinze the dignity of complexity.  That may be why blogging suits Ifemelu. “Americanah”
often reads like a gorgeously written blog. And because Adichie
is such an accomplished arguer, I enjoyed having my buttons
pushed even when I was seething.  But I kept wishing for a Comments section. I could have
pointed out, for example, that the book has a disproportionately
small number of gay characters, and that those it does have are
unsympathetically depicted.  Equal Time  In truth, I think that’s a silly if not ridiculous piece of
literary criticism. Adichie is under no obligation to give equal
time and attention to every minority.  In the novel’s own prickly terms, though, it’s fair.
Adichie/Ifemelu (often I couldn’t differentiate their opinions)
is constantly harping on the insensitivity of the majority and
the invisibility of the minority.  Well, other minorities can play that game. That’s all it
is, though -- a game. And you don’t get a cookie if you win.  “Americanah” is published by Knopf in the U.S. and Fourth
Estate in the U.K. (477 pages, $26.95, 20 pounds). To buy this
book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Farah Nayeri 
on Cannes.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 