-- RBA’s Cuts Shrink Yield Gap as Fed Taper Looms: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-20T01:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/rba-s-cuts-shrink-yield-gap-as-fed-taper-looms-australia-credit.html
Australia’s benchmark bond yield is
offering the smallest premium over U.S. notes in 11 months as
the sharpest predicted growth slowdown in four years spurs bets
on further interest rate cuts.  The 10-year rate was 3.22 percent, compared with 1.95
percent for similar-dated Treasuries, the narrowest since June
4. The gap reached 1.22 percentage points on May 17, the least
since November 2008. Australia’s dollar sank by the most among
major peers this month amid concern demand for its commodities
will weaken as growth slows in  China .  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  indicated
May 7 he has scope for further reductions after lowering the key
rate to a record 2.75 percent. Some U.S.  Federal Reserve  policy
makers have said the bank may begin to slow its $85 billion in
monthly bond-buying amid signs the economy is gaining strength.  Australia’s central bank “will continue to ease,” said
Yusuke Ito, a bond investor at Tokyo-based Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $32.3 billion.
“China is slowing. They had been depending on external demand,
but they’re changing to more dependence on consumption, which is
going to be negative for Australia.”  Swaps traders are betting on a 59 percent chance the RBA
will cut borrowing costs again within three months.  Outlook Weakens  Policy makers lowered their inflation outlook this month,
predicting consumer prices will rise 2 percent in the year to
December 2013, compared with an earlier estimate of as much as 3
percent. The RBA predicted 2013 growth of about 2.5 percent.
That’s more than one percentage point slower than 2012, the
sharpest decline in real growth since 2009.  The Australian government also forecast slower growth last
week when it released federal spending plans for the fiscal year
starting July 1. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  is seeking to raise more
money from businesses after lower  tax revenue  led the government
to scrap plans to return the budget to surplus this year.  The slowdown in activity comes as a record mining
investment boom peaks, while the  services ,  construction  and
 manufacturing  industries deteriorate under pressure from the
Australian dollar’s strength over the past four years.  Investors are also concerned about the impact of a slowing
in China, Australia’s largest trade partner.  Iron ore,  the South
Pacific nation’s most valuable commodity export, slumped into a
 bear market  last week as reports showed China’s April industrial
output trailed estimates and fixed-asset investment slowed.
China is the world’s largest buyer of  iron ore  and Australia is
the biggest exporter of the raw material.  Aussie Dropping  The Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded currency,
dropped 6 percent since April 30 to 97.48 U.S. cents as of 11:11
a.m. in Sydney, poised for its steepest monthly decline in a
year. The currency is still 29 percent higher than its average
of 75.60 cents since exchange-rate controls were scrapped in
1983.  Bank of America Corp. cut its estimate on China’s 2013
economic growth to 7.6 percent from 8 percent on May 15, citing
sluggish external demand.  “The Aussie is a good option to express a weaker China
growth story,” said Greg Gibbs, a Singapore-based senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Also
the mining boom has ended in  Australia  and that’s naturally
going to put a significant weight on the economy and create
significant risks going forward.”  Weaker Economy  In Australia, government data released this month showed
retail sales and building approvals unexpectedly dropped in
March, while a private report revealed that business confidence
dropped to -2 in April with sentiment in the  mining industry  at
its lowest since the global financial crisis. A May 9 report
showed unemployment unexpectedly declined.  “The outlook for non-mining business investment remains
relatively weak over the next few months,” the RBA said in its
monetary policy statement in Sydney on May 10. “The approaching
peak in resource investment, the high level of the Australian
dollar and ongoing fiscal consolidation are all likely to weigh
on growth over the next year or so, while at the same time the
low level of  interest rates  is helping to support demand.”  The nation’s sovereign bonds have benefited, returning 1.8
percent to investors this quarter as of May 17, the best
performance among 11 nations that hold the AAA grade from all
three main ratings companies, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. U.S. Treasuries are little changed this
quarter, the data show.  Tapering Debate  The yield on U.S. 10-year notes climbed as high as 1.98
percent last week, the most since March 15, amid signs the
world’s largest economy is absorbing the impact of tax increases
and spending cuts. Sales at U.S. retailers unexpectedly advanced
in April and confidence among the nation’s small businesses
climbed to a six-month high, while housing starts and industrial
production fell.  U.S. officials are debating whether the economy is strong
enough for them to curtail their asset purchases.  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said May
16 the central bank within months may begin slowing the pace of
its monthly  bond-buying  amid clear signs that the labor market
has improved. Williams, who doesn’t vote on policy this year,
was one of the first Fed officials to advocate that the central
bank buy bonds without setting a limit on the duration or total
for such purchases.  Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said  income
inequality  and government cutbacks may slow economic growth for
years.  “In the U.S., the Federal Reserve will probably be the
first central bank to stop buying bonds as the economy
improves,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC
World Markets Japan Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest
lender. The yield gap between Australia and the U.S. “will
probably continue to shrink.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  