-- Red Wings Top Blackhawks, Sharks Win in Overtime in NHL Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-19T04:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/red-wings-top-blackhawks-sharks-win-in-overtime-in-nhl-playoffs.html
The  Detroit Red Wings  defeated the
 Chicago  Blackhawks 4-1 while the San Jose Sharks beat the Los
Angeles Kings 2-1 in overtime in their National Hockey League
second-round playoff series.  The Red Wings and Blackhawks are tied at one game apiece in
their best-of-seven series, while the defending Stanley Cup
champion Kings have a 2-1 advantage over the Sharks.  In today’s games, the  New York Rangers  try to even their
series against the  Boston Bruins  at one game apiece while the
top-seeded  Pittsburgh Penguins  seek a three games to none lead
against the  Ottawa Senators .  At the United Center in Chicago, Damien Brunner and Brendan Smith scored in the second period to give Detroit a 2-1 lead.
Johan Franzen and Valtteri Filppula then added goals in the
third period.  Patrick Kane  scored in the first period for the Blackhawks,
who travel to Detroit for Game 3 in their best-of-seven Western
Conference series tomorrow.  At the HP Pavilion in San Jose,  California , Logan Couture
scored on a power play one minute, 29 seconds into overtime for
the Sharks.  Dan Boyle scored a power-play goal to give the Sharks a 1-0
advantage one minute, 34 seconds into the first period and Tyler Toffoli tied the game nine minutes later.  $100,000 Fine  The Sharks, who host Game 4 on May 21, were fined $100,000
yesterday by the league for General Manager Doug Wilson’s
criticism of the suspension of Raffi Torres for the remainder of
the second round of playoffs.  The NHL said Wilson violated a rule prohibiting formal team
statements to the media during the 48 hours after a disciplinary
action. The rule violation calls for a fine of $25,000. The
Sharks were assessed a further $75,000 for what the league
called the inappropriate nature of the comments.  Torres was suspended for an illegal check to the head of
forward Jarret Stoll during Game 1 of the series.  Wilson said the team disagreed with the suspension.  “It is abundantly clear that this was a clean hockey
hit,” Wilson said in a statement. “As noted by the NHL,
Raffi’s initial point of contact was a shoulder-to-shoulder hit
on an opponent who was playing the puck. He did not leave his
feet or elevate, he kept his shoulder tucked and elbow down at
his side, and he was gliding -- not skating or charging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  