-- Rowling Savaged as Authors Raphael, Epstein Squash Rivals
-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 2013-05-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/rowling-savaged-as-authors-raphael-epstein-squash-rivals.html
Frederic Raphael and Joseph Epstein
are rude about nearly everybody in their new book.  “Distant Intimacy, A Friendship in the Age of the
Internet,” subverts the trend against public displays of
erudition and anything smacking of “elitist” humor.  The trans-Atlantic e-mails that make up the volume are the
product of 100 years of authorship between the two, covering
every genre. Raphael is a novelist, classicist and an Oscar-winning screenwriter, known for “Eyes Wide Shut” and more.
Epstein is a renowned essayist and short-story writer. Their
book casts aside the career-conscious prudence of younger men.  The result is a scandalous irreverence -- both toward the
usual targets and the pseudo-democratic postures and inflated
reputations they see around them.  The index reads like names on a war memorial, the victims
all being famous folk who get gunned down in a phrase.  For Epstein, E.M. Forster was “More than a bit of a creep,
and another of the false gurus of our times.”  “Maoism was his Viagra,” is Raphael’s take on the
libidinous Jean-Paul Sartre. As for Henry Miller, the author of
“Tropic of Cancer” reminds him of a “turd in the bidet.”  Epstein says intellectuals like themselves cannot leave the
house without their Lugers loaded because many phonies in their
line of business are getting away with it.  There is praise for the deserving dead, from Montaigne to
T.S. Eliot -- though the latter gets bad marks for his anti-Semitic interludes.  Prejudice Howler  There is much about Jews, some self-mocking, most aimed at
prejudice in its many guises. Richard Dawkins is attacked for
his howler when he asked what the world would be like if
atheists like himself enjoyed as much influence as the Jews? One
answer, of course, is that Stalin and the Nazis showed us.  There is high seriousness too about the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, and the Athenian politician and general
Alcibiades. Still, our authors are unable to stay po-faced for
long, with juicy speculation about how the Jewish Hannah Arendt
could end up sleeping with pro-Nazi philosopher Martin
Heidegger.  Passing felicities keep us entertained, such as Epstein’s
dig at those who spend their entire lives in the classroom --“a
womb without a view” -- or his description of TV newscasters as
“hairdos pulling in heavy bread.”  Britain gets a bashing from Raphael, who was born in
 Chicago  and wonders whether he shouldn’t have stayed, rather
than confine himself to this “tight little island.”  Amis, Barnes  The English have dwindled, he writes, into “a state without
honor, without grace, without fric (cash).” And without good
novelists, in Raphael’s view.  Martin Amis, Ian McEwan and A. S. Byatt are brushed aside,
but Julian Barnes gets the full treatment: “Mr. Skimpy
Flashplot, words administered by dripper, French polish a
specialty.” A.N. Wilson, critic and novelist, “has become a
luminary without casting an interesting light.”  Epstein believes that poetry is finished: while versifiers
today are two a penny, he notes, nobody can come up with a
single line from memory written in the last 50 years.  Popular writers like J.K. Rowling fare no better. As for
Harry Potter, “I dislike the little f***** intensely.”  Not all British names will resonate with Americans, and
vice versa, though the wit is wicked. The gossip our authors
exchange about them is meaty stuff -- Epstein’s most recent work
is “Gossip: The Untrivial Pursuit.”  Perhaps the volume should have come with a warning wrapper
noting that writers of a certain age have ceased giving a damn.
If you are easily shocked or offended, stay away from this book.  “Distant Intimacy: a Friendship in the Age of the
Internet,” by Frederic Raphael and Joseph Epstein, Yale
University Press, 335 Pages, $30 or 20 pounds. To buy the book
in North America, click  here .  (George Walden is a former U.K. diplomat and Conservative
minister. He is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books,  Farah
Nayeri  on film,  Warwick Thompson  on London theater and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer of this review:
George Walden in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 