-- Sang-Moon Bae Wins Byron Nelson for First Title on PGA Golf Tour
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-05-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/sang-moon-bae-wins-byron-nelson-for-first-title-on-pga-golf-tour.html
Sang-Moon Bae won the Byron Nelson
Championship by two strokes for his first U.S.  PGA Tour  title.  The South Korean, playing in his 43rd event on golf’s
richest circuit, finished at 13-under-par 267 after a final-round 1-under-par 69 at the TPC Four Seasons Resort in Irving,
 Texas . Keegan Bradley, who won the tournament in 2011 for his
first career title on the tour, was second at 11-under par after
a 72 yesterday.  “The course was really tough out there,” Bae said at a
news conference. “The winds were really strong, but I told
myself, hang in there and just keep trying to focus on my game.
That’s what I did.”  The victory is worth $1.2 million to the 26-year-old Bae,
the first Asian-born champion on the PGA Tour since Kevin Na won
the Shriners Hospitals for Children Open in 2011. Bae’s previous
best result was a playoff loss to  Luke Donald  at the 2012 Tampa
Bay Championship.  Bae is the fifth golfer of Korean descent to capture a PGA
Tour title after eight-time winner K.J. Choi, Y.E. Yang, Na and
John Huh. The tour has now produced eight first-time winners
this year and three in the past four weeks.  Bae, who had won 11 times previously in  Asia , held a two-shot lead on the tee at the 15th hole yesterday. His putt for
par hit the lip of the cup and stayed out, while Bradley made
birdie to leave the pair tied for the lead at 12-under par.  Bae birdied the next hole to take the outright lead as
Bradley’s birdie attempt from just inside four feet (1.2 meters)
missed. Bradley bogeyed the 17th hole to drop back to 11-under
and both players made par at the last hole.  The tour now moves about 32 miles (51 kilometers) southwest
to  Fort Worth , Texas, for the $6.4 million Crowne Plaza
Invitational at the Colonial Country Club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 