-- Save the Bees, Saving Ourselves
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-19T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/save-the-bees-with-more-flowers-not-a-pesticide-ban.html
This winter was another terrible
season for U.S. honeybees. Beekeepers reported losing  31 percent 
of their colonies, a rate on par with the average since 2006,
when large numbers of hives began collapsing.  The fate of cultivated honeybees is thought to indicate the
health of wild bees, which are also  vital pollinators . The
farmed bees alone add an estimated $15 billion annually to the
value of crops, by ensuring the production of fruit and fertile
seeds.  Last month, alarmed over similar trends in  Europe , the
European Commission  took action , banning for two years the use,
on flowering crops, of three pesticides suspected of playing a
role in bee deaths. Environmentalists are pressuring U.S.
authorities to follow suit.  Such a move  would be premature . The evidence against the
pesticides -- called neonicotinoids -- isn’t  damning enough  to
warrant a ban. Although it’s true that in laboratory studies and
experiments within enclosures, some bees exposed to the
pesticides got lost, brought home less food and behaved in other
ways that could contribute to colony failure, such trials don’t
replicate real-world conditions. For one thing, researchers can
only guess how to approximate a realistic pesticide dose, and
these particular studies erred on the high side.  In trials in which bees have been placed in farm fields
treated with neonicotinoids, the colonies have done fine.  The European Commission justifies its temporary ban under
the precautionary principle -- the idea that, when human or
environmental health is at stake, there’s no need to wait for
scientific certainty to take protective action. It’s not clear,
however, that the ban will have this effect.  European farmers won’t switch from neonicotinoid
fertilizers to nothing. They will return to older formulations,
which haven’t been subjected to the same bee studies and may be
at least as hazardous. What’s more, the ban will deprive
Europeans of the  benefits  neonics provide for human health and
the environment generally. Because they can be applied to seeds,
they avoid the risk of contaminating surrounding areas, as spray
fertilizers do.  Rather than ban the chemicals, U.S. authorities should take
other steps to protect bees.  The  biggest problem  bees face is the Varroa mite. First
detected in the U.S. in 1987, this parasite has since spread and
developed resistance to miticides; lethal bee viruses have also
evolved to take advantage of Varroa’s disease-spreading
potential.  Strange as it sounds, there’s also the problem of bee
nutrition. Hives could better withstand the stresses of mites,
disease and pesticides if they weren’t also facing dwindling
food sources.  High corn and soybean prices, driven by demand for biofuel
feedstocks, have accelerated the conversion of open land to
cropland, which offers bees (even cultivated ones) nothing to
eat outside of the two or three weeks when a crop blossoms.  A
study  published last year documented the loss of 530,000
hectares (1.3 million acres) of grasslands in five corn-belt
states from 2006 to 2011.  According to the study, government  subsidies  of crop
insurance encourage farmers to cultivate marginal lands. If left
fallow, those areas could feed bees. Here’s one more reason for
Congress to limit farmers’ insurance subsidies to protection
against catastrophic losses.  There are other steps that should be taken instead of
banning neonicotinoids: The government can maintain or increase
support for the  Conservation Reserve Program , which helps
farmers remove environmentally sensitive land from production.
States can support bee habitat by letting flowering weeds grow
alongside and between highways and, yes,  by planting  native
flowers in parks and public spaces. And awareness can be raised
about the home use (and overuse) of herbicides, which kill
dandelions, clover and other bee food.  Pollinators fill our plates -- by one estimate, they make
possible every third bite we eat. We should return the favor.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 