-- Sodexo Tackles Slowdown With Rig Workers and Prison Art
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-05-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/sodexo-tackles-slowdown-with-rig-workers-and-prison-art.html
As growth in its core catering
business slows,  Sodexo (SW)  is helping oil rig workers stay fit and
convicts get in touch with their inner artist as it seeks a
bigger share of life outside the kitchen.  Better known for operating office canteens and cleaning
college campuses, the world’s second-biggest caterer is
expanding into prison management, office maintenance, and
concierge services such as booking hair appointments.  Those initiatives are aimed at making up for slowing growth
as the company last month reported a slide in first-half
earnings and cut its full-year profit forecast, sending its
 shares  down 10 percent.  “The business is evolving and clients are looking more and
more for an end-to-end solution” that encompasses services
beyond food, said Lindsay Tocher, chief operating officer of
Sodexo’s offshore business unit, which assists energy companies.  Founded by Chairman Pierre Bellon as a catering and river
cruise company in 1966, Sodexo last year generated  revenue  of
$18.2 billion serving food and providing other services to
clients such as the U.S. Marine Corps, the  International
Monetary Fund  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Based in the Paris suburb of Issy-les-Moulineaux, Sodexo
says slowing demand for traditional catering services across
 Europe  means it needs to tap a greater share of what it sees as
an 800 billion-euro ($1 trillion) global services market.  Medical Equipment  The shift away from catering goes far beyond related
services like emptying waste bins or cleaning conference rooms.
The company last year got 26 percent of  revenue  from teams that
carry out hundreds of tasks ranging from sterilizing medical
equipment to parking cars. That’s up from 18 percent in 2005 and
compares with the 25 percent of sales that larger rival Compass
Group Plc gets from “support and multi services.” About half
of that amount is food-based, according to Compass.  Providing what Tocher calls a more “holistic” range of
services has helped Sodexo win contracts with companies
including  Unilever, (UNA)  for which it does things like maintaining
printers, buying furniture and booking conference rooms in
addition to catering and cleaning.  Still, Sodexo hasn’t entirely persuaded investors the
strategy is worth buying into. Its  shares  have risen 17 percent
in the past year, trailing Compass’s 45 percent gain.  “The market isn’t according any additional valuation
premium for their expansion outside catering,” said James Wheatcroft, an analyst at Jefferies International.  Technology’s Tendrils  Wheatcroft has a hold recommendation on Sodexo’s shares,
noting that Sodexo’s  operating margin  in the last fiscal year
was 5.3 percent of sales, while Compass’s was 6.9 percent. The
new services, he said, won’t likely change that since they tend
to be less profitable than catering.  “The core of Sodexo’s business,” said Mike Gibbs, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , “is still food
service.” Gibbs has a neutral  recommendation  on Sodexo.  Offering new services, though, may offer greater growth,
according to Richard Cope, a director at researcher Mintel.  “We’ve already got fewer boundaries between our private
and working lives thanks to technology,” Cope said. “People
are used to having work extend its tendrils into home time.”  At many of the 120 prisons in seven countries where it
provides meals, Sodexo has added services such as health care
and vocational training for inmates. Its Reflex program in the
U.K. helps convicts learn to be more social, with art classes,
plays and writing courses. It even helps some incarcerated
artists sell their work online.  Personal Trainer  One unit, called  Circles , provides personal concierge
services for employees of client companies, such as booking hair
appointments, hiring plumbers, and ordering flowers. Sodexo
won’t say how much it charges for the service, but says its
staffers can answer the phone and help with logistical minutiae
of life to keep workers focused on the job.  Sodexo this year is adding a program named  WellTrack, 
developed with client Dolphin Energy to help North Sea rig
workers lead healthier lives. Employees can work with a personal
trainer to set goals and exercise regimes, and log their
progress online.  They’re given incentives to keep up the work both on the
rig and at home with a special watch, which beeps to remind them
when they should be hitting the treadmill even when they’re not
sequestered miles offshore. Employees who hit their goals are
rewarded with concierge services supplied by Circles.  “When you’ve gone to the effort to attract, hire and train
someone, you don’t want to lose them over softer issues,” said
John Breed, spokesman for offshore drilling contractor  Noble
Corp. (NE) , a Sodexo customer. “If you’re on a rig, you can’t just
get in your car and drive to the mall or the gym.”  U.K. Psyche  WellTrack shows how Sodexo can gain business by using its
prowess in one skill to suggest to clients they could be missing
out on other areas of expertise. Giving workers on rigs rewards
through its concierge unit, for instance, helps the company
highlight the range of services it offers.  “There are more areas for cross-selling,” Tocher said by
phone from a rig support base off the coast of  Brazil  where he
was visiting clients. “Using concierge services in your day-to-day life is something not necessarily embedded in the psyche of
people in the U.K. yet.”  For Related News and Information: 