-- Stocks to Soccer Add Up for Qatar Needing Funds Back Home
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-05-20T03:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/stocks-to-soccer-add-up-for-qataris-needing-200-billion-at-home.html
After paying for stakes in European
companies, landmarks in London, uprisings in the  Middle East  and
a soccer title in France, Qatar may be getting ready to go home.  The $60 billion-a-year spree by the world’s richest
country, dominated by holdings in companies such as British bank
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and German carmaker Volkswagen AG, is set to slow
as energy revenue dips because of a drop in prices and stalling
production. Qatar meanwhile plans to spend $200 billion on
projects including roads, air-conditioned stadiums and a metro
line before hosting the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  The retreat might be timely. While the funds bought the
Gulf emirate the regional leadership role long held by Saudi
Arabia and Egypt, it’s also turned it into the lightning rod for
rebellion against new governments. In recent weeks, protesters
burned Qatari flags in countries whose revolts it helped fund. A
Qatari plan to invest in some French suburbs last year spurred
lawmaker  Lionel Luca  to seek an  investigation  into the motives.  “There is indeed a backlash occurring and it’s important
for Qatar to maintain its energy focusing on its domestic
development as opposed to supporting groups” in the Middle East
and North Africa, said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at
the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.
“There is pressure on the leadership to focus on internal
issues instead of grandiose foreign policy objectives.”  New Kingmaker  With a domestic economy smaller than Missouri’s, Qatar used
the windfall from energy to transform itself into a kingmaker in
global finance and Middle East politics in less than a decade.  Last year, it pushed  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  to raise
the offer for Swiss miner Xstrata Plc in a $31 billion
acquisition. The government aided rebels from Libya to Syria and
has pledged $8 billion in support to Egypt’s Islamist
leadership. The emirate has spent as much as $3 billion backing
Syrians fighting to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad, the
Financial Times reported on May 17, and was the first Arab state
to host a Syrian opposition embassy.  Qatar may give Egypt $4 billion more in aid, an Egyptian
Finance Ministry official said last night, asking not to be
named pending a public announcement.  Spending to support the groups helped Qatar compete for
influence with long-time powerhouses in the Middle East, notably
Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy.  “The primary tool of diplomacy for Qatar is the money,”
Michael Stephens, a researcher at the  Royal United Services
Institute  in Doha, said by telephone. “There is a role right
now for a state like Qatar; small, nimble, it’s not overtly
threatening. It was the right country at the right time.”  Energy Revenue  Qatar’s $183 billion economy makes it the world’s richest
based on gross domestic product per capita, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  While still awash with cash, its economic growth is slowing
as gas exports level off and oil yields decline in an economy
that’s half based on petroleum, a government report in December
said. Brent crude prices have fallen 5.8 percent this year after
rising 18 percent in the five years ended 2012.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  estimates the  budget surplus  in the country,
the biggest liquefied natural gas exporter in the world, will
turn to deficit by 2015, while the IMF predicts a current
account shortfall in 2017.  The pending drop in Qatar’s spending also comes amid rising
resentment of the emirate’s influence.  In Libya, where Qatari jets joined NATO in fighting forces
loyal to former leader  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011, the emirate’s
flag and effigies of Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa  Al Thani , the
Qatari emir, were burned this month by protesters in Benghazi.
They accused Qatar of funding the Muslim Brotherhood, which took
10 percent of the vote in elections last year.  Getting Burned  Qatari flags were also burned in Egypt a week after it
extended $3 billion in aid,  Al Ahram  newspaper said on April 20.
Those protesters accused Qatar of backing the Muslim Brotherhood
government. Satirist Bassem Youssef poked fun at the issue in
April when he led a rendition of “Qatar, My Beloved,” a spoof
of an original song called “My Homeland, My Beloved.” The
choir’s lines included “Oh Qatar, which is filling our
pockets,” and the government is “selling Egypt wholesale.”  Anti-Qatar demonstrations in Tunisia prompted President
Moncef Marzouki on April 11 to ask his countrymen to stop
insulting the Gulf country, which pledged $1 billion in loans,
Agence Tunis Afrique Presse reported.  “Qatar has made these financial commitments and not really
thought through the long-term ramifications,” Stephens at the
Royal United Services Institute said. “When you interfere in
the Arab world, you are going to get burned.”  Shard, Harrods  Qatar’s money came from a surge in  oil prices  and natural
gas output, helping the OPEC member run an average budget
surplus of more than 8 percent of GDP between 2008 and 2012,
according to IMF data. That compares with 2.5 percent for the
United Arab Emirates, the second-biggest Arab economy.  Investment abroad averaged $60 billion a year in the same
period, the IMF said in a  January repor t, citing sovereign
wealth fund staff estimates.  Qatar acquired 95 percent of the Shard in London, Europe’s
tallest building, after the central bank bought into the project
in 2009. Qatar Holding LLC, part of the Qatar Investment
Authority, purchased Harrods department store in London for 1.5
billion pounds ($2.3 billion) a year later.  The country also bought stakes in companies including
Barclays, the second-largest bank by assets in the U.K.,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which has the same position in Switzerland, and
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s No. 2 luxury jewelry retailer.  Barclays Support  Qatar Holding stepped in to support Barclays after the 2008
financial crisis and now holds 6.3 percent of the bank, worth
about $4 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
fund invested in Volkswagen in 2009 as part of the carmaker’s
planned merger with Porsche. Its current 17 percent stake is
worth about $10 billion, the figures show.  In France, the Qataris bought soccer club Paris Saint-Germain in 2011 and funded purchases of players including
England’s  David Beckham  and Zlatan Ibrahimovic from AC Milan.
The team, known as PSG, secured its first French championship in
19 years this month.  A spokesman for the country’s sovereign wealth fund
declined to comment when contacted for this story. An official
at the prime minister’s office didn’t return a phone message.  With a population of 1.9 million people, the overseas
investments were necessary to deploy financial resources too
large for the domestic economy, according to George Abed,
director of Africa and Middle East at the  Institute of
International Finance .  Deficit Prediction  The sovereign wealth fund is in talks to buy “iconic”
hotels in London and Rome, Christopher Knable, chief operating
officer at Katara Hospitality, a unit of the fund, said in an
interview this month.  “Qatar is in a different situation; its wealth at this
point far exceeds its needs for finance, therefore it has to
diversify,” Abed said. Still, expansion “at this rate at some
point will have to slow down,” he said in a Dubai interview.  Citigroup sees that moment coming earlier than others. A
drop in oil output and a government moratorium on further
natural gas production may lead to “modest” budget deficits
between 2015 and 2017, Farouk Soussa, Dubai-based chief Middle
East economist at Citigroup, wrote in a report in March.  Money from the government to the sovereign wealth fund “is
going to start diminishing,” Soussa said on April 29. “What we
might see is the flow to be reversed, for the sovereign wealth
fund to finance possible government deficits.”  Local Boost  Roubini Global Economics expects Qatar to post a deficit
within three to five years, according to Rachel Ziemba, director
of  emerging markets .  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  economist Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce doesn’t see a deficit except in the unlikely
event of Qatar renegotiating gas delivery contracts.  As it prepares to host the World Cup, the most-watched
sporting event, Qatar plans to build solar-powered stadiums,
more than double hotel and apartment rooms as well as
constructing a $35 billion rail and metro network.  Spending will help the non-oil economy expand as much as 16
percent a year from 2015 to 2018,  Monica Malik , Dubai-based
chief economist at EFG-Hermes, the biggest publicly traded Arab
investment bank, wrote in a May 9 report.  The government will boost outlays by about 18 percent,
while projected revenue may increase 6 percent, according to the
approved budget for 2014. That would narrow the fiscal surplus
to 6.6 percent of economic output, Malik said.  The risk is “overheating” its economy by spending too
much “of its hydrocarbon proceeds in its own country rather
than lacking money to do it,” said Dauba-Pantanacce. Still,
while Qatar may swing into deficit later than other neighbors,
the pace of overseas investment will likely slow, Ziemba said.  “We are probably reaching a point where for some of the
big investments the question will become: when do they exit?”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  