-- U.K. Treasury Says Independent Scotland Would Fail to Aid Banks
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/u-k-treasury-says-independent-scotland-would-fail-to-aid-banks.html
An independent  Scotland  would have a
banking system too big to save in the event of a crisis and may
lack enough resources to compensate depositors, the U.K.
Treasury said, in a study into the economic implications of the
nation breaking away from the rest of the country.  Scotland would have a banking system with assets worth
1,254 percent of gross domestic product, higher than Cyprus and
Iceland before their financial crises, the Treasury said.
Taxpayers would each have 65,000 pounds ($98,670) of potential
liabilities in a bailout, versus 30,000 pounds while in the U.K.
An independent state would also be less able to guarantee
deposits and stand behind private pensions, it said.  “Faced with a serious banking crisis, the possibility of
bank failures would pose a very serious risk to taxpayers in an
independent Scotland,” the Treasury said.  The governing  Conservative Party , its Liberal Democrat
coalition partner and the main opposition  Labour Party  are
united in favor of preserving the U.K., which was formed by the
Act of Union in 1707. The study is the third from the Treasury
in  London  to make an economic case against independence.  The  Scottish National Party , which runs the semi-autonomous
 government  in Edinburgh, is campaigning for a breakaway from the
U.K. and has set a referendum for Sept. 18, 2014.  Less Risky  The Treasury said today that Scotland benefits from having
lenders such as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  based in
Edinburgh, together with U.K. regulation and a financial
stability framework. Scottish banks also enjoy cheaper funding
costs because they are perceived to be less risky as part of a
bigger economy, the ministry said.  The Treasury also dismissed proposals from the Edinburgh
government which would allow Scotland to maintain its large
financial sector while leaving British taxpayers on the hook in
case of a bailout. Scottish banks would be “crucially dependent
on one state’s taxpayers being willing to support another’s.”  Current proposals “would weaken the U.K. authorities’
control over macro prudential supervision and dilute the U.K.
government’s responsibility for fiscal decisions about  bank
failures  and resolution,” the Treasury said. “These proposals
would also not give the government of an independent Scotland
the levers it needed, particularly as the smaller partner.”  The U.K’s Financial Services Compensation Scheme that
stands behind 85,000 of deposits for every saver, if replicated
for Scotland alone, would saddle taxpayers with liabilities
equivalent to a year’s annual economic output. Similarly, the
U.K.’s Pension Protection Fund for defined benefit pension plans
is easier to fund than an equivalent in Scotland because risk
can spread more easily, the Treasury said.  “As was clear from the 2008 financial crisis, where there
are doubts about the ability of the sector to meet claims
through the compensation scheme, it can be necessary for
governments to step in to guarantee deposits in order to prevent
deposit fight,” the Treasury said.  The British government last month closed the door to a
formal agreement with Scotland for its continued use of the
pound in the event of a vote for independence next year, citing
the tumult in the 17-nation euro region during the debt crisis.  Three commercial banks -- RBS,  Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY) ’s  Bank
of Scotland (RBS)  and Clydesdale Bank -- print their own Scottish
pound notes under an agreement dating back to 1845.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  