-- U.S. Bonds Cheapest Since ’90 Versus Bunds Counter Buffett
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-20T13:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/u-s-bonds-cheapest-since-90-versus-bunds-counter-buffett-pity.html
The longest decline in Treasuries
this year has left U.S. government debt the cheapest since March
2011 when measured by real yields and the best relative value
compared with German bunds in more than two decades.  After inflation, 10-year U.S. notes  yielded  0.91 percent
last week, or 1.77 percentage points more than real yields on
U.K. gilts, the widest spread in 25 months. Versus  Germany , the
securities are the least costly in 23 years when adjusted for
the recent record-low interest rates around the world that
distorted the normal relationship, according to FTN Financial.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is counting on
Treasuries to contain borrowing costs as the central bank buys
$85 billion a month in securities to sustain the economic
recovery that lifted U.S. consumer confidence to the highest in
almost six years. The better relative yield for U.S. bonds may
help bolster demand even as  Warren Buffett  said this month that
he pitied fixed-income investors because of about record-low
interest rates.  “The Treasury market is cheaper than almost any other
comparable market on a relative value basis,” Jim Vogel, an
interest-rate strategist at FTN, said by phone May 15. “There
is the thought out there that Treasuries are expensive when in
reality they offer the most value given the improving economy
and the relative real yield they offer compared to others.”  Relative Yields  The Memphis, Tennessee-based firm has correctly been less
bearish on bonds than consensus forecasts for the past two
years. In May 2012, the firm’s chief economist, Christopher Low,
said 10-year yields would fall to 1.5 percent from a then 1.79
percent. They hit that mark three weeks later, and fell as low
as 1.38 percent in July. The rate fell three basis points to
1.92 percent as of 9:38 a.m. in New York.  Treasuries due in at least 10 years were yielding 40 basis
points more than non-U.S. sovereign debt on May 16, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. As recently as September,
U.S. rates were lower than those for the rest of the world.  While yields on 10-year Treasuries rose to 1.95 percent
last week, below the average of about 5 percent since 1990, they
are 60 basis points, or 0.6 percentage point, higher than
similar-maturity German bunds. That’s about double the average
since 2003. They are five basis points more than gilts, versus
an average of about 30 basis points below over the same period.  Easy Ownership  “As expensive as Treasuries are, if you compare them to
other developed markets it makes it easier to own them,” Raman Srivastava, the head of global fixed income at Boston-based
Standish Mellon Asset Management Company LLC, which manages $170
billion, said in a telephone interview on May 15.  In FTN’s analysis, which adjusts for today’s record low
interest rates around the world as monetary policies from the
U.S., euro zone, the U.K. and Bank of Japan converge to give a
more-accurate reading of relative value, Treasuries are about 30
percent cheaper than average, according to Vogel.  Treasury 10-year notes fell in each of the past three
weeks, the longest stretch since December. Yields have risen
from 1.66 percent on April 26 amid reports showing gains in jobs
and  consumer confidence .  The price of the benchmark 1.75
percent security due May 2023 declined 15/32 last week, or $4.69
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 5/32, Bloomberg Bond Trader data
show.  Savers dependent on bond payments are “victims” of
central bank policies to lower borrowing costs, Buffett, the
chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said at the
company’s annual shareholder’s meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska , May
4.  Rally ‘Over’  “I feel sorry for people that have clung to fixed-dollar
investments,” he said.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund for
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television May 16 that the
three-decade bull market for bonds “was over.”  He still increased Treasuries to 39 percent of his $293
billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  in April, the highest level since July
2010. Treasuries, for now “are a better alternative than
cash,” he wrote in a May 1  investment outlook .  Treasuries have lost 0.33 percent this year, including
reinvested interest, compared with 0.93 percent for the global
sovereign bond market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities has risen 7.5
percent this year, and corporate bonds have returned 2.08
percent as measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indices.  Bond Overreaction  Three Federal Reserve regional bank presidents, Richard
Fischer of  Dallas , Charles Plosser of Philadelphia and Jeffrey
Lacker of Richmond, called last week for the central bank to
phase out the $40 billion monthly purchases of mortgage-backed
securities. It’s also buying $45 billion of Treasuries a month.  “The market has overreacted to the tapering signals from a
Fed that is still on hold for some time, and inflation
fundamentals globally and domestically are still weak,” Michael Pond, head of global inflation-linked research in New York at
Barclays Plc, said in a phone interview on May 15. Treasuries
are “attractive on a relative basis,” he said.  Gross domestic product may grow by 2 percent in 2013, down
from 2.2 percent last year and the 2.7 percent posted in 2006
before recession and worst financial crisis since the Great
depression, according to the median estimate of more than 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Growth globally is also depressed, with  Japan  forecast to
expand 1.4 percent the euro region to contract 0.5 percent,
according to separate Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Auction Demand  Evidence of bond demand can also be seen in the
government’s debt auctions. The Treasury’s $777 billion in bond
sales this year have attracted an average of $3 in orders per
dollar sold, making this the third-strongest year ever and
compared with the record $3.15 in 2012, according to data
released by the Treasury and compiled by Bloomberg.  “It doesn’t look like a great big bond market selloff is
coming anytime soon,” Jack McIntyre, a money manager who
oversees $44.5 billion for Brandywine Global Investment
Management LLC in Philadelphia, said in a May 16 telephone
interview. “At the end of the day growth is still mixed,
inflation is fairly tame and the Fed’s foot is still on the
easing pedal.”  Treasury returns are enhanced by the slowdown in inflation.
The consumer price index in the U.S. fell 0.4 percent in April
following a 0.2 percent decrease in March, the first back-to-back declines since 2008, according to the Labor Department.  Falling commodity prices are weighing on inflation. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials
has declined 8.6 percent from this year’s peak in February.  For international investors, a rising dollar also has the
potential to boost returns from Treasuries. For yen based
investors, this year’s losses in U.S. bonds would translate into
a gain of 18.7 percent after currency conversions.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY)  rose to
84.371 on May 17, the highest level since July 2010.  “A stronger dollar weighs on commodity prices and thus
inflation,” said  Richard Gilhooly , an interest-rate strategist
at TD Securities Inc. in New York. “What is negative for
inflation is a positive for Treasuries, especially given the
U.S. real yield differential against everyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  