-- Tunisia’s Ansar al-Sharia Must Obey Law, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-05-19T18:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/tunisia-s-ansar-al-sharia-must-obey-law-prime-minister-says.html
Tunisia ’s Ansar al-Sharia, which
clashed with police today after its spokesman was arrested, is
an illegal organization with terrorist ties and must comply with
the law or cease to exist, the country’s prime minister said.  “We will deal with this organization with total
seriousness but in accordance with the law,” Ali Laraydeh said
in an interview in Doha, Qatar. “This organization exists but
isn’t legal. It must either follow the law or end its
existence.”  Tunisia is struggling with political and economic
instability after street protests led to the overthrow of
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011, sparking
uprisings across the Arab world and the downfall of regimes in
 Egypt , Libya and Yemen.  Police today fired tear gas at supporters of Ansar al-Sharia, a Salafist Islamic group, in the city of Kairouan today,
Radio Mosaique FM reported. The group’s spokesman Saifeddine
Rais was arrested and a planned meeting by the group was banned.  The Ansar al-Sharia spokesman was arrested for
“incitement” and will be turned over to the judiciary for
judgment, Laraydeh said.  Laraydeh is trying to improve Tunisia’s economy and prepare
for elections planned for later this year amid recent unrest.
Foreign direct investment dropped 10 percent in the first
quarter, Slim Besbes, adviser to the prime minister on
investment, said May 10. The decline came amid a crisis caused
by the assassination in February of Chokri Belaid, a secular
politician opposed to the Islamist group Ennahda, which led the
government elected after the fall of Ben Ali.  Elections Planned  Recent unrest won’t impede the planned elections, Laraydeh
said.  “We are working to hold elections before the end of
2013,”  he said. “There aren’t big impediments to achieve
this.”  The  International Monetary Fund  gave its initial approval
of a $1.75 billion loan to Tunisia last month. The agreement
“eases pressure” on the country’s credit rating, Fitch Rating
Ltd said April 23.  The IMF imposed no requirements for granting the loan, the
prime minister said.  “They looked at our program,” he said. “Our social,
economic and administrative programs include many reforms and
they accepted them.”  Tunisia doesn’t plan to draw on the loan unless absolutely
necessary, Laraydeh said.  “That loan gives strength to the Tunisian lira and assures
investors,” he said. “It allows us to enter into other
financial markets and get loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  