-- Mursi Rules Out Talks With Captors of Sinai Officers
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-05-19T17:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/mursi-rules-out-talks-with-captors-of-sinai-officers.html
President Mohamed Mursi said Egypt
won’t hold talks with criminals following a vow by the
government to consider “all options” to free security
personnel kidnapped in Sinai.  Unidentified gunmen kidnapped seven members of Egypt’s
security forces on May 16, compounding challenges facing the
president, whose opponents accuse him of failing to restore
security or revive a battered economy.  Mursi ruled out any negotiations with the captors today in
a meeting with the heads of some political parties, saying the
“prestige of the state is protected,” the state-run Middle
East  News Agency  reported.  A YouTube video alleged to show the seven male detainees
urging Mursi to respond to the kidnappers’ demands was
circulated on social media and Egyptian news websites today. The
authenticity of the video couldn’t be independently verified.
The men were shown blindfolded with their hands tied behind
their backs and said they had been tortured. They asked that
Mursi and his defense minister meet the demands and release
“Sinai political detainees.”  The state-run Ahram Gate website, which posted the video,
cited an unidentified Interior Ministry official as saying the
authorities were studying it to try to establish its
authenticity. The head of the North Sinai security directorate
didn’t answer phone calls seeking comment.  “There are no negotiations with criminals,” presidential
spokesman Ehab Fahmy said in a phone interview with Al Nahar TV
channel late yesterday. “All options are available.”  Guards Protest  Mursi and some members of his Cabinet yesterday discussed
efforts to release the hostages and defend the “stature of the
state,” the presidency said in an earlier statement.  Guards at Al-Awja crossing in central Sinai announced a
sit-in and the closing of the checkpoint that allows shipments
between  Egypt  and  Israel  until the return of their kidnapped
colleagues, MENA reported. Security officers also held a sit-in
at Rafah port, locking entry and exit gates, MENA said.  A large-scale military campaign will be carried out within
the coming 48 hours in Sinai to rescue the captives, the
Egyptian Al Masry Al Youm newspaper reported, citing officials
who weren’t identified by name.  “Northern Sinai has become a refuge for extremist
groups,” said Emad Gad, deputy director of Al-Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. “If we cannot control
it, it will become a source of constant security threats.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  