-- Wallabies’ Deans Leaves Lions Door Open for Cooper, Beale
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-20T02:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/wallabies-name-25-man-rugby-squad-to-face-british-irish-lions.html
Wallabies coach Robbie Deans named
James O’Connor as his preferred playmaker in a 25-man squad to
face the British and Irish Lions, while leaving the selection
door open for the omitted Quade Cooper and Kurtley Beale.  O’Connor, who’s started one Test for  Australia  in the
pivotal No. 10 role, was the only player nominated at fly-half
in yesterday’s roster, which also featured the selection of
code-hopper Israel Folau among three rookies.  “We believe he caters for our need,” Deans said of
O’Connor. “In the outings that he’s had, he’s just got the
components that we’re looking for. He’s clearly a bloke who
traumatizes defenses. He keeps the attack square, which provides
opportunities for the channels around him.”  The 25 named yesterday will play two more rounds of Super
Rugby before entering training camp from June 2 ahead of the
Lions series starting 20 days later in Brisbane. Another six
will be added to a final 31-man roster announced June 11, when
the captain will also be appointed. That gives players including
Cooper, Australia’s first-choice fly-half at the 2011 Rugby
World Cup, time to earn a berth.  Cooper was left off the initial list as he tries to regain
his Wallabies spot after last year describing the national team
environment as “toxic” and criticizing its style of play under
Deans. He’ll get a chance to force his way into the final 31-man
squad when the Reds play the Lions on June 8, Deans said.  Cooper’s Challenge  “We all know Quade’s history in the group,” Deans said
yesterday at a news conference in Sydney. “I’ve selected him on
38 occasions. He’s had a lot of faith and support from me,
that’s not an issue. To suggest otherwise is just nonsense. He
will get the opportunity to play against the Lions. It’s a great
opportunity for him to press his claims.”  Deans challenged Cooper to “defend in the front line” and
“assert himself physically” in the Reds-Lions game.  “It’s an element you can’t avoid at Test level,” Deans
added. “He’s got a great opportunity to do that and hopefully
dent the Lions’ belief at the same playing for the Reds.
Assertiveness is both ways in attack and defense. That’s what we
would like to see in that outing.”  Beale, who played at fly-half during Australia’s tour to
Europe last year, will be monitored over the coming weeks as he
undergoes rehabilitation for alcohol and personal issues after
being stood down indefinitely from rugby.  “The key thing is his welfare at this stage,” Deans said.
“It’s taken a lot of courage to enter the process and it will
be emotionally draining. He has, to some extent, been able to
maintain his physical state but clearly it will be a watching
brief. There’s no point second-guessing from a distance.”  Three Rookies  Folau was selected as one of two full-backs in the squad
after playing 12 Super Rugby games since joining the New South
Wales Waratahs in December following stints in rugby league and
Australian Rules football. The Australian Conference-leading ACT
Brumbies provided the other two newcomers in inside-center
Christian Leali’ifano and back-rower Ben Mowen.  Brumbies back-rower George Smith, 32, was unavailable after
damaging a knee ligament in the loss to the Waratahs in Sydney
two days ago, Deans said. The openside flanker, whose 110 Test
appearances for Australia are the second most for a forward
behind Nathan Sharpe, had been in line for a recall following a
3 1/2-year absence from the national squad after impressing
during a loan spell with the Brumbies.  Waratahs hooker Tatafu Polota-Nau will miss the series
against the Lions, which only tour Australia every 12 years,
after fracturing his arm two days ago, while Brumbies center Pat
McCabe suffered a suspected knee ligament rupture, Deans said.
Queensland Reds pair Liam Gill and Saia Fainga’a were the
beneficiaries of the injuries to Smith and Polota-Nau.  The Brumbies said that Smith and McCabe will have tests on
their knees today with the results available tomorrow.  30,000 Fans  The Lions, a combined team from the U.K. and Ireland, most
recently visited Australia in 2001, when the Wallabies secured a
2-1 victory. The Lions haven’t won a Test series since beating
South Africa in 1997.  The Australian Rugby Union said it expects about 30,000
Lions fans to travel to Australia for the nine-match tour, which
is set to attract a total attendance of about 400,000.  As well as playing three Tests against the Wallabies on
June 22, 29 and July 6, the Lions will face all five Australian
Super Rugby teams and take on a Combined New South Wales-Queensland Country squad.  “Today is not the end of it for players who haven’t been
named,” Deans said after the squad was announced. “It’s going
to be a living document. There’s still scope for players to join
this group.”  WALLABIES 25-MAN SQUAD: Ben Alexander, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Berrick Barnes, Nick Cummins, Dave Dennis, Saia Fainga’a, Israel
Folau, Will Genia, Liam Gill, Scott Higginbotham, Michael
Hooper, Rob Horne,  James Horwill , Digby Ioane, Sekope Kepu,
Christian Leali’ifano, Stephen Moore, Ben Mowen, James O’Connor,
Wycliff Palu, Benn Robinson, Rob Simmons, James Slipper,
Sitaleki Timani, Joe Tomane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  