-- Myanmar’s Mandela Moment
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-19T22:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/myanmar-needs-help-to-manage-its-mandela-moment.html
Activists complain that U.S.
President  Barack Obama , who welcomes Myanmar’s President Thein
Sein to the White House this week, is embracing the former
general too soon, before he’s proved his reformist bona fides.
In fact, Obama is late to the party.  Nowadays international businessmen, academics and aid
workers throng Yangon’s dilapidated airport. In parts of the
former capital, rents rival  Singapore ’s. “If you don’t have a
Myanmar visa in your passport, you’re a nobody,” one  giddy
investor  told U.S. researchers last year.  For a once-shunned nation, such enthusiasm is heady and
welcome. It’s also becoming one of Myanmar’s biggest challenges.  Businessmen swarm ministries in the new capital Naypyidaw,
clamoring to sign deals and revise investment rules. Donor
countries and organizations compete to promote development
projects. Delegations of experts and big thinkers shower Burmese
officials with planning papers and studies. Ministers find
themselves hosting hundreds if not thousands of well-meaning
visitors each month -- with little time left to read all those
papers, let alone to formulate policy.  Such an onslaught would burden even a well-functioning
bureaucracy. Myanmar’s is no such thing. Decades of military
rule devastated the country’s  education system  and bred a
pervasive paranoia among the civil service. Although  Thein Sein 
has put in place several very smart, energetic ministers, they
have almost no bureaucratic support. Ministry buildings appear
to be half atrium, with a few dozen sleepy officials scattered
through the remaining offices.  The promise of riding the next Asian tiger won’t keep
investors interested forever. Myanmar remains one of the world’s
least developed nations. It lacks road or rail connections to
any of its neighbors. Its citizens average only  four years  of
education -- and possess few of the English skills that exist in
other former British colonies. The country is expected to grow  5
percent to 6 percent  over the next several years, but its entire
gross domestic product ranks only slightly above that of  Baton
Rouge ,  Louisiana : At best the economy might eventually account
for about 0.5 percent of  Asia ’s total GDP. Faced with some of
the world’s most expensive start-up costs, many companies will
decide Myanmar isn’t worth the trouble.  Others will stick it out. But without efficient government
oversight, Burmese might not reap the full benefit. A sovereign
wealth fund like  Norway ’s, for instance, is needed to husband
the billions in hard currency generated by oil and gas
concessions. Brookings Institution scholar Lex Rieffel has
suggested Myanmar could become the organic breadbasket of Asia,
given that its farmland is relatively unpolluted by agricultural
chemicals. As he  writes , though, this will require
“exceptionally disciplined policies by the government,” in the
face of intense outside commercial pressures.  What Myanmar needs as much as investment and aid money is
government expertise -- officials who know how to manage the
currency, oversee massive infrastructure projects, build a
banking system and revise land tenure laws.  Donor organizations can help by resisting the urge to push
quick, high-profile projects. Instead of besieging the few
enterprising ministers, they should work with and help to build
up lower-level officials. Training sessions abroad can be
immensely effective: They should precede work on projects
wherever possible.  As the U.S. discovered painfully in Afghanistan and  Iraq ,
the best way to develop bureaucratic capacity is often to embed
long-term mentors within ministries, where they can be force
multipliers and ease the pressure of dealing with foreign
embassies and executives. That means sending fewer well-meaning,
star-studded delegations to Naypyidaw and more procurement
specialists, agronomists and tax lawyers.  Companies like Cisco and Microsoft are already  working with 
the U.S. and Burmese governments to help train local teachers
and computer programmers. Corporations should consider joining
forces with the government to develop a dedicated academy for
administrators and bureaucrats. A more efficient civil service
would do more to ease doing business in Myanmar than any
expensive lobbying campaign.  The Burmese diaspora, which numbers more than 100,000 in
the U.S. and several million in Thailand and  Malaysia , presents
another untapped pool of talent. Right now high rents and red
tape deter many who want to return and contribute their time and
experience. One idea would be for foreign donors to fund a
“diaspora campus” -- a subsidized, well-connected oasis like
Google’s California headquarters -- where returning Burmese
could spend yearlong fellowships with their families, either
pursuing start-ups or working with the government.  This is Myanmar’s Mandela moment: Largely because of
charismatic opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi , the world will
never be more interested in the country or more eager to invest
there, as happened in  South Africa  in the early 1990s. At the
same time, Myanmar’s transition is hardly complete. The jails
still hold political prisoners. Violent chauvinism against the
country’s Muslim minority is spreading. The government has yet
to peacefully resolve differences with various hill tribes and
integrate them into the national polity with an acceptable
degree of autonomy.  The fragile Burmese administration can hardly focus on any
of these issues, let alone all of them. Next year, when Myanmar
is set to head the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , will
be worse. Obama is right to embrace Thein Sein in recognition of
the progress Myanmar has made thus far. If those gains are to be
preserved, though, the Burmese leader urgently needs more help
to professionalize his government.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 