-- Zimbabwe Mining Companies Reject State Control, Document
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-05-20T07:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-19/zimbabwe-mining-companies-reject-state-control-document.html
The Chamber of Mines of  Zimbabwe ,
which represents companies including  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) , rejected a proposal for the state to control mineral
production and prices, a draft response from the industry
organization obtained by  Bloomberg News  shows.  Earlier this month, the country’s Ministry of Mines
proposed the auctioning of mineral deposits, restricting
production of commodities deemed strategic and that the state
sell the output from all mines. The ministry is seeking comment
from mining companies before taking the proposed policy to
parliament to have it passed into law. Zimbabwe has the world’s
second-biggest platinum and chrome reserves.  The proposal is “gritty and confrontational,” the Chamber
said in a draft copy of its response, which may be given to the
government later this month. “Ideologically the policy seems to
be at variance with the market-based national policy that the
country has adopted.”  Companies such as Impala and Rio Tinto Group are currently
free to sell their own minerals. The policy proposals come after
Impala and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  agreed to comply with an
existing law to cede 51 percent stakes in their local assets to
black Zimbabweans or the government.  “We will contribute effectively to the on going
development of a new mining policy,” Alex Mhembere, Chamber of
Mines president, told the body’s Annual General Meeting, held
last week at the fly-fishing resort of Troutbeck in northeastern
Zimbabwe. “We do not regard our role as opposition to
government but partners seeking the same national goal and
aspiration.”  No Trust  The chamber is due to meet the government on May 22 and
again on May 29.  In addition to platinum and chrome Zimbabwe has deposits of
coal, gold, copper, diamonds and  iron ore .   Aquarius Platinum
Ltd. (AQP)  also operates in the country.  Impala fell 1.4 percent to 96.59 rand in Johannesburg as of
9:21 a.m local time. Amplats fell 0.8 percent to 286.96 rand
while Aquarius rose 2.2 percent to 6.15 rand.  If implemented, the marketing policy will be a reversal of
an earlier liberalization of mineral sales, which formerly had
been undertaken by the Minerals Marketing Corp. of Zimbabwe and,
in the case of gold, a unit of the central bank. Under the
proposal, gold and platinum group metals will be sold by a
dealer authorized by the Ministry of Finance and all other
minerals will be sold by the MMCZ.  ‘Socialist Thinking’  “This policy on minerals marketing is premised on the
notion that the private sector cannot be trusted,” the Chamber
of Mines said.  “The world over producers have the right to
market their own minerals based on an approved marketing
contract.”  In addition to the changes to the marketing of minerals the
ministry proposed auctions of deposits as well as imposing new
taxes, the policy showed. It suggested a resource rent tax,
defined as a tax on profits in excess of an average national
return on investment, and the regulation of mineral prices.  “Having gone through the lost decade, where the country
had a fatal flirtation with price controls, this should be
avoided at all costs,” the Chamber said.  Zimbabwe’s economy entered a recession around 2000 after a
disputed election and the imposition of a land reform policy
that involved the seizure of white-owned commercial farms. Over
the next decade the government controlled prices and imports.
Inflation rose to 500 billion percent, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , and the economy contracted by 40
percent between 2000 and 2007.  Close Country  The country exited recession in 2009 and ended a political
stalemate after President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African
National Union - Patriotic Front formed a coalition government
with the Movement For Democratic Change following the
intervention of the 15-nation  Southern African Development
Community .  The proposals “will effectively close the country to
private exploration,” the Chamber said. The government document
“is based on socialist thinking, where the state has a strong
hand over the affairs of mineral extraction. Zimbabwe has
largely been a market-based economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  