-- 
Andrew, Ruth Madoff Say Were Unaware of $65 Billion Fraud Until Confession

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-11-01T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-01/madoff-s-wife-and-surviving-son-say-they-were-unaware-of-65-billion-fraud.html
Bernard Madoff ’s wife and surviving
son say in a new book that they didn’t know of his $65 billion
Ponzi scheme, the largest in history, until the day in December
2008 when he confessed his crimes to them.  Andrew Madoff, who worked at Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC with his older brother Mark, said the first
indication there was something seriously wrong with the business
came on Dec. 9, 2008, when his father asked his brother to
arrange for traders’ bonuses to be paid out.  A day later, Andrew Madoff said he and his brother met with
their mother and father at their parent’s apartment on
Manhattan’s Upper East Side. It was during this meeting that
Bernard Madoff first confessed the firm was insolvent and that
he had been operating a fraud scheme for years.  “The money is gone,” Andrew Madoff quoted his father as
telling the family. “It’s all been one big lie. It’s a giant
 Ponzi scheme  and it’s been going on for years, and there have
been all these redemptions, and I can’t keep it going anymore. I
can’t do it.”  The description of what transpired in the days after
Bernard Madoff’s confession came in an authorized family
biography, “Truth and Consequences,” written by Laurie
Sandell, and released yesterday by Little Brown & Co. The book
includes interviews with  Ruth Madoff  and Andrew Madoff and his
fiancée, Catherine Hooper.  Bernard Madoff, 73, was arrested by  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agents on Dec 11, 2008, and his firm was forced
into bankruptcy. He pleaded guilty and is serving a 150-year
sentence in a federal prison in  North Carolina .  ‘What’s a Ponzi?’  In describing the family’s reaction to Madoff’s
disclosures, Andrew Madoff said that his mother’s hand shook as
she lit a cigarette, and asked, “What’s a Ponzi scheme?”  Andrew Madoff, who has a bachelor’s degree from the Wharton
School of the  University of Pennsylvania , said he defined the
term for his mother.  He also said when his father told him he had “fifty
billion in liabilities” he interrupted his father and asked
“Fifty million?”  According to the book, in the days before he confessed to
the scheme, Bernard Madoff directed his wife to move $15 million
into an account under her control to make cash payments. During
the meeting with his wife and sons, Bernard Madoff proposed
paying out a list of redemptions to certain clients.  “I’m doing my best,” Madoff told them. “I have a list of
people. At the end of the day, the amount of money I’ve taken in
and paid out over the years is about a wash.”  Last Meeting  Andrew Madoff said his brother erupted angrily, telling his
father, “This is bulls--t!” and both brothers left the
penthouse apartment. Mark Madoff never saw his parents again,
and it was the last time Andrew Madoff spoke to his father,
according to the book.  Mark Madoff committed suicide on Dec. 11, 2010, two years
to the day after his father’s arrest.  The brothers both worked for the legitimate, market-making
side of their father’s business. After his arrest, both said
they had no knowledge of the fraud he ran for decades until the
day he confessed it to them.  That day, the brothers sought legal advice from  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer at Paul Weiss Rifkin Wharton & Garrison
LLP, and a colleague of Mark Madoff’s father-in-law.  The lawyer closely questioned both brothers and asked if
they had been aware of their father’s scheme, as both had worked
for their father since leaving school, according to the book.  ‘Completely Blindsided’  “We had no idea,” the brothers told Flumenbaum. “None
whatsoever. We were completely blindsided.”  Flumenbaum advised both brothers to immediately report the
crime to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as well as
the FBI and federal prosecutors.  “Yes, let’s do it,” Andrew said.  “Let’s do it,” Mark said.  “We’re doing the right thing,” Andrew replied.  Almost three years later, Andrew Madoff described his and
his brother’s decision to report their father, saying, “I would
love to say that Mark and I were waving the flags of justice in
the air, but the bottom line is that we were absolutely
terrified. We knew that what we were doing was going to send our
father to jail, and the feeling was awful, absolutely awful.”  Andrew Madoff said he and his brother were later grilled by
federal authorities about their knowledge of the fraud.
Afterward, agents allowed both brothers to leave.  Trustee, Prosecutor  In the book, Andrew Madoff said he wants to settle with
 Irving Picard , the trustee for the bankrupt Madoff firm, and
“would also like a declaration by the U.S. Attorney’s Office
that he is no longer under suspicion, adding, “And that’s going
to have to be enough. I’m not going to get more than that.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined comment on the book or Andrew Madoff’s
desire for a statement from prosecutors.  An irreparable rift occurred between parents and sons when
Ruth Madoff called and asked the brothers to co-sign their
father’s $10 million bond, according to Andrew Madoff’s account
in the book.  “You have to sign your father’s bail! You have to!” Ruth
Madoff told her son, who describes his mother as “apoplectic”
with rage.  In the book, Ruth insists she didn’t yell or get angry at
her son, saying, “Angry? No. I don’t recall that.”  Ruth Madoff, who now lives in  Florida , said she does
volunteer work with the elderly and shops at  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)  supermarkets. She explains why she risked alienating her
sons.  Lives ‘Unbearable’  “I have not chosen Dad and not you,” Ruth Madoff is
quoted as writing to Mark Madoff. “Clearly our lives have been
destroyed. What we are going through now is unbearable and would
be no matter what choice I made,” she said.  Ruth Madoff said that on Dec. 24, 2008, 13 days after her
husband’s arrest, the two of them made a botched suicide attempt
by taking an overdose of the sedative Ambien. They awoke after
sleeping for 15 hours, she said.  It was only after a woman named Sheryl Weinstein published
a memoir saying she was Bernard Madoff’s mistress, that Ruth
Madoff said she finally stopped seeing her husband.  “I feel a little embarrassed that the thing that stopped
me from going to see Bernie was not a fifty-billion-dollar fraud
but an affair that he didn’t tell me about,” she said in the
book. “After the terrible crime he committed, I wonder why I
would care about an affair. But I do. It’s so shameful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  