-- ’Casablanca’ Piano Could Fetch $1.2 Million at Sotheby’s
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/-casablanca-piano-could-fetch-1-2-million-at-sotheby-s.html
One of the spinet pianos on which
Dooley Wilson played “As Time Goes By” in “ Casablanca ” returns
to the auction block this week.  The 58-key upright has been estimated at $800,000 to $1.2
million by  Sotheby’s (BID) , where it will be offered in New York on
Dec. 14.  It was consigned by a Japanese collector who bought it in
1988 for $154,000, at the time one of the top prices for
Hollywood memorabilia.  “The piano is in very good tune,” David Redden, Sotheby’s
vice chairman and director of special projects, said in an
interview. “It’s very playable.”  The 1942 Warner Bros. classic, directed by Michael Curtiz
and starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman, won Oscars for
best picture, best writing and best director.  In the World War II-era film Wilson was the piano player
Sam at Rick’s Cafe Americain, the club owned by Bogart’s man of
mystery Rick Blaine.  The piano -- one of two used in “Casablanca” -- was
discovered at a prop shop sale in the early 1980s by Los
Angeles-based collector Gary Milan, who sold it in 1988 through
Sotheby’s.  “It was covered with probably 20 layers of paint,” Milan
said in an interview. “I recognized the size and the shape. At
the back of it there was a Warner Brothers number.”  Lovers’ Toast  The piano was used during a flashback scene as Blaine
recalls a Paris idyll with Bergman’s Ilsa Lund. “Here’s looking
at you, kid,” Rick says, as the lovers toast each other with
Champagne.  Milan owns the piano used in the Rick’s Cafe scenes; it’s
currently on loan to the Warner Bros Museum in Burbank,
 California .  “No one thought that these props had any intrinsic value,”
when “Casablanca” was made, Redden said. “They were just used in
the next movie.”  Prices for collectibles including Hollywood and music
memorabilia have surged in recent years. A dress worn by Marilyn Monroe in  “The Seven Year Itch”  fetched $5.52 million in 2011.
Madonna’s stage corset designed by Jean-Paul Gaultier fetched
$52,000, more than doubling its presale high estimate in
November.  “It’s about diversification of assets,” said Jim Halperin, co-founder of Heritage Auctions, in a recent
interview. “People who put 2 percent to 15 percent of their net
assets in collectibles are making the right move.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 