-- 50 Shades Under the Tree Means Surge for Sex Toy Sales: Retail
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-12-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/50-shades-under-the-tree-means-surge-for-sex-toy-sales-retail.html
Santa knows who’s been naughty and 
who’s been nice. This year, he’s rewarding couples who want to 
be both.  Spurred by the global sensation of the “50 Shades of
Grey” bondage trilogy -- among the bestselling books of all
time in Britain -- sex toys featured in the tale are leading to
a flush Christmas for the adult novelty industry as  Europe ’s
 retailers  struggle to keep up with demand for leather-covered
spanking paddles and blindfolds featured in the novels.  Just as “Sex and the City” made the Rabbit vibrator an
acceptable household appliance for single women more than a
decade ago, the erotic novels’ popularity has made restraints
and so-called love balls acceptable stocking stuffers this year.  “One of the important things is that 50 Shades transcends
sex toys in terms of the impact on relationships,” said Nick
Hewson, head of Hewson Group, which does market research on
women’s products. Bondage, domination and sadomasochism, “tends
to be a couples activity. You need at least two people there.”  The $2 billion industry, which has grown between 5 percent
and 10 percent annually in the past decade as retailers went
upscale and targeted women, will expand at the top end of that
range this year, according to Hewson. It could exceed 15 percent
next year due to the ripple effect of “50 Shades,” Hewson
estimates.  Sales Boon  Lovehoney, Britain’s No. 1 online retailer of erotic
merchandise, is betting on that expansion. It won the rights to
produce and sell a range of “50 Shades” branded sex toys
everywhere except the Americas. The line of 20 products,
including vibrators and bondage kits, was introduced in time for
Christmas and endorsed by the book’s author, E.L. James. Prices
start at 11.99 pounds ($19.32) for blindfolds, a feather tickler
or a “vibrating bullet” and rise to 54.99 pounds for the
“Submit to Me” bondage kit.  Lovehoney, which reported sales of 15.9 million pounds in
the fiscal year ended in March, estimates the line alone will
generate 10 million pounds in revenue in its first year on the
market.  Lovehoney, also the official distributor of “50 Shades”
products to other retailers, sold out its first production run
within days of the line’s Nov. 12 introduction. It’s seen
booming sales of products such as 24.99-pound “Inner Goddess”
silver pleasure balls like those that the lead character, tycoon
Christian Grey, tries on Anastasia Steele, the book’s heroine.  ‘Incredible Effect’  “‘50 Shades’ has had an incredible effect on business,”
said Lovehoney co-founder Richard Longhurst. “It’s given
couples permission to enter the market” and told them “that
buying toys is all right.”  That’s good news for sex merchants at the second-busiest
time of year for the industry (only Valentine’s Day is a bigger
draw). Shares of  Beate Uhse AG (USE) , a publicly traded German adult
retailer, are up 171 percent  this year  as a stronger focus on
women helped it reach an operating profit in the first nine
months of 2012 after two years of losses.  “We see that we sell more S&M articles, such as little
whips and handcuffs,” said Chief Executive Officer Serge van
der Hooft. “That’s really due to the book.”  We-Vibe  The retailer, which doesn’t have a license to use the
book’s name for its products, has nonetheless gathered the ones
most often used by Grey to dominate Anastasia and displays them
together. The best-selling products include love balls and the
We-Vibe vibrator for couples, Van Der Hooft said.  The chain is sending actors dressed as Christmas angels
onto the streets of German cities to advertise the shops and
will open more outlets focused on women and couples next year in
 Germany , the Netherlands, and  Belgium .  “If people don’t have the money for a holiday or a
television, they search for little things to enjoy life more
without too much investment,” Van Der Hooft said. “Our
products are very good for that.”  Hewson says growing acceptance of sex goods will also
benefit more upmarket products such as those made by  Sweden ’s
Lelo, which sells the $159 Tiani 2 couples toy, and Jimmyjane,
producers of Little Something precious metal vibrators,
including a $3,500 diamond-and-platinum version. Such high-end
sex products currently represent only about 7 percent of the
market by value, Hewson estimates, leaving plenty of room for
growth.  Relative Distraction  “If you work in the City and make good money, how would it
look if you went into the special part of your cupboard and had
something ugly?” said Allison England, a saleswoman at Coco de
Mer, a chain of British lingerie and luxe sex toy boutiques that
also has a shop in  Manhattan . Consumers who wear bespoke suits
and drive expensive cars want to impress in the bedroom too, she
says.  Another trigger for growth in coming months could be the
end of the holidays. According to Renee Denyer, a manager at
London shop Sh!, which sells a range of “50 Shades”
merchandise, sex-toy sales usually spike again following
Christmas as people look for distractions after prolonged
periods spent with their relatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  