-- Tableau Software Plans IPO to Drive Sales Expansion
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-12-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/tableau-software-plans-ipo-to-drive-sales-expansion.html
Tableau Software Inc., which devises
programs to turn complex databases into graphics and maps, is
planning an initial public offering within the next four to nine
months and named  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  Chief Executive Officer John McAdam to its board to help drive its expansion.  The Seattle, Washington-based company will pick bankers to
advise on a share sale within a month and could go public in as
little as four months, board member and investor Scott Sandell
said in an interview.  Tableau Software was  co-founded  in 2003 by Pat Hanrahan, an
Academy Award-winning Stanford University professor whose
software has created movie special effects and animations. The
company’s products are designed to integrate with a customer’s
databases or spreadsheets and let anyone turn columns of numbers
into interactive maps and graphs without any need for
programming skills.  More than 10,000 companies, including Bank of America
Corp.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  have adopted Tableau
Software’s products. While the company will “soon” hire
bankers for an IPO it has yet to decide how much money it will
seek to raise, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Christian Chabot said in an interview. It may post revenue in excess of
$100 million this year, he said.  International Expansion  The company plans to use the proceeds for research and
development and to speed up international expansion, Chabot
said. The company, which has offices in the U.K., Germany,
 France , Japan, Australia, Singapore,  Mexico , Brazil and  Canada ,
wants to have a presence in other markets and hire more staff,
he said.  The IPO “will provide us with the capital to achieve that
vision,” Chabot said.  Since it was founded, Tableau Software has raised $15
million from  New Enterprise Associates , a venture capital firm
where Sandell is also a general partner. So far, it has used
about $1.5 million of that funding and has had positive  cash
flow  for three years, according to a spokeswoman for Tableau
Software.  “It’s a remarkable story, it’s a rare company,” Sandell
said.  McAdam said he will help Tableau Software grow its revenue.
F5, an Internet traffic management technology provider, has
increased its  revenue  to $1.4 billion for its fiscal year ending
September, from $109 million when McAdam took the helm in 2000.  “What I’ll bring is more operational expertise,” McAdam
said in an interview. “I have lots of expertise in driving the
numbers. I have a lot of global experience as well.”  The market for business analytics software should grow at a
compound annual rate of nearly 10 percent through 2016, when it
will reach  $50.7 billion globally , according to researcher IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  