-- Aetna CEO Sees Obama Health Law Doubling Some Premiums
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/aetna-ceo-sees-obama-health-law-doubling-some-premiums.html
Health insurance premiums may as
much as double for some small businesses and individual buyers
in the U.S. when the Affordable Care Act’s major provisions
start in 2014,  Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s chief executive officer said.  While subsidies in the law will shield some people, other
consumers who make too much for assistance are in for “premium
rate shock,” Mark Bertolini, who runs the third-biggest U.S.
health-insurance company, told analysts yesterday at a
conference in New York. The prospect has spurred discussion of
having Congress delay or phase in parts of the law, he said.  “We’ve shared it all with the people in  Washington  and I
think it’s a big concern,” the CEO said. “We’re going to see
some markets go up as much as as 100 percent.”  Bertolini’s prediction is at odds with  Congressional Budget
Office  estimates that the law will have little effect on small
and large-employer plans and the Obama administration’s
projections that middle-class families will actually save money.
The 2010 law is expected to extend health care to about 30
million people who otherwise couldn’t get insurance, paid for by
new taxes and fees on companies and wealthier individuals.  Those taxes will make coverage more expensive for insurers,
as will other provisions such as a ban on discriminating against
people with pre-existing medical conditions, Bertolini said.
Premiums are likely to increase 25 percent to 50 percent on
average in the small-group and individual markets, he said,
citing projections by his Hartford, Connecticut-based company.  High Estimate  The one-time jump in rates also includes increases in costs
that would come even without the law, Bertolini said.  “That just seems silly,” said Gary Claxton, a vice
president at  Kaiser Family Foundation , a  Menlo Park , California-
based nonprofit that studies health issues. “I can’t imagine
anything going on in the small-group market that would change
the average premium that much. On the individual market, there’s
arguments for things changing, but those magnitudes seem high.”  The Obama administration  said  last year that “middle-class
families” buying insurance through the law’s new online
exchanges may save as much as $2,300 a year starting in 2014.
Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, declined to comment on
Bertolini’s predictions.  The CBO estimated in 2009 that the law will increase
premiums 10 percent to 13 percent for individuals and have
little effect on small and large-employer plans. After the
subsidies are factored in, individual bills will go down by
about 60 percent, the agency  predicted .  About 43 percent of people who buy on the exchanges, or
individual markets outside of them, won’t be eligible for
subsidies, according to the report. They would see premium
increases “somewhat less” than 10 percent to 13 percent, CBO
predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  