-- Aetna Forecasts 2013 Earnings Growth Below Estimates
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-12-12T21:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/aetna-forecasts-2013-earnings-growth-below-estimates.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer by membership, forecast earnings for 2013 that
were less than analysts’ estimates, as carriers brace for
growing medical costs and weak enrollment.  Earnings excluding one-time items will be at least $5.40 a
share, while revenue will rise about 9 percent to $38.6 billion,
Aetna said yesterday in a filing. Analysts had  predicted  $5.52 a
share and $38.91 billion, according to the averages of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Aetna, based in Hartford,  Connecticut ,
will hold its annual investor meeting today in  New York City .  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest insurer by enrollment,
and Cigna Corp., the fourth largest, each forecast profit below
analyst estimates during the last month. Both predicted rising
costs to treat members while Cigna also cited weak employment
growth in the U.S. The companies’ outlooks may be conservative,
said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York.  Aetna expects medical costs will rise at the same rate as
this year “despite ongoing proof of slowing growth,” Shove
said in a note to clients. The forecast reflected “management’s
cautious stance on guiding high.”  Yesterday’s guidance also excludes the impact from Aetna’s
$5.6 billion  purchase  of Coventry Health Plans Inc., expected to
close next year. While the forecast was below estimates, it may
still be stronger than what some investors were expecting, said
Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York,
in a note.  Shares Rise  Aetna  gained  3.2 percent to $45.91 at the close in  New
York . The company’s shares have increased 8.8 percent this year.  The insurer reiterated its 2012 earnings forecast of $5.10
a share.  At a Nov. 14 investor conference, Chief Financial Officer
Joseph Zubretsky said the economy will be a drag on the business
next year. The company doesn’t expect employment to grow next
year, he said, making it difficult to add members.  The insurer anticipates ending this year with about 18.2
million members, with enrollment remaining unchanged through the
first quarter of 2013. By year-end, membership will increase to
about 18.4 million, Aetna said in the filing.  Aetna is projecting commercial medical costs will rise next
year about 6.5 percent, the same as this year.  Zubretsky said last month that Aetna would get a boost next
year from share repurchases as well as an $800 million contract
to cover retired teachers in  Texas . In August, the insurer
announced its Coventry purchase, saying it wanted to expand
sales in government-backed Medicare and Medicaid plans.  UnitedHealth is based in Minnetonka, Minnesota and  Cigna (CI)  in
Bloomfield, Connecticut. Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  is
the second-biggest insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  