-- Afghans Urged to Take All Military Tasks Except Aviation
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-12T15:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/afghans-urged-to-take-all-military-tasks-except-aviation.html
Afghan military forces are being
pushed to take over all operational tasks except aviation
missions by 2015, when most American and allied troops are
scheduled to have departed the country, according to a U.S.
officer.  “They should be able to do all the tasks except perhaps
aviation, close air support, that might be the one outlier we
are still going to be involved in,” U.S. Marine Corps Major
General  Lawrence Nicholson , the deputy chief of staff for
operations with the  International Security Assistance Force ,
said today in Kabul. “We have 24 months to get that right.”  Nicholson briefed reporters after U.S. Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  arrived to meet with military commanders and Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  to discuss troop levels after 2014, when
President  Barack Obama  has pledged to remove most of the 66,000
U.S. forces now in the country.  “I look forward to having a firsthand view,” Panetta told
reporters accompanying him on the plane to Kabul. “This will
help me as we set the groundwork for decisions” to be made by
Obama.  U.S. and coalition forces are “not going to be moving
troops by helicopters, we are not going to be doing engineering,
explosive ordnance disposal, those things are going to be done
by them” after 2014, Nicholson said of the Afghan forces.  Nicholson said the coalition forces now are doing less
“partnering” with Afghan forces, instead providing aviation
and surface fire support, bomb disposal, route clearance and
medical evacuation.  Troop Numbers  Nicholson declined to say how many troops will be required
after 2014. The Los Angeles Times today reported that the
administration may retain as few as 6,000 U.S. troops after
2014.  While the  U.S. and  Afghanistan  signed a strategic
framework agreement in May that calls for a U.S. troop presence
beyond 2014, they are now negotiating a “status of forces
agreement” that would resolve issues such as the U.S.
insistence on immunity from Afghan legal action against
personnel who remain.  A Pentagon report issued Dec. 9 set out a list of
challenges facing Afghanistan, including terrorist safe havens
in  Pakistan .  “The Taliban-led insurgency and its al-Qaeda affiliates
still operate from sanctuaries in Pakistan,” according to the
report’s executive summary. “The insurgency’s safe havens in
Pakistan, the limited institutional capacity of the Afghan
government and endemic corruption remain the greatest risks to
long-term stability and sustainable security in Afghanistan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Kabul at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  