-- AirAsia CEO Said to Plan Unveiling Order for 100 Airbus Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-12-13T00:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/airasia-ceo-said-to-plan-unveiling-order-for-100-airbus-jets.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
discount airline, plans to unveil an order for 100 Airbus A320
jets today as the carrier expands operations to fend off rising
competition, two people familiar with the contract said.  AirAsia Group Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  is
flying to an Airbus factory in Broughton,  Wales , to announce the
order, valued at about $9 billion at list price, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified as the information
isn’t public yet. The airline is buying current-generation A320s
as well as more fuel-efficient A320neos, and U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  is planning to attend the event, the people said.  AirAsia has expanded since Fernandes and partners bought it
in 2001, and now it’s Airbus’s biggest customer for single-aisle
aircraft worldwide. The airline ordered 200 Airbus A320neo
aircraft valued at $18 billion at the  Paris Air Show  in 2011.  The order was signed last month and announced by Airbus as
an undisclosed customer, the people said.  “On my way to London,” Fernandes told followers in a
message on Twitter yesterday. “Big announcement tomorrow.”  Representatives of the airline weren’t immediately
available to comment, while a spokesman for the plane
manufacturer declined to comment on plans.  The AirAsia contract has helped Airbus maintain order
momentum for the more fuel-efficient A320neo version.
Incorporating classic A320s into the contracts is a bonus, as
the manufacturer can trim the number of unfilled delivery slots
for a model that will gradually be phased out. Production of
A320neos will start in 2015. For AirAsia, taking the existing
model will allow it to get planes faster to fuel expansion.  The carrier, based in Sepang,  Malaysia , has since set up
ventures in the Philippines, Japan,  Thailand  and Indonesia.  AirAsia competes with the budget or regional arms of flag
carriers including Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Qantas Airways
Ltd. and now faces growing competition from new, emerging low-
cost carriers seeking to win passengers seeking low-cost travel
options in the region.  Airbus assembles wings for its aircraft in Broughton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  