-- Malaysia Clashes With Lynas on Need to Export Rare-Earth Waste
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-12-12T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/malaysia-clashes-with-lynas-on-need-to-export-rare-earth-waste.html
Four Malaysian ministers issued a
second joint statement, insisting  Lynas Corp. (LYC)  must export
residue from its new rare earths refinery under terms of its
temporary operating license.  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s cabinet discussed the issue
yesterday after Lynas Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Curtis
said on a conference call Dec. 11 that the Australian miner
isn’t required to export waste from the Lynas Advanced Materials
Plant, or LAMP, in Pahang under its temporary permit. It only
needs to come up with a plan for permanent disposal, he said.  “There will be no change in the government’s position to
demand Lynas to remove the residue generated by LAMP out of
Malaysia, consistent with the conditions stated in the temporary
operation license,” the ministers said in the statement. “The
government will ensure that all related government agencies will
closely monitor the operation of LAMP.”  Lynas belatedly began production last month after a series
of court victories against local residents wanting to block the
plant on fear of contamination. The miner, which is developing
the world’s largest rare-earths processing facility in  Malaysia ,
has repeatedly insisted the refinery is safe.  The Southeast Asian nation’s trade and industry, science,
environment and health ministers said in a Dec. 10 statement
Malaysia’s Atomic Energy Licensing Board is empowered to suspend
or revoke Lynas’ permit and order an immediate halt to
operations if it doesn’t export all residue, including products
made from waste.  iPods, Hybrids  Lynas plans to convert waste materials into commercial
products that could be sold locally or overseas, Curtis said.
Its shares have fallen 43 percent in Sydney this year and closed
down 0.8 percent to 60 cents yesterday.  The first phase of the plant, capable of processing 11,000
metric tons a year, was completed in September. Rare earths, 17
chemically similar elements, are used in Apple Inc.’s iPod music
players, in addition to flat-screen televisions, magnets and
hybrid cars.  “The cabinet reaffirmed the joint statement,” the
ministers said yesterday, stressing that public health and
safety was its highest priority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  