-- American Companies Are Poised to Boost Capital Spending
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-12T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/american-companies-are-poised-to-boost-capital-spending.html
American companies are poised to put
idle cash to work as demand rebounds in 2013 after spending
slumped amid the slowdown in China and Europe’s recession.  Manufacturers project they will invest more next year than
this year, according to the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
semiannual survey released yesterday. Orders for capital
equipment excluding defense and aircraft rose  2.9 percent  in
October, the biggest increase since February, Commerce
Department data showed Nov. 27.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are among
those announcing additional expenditure plans as economies
stabilize, banks ease lending rules and some industries approach
full capacity. Companies, excluding financial institutions, are
sitting on a  record  $1.74 trillion in liquid assets that could
be put to use, especially if lawmakers agree to avert budget
cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in January.  “Businesses are flush and highly competitive and this will
shine through in a revival of investment spending by this time
next year if Washington can get it roughly together,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania.  Spending on capital projects, those meant to increase
productivity and capacity, will increase 7.6 percent next year,
the biggest gain for any December survey going back at least
seven years, according to the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s poll of
purchasing managers. Last December, respondents forecast a 1.9
percent advance for 2012.  Executive Survey  A survey conducted by American Express Co. from Nov. 12 to
Nov. 21 showed similar positive outlooks. Seventy-five percent
of senior finance executives polled forecast sales will grow in
2013, and 69 percent project profits will improve. A majority,
59 percent, plan to invest to drive growth, in contrast to 37
percent who said they were focused on saving money to protect
earnings, the survey showed.  “Companies’ expectations should pick up in the second half
of 2013 and business spending should accelerate,”  said
Christophe Barraud, an economist and strategist at Market
Securities-Kyte Group in Paris, top-rated forecaster of the  U.S.
economy  in Bloomberg Rankings for the two years ended Oct. 31.
He credits the low interest-rate policies followed by global
central banks and government efforts in Europe and Japan to
stimulate growth.  Fed Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee today said it will
purchase $45 billion a month in  Treasury securities  starting in
January, expanding its asset-purchase program aimed at stoking
the economy.  “The committee remains concerned that, without sufficient
policy accommodation, economic growth might not be strong enough
to generate sustained improvement in labor-market conditions,”
the FOMC said at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in
Washington.  The Fed said  interest rates  will stay low “at least as
long” as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation “between one and two years ahead” is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent. The committee “views these thresholds
as consistent with its earlier date-based guidance.”  Stocks were little changed on concern the Fed won’t be able
to offset the full effect of the looming changes in fiscal
policy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed at 1,428.48 in
New York, up less than 0.1 percent from yesterday.  U.K. Employment  Elsewhere today, U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly fell in
November and a wider measure of unemployment dropped the most in
11 years, underlining the resilience of the labor market in the
face of a weak recovery.  A pickup in U.S.  capital spending  will benefit companies
including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, and  Deere & Co. (DE) , the biggest
global agricultural equipment maker, said  James Paulsen , chief
investment strategist in Minneapolis for Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $325 billion.  Growth “is again reaccelerating,” Paulsen said. That
“should do wonders in accentuating animal spirits and boosting
capital spending.”  The world economy will expand 3.6 percent next year,
compared to 3.3 percent this year, the least since the 2009
recession, the  International Monetary Fund  projected in October.  Surprise Index  Citigroup Inc.’s economic surprise index for China, a
measure of how data are beating or trailing median forecasts,
rose on Nov. 29 to 30.80, the highest level since March 8.
German investor confidence jumped more than economists forecast
in December, reaching a seven-month high, on speculation
Europe’s largest economy will gather momentum, according to a
report yesterday.  For now, business confidence in the U.S. is shaky because
of concern lawmakers will fail to reach a budget deal to avert
more than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases slated
to take effect next year, which the Congressional Budget Office
projects would tilt the economy into a recession.  Business Roundtable , an association of chief executive
officers of U.S. companies with more than $7.3 trillion in
annual revenue, warned last month that fiscal inaction “is
stifling business investment and hiring.” Small business
optimism fell in November to the lowest level since March 2010,
according to the National Federation of Independent Business’s
optimism index released yesterday.  Spending Slump  Spending on business equipment and software  dropped  at a
2.7 percent annual rate from July through September, the worst
performance since the three months to June 2009, when the
recession ended, according to Commerce Department data.  The pattern of orders for capital equipment, a proxy for
future business investment, makes blaming the drop in business
investment on fiscal-policy concerns “less compelling,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York.  Bookings in June and July, before concern reached fever
pitch, showed the biggest back-to-back drop since the two months
ended January 2009, during the depths of the recession. They
then stabilized in the next two months and climbed in October,
just as the budget debate intensified. That indicates something
else, such as the slowdowns in Europe and Asia, was behind the
earlier slump, he said.  “We think we’ve turned the corner and the global economy
will modestly improve, which should support  capital
expenditures ,” Feroli said.  Fourth Quarter  Spending on equipment and software will increase at a 3
percent pace in the fourth quarter and show a 10 percent advance
in the second half of 2013, according to a forecast by  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist in New York for Barclays Plc.  “Corporations have plenty of cash on their balance
sheets,” said Maki, who worked for the Fed from 1995 to 2000.
“They do have scope to increase capital spending.”  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, plans
to spend more than $100 million next year on building Mac
computers in the U.S., shifting a small portion of manufacturing
away from China. “We’ll be investing our money,” Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Businessweek.  At Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
spending will rise by 33 percent to $1.2 billion in the fiscal
year that started on Oct. 1. “We are planning prudent growth in
capital expenditures,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead
said at an investor meeting on Dec. 5.  More Spending  Chevron, the world’s fourth-largest energy company by
market value, said on Dec. 5 it plans to spend $36.7 billion on
capital investments including exploration, up from $32.7 billion
this year. “We’re investing in a portfolio of very attractive
oil and gas projects that will deliver volume growth,” Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer John Watson said.  Expansion by energy and materials companies reflects tight
supply and a recovery in housing markets, said Market
Securities-Kyte Group’s Barraud.  “Investment should grow in the mining sector with capacity
at more than 90 percent and because the consumption of basic
materials will be stimulated by the recovery of the residential
real-estate market,” he said.  Banks have  increased  commercial and industrial loans at an
annual rate of 12 percent the past two quarters, according to
Fed data. Lenders have eased standards during the past three
quarters, the central bank’s senior loan officer surveys showed.  There’s “an important role for credit availability in
explaining investment decisions,” said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economists in a report Dec. 5 on “drivers of capital
spending.”  Pent-up demand by businesses will be released once the
nervousness lessens over the impending changes in fiscal policy,
said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in
New York.  “The motive for investing is still there, which is a
better sales outlook,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  