-- AMR CEO to Brief Pilots as Union Urges Merger Readiness
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-13T22:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/amr-pilots-ready-to-move-on-merger-as-ceo-briefing-nears.html
American Airlines pilot union
leaders remained steadfast in backing a merger with  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  after a meeting in which Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton outlined his plan for a stand-alone exit from bankruptcy.  Horton used about half the three-hour meeting today to
explain the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier’s restructuring plan
and the rest answering questions from  Allied Pilots Association 
leaders, said Tom Hoban, a union spokesman. The APA hopes to
meet next week with US Airways CEO Doug Parker, Hoban said.  The union, which has supported a merger since April, this
week joined confidential talks where American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
independent plan is being evaluated against US Airways’ merger
bid. The US Airline Pilots Association, representing US Airways
flight crews, also is taking part.  Horton is “trying to promise greater growth and pilot jobs
through organic growth, but nobody is willing to give this
management group the benefit of the doubt based on past
experience,” Hoban said.  The APA was guaranteed a 13.5 percent equity stake in a
stand-alone AMR when pilots approved a cost-cutting contract
with American on Dec. 7. The union also has a seat on the
airline’s creditors committee, which has a voice in major
decisions during bankruptcy. Unions for flight attendants and
for ground crews and mechanics also hold seats on the committee.  “While I will refrain from speculation, we must be ready
to move quickly toward a potential merger,” APA President Keith
Wilson told members yesterday. He said some analysts are
predicting that “a merger of the two carriers is all but
inevitable.”  ‘Next Steps’  Horton met with pilot leaders to “thank them for their
leadership in reaching a new agreement, discuss the next steps
in our evaluation of strategic alternatives and exchange
information and thoughts about how to continue the positive
momentum we are creating for our people and our customers,”
Mike Trevino, an American spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Robert Mann, president of aviation consulting firm R.W. Mann
& Co., said he didn’t expect Horton’s remarks to focus on a
possible merger.  “It’s too premature,” he said. “There are too many
moving parts.”  Inclusion of the pilot unions in talks overseen by the
creditors committee may lead AMR to accept a merger offer by
Christmas, Vicki Bryan, a Gimme Credit LLC bond analyst, said in
a note yesterday. Horton has said he prefers for American to
exit bankruptcy on its own and then consider mergers.  Bond Prices  Investor optimism about a merger has helped fuel a rally in
AMR debt. The $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose closed today at 83.25 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes traded at
17.75 cents after AMR’s filing.  American is close to completing its reorganization plan,
after securing agreements to cut $1.06 billion from annual labor
costs, restructuring supplier contracts and shedding inefficient
aircraft, Horton said this week. The carrier sought bankruptcy
protection on Nov. 29, 2011.  “There were a lot of questions about how this plan
resolves network disparities and revenue disparities with the
competition,” Hoban said of the meeting with Horton. “It
doesn’t give us critical mass anytime soon. You can’t expect the
competition to stand by and do nothing.”  AMR creditors prefer an all-stock deal in a possible merger
over one that would pay some claims in cash, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing three unidentified people familiar with the
matter. A decision on pursuing a merger or remaining independent
is expected as soon as January, the people said.  The APA and unions for American’s flight attendants,
mechanics and airport ground workers reached labor agreements
with US Airways in April, contingent on a merger.  A combination of US Airways, the fifth-biggest U.S.
carrier, and No. 3 American would pass United Continental
Holdings Inc. as the world’s largest airline, based on passenger
traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  