-- AMR Notes Rise as Analysts Say Merger More Likely: Dallas Mover
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-12T22:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/amr-notes-rise-as-analysts-say-merger-more-likely-dallas-mover.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  debt rose to the highest
price in more than 16 months after  pilots  from its American
Airlines unit and  US Airways  Group Inc. joined talks to evaluate
a possible merger, boosting the likelihood that the carriers
will combine.  Inclusion of the pilot unions in confidential talks
overseen by bankrupt American’s creditors committee may lead AMR
to accept a merger offer by Christmas,  Vicki Bryan , senior bond
analyst with Gimme Credit LLC, said in a note today.  Ray Neidl ,
a Maxim Group LLC analyst, said the union involvement may give
“additional momentum” for a possible combination.  US Airways has been pushing for a merger since January,
arguing a tie-up as part of American’s restructuring is the only
way for the carrier to compete with larger rivals  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways already has secured labor agreements
with American’s unions, contingent on a merger.  “AMR, frankly, is too small and too unprofitable to ever
seriously complete as a standalone” against Delta and United,
Bryan said. “Its labor relations record is appalling, and its
strategy for reorganization essentially is the same plan pursued
over the past decade, which landed it in bankruptcy.”  American, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, is close to
completing its reorganization plan and the merger option is
being assessed along with its preference to emerge from court
protection on a stand-alone basis, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said Dec. 10.  `Highly Competitive'  “The company is establishing a highly competitive cost
structure, greater operational flexibility that will drive
significant revenue improvements and a restructured balance
sheet,” said Mike Trevino, an AMR spokesman. “Regardless of
the outcome of our review of strategic alternatives, we have a
great company with a tremendous foundation on which to build a
new industry leader.”  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose 1.2 percent to 83 cents on the dollar at 12:40
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s
the highest price since August 2011, for the notes, which traded
at 17.75 cents after AMR’s Nov. 29, 2011, bankruptcy filing.  US Airways (LCC)  fell 1.4 percent to $12.70 at the close in New
York. The shares have more than doubled this year, outpacing a
23 percent gain by the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  The odds of a merger between the carriers before AMR leaves
bankruptcy rose to 75 percent with the agreement to include
pilots in talks and Delta’s plan to buy 49 percent of Virgin
Atlantic, Neidl said yesterday. The Delta move will increase
competitive pressure on AMR, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  