-- ANA Doubles United Venture Sales Boost With Business Travel
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-12-13T10:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ana-doubles-sales-boost-from-united-venture-on-corporate-travel.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , Japan’s
largest carrier, expects to more than double the sales boost it
gets from a tie-up with  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  this
fiscal year as new services and improved connections lure
fliers.  The Asia-Americas flights venture will “conservatively”
generate 4 billion yen ($48 million) of extra revenue for ANA in
the year ending March, Executive Vice President Keisuke Okada
said in an interview this week in Tokyo. That compares with 1.6
billion yen in the preceding 12 months, the partnership’s first
full year.  ANA also anticipates a 1.5 billion yen sales boost this
fiscal year from collaboration on European routes with  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) , as the Tokyo-based carrier uses cooperation to
help cut costs and offer passengers a wider range of flights.
The tie-ups let the airlines coordinate schedules and cross-sell
tickets, as well as sharing revenue and costs.  “The contribution to ANA from these ventures is going to
increase even further,” said Haruo Ushiba, a director at Japan
Aviation Management Research. “There’s no doubt that joint
ventures within alliances are a successful business model in the
medium-term and will become a growing global trend.”  ANA’s venture with United covers 26 routes, including
flights from Japan to  Hong Kong , Singapore,  Thailand  and the
U.S. The carrier’s planned Tokyo-San Jose service and United’s
pending Denver-Tokyo route will be added next year, Okada said.  Traffic Increase  ANA’s connecting passengers from United flights rose 40
percent in the six months ended September from a year earlier,
Okada said. The airlines formed the venture, which has antitrust
immunity, following the 2010 signing of an open-skies agreement
between the U.S. and Japan.  “We had problems expanding our corporate sales overseas
before the ventures,” Okada said. “Now, with the help of
United and Lufthansa, our sales extend around the world.”  The Japanese carrier fell 0.6 percent to 175 yen at close
of trading in  Tokyo  today. It has declined 19 percent this year,
compared with a 4 percent drop for the  Bloomberg Asia-Pacific
Airlines Index (BPRAIRL) , which tracks 17 stocks.  ANA’s  passenger traffic  on both North American and European
routes rose 14 percent from a year earlier in October. That
helped offset a slump in Asian travel mainly caused by a
territorial dispute with  China . Total international traffic rose
5.8 percent.  The airline expects to increase profit and sales this
fiscal year helped by the ventures, cost cuts and a travel
rebound following Japan’s nuclear crisis last year.  Net income will rise 42 percent to 40 billion yen, while
sales are expected to climb 4.1 percent to 1.47 trillion yen,
according to the company’s forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  