-- Manchester United Targets Arsenal’s Walcott, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-12-12T08:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/manchester-united-targets-arsenal-s-walcott-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Walcott Future  Manchester United  plans to see off competition from
Liverpool, Chelsea and Manchester City to sign Arsenal’s  Theo Walcott , the  Daily Mail said .  The England winger has turned down an offer of 75,000
pounds ($121,000) a week from Arsenal and the two sides haven’t
met since Aug. 28, the newspaper said.  United is the preferred choice for Walcott, who wants about
100,000 a week, the newspaper said.  No Joe  Liverpool plans to sell winger  Joe Cole  and spend 18
million pounds to hire Blackpool’s Tom Ince and Chelsea’s  Daniel Sturridge ,  the Daily Mirror said.   Ince was a Liverpool trainee and Sturridge wants more
playing time, the newspaper said. Cole, 31, scored his first
Premier League goal in 20 months last weekend and wants to stay
at Anfield, the newspaper said.  Ba Replacement  Newcastle coach  Alan Pardew  is preparing to replace Demba
Ba with Ukraine striker Artem Milevskiy,  the Sun said .  Ba has refused to sign a long-term deal and a 7 million
pound bid would allow him to leave, the newspaper said. Dynamo
Kiev is willing to sell the 27-year-old, the Sun added.  Moscow Mission  Reading may buy former Tottenham striker Roman Pavlyuchenko
from Spartak Moscow as it seeks to stay in the Premier League,
 the Mirror said.   Royals owner Anton Zingarevich flew to Moscow last week to
watch the 31-year-old forward who left Spurs last January, the
newspaper said.  ‘Homer’ Win  West Ham is the first soccer team to feature in The
Simpsons TV series after the London team’s crest was displayed
above the bed of Bart Simpson’s neighbor,  the Sun  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  