-- Apple, Wireless Carriers to Offer Text-to-911 Under FCC Proposal
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-12-12T23:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/apple-wireless-carriers-to-offer-text-to-911-under-fcc-proposal.html
The Federal Communications
Commission today proposed requiring all wireless carriers and
providers of some Internet-based messaging services, such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , to let people send emergency text messages to 911
call centers.  The proposal would build on an agreement among the nation’s
four largest wireless carriers to accelerate so-called text-
to-911 service.  Under the voluntary schedule announced last week,  AT&T
Inc. (T) , Verizon Wireless,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA
Inc. agreed to make the feature available nationwide by May 15,
2014, according to the FCC.  The agency is seeking comment on whether that deadline can
be applied to other wireless carriers and some Internet-based
services.  Text-to-911 service “will keep pace with how consumers
communicate today and can provide a lifesaving alternative in
situations where a person with a hearing or speech disability is
unable to make a voice call, where voice networks are congested,
or where a 911 voice call could endanger the caller,” the FCC
said in a statement e-mailed by Justin Cole, an agency
spokesman.  The FCC proposed that wireless and some Internet services
send automatic “bounce back” text messages to notify consumers
if the service isn’t yet available in their location and
encourage them to call 911 if possible.  The four largest wireless carriers have pledged to make
bounce backs fully available by June, the FCC said.  “Any public safety solution that does not encompass all
texting services will result in potentially deadly customer
confusion,” Bob Quinn, AT&T senior vice president of federal
regulatory and chief privacy officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We appreciate the commission’s willingness to
attack this challenge in a comprehensive manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  