-- Marfrig Advances on Eased Concern in Brazil Over Mad-Cow Disease
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-12T16:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/marfrig-advances-on-eased-concern-in-brazil-over-mad-cow-disease.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Brazil’s
second-biggest food maker, rebounded as speculation eased that
that the finding of the mad-cow disease agent in the country
will lead to a suspension of beef exports to Russia.  Shares gained 1.4 percent to 8.28 reais at 1:13 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo  after earlier jumping as much as 3.4 percent, the biggest
intraday advance since Nov. 21.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, rose 0.9 percent to 5.72 reais. The benchmark Bovespa
index slid 0.5 percent.  Marfrig slumped 5.3 percent yesterday after Russia’s food
safety agency said it is considering a Brazilian beef import ban
because of a possible mad-cow disease case. Brazil’s agriculture
ministry said Dec. 7 that tests on a 13-year-old cow that died
in the Parana state in 2010 showed it carried the “causing
agent of bovine spongiform encephalopathy.” The animal didn’t
develop the disease, nor did the agent cause its death,
according to the ministry.  “We warn against overreacting at this early stage,”
Ricardo Boiati, Alan Cardoso and Pedro Bueno, analysts at  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s brokerage unit, wrote in a report published
yesterday. “Any arguments justifying a restriction are weak,
and Russia currently depends significantly on Brazil to satisfy
its demand for beef.”  Japan , Asia’s largest beef buyer, suspended imports from
Brazil on Dec. 9 because of the mad-cow concern. “This ban is
not very important as Brazil’s beef shipments to Japan account
for just 0.1% of total exports,” the analysts wrote.  Marfrig lost 4.3 percent this year through yesterday while
the Bovespa added 5.1 percent during the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  