-- First Argentina Dust Bowl in 85 Years Said to Cut Wheat
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-12-12T17:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/argentina-s-first-dust-bowl-in-85-years-said-to-cut-wheat-crop.html
Argentina ’s first dust bowl in 85
years is reducing forecasts for wheat production, officials from
the two largest cereals exchange said.  The Rosario and Buenos Aires cereals exchanges will cut
their 2012-2013 wheat forecasts, today and tomorrow
respectively, reducing estimates to below 10 million metric
tons, said the officials, who asked not to be named because the
new forecasts haven’t been made public. Exchanges in Rosario,
Buenos Aires and Bahia Blanca previously said they expected the
grain’s output to be 10.1 million tons.  The reductions come after an average of 25 percent of
Argentina’s wheat crop has been harvested. Heavy rain in the
country’s coastal area impeded planting and reduced yields on
plant fungus from high humidity, the analysts said. At the same
time, inland areas are experiencing a drought, they said.  “The main phenomenon we are facing now is the heating of
the Atlantic Ocean, which is causing a lot of rain on the coast
and severe drought in the countryside,” said Eduardo Sierra,
who has been tracking Argentinas’s Pampas weather for the  Buenos
Aires  Cereals Exchange for the last three decades. “The dust
bowl has arrived and will be the future for most of the areas
located 400 kilometers away from the coast.”  Grapes of Wrath  Sierra said this combination of weather conditions hasn’t
been seen in the Americas since 1927, when it caused the 1929
stock market crash in the U.S. and the ensuing dust bowl
featured in Nobel-prize winner John Steinbeck’s the Grapes of
Wrath. Sierra spoke in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  “Argentine farmers are experiencing the same as U.S.
farmers did in those days, extreme storms in port cities like
 New York , Buenos Aires and entire regions without a single drop
of water,” he said.  In Argentina, this may last for a few years, Sierra said.
On Dec. 6 Buenos Aires received 150 millimeters (5.9 inches) of
rain in an hour when the monthly average is 125 millimeters.  Precipitation will continue near the coast in a way that
won’t benefit crops, Jose Luis Aiello, a climatologist for the
Rosario Cereals Exchange, said by telephone from Rosario.  “High volatility, intense rain in short periods, hot, in
short: pretty much abnormal activity that will translate into
extreme weather conditions for the crops,” Aiello said.  Export Quotas  Conditions have damaged Argentina’s wheat crop, Aldana
Ferradas, analyst for the  Bahia Blanca  Cereals Exchange, said in
a telephone interview from Bahia Blanca, a port city surrounded
by wheat and barley farms.  “The barley crop is far from the expected with low yields
and a lot of illness,” she said. “The entire region west of
Bahia Blanca has remained hot and windy, producing a low quality
barley that won’t be accepted” by breweries or buyers such as
 Saudi Arabia , which uses it for camel food.  Bahia Blanca is maintaining its 10.1 million-ton forecast
for the wheat crop, although it doesn’t rule out lowering that
in the coming days, Ferradas said. “We have seen properties
with losses close to 40 percent,” she said.  In June, the  Agriculture Ministry  increased wheat export
quotas for the current crop on expectations for record output.  “Drought in the west, plus a lot of illness triggered by
humidity fungus is destroying the crop,” said Maximiliano Zavala, an analyst at the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange.  Argentina’s government officials last week reduced the
wheat export quota by 25 percent to 4.5 million tons, an
official from the grain export chamber said, who asked not to be
identified before the government’s official announcement.  Argentina, the world’s fifth-biggest exporter of the grain,
may cut the quota again to meet domestic demand estimated at 6.5
million tons, the grain export chamber official said. The
Agriculture Ministry is forecasting a wheat crop of 11.5 million
tons. Agriculture Secretary Oscar Solis didn’t reply to five
telephone calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  