-- Harvard Graduates Targeted by Alumni-Backed Loan Funds
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/harvard-graduates-targeted-by-alumni-backed-loan-funds.html
Michael Cagney, a hedge-fund manager
backed by  China ’s largest social-networking website, is starting
a series of funds to help students at  Ivy League  and other top
U.S. colleges refinance their loans at lower rates.  Cagney has registered SoFi Capital Advisors LLC with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission  to manage funds that
will finance loans at top colleges, including six members of the
Ivy League. Each of the 18 funds will be dedicated to one school
and will seek money from institutional investors as well as
alumni of that school, according to company officials and
regulatory filings.  The firm plans to offer investors returns that are a
multiple of the 3.97 percent yield they would currently get from
comparable investment grade corporate bonds. Social Finance will
offer lower  interest rates  than the federal government and many
banks while seeking to minimize defaults by focusing on top
schools and having students borrow from their own alumni through
funds set up specifically for their school.  “As I understand it, the schools they are targeting are
schools where students tend to have better job prospects and
have higher salaries coming out of school,”  said Judah Kaplan,
co-founder of Great Neck, New York-based Cuzco Capital Investors
Fund LLC, which invests in delinquent  consumer debt , adding he
did not have specific details of SoFi’s strategy.  In addition, by having alumni as lenders, the funds rely on
the same kind of “moral suasion” as microlending, said Kaplan,
a former director of liquidity risk oversight at mortgage lender
 Fannie Mae .  ‘Social Return’  SoFi, based in  San Francisco , is a unit of Social Finance
Inc., co-founded last year by Cagney and four other people to
capture a piece of the nation’s $1 trillion  student loan  market.
Social Finance has about $130 million of student loans
outstanding or in the works and plans to originate $1 billion to
$1.5 billion of such debt next year, Cagney said.  The funds will raise money mainly from accredited investors
and will have a minimum investment is $100,000, though SoFi
Capital can accept lower amounts.  Social Finance’s strategy is premised on an anomaly of the
student loan market: the federal government charges the same
interest rates at every school, even though some have much
higher default rates on student loans than others. Cagney and
the firm’s other co-founders, three of whom are fellow alumni of
 Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business, decided to
develop a lower-cost formula for lending to those who presented
less risk, said Saturnino Fanlo, the chief financial officer of
SoFi Capital and former chief executive officer of  KKR Financial
Holdings LLC. (KFN)   Government Loans  Under its Stafford loan program, the U.S. Department of
 Education  provides a maximum of $31,000 to undergraduates who
are dependent on their parents, charging 6.8 percent annually
for unsubsidized loans and 3.4 percent to students who qualify
to borrow the money interest-free while in school.  Social Finance offers rates as low as 5.99 percent as an
alternative to the unsubsidized Stafford loans and federal PLUS
loans, which allow graduate students and the parents of
undergraduates to borrow additional money from the Education
Department at 7.9 percent. The firm primarily lends to graduates
who want to refinance their college debt, though it also lends
to people who are still in school.  Renren Backing  Social Finance raised $79 million by selling stock in
September to a group of investors that included Baseline
Ventures and  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a Chinese social-networking site that
now ranks as the largest shareholder in Cagney’s firm with a
stake of 25 percent to 50 percent, according to a range provided
in regulatory filings. After the stock sale, Social Finance
decided to sell the student loans that the firm originates to
funds backed by university alumni and institutional investors
instead of holding the debt on the company’s balance sheet,
Fanlo and Cagney said.  “The specialty-finance model is a massively balance-sheet-
intensive model,” Cagney said, explaining why the company
shifted to asset management. The new approach “aligns us with
our investors and provides a lot more flexibility with how fast
we move and how aggressive we can be in getting programs set
up.”  Before starting Social Finance, Cagney, 41, oversaw the
derivatives desk at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and then started Cabezon
Investment Group LLC with backing from the family of J. Paul
Getty, the late founder of Getty Oil Co., according to SEC
records. He remains an owner of Cabezon, a San Francisco-based
adviser that managed $243 million for macro hedge funds and
high-net-worth individuals as of Jan. 31, the SEC records show.
Macro funds try to anticipate global macroeconomic trends.  Harvard Fund  SoFi Capital on Oct. 31  incorporated funds dedicated to
backing loans for students at Duke, Harvard, Rice and  New York 
universities and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ,
according to  Delaware state records . The following month, the
firm received SEC approval to operate as an  investment adviser ,
according to agency records, and created separate funds for 13
more schools, including Brown, Columbia, Cornell and Stanford
universities,  Dartmouth College , and the Universities of
 Chicago ,  Pennsylvania  and  Virginia .  SoFi plans to set up dedicated funds for additional
schools, Fanlo said. SoFi isn’t restricting its investment funds
to elite universities, Fanlo said, adding that the firm’s
parent, Social Finance, currently makes loans available at about
80 schools.  SoFi’s loan portfolio has an average coupon of 6.1 percent,
Cagney said, adding that the funds can use a “modest” amount
of leverage, or as much as 50 percent of their assets under
management. The  student loans  have maturities ranging from 5 to
15 years, Cagney said. Corporate bonds that mature in 15 years
currently yield about 3.97 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  “What the investor is getting,” Cagney said, is “a high-
yield type return for a very-high-quality underlying asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  