-- Harvard Hires Ex-Hedge-Fund Manager Bhatia in Expansion
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-12-12T19:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/harvard-hires-ex-hedge-fund-manager-bhatia-in-expansion.html
Harvard Management Co., which
oversees the endowment of the world’s richest university with
$30.7 billion, hired Sanjiv Bhatia and three other portfolio
managers as it expands it stock markets team.  Bhatia, who once headed the Asia office of Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based hedge fund Deephaven Capital Management LLC,
started this month as portfolio manager for emerging markets
stocks, Harvard Management said today. The endowment also hired
Al-Wadhah Al-Adawi, formerly at GLG Partners Inc., Amit Tiwari,
who used to work at the  Lakshmi Mittal  family office, and Srdjan
Tanjga, most recently at 40 North Industries LLC.  “These new colleagues bring a remarkable breadth of
experience and expertise in emerging markets and international
equities,” Stephen Blyth, head of public markets at the
endowment, said in a statement. “They will further increase our
ability to take advantage of investment opportunities across
global equity markets to deliver superior investment returns.”  Harvard allocates more capital to international stocks,
including emerging markets, than many of its peers, it said in
an annual  report  released in September. Underperformance of
emerging markets public equities contributed to a 0.05 percent
loss on its investments for the year ended June 30.  Endowments and foundations had the worst returns of any
class of institutional investors in the year through June,
gaining 0.37 percent, consulting firm Wilshire Associates said
in an Aug. 6 report.  Emerging Markets  “If chosen and executed well,  emerging markets  investments
are poised to benefit from the phenomenal rate of change in
local, regional, and global businesses worldwide and will be one
of the key drivers of our portfolio’s future performance,”
Harvard Management President Jane Mendillo said in the report.  Bhatia, who worked for 12 years at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., joined Deephaven in 2005 and left the U.S. hedge fund in
July 2008 to start his own company, Isometric Investment
Advisors Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  He closed down the hedge fund that invested in Asian
companies affected by catalysts such as mergers and
reorganizations in December 2011 after FRM Capital Advisors Ltd.
in  London , which accounted for about 80 percent of its assets,
decided to invest its money elsewhere.  The holder of a master’s degree in mathematics from
 Cambridge University , he worked a short stint after the closure
at CQS (U.K.) LLP, the money-manager founded by  Michael Hintze ,
before joining Harvard Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  