-- Stocks Erase Gain as Fed Optimism Fades; Treasuries Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-12-12T21:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/asian-stocks-rise-for-10th-day-as-yen-falls-on-fed-easing-bets.html
U.S. stocks erased gains as optimism
about Federal Reserve plans to buy more bonds faded, with
investor focus returning to the budget deadlock in  Washington .
The dollar pared losses; Treasury yields remained higher.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed up less than 0.1
percent at 1,428.48 at 4 p.m. in New York, reversing a gain of
as much as 0.8 percent. The Dollar Index fell 0.2 percent after
losing twice that amount earlier. Treasury 10-year yields
increased five basis points to 1.70 percent and 30-year rates
were six points higher at 2.9 percent amid bets that the Fed’s
purchases will stoke inflation. Crude climbed for a second day
after a five-session slump.  Stocks extended gains earlier as the Fed announced plans to
buy $45 billion a month of Treasury securities starting in
January, matching forecasts from economists in a Bloomberg poll.
The rally faded as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke held a press
conference, telling reporters that monetary stimulus cannot
offset the full effect of the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic tax increases and budget cuts set to go into effect
next year if an alternative deal is not reached.  “The Fed has basically tried its very best to institute a
backstop to downside economic risk borne from fiscal cliff,”
 Brian Sozzi , chief equities analyst at NBG Productions in New
York, said in a note to clients that predicted the selloff
during Bernanke’s press conference. “In turn, that may cause
both sides of the aisle to re-play to their bases and in effect,
ruin the feel-good vibes underlying this week’s rally.  Fed Plans  The buying announced today will be in addition to $40
billion a month of mortgage-debt the Fed is currently buying.
The FOMC said asset buying will continue ‘‘if the outlook for
the labor market does not improve substantially.’’  The Fed said interest rates will stay low ‘‘at least as
long’’ as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation ‘‘between one and two years ahead’’ is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent. The committee ‘‘views these thresholds
as consistent with its earlier date-based guidance.’’  The Dow Jones Industrial Average erased an 81-point rally
to close down 2.99 points at 13,245.45, with Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., International Business Machines Corp. and 3M Co. leading
losses.  Eli Lilly & Co. sank 3.2 percent after saying it’s
conducting an added study for an experimental Alzheimer’s drug.  Berkshire Rallies  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. climbed 2.4 percent after lifting
the threshold it will pay for stock, signaling Chief Executive
Officer  Warren Buffett  views the shares as undervalued. DuPont
Co. advanced 1.4 percent as the chemical maker announced a share
buyback and said 2012 earnings will be at the high end of
forecasts.  The S&P 500 has advanced about 0.9 percent so far this
month to give the benchmark index a 14 percent rally for 2012.
Its average gain for December is 1.5 percent, the most of  any
month  except July, according to data since 1928 compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock market may also get a year-end boost from a
so-called Santa Claus rally -- an upswing in the last five days
of the year and the first two in January, according to the Stock
Trader’s Almanac.  The S&P 500 will surpass its record to reach 1,580 at the
end of next year, according to Thomas Lee, chief U.S. equity
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. His forecast is 0.9 percent
higher than the benchmark equity measure’s all-time high of
1,565.15 and 11 percent above its closing level today. Stocks
will rally as investors get clarity on political concerns in the
U.S. and  Europe , an acceleration in durable goods spending lifts
price-earnings  multiples  and earnings growth picks up, according
to New York-based Lee in a note dated today.  Obama Poll  A Bloomberg National Poll shows President Barack Obama won
the public argument over taxes and plans to protect Social
Security and Medicare benefits. Obama is seeking a budget deal
with Republican lawmakers to avert the fiscal cliff, which would
result in more than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts. Obama reduced his demand for tax increases to
$1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion as he and House Speaker John Boehner traded another round of offers.  Boehner told reporters today that Obama’s plan cannot pass
the House or Senate and ‘‘we’ve got some serious differences”
on the fiscal cliff. The S&P 500 fell as much as 5.3 percent
after the Nov. 6 elections set up a budget showdown between
Obama and House Republicans. The benchmark gauge has recovered
all of that drop, even as Democrats and Republicans remain
divided over how to cut the deficit.  ‘Wrong Position’  “People don’t want to be in the wrong position the day
when John Boehner and  Barack Obama  walk out of the White House
with a deal,” David Kelly, chief market strategist at JPMorgan
Funds in New York, said by phone. His firm oversees about $400
billion. “People are trying to position themselves the day
after the deal rather than before the deal.”  In the bond market, 30-year yields reached a one-month
high. Break-even rates on 30-year inflation-index bonds, a
measure of expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, climbed to the highest since September.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained for an eighth straight
day, the longest streak in 19 months. PSA Peugeot Citroen surged
10 percent as Europe’s second-largest carmaker said it will
eliminate an additional 1,500 jobs and La Tribune reported that
 Algeria  may take a stake in company. Wacker Chemie AG, the
second-biggest maker of solar-grade silicon, rose 12 percent
after  China ’s government announced a subsidy plan for
photovoltaic projects.  Euro Economy  Euro-area industrial production unexpectedly fell in
October as declines in Germany and  France  offset gains in Spain
and  Portugal . Output in the 17-nation euro area dropped 1.4
percent from September, when it declined 2.3 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office said. Economists had forecast
no change in October, according to the median of 34 estimates in
a survey. Output fell 3.6 percent from the year-earlier month.  The dollar weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, losing
the most versus the Swiss franc, the euro and New Zealand
dollar.  The yen weakened at least 0.6 percent against all 16 major
peers, losing 1.3 percent to 108.69 per euro. The Japanese
currency fell to the weakest in eight months versus the dollar
as  Japan ’s Liberal Democratic Party, which has pledged fiscal
stimulus to stoke economic growth, leads in polls before Dec. 16
elections.  Korean Won  South Korea’s currency was 0.1 percent stronger at 1,074.93
per dollar in  Seoul . It touched 1,073.64, the strongest level
since September 2011, before temporarily reversing gains after
North Korea confirmed it launched a rocket that put a satellite
into orbit, showcasing the totalitarian regime’s progress in
ballistic missile technology. The launch came a week before the
South’s presidential election.  Greek bonds rose, with the 10-year yield down six basis
points at 13.15 percent.  Greece  drew enough offers for its
buyback of securities to meet a goal that’s crucial to unlocking
aid from the International Monetary Fund and European Union.  Cocoa rallied 2.6 percent and hogs, silver and heating oil
increased at least 1.4 percent to lead gains in 15 of 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI. Gold for February delivery
increased 0.5 percent to $1,717.90 an ounce.  New York-traded crude increased 1.1 percent to $86.77 a
barrel. The International Energy Agency raised fourth quarter
and 2013 consumption estimates on signs of a demand rebound in
China, the world’s second-largest oil user.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rallied 0.8 percent, rising
for a sixth straight day to reach its highest level since April.
Benchmark indexes in  Taiwan ,  Russia  and  Argentina  climbed at
least 1 percent to lead gains in developing nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  