-- Asian Dollar Debt to Trail Local Bonds, Pioneer, UOB Say
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-12-13T01:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/asian-dollar-debt-to-trail-local-bonds-pioneer-uob-say.html
Asian  dollar bonds  are set to trail
local-currency debt in 2013 for the first time in three years as
a shrinking  yield advantage  versus Treasuries erodes their
appeal, Pioneer Investments and UOB Asset Management Ltd. say.  Securities priced in the U.S. currency returned 1.5 percent
this quarter as domestic debt delivered a 2 percent gain in
dollar terms, according to indexes tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.
While global notes were the better bet in each of the last five
quarters, their yield premium over U.S government debt narrowed
108 basis points this year to 267 basis points, the biggest
contraction since 2009.  “The performance of local-currency markets in  Asia  will be
superior to the returns of the external Asian debt,” said
Yerlan Syzdykov, a London-based portfolio manager at Pioneer
Investments, which has 153 billion euros ($199 billion) of
assets under management, said in an interview on Dec. 10.
“Spreads have significantly tightened in 2012 for external debt
and there is limited room for further tightening.”  Pioneer likes Dim Sum debt as it expects further
appreciation in the Chinese  yuan , said Syzdykov. The yuan has
climbed 0.9 percent versus the dollar this year and is expected
to gain 1.6 percent by the end of 2013, according to analysts’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Pioneer’s 729 million euro
 emerging-market bond fund  returned 23 percent over the past year,
beating 96 percent of its peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Currency Gains  International bonds outperformed domestic notes in the past
two years as the global slowdown arrested regional currency
gains. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Chase & Co. Asia Dollar Index
rebounded 2.5 percent in 2012, after 2011’s 1.1 percent loss.
The 5.2 percent advance in 2010 was the biggest since 1998. The
yield gap between Asia’s dollar securities and U.S. Treasuries
averaged 357 basis points, or 3.57 percentage points, in the
past five years and peaked at 843 in October 2008, the height of
the global financial crisis.  Asian currencies will rise against the dollar in 2013, led
by a 3.6 percent gain for the Philippine peso from current
levels and a 3.4 percent jump in the Indian rupee, Bloomberg
surveys of analysts show. The  Hong Kong  dollar and the yen are
forecast to weaken versus the greenback.  The  Philippines  plans to cut its overseas debt-sale target
by as much as 50 percent in 2013 to $1.5 billion and will
instead sell more notes on the domestic market as it seeks to
slow gains in its currency.  Thailand  is considering a plan to
raise $1 billion to $3 billion by issuing dollar bonds for the
first time since 2003 to fund water-management projects and
prevent a recurrence of the nation’s worst floods in almost 70
years.  Fund Inflows  Emerging-market hard-currency bond funds attracted $33.8
billion this year through Dec. 6, while local-currency bond
funds lured $13.81 billion, according to EPFR Global.  The yield premium on Asian dollar debt has narrowed as U.S.
bond yields increased. The amount  paid out  on 10-year Treasuries
has risen 31 basis points from a record low of 1.38 percent in
July amid optimism a recovery in the world’s biggest economy is
under way. The U.S. unemployment rate dropped to the lowest
since 2008 in October and  service industries  expanded more than
economists estimated in November, data last week showed.  President  Barack Obama  has lowered his demand for tax
increases in the U.S. budget to $1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion
as he seeks agreement with Republicans to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff of spending cuts and higher taxes due to come into
force next year. Lawmakers will probably reach agreement on the
fiscal deficit and avoid a U.S. recession, according to Pioneer,
UOB Asset and JPMorgan Asset Management.  Fiscal Cliff  The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday that it will buy $45
billion a month of  Treasury securities  from January in an
expansion of its asset-purchase program.  “The  U.S. economy  is likely to be on a stronger footing as
we expect the fiscal cliff to be avoided,” Chia Tse Chern,
director and co-head of Asian fixed income in  Singapore  at UOB
Asset, which managed about S$25 billion ($20.5 billion) of
client assets as of Sept. 30, said in an interview on Dec. 5.
“The Treasury yield is likely to rise slightly in 2013. We
believe that several Asian currencies remain undervalued against
the dollar and are likely to gain further in 2013.”  UOB Asset prefers Philippine peso bonds and Mongolia’s
dollar debt, Chia said. His  United Asian Bonds Fund (OUBASIB)  returned 12
percent in 2012, surpassing the 4.6 percent average among peers.  The  average yield  on local-currency bonds was 3.59 percent
yesterday after touching a record-low 3.56 percent on Nov. 19,
while the average for dollar-denominated debt fell to an all-
time low of 3.35 percent on Oct. 16 and was at 3.43 percent
yesterday.  ‘High Yields’  “More quantitative easing should lead to weakening of the
dollar,” said Stephen Chang, managing director in Hong Kong at
JPMorgan Asset, which managed $1.4 trillion globally as of Sept.
30. “Most Asian currencies will provide positive carry and good
fundamentals,” he said in an e-mail on Dec. 4.  Chang, whose  JPM Asian Total Return Bond Fund (JFASTRE)  gained 13.5
percent in 2012 compared with an average of 4.9 percent among
peers, likes the Malaysian ringgit and  Indian rupee  debt.  “The spread between the dollar bonds issued by Asian
nations and Treasuries has been narrowing while local-currency
debt still offers relatively high yields,” Tatsuya Higuchi, a
senior portfolio manager at Kokusai Asset Management Co. which
manages about $41 billion, said in a phone interview from  Tokyo 
on Dec. 11. “With the funds flowing out of the U.S., the dollar
may remain under slight downward pressure against Asian
currencies.”  Kokusai’s Asia Pacific Sovereign Open fund returned 17
percent this year, beating 91 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Higuchi declined to give specific
forecasts or investment strategies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  