-- Asia Stocks Set for Longest Winning Streak in Three Years
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-12T10:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-budget-fed-policy-optimism.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index heading for its longest streak of gains in three
years, amid speculation the Federal Reserve will step up
monetary easing. South Korean shares closed higher even after
North Korea launched a rocket.  James Hardie Industries SE, a building-materials supplier
that counts the U.S. as its biggest market, added 1.7 percent in
Sydney.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  jumped 10 percent after the
Nikkei newspaper reported the Japanese carmaker’s withdrawal
from European production will boost its profit. Guoco Group Ltd.
surged 31 percent in Hong Kong after the property developer
received a HK$8.25 billion ($1 billion) buyout offer from its
biggest shareholder.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.5 percent to 127 as
of 7:28 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its 10th day of gain, the
longest winning streak since July 2009. More than two shares
rose for each that fell. The measure advanced 11 percent this
year through yesterday as central banks took steps to support
economic growth. The Federal Reserve concludes a two-day meeting
today as policy makers consider whether to continue with
quantitative easing.  “The market expects the Fed to announce additional
monetary easing measures,” said  Mitsushige Akino , Tokyo-based
chief fund officer at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co., which
oversees about 30 billion yen ($364 million). “Investors are
waiting to see what will happen. If it’s not as expected, it
could be very bad for the market.”  Fed officials are considering whether to supplement $40
billion a month of mortgage-bond buying with purchases of
Treasuries when their Operation Twist program expires at the end
of the month. If expanded as expected, the new program will push
the central bank’s balance sheet to almost $4 trillion.  Asian Titans  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced in the past three
weeks amid signs the world’s two biggest economies are
improving. The Dow Jones Asian Titans Index, which tracks Asia’s
50 biggest companies, has risen in the 10 days through today,
its longest streak of gains since May 1997. The MSCI Asian gauge
traded at 14.2 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.8
times for the S&P 500 Index and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe
600.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 0.6 percent. North Korea
launched a long-range rocket today in defiance of international
sanctions, an indication the totalitarian regime is making
progress in its ballistic-missile technology.  Asian defense contractors advanced.  Singapore Technologies
Engineering Ltd. (STE) , which makes ammunition, and builds tanks and
naval ships, gained 2.1 percent to S$3.85. Kawasaki Heavy
Industries Ltd., which gets 20 percent of its sales from
aerospace and defense, jumped 3.7 percent to 198 yen in Tokyo.  Machinery Orders  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.6 percent as the
nation’s machinery orders rose for the first time in three
months.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.2 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 0.8 percent, while  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The S&P 500 gained 0.7 percent yesterday as
German investor confidence climbed and traders awaited progress
on  federal budget  negotiations in  Washington .  President  Barack Obama  is seeking a budget deal with
Republican lawmakers to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, which
would result in more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts next year. House Speaker John
Boehner said yesterday he is still “hopeful” the parties can
reach a budget agreement before the end of the year.  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. James Hardie rose 1.7
percent to A$9.36 in Sydney.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , the
maker of Ryobi power tools that counts North America as its
biggest market, jumped 9.3 percent to HK$15.08 in Hong Kong.
 Honda Motor Co. (7751) , a Japanese carmaker that gets 44 percent of
sales from North America, added 1.3 percent to 2,749 yen.  Europe Withdrawal  Mitsubishi Motors jumped 10 percent to 87 yen. The carmaker
will add 15 billion yen ($181 million) to operating profit
annually by ending its European production, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Osaka Securities Exchange Co. jumped 7.7 percent to 407,000
yen. The shares rose as much as 19 percent today after the
Financial Services Agency yesterday approved the merger of the
Osaka bourse and its Tokyo rival. The merged bourse, which will
be called the Japan Exchange Group, will list on the first
section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Jan. 4, the FSA’s
statement said.  Celltrion Inc. (068270)  climbed 7.3 percent to 28,750 won in  Seoul 
after the pharmaceutical company announced a stock dividend
plan.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., a Chinese solar-power
company, jumped 11 percent to HK$1.49, the most on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. The government will provide an additional 7
billion  yuan  ($1.1 billion) subsidy for solar-power projects
this year, the Xinhua News Agency reported, citing a finance
ministry statement.  Philippine Casino  Guoco Group surged 31 percent to HK$92.05. Guoline Overseas
Ltd., led by Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chan, offered
HK$8.3 billion, or HK$88 per share, for the rest of the
investment company.  Robinsons Land Corp., controlled by Philippine billionaire
John Gokongwei, rose 4.1 percent to a record 21.50 pesos in
 Manila . The property developer is close to reaching an agreement
with Japanese businessman Kazuo Okada on a casino venture in
Manila, the Philippine Daily Inquirer reported, citing a person
it didn’t identify. Robinsons Land President Frederick Go and
Vice Chairman Lance Gokongwei didn’t immediately respond to
mobile phone messages seeking comment.  Unilever Indonesia (UNVR) , a unit of the world’s second-biggest
consumer goods company, sank 11 percent to 23,150 rupiah in
Jakarta, the most since June 2005. The company said in a
statement today that total royalties to Unilever NV would
increase to 5 percent of its revenue beginning next year from
3.5 percent now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  