-- Aussie Rises to 2-Month High as Stocks Gain Before Fed Decision
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-12T05:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/aussie-rises-to-2-month-high-as-stocks-gain-before-fed-decision.html
Australia’s dollar rose to a more
than two-month high on prospects that further monetary easing by
the U.S. central bank will debase the greenback.  Australia’s  government bonds  slumped and the nation’s
currency touched the strongest level in eight months versus the
yen as gains in global equities boosted demand for riskier
assets. New Zealand’s dollar traded at a three-year high against
the Japanese currency. The advance in the so-called Aussie was
limited after a private report showed  consumer confidence 
slumped the most in nine months.  “Market sentiment is pretty buoyant,” said  Andrew Salter ,
a currency strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “Provisions of liquidity from foreign
central banks have been a key determinant of the Australian
dollar’s performance.”  Australia’s dollar touched $1.0541, the highest since Sept.
17, before trading at $1.0524 as of 4:01 p.m. in Sydney, little
changed from yesterday’s close. The Aussie rose 0.1 percent to
86.94 yen after reaching 87.04, the strongest since March 28.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, was little changed
at 83.92 U.S. cents. It touched 83.98 U.S. cents, matching
yesterday’s high, the strongest since March 2. New Zealand’s
currency added 0.1 percent to 69.33 yen, after reaching 69.39,
the strongest since October 2009.  Australian  government bonds  fell, with the 10-year yield
rising eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.21
percent. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks gained 0.5
percent, following a 0.6 percent advance in  MSCI’s World Index (MXWO) 
yesterday.  FOMC Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee will announce $45 billion
in monthly Treasury buying that will push its balance sheet
almost to $4 trillion, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. It concludes a two-day
policy meeting today, the last of the year.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the
expansion of balance sheets by foreign central banks since 2008
has caused currencies of export-driven economies including
Australia to surge, according to the text of a speech to be
delivered in Bangkok today. He did not address Australia’s
economic outlook or domestic  interest rate  policy in his
prepared remarks.  The Australian dollar has risen 0.7 percent so far in 2012
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The kiwi
dollar’s 6.1 percent advance over the same period was the best
performance among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
the gauges.  Confidence Indicators  Demand for the Aussie was limited after consumer confidence
slumped. The sentiment index slipped 4.1 percent to 100 in
December from last month, a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne
Institute survey taken Dec. 3-9 and released in Sydney today
showed. Readings above 100 indicate optimists outnumber
pessimists.  National Australia Bank Ltd. said yesterday its business
confidence index dropped to the lowest since April 2009.  The RBA reduced its benchmark interest rate on Dec. 3 by 25
basis points to 3 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show traders see a 52 percent chance the central bank
will cut borrowing costs to 2.75 percent when it next meets Feb.
5.  “Until we see a turnaround in both business and consumer
confidence, the RBA will retain an easing bias,”  Spiros Papadopoulos , the Melbourne-based senior economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a note to clients today. “We
expect a further cut in the first half of 2013, but if the
weakness in confidence and conditions continues, the RBA will
have to cut more than once next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  