-- Zoomlion Markets Dollar Debt; Asia Bond Risk Falls for Third Day
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-12-12T05:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/australia-bond-risk-falls-to-least-since-august-2011-swaps-show.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157)  is marketing a dollar-denominated bond as debt
risk in Asia falls for a third consecutive day.  Zoomlion H.K. SPV Co., a unit of the Chinese concrete and
hoisting machinery maker, plans to sell a 10-year note at about
6.25 percent as soon as today, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The company has asked existing bondholders to
let it amend the terms of its 6.875 percent debt due April 2017
to allow it to borrow more, with responses due by 11 p.m.
tomorrow in New York, it said in a statement to the Singapore
stock exchange on Dec. 3.  The company, which is based in Changsha in the south-
central province of Hunan, would be the first Asian issuer to
sell dollar debt in almost a week as issuance slumps ahead of
year-end holidays across the region. Bond risk in Asia is
meanwhile on track for its longest streak of declines since the
period ending Dec. 3, according to Credit Agricole SA and data
provider CMA.  “There’s still abundant cash to be put to work and, off
the back of that, these deals continue to come,” said Brayan Lai, a desk analyst in emerging-market credit trading at
Jefferies Group Inc. in  Singapore . “The pace has however slowed
tremendously. We’re not expecting a lot more to print in
December.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan decreased 2 basis points to 111 as of
8:46 a.m. in Hong Kong, Credit Agricole SA prices show. The
gauge is set for its lowest close since Dec. 3, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Default Swaps  Proceeds from Zoomlion’s new sale will be used to fund
overseas expansion, the person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.
Holders of Zoomlion’s outstanding bonds will receive $2 for
every $1,000 of principal held if they consent to amend the
terms by the deadline, according to the exchange statement.  The cost of insuring Australian corporate bonds from
default is on course for its lowest close since August 2011,
according to traders of credit-default swaps and CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 3 basis points to
124 basis points as of 11:19 a.m. in Sydney, according to prices
from Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. A close of 124
would be the least since the index fell to 122.4 on Aug. 2 last
year, CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index declined 2 basis points to
170 as of 9:21 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
index, which has ranged from 165 to 229.5 this half, is on track
for its lowest close since Dec. 10, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  