-- B2W Surges on Bets Holiday Sales to Fuel Earnings Turnaround
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-12T20:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/b2w-surges-on-bets-holiday-sales-to-fuel-earnings-turnaround.html
B2W Cia. Global do Varejo,  Brazil’s
biggest online retailer, rose the most on the Bovespa index on
speculation holiday sales will fuel an earnings recovery.  Shares jumped 7.1 percent to 19 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , extending its four-day gain to 27 percent.
Trading surged today to almost three times the average volume in
the past three months. The benchmark  stock index  slid 0.3
percent.  B2W reported that third-quarter sales rose 17 percent to
1.23 billion reais ($590 million), beating analyst estimates for
the first time since the first quarter of 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “B2W’s operational results improved in the third
quarter,” Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Socopa Corretora, said
by phone from Sao Paulo. “Investors expect its year-end sales
to grow more than other big retailers in Brazil because its
rivals don’t seem to be investing much.”  After delivery delays led to losses during the holidays in
the past two years, B2W opened four distribution centers in the
states of Sao Paulo,  Rio de Janeiro ,  Minas Gerais  and Pernambuco
to accelerate deliveries. The company previously shipped
products only from its facilities in Sao Paulo.  Analysts led by  Robert Ford  at  Bank of America Corp .  on
Nov. 28 recommended buying the stock, betting that the new
distribution infrastructure will cut costs. The company
“appears to be in the cusp of a turnaround,” the analysts
wrote.  B2W’s share price has more than doubled this year, making
it the best performer on the Bovespa index. The benchmark index
climbed 4.8 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  