-- BOJ’s Unlimited Loan Program Seen Open to Use by Hedge Funds
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-12-13T04:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/bank-of-japan-s-unlimited-loans-seen-open-to-use-by-hedge-funds.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  plans to avoid
restricting where money ultimately flows from its program of
unlimited lending to banks, meaning cash could go to companies
including hedge funds, people familiar with the central bank’s
discussions said.  The BOJ doesn’t want to see credit extended to the public
sector, such as through funding purchases of  government
securities , the people said. In October, the BOJ said inter-bank
lending wouldn’t be available for use through the facility.
Aside from the exceptions, the bank wants to avoid limits so the
program is most effective, they said on condition of anonymity
because the discussions are private.  The board meets next week, and Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said he aimed to decide the details by year-end.  With a shrinking economy, declining population and
entrenched deflation,  Japan ’s central bank has struggled to
stoke private demand for credit, even with borrowing costs near
zero. The program, outlined in October, follows measures from a
venture-capital style lending facility to including real estate
investment trusts in the BOJ’s main asset-purchase facility.  “The impact of this program on Japan’s economy will be
limited,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “We
have to have companies take risks and that will take a visible
recovery in the global economy.”  Weaker Yen  The program could also have the side-effect of weakening
the yen as it will include lending in dollars, the people said.  While the yen has fallen almost 5 percent against the
dollar in the past month, it’s still stronger than the 100 yen
per dollar that Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive  Carlos Ghosn 
said is the currency’s “neutral range.”  The currency fell 0.4 percent to 83.56 per dollar as of
1:19 p.m. in Tokyo, its lowest since March, after the Federal
Reserve yesterday said it would buy an extra $45 billion a month
of  Treasury securities  to spur the economy.  The U.S. central bank provided low-cost loans to investors
to buy AAA-rated asset-backed securities under an emergency
lending program during the global financial crisis. The Fed’s
Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility was tapped by
borrowers from banks to  hedge funds  and a fast-food company.  The BOJ  said  in October that loans under its program will
be provided “against pooled collateral,” placing the
underlying credit risk with the borrowing financial institution.  Deposit-taking institutions with accounts at the BOJ,
including branches of foreign banks, will be eligible to borrow,
the people said. The central bank aims to begin lending early
next year, they said.  Credit Demand  “The program’s viability may be low given that loan demand
in Japan remains sluggish and banks are able to secure cheap
funding from depositors,” said Shinichi Ina, a Tokyo-based
analyst at UBS AG. “Demand for the program is likely to be very
incremental due largely to ample supply.”  Customer deposits held by Japan’s banks exceeded loans by
171 trillion yen ($2 trillion) in November, close to a record
174.1 trillion yen in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on central bank figures. The country’s banks
held 162.8 trillion yen of Japanese  government bonds  as of Oct.
31, down from a record 171 trillion yen in March, Bank of Japan
data show.  Bank lending  in Japan has risen less than 1.5 percent from
a year earlier in every month since October 2009, BOJ figures
show.  The BOJ’s Tankan survey will probably show tomorrow that
large manufacturers are the most pessimistic since the aftermath
of the global recession, according to the  median forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  The reading may have declined to minus 10 in December, from
minus 3 in September. That would be the lowest since the first
quarter of 2010. A negative figure means pessimists outnumber
optimists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  