-- Banker Pinheiro Like President of Brazil Is One of a Kind
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-12-12T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/banker-pinheiro-like-president-of-brazil-is-one-of-a-kind.html
Andrea Pinheiro thought she was done
with banking when a friend invited her to start a merger-
advisory firm in 2009.  Three years later BR Partners, the company founded in Sao
Paulo by Pinheiro and Ricardo Lacerda,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s former  Brazil  chief executive officer, is an investment
bank taking market share from bigger rivals with help from its
executives’ connections and a singular focus on Brazil.  BR Partners was sixth this year in advising on Brazilian
mergers, based on the number of deals as of the end of November,
topping international banks such as New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The dollar
value of the firm’s deals accounted for 13 percent of the
market, compared with 2.1 percent for all of 2011.  “There is space for a less-conflicted investment bank and
for people who speak our language and who will be here in Brazil
no matter what,” Pinheiro, 46, said in an interview.  Like  Dilma Rousseff , Brazil’s first female president,
Pinheiro is blazing a path for women in a country where men
account for most of the jobs in the investment-banking industry.
Just 29 percent of executives hired through the headhunter firm
Fesa Global Recruiters from 2010 through the first quarter of
2012 in the wholesale bank area were women.  Pinheiro, who serves as BR Partners’ chief operating
officer, says local expertise wins clients.  France ’s  Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA (PCAR4) , for example, hired BR Partners as it
fought earlier this year for control of Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s biggest retailer.  Jaime Pinheiro  The Pinheiro family has been in banking for four
generations. Andrea’s father, Jaime Pinheiro, sold his Banco BMC
to Banco Bradesco SA for about 800 million reais ($386 million)
in 2007, and both Jaime and Andrea, his only daughter, are
investors in BR Partners.  She holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration
and an MBA from the  New York  University Leonard N. Stern
Business School. Her first job was as a trainee at BMC and then
financial manager at Cotece SA, a textile company owned by her
family. After the MBA, she became a merger-and-acquisition
banker and analyst for SG Warburg & Co.  “I was a bank analyst, but I really learned to understand
a bank balance sheet working with my father,” she said.  Pinheiro was a BMC director and vice president responsible
for the  investor relations , marketing, controls and planning
areas. After the bank’s sale, she stayed at Bradesco for two
years overseeing payroll finance, and then took a sabbatical. It
was then that she was persuaded by Lacerda to join BR Partners.  Initial Investment  “I didn’t want to work on banks anymore, I was tired and
wanted more flexibility to stay with my son,” she said, adding
that Gabriel, 12, has talked about becoming a banker. Pinheiro’s
daughter, Isabella, 19, is a singer and wants to be a
journalist.  “Instead of promising me huge wages, Lacerda convinced me
to put my own money at risk to get the job,” she said, adding
that she couldn’t resist the temptation of starting a bank from
scratch.  Since 2010, BR Partners has returned about 15 percent
annually on its 210 million reais in shareholders’ capital.  “Andrea adds a lot because she is a born banker,” said
Lacerda, BR Partners’ biggest shareholder. Her relationships
with mid-size Brazilian companies and entrepreneurs help the
bank compete, he said.  In the mostly male club of Latin American finance, Pinheiro
has learned how to succeed. She tells of one episode, early in
her career, when an Argentine bank executive shared how
seductive he found Brazilian women. “I was very young and just
started shouting -- in front of 15 people,” she said.
“Nowadays, I would have controlled myself and let it go.”  Pinheiro handled the negotiations with Brazil’s central
bank to obtain in June a bank and broker-dealer license for BR
Partners.  “Andrea has a strong personality and knows how to assert
herself in a male environment,” Lacerda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  