-- Barclays Hires Former FSA Chief Sants as Compliance Head
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-12-12T12:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/barclays-appoints-hector-sants-as-head-of-compliance.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the bank fined for
Libor manipulation, hired former Financial Services Authority
Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants  as head of compliance and
government and regulatory relations, a newly created role.  Sants, 56, will report to CEO Antony Jenkins and will
manage compliance employees at the bank, London-based Barclays
said today in a statement. His compensation wasn’t disclosed.
Starting on Jan. 21, Sants will also oversee relationships with
governments and regulators, including his former employer.  “I left the FSA with the intention of finding a role which
would allow me to put into practice the experience I have gained
in both the public and private sector,” Sants said in today’s
statement.  Barclays, Britain’s second-largest bank, was fined a record
290 million pounds ($468 million) in June for submitting false
London and euro interbank offered rates, leading to the
departure of CEO  Robert Diamond , Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier. Jenkins is seeking to
overhaul the culture of the bank following scandals including
wrongly-sold loan insurance.  Sants, who stepped down as head the U.K. financial
regulator in June, warned Agius in 2010 the FSA could “re-
assess”Diamond’s suitability for his position amid the Libor
scandal, in an e-mail disclosed to parliament on Sept. 19.  Regulator’s Concerns  Sants at the time told Agius the regulator had concerns
about whether  Rich Ricci , who succeeded Diamond as co-CEO of
Barclays’s investment-banking unit, had “the depth of skills”
needed to oversee the operation together with co-CEO Del
Missier.  A plan to save Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in the midst
of the 2008 financial crisis fell through when Sants blocked an
attempt by Barclays to buy some of its assets, according to “In
Fed We Trust,” the book by  David Wessel , a Wall Street Journal
reporter.  Sants announced his departure from the FSA in February
2010, but agreed to stay on after the government proposed
handing supervisory powers to the  Bank of England . He resigned
again in March. Before joining the FSA, Sants was an executive
at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , where he led the bank’s European,
Middle East and Asia business.  -- Editor: Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  