-- Barge Captain Steers Rocky Course as Mississippi Shrinks
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-12-12T18:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/barge-captain-steers-rocky-course-as-mississippi-shrinks.html
Sandbars no one can remember seeing
above water are visible from the wheelhouse of the Capt. Bill
Stewart as it churns past Hanging Dog Bluff on the  Mississippi 
River south of St. Louis, a warning of more treacherous
conditions ahead.  “I’ve been out here 46 years and I’ve never seen it this
bad,” Darrell Alford, the 66-year-old captain of the tow boat,
said as he steered the vessel. “You’re on edge all the time.”  The worst drought in 50 years has cut the river depth by
two-thirds in some places, creating a low-water choke point
between St. Louis and Cairo,  Illinois , for the $7 billion worth
of grain, coal and other commodities that typically move this
time of year. Barring extra rainfall, the  Army Corps  of
Engineers predicts the river will be too shallow in coming weeks
for the tow boats that push barges down the 180-mile (290
kilometer) section of the river.  Carriers such as AEP River Operations LLC, owner of the
Capt. Bill Stewart, are rushing to get shipments though in case
the river is shut to barges. The extra traffic, narrower passage
and shallow water have turned the trip into an obstacle course
for the 5,600-horsepower boat as it nudges its 22,000-ton load
down the twisty, muddy river at about 9 miles per hour.  Rock Pinnacles  In the most treacherous section, a five-mile stretch that
begins about 44 miles north of Cairo near Thebes, Illinois,
Capt. Bill Stewart’s steel hull passes close to submerged rock
outcroppings known as pinnacles.  “That is very unfortunate for metal,” pilot Jeff Heflin,
46, said as he steered the tow boat and barges through the
pinnacles. “It’s dangerous. You can put it on the ground really
easily.”  The Corps hopes to keep the river open by blasting away
pinnacles and dredging the bottom in 21 trouble spots between
 St. Louis  and Cairo. Last week, the agency rejected a request
from shippers to divert water from the  Missouri  River, a major
Mississippi tributary. On board the Capt. Bill Stewart, news of
the decision was met with quiet resignation.  Even if the rock blasting begins as planned later this
month, it will take up to two months to complete, according to
the Corps of Engineers.  A closure, “seems inevitable,” Heflin said. “They say
they’re going to blow out the pinnacles. I don’t know what else
they could do.”  Water Levels  The U.S. projects water levels on the Mississippi near St.
Louis will drop to a depth about 9 feet on Dec. 26, slightly
higher than forecast a week ago. Water levels will continue to
drop, absent precipitation, the  National Weather Service  said
today in its four-week forecast.  Most tow boats and barges cannot operate at depths lower
than 9 feet, according to the Corps. The Capt. Bill Stewart and
other similar-sized tow boats require at least 10 feet of water,
according to Marty Hettel, senior manager of bulk sales for AEP
River Operations, of Chesterfield, Missouri, a unit of Columbus,
Ohio-based  American Electric Power. (AEP)   This time last year, the river was about 20 feet deeper,
according to Terry Douglas, dry-dock superintendent at JB Marine
Services Inc. about 15 miles south of St. Louis. Last week, JB’s
office, a floating barge on the bank of the river, wasn’t
floating as low water levels left it listing to one side.  ‘Worst Seen’  “We’ve been on the ground a couple of months,” Douglas
said in an interview. “This is the worst I’ve ever seen.”  Restrictions have already affected companies that rely on
the river to transport goods, including  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM) , Cargill Inc. and  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  Shippers can only haul 15
barges at a time because a typical run of 25 is too wide for
current river conditions, Hettel said. The barges can only be
loaded with about 1,500 tons of goods as opposed to their 2,000-
ton capacity.  The restrictions mean total barge loads are about 60
percent below capacity.  “It comes to the point of how cost effective is it to run
these barges,” Hettel said in an interview.  Lighter loads means more boats on the river at a time when
there is less room to navigate, a combination that has led to
severe delays. One run between Cairo and St. Louis last week
took 96 hours, according to Hettel. The trip usually takes about
20 hours.  ‘Fall Out’  “So many boats have the same objective you do, trying to
get this stuff to Cairo before conditions fall out,” Alford
said.  During a trip last week, the Capt. Bill Stewart was pushing
21,737 tons of corn and soybean on 15 barges lashed together by
steel cables. The barges, each measuring 200 by 35 feet, are
arranged in a rectangle five barges long by three wide. The tow
boat is 140 feet long and by 42 feet wide.  Fog set in overnight forcing the boat to idle on the
riverbank for about 8 hours and pushing back its arrival at
Thebes, Illinois, where the pinnacles are most threatening, to
the late afternoon.  The route takes barges past Backbone, a 90 degree bend in
the river Alford described as “a pretty good steer.” A wide
sandbar that Alford said he was able to pass over last year
appeared on the left bank. On this day it would get a wide
berth.  Hanging Dog  “We’re not going to play with it,” Alford said. “We’re
going around it.”  The river flows past Hanging Dog Bluff where, in current
conditions, you “don’t like to meet anybody in there at all,”
Alford said. At Grays Point “people start jockeying for
position,” ahead of a railroad bridge at Thebes, the start of
the most dangerous stretch of river.  When the boat reached Thebes, Heflin was at the helm joined
by Alford in the wheelhouse. While the river at Thebes runs
straighter than at Hanging Dog Bluff or Dogtooth Bend ahead, the
route over the pinnacles, narrowed by the drought, is a tougher
challenge. Red and green buoys recently set by the U.S. Coast
Guard mark a narrow lane of water deep enough for the boat to
clear the hidden rocks.  Heflin stood through the section, focused on the buoys
ahead and the pinnacles that breach the surface on either side.  “Damn good obstacle course,” Alford said. “You work hard
for your money in conditions like this.”  Eight Boats  Just below the pinnacles, eight tow boats with their barges
were pulled off to the side waiting for a chance to move north
on the shrunken river.  “Sitting there just pushing against a hill,” Alford said.
“Burning all that precious  diesel fuel . Not making a mile.”  Heflin, who lives in Dover,  Tennessee , about 85 miles
northwest of Nashville, has river work in his blood, His
grandfather was a tow boat pilot and many people from his part
of the state work on the Mississippi.  “To make any kind of money you can’t really stay around,”
Dover, he said.  Tow boat crews work 28 days on the boat then take 28 days
off. The schedule means that while Heflin can meet his kids at
the school bus and cook cornbread in an iron skillet for them
when he’s home, he misses many of his six-year-old son’s
baseball and football games.  Talk of a possible river closing has Heflin and other crew
members speculating about their immediate future. There may be
work on the  Ohio River  on another AEP boat, he said.  AEP has about 1,475 people in river operations, according
to Hettel. The company may put boats into dry dock and hold
crews over depending on how long a closure lasts. AEP plans to
idle about a dozen boats that it hires under contract first.  “I don’t see our own people being laid off,” Hettel said.  Alford, who began working on the river when he was 20, was
more pessimistic.  “When it comes to dollars and cents, they have to do what
they have to do to satisfy the shareholders,” Alford said.
“There’s some work over on the Ohio River, but its not going to
be enough to support everybody. It’s trying times. This job, if
it teaches you anything, it’s patience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  