-- Batista Said to Pledge Extra EBX Stake to Back Mubadala Deal
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-12-12T20:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/batista-said-to-pledge-extra-ebx-stake-to-back-abu-dhabi-deal.html
Eike Batista , the Brazilian
billionaire who sold a $2 billion interest in his commodities
empire to  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co., pledged an
additional stake that shields the fund from the selloff in his
publicly traded companies, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  Batista, under terms of the sale of 5.63 percent of his EBX
Group Co. in March, agreed to turn over an unspecified stake in
2019 if he fails to deliver a 5 percent annual return on the
sovereign-wealth fund’s investment, the person said, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. The person
declined to say how the target is measured.  The deal, which Batista, 56, championed as a sign of
investor confidence in his interlinking natural-resource and
logistics startups, helps preserve Mubadala’s investment if EBX
fails to grow or loses value. It also puts Batista’s holdings at
risk after his publicly traded companies lost about half their
value this year following delays and missed output goals.  “This looks less favorable for Eike than just signing a
check,” said Eric Conrads, who manages $750 million in Latin
American stocks at ING Investment Management in  New York  and
declined to say whether he oversees shares in Batista’s
companies. “Eike has to share some of the goods on the upside
and he suffers more on the downside. It’s asymmetric.”  ‘Preferred Equity’  Mubadala took a “preferred equity interest” in Batista’s
Centennial Asset Brazilian Equity Fund LLC and other offshore
vehicles, according to a joint statement in March. The deal gave
the fund 5.63 percent of each of Batista’s stakes in his
publicly traded and closely held companies, and the same
percentage of any new ventures. It also gave Mubadala  “certain
rights and protections,”  they said, without giving more detail.  Batista, who sold an additional 0.8 percent preferred
equity stake in EBX to  General Electric Co. (GE)  for $300 million in
May, has the option in 2014 to buy back half the holding sold to
Mubadala, according to the person.  Press officials at EBX in Rio de Janeiro and Mubadala in
Abu Dhabi declined to comment on the deal’s structure, referring
questions to the March statement announcing the deal.  Mubadala extended a 7.35 billion-dirham ($2 billion)  loan 
to an undisclosed third party secured by “listed securities and
guarantees,” according to its first-half financial report. The
deal carries a “minimum assured return,” matures in 2017 and
can be extended by Mubadala for an additional two years,
according to the release.  Loan to EBX  That transaction is the EBX preferred equity security and
is booked as a loan for accounting reasons, according to a
person familiar with the fund’s finances, who declined to be
identified because details of the deal aren’t public.  Two banks with knowledge of the deal consider it a hybrid
between equity and debt, two other people said. One of the
banks, which lends to EBX, treats it as a loan when gauging the
credit quality of Batista’s group, said one of the two people.  “We just wanted to have maybe an extra stamp,” Batista
said of the deal with Mubadala in an April 30 interview with
Bloomberg Television. “When somebody like Mubadala comes in,
the world knows how deep they go into the auditing process.”  The announced terms of the deal with Mubadala valued
Batista’s empire at $35.5 billion, including publicly traded and
closely held units. His stakes in his six listed companies now
have a combined market value of $8.4 billion, down from about
$19.5 billion at the end of 2011. The selloff deepened in June
when his flagship oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA cut its initial production targets less than five months
after pumping its first barrel of crude.  Shares Gain  OGX, Batista’s biggest holding,  rose  0.6 percent to 4.73
reais at the close in  Sao Paulo  today. It’s declined 65 percent
this year.  Batista’s six publicly traded companies, based in Rio de
Janeiro, had a combined net loss of 1.68 billion reais ($808
million) in the first nine months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. After losing the title of Brazil’s richest person to
Anheuser-Busch InBev investor  Jorge Paulo Lemann  last month,
Batista reclaimed his spot on Dec. 7, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . He’s now worth $19.5 billion.  Generate Revenues  “All of EBX’s publicly traded companies are fulfilling
their business plans,” and are well funded for coming years,
Batista’s holding company said in an e-mailed statement. The
conglomerate has close to $9 billion in cash, and its units will
increasingly begin to generate revenues starting in 2013 and
2014, EBX said. Batista’s planned cash injections for OGX,
shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA demonstrate his confidence in his companies,
according to the statement.  The billionaire is in talks to issue new shares in his
listed companies to the equity arm of  Brazil ’s state development
bank, known as BNDES, Veja magazine reported Dec. 8. EBX said
Dec. 10 that there’s no formal agreement for a cash injection
from BNDES.  If the Mubadala deal “were pure equity without debt, it
might have been a better deal for him,” said Marcelo Mesquita,
a former co-head of Brazilian equities at UBS AG who now manages
600 million reais as founding partner at Leblon Equities in Rio.
“It’s riskier because there could be another global crisis or
Brazil’s growth might disappoint. He always shows a lot of
confidence in his companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Cuadros in em São Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  