-- BBC’s Savile Probe Has 450 Victims, 31 Rapes, Police Say
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-12T17:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/bbc-s-savile-probe-includes-450-victims-31-rapes-police-say.html
About 450 people have told U.K.
police they were sexually abused by the late British
Broadcasting Corp. television star Jimmy Savile, including 31
women who claim he raped them.  Investigators probing “historical” abuse claims have
recorded 199 crimes involving Savile in 17 local jurisdictions
since the scandal emerged in October, a year after the
entertainer died at the age of 84, the  Metropolitan Police
Service  in  London  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “These levels of reporting of sexual abuse against a
single individual are unprecedented in the U.K.,” the Met said
in the statement. “The majority of work in relation to offenses
reported against him acting alone has now been completed
although further victims may yet come forward.”  The  BBC , the world’s largest public broadcaster, was
plunged into crisis after competitor  ITV Plc (ITV)  aired a story in
October about five women who said they were abused by Savile as
children. Police are probing claims dating back as far as 1959
and as recent as 2006, including that Savile, who hosted BBC
shows “Top of the Pops” and “Jim’ll Fix It,” misused his
status as a charity worker to abuse hospital patients.  Other Arrests  Officers focusing on the entertainment industry have
arrested seven people in the probe, including suspects who may
not be connected to Savile. Celebrity publicist  Max Clifford ,
who has represented  O.J. Simpson  and  David Beckham , was
questioned last week. Other people detained include singer Gary Glitter and former BBC disc jockey Dave Lee Travis.  In addition to Savile’s alleged victims, 139 people have
come forward to report abuse by someone else in the industry
during the time period in question. Most of the alleged victims
were “children or young people” when the abuse happened and 82
percent are women, the Met said.  “Our response should send a clear warning to anyone today
now in a position of power and influence who abuse their status
to sexually exploit children and young people -- victims will be
listened to and robust action taken,” Commander Peter Spindler
said in the statement.  Police and prosecutors are reviewing their past handling of
complaints involving Savile when he was still alive. The  Crown
Prosecution Service  decided in 2009 against charging Savile with
sex abuse because four women who came forward decided not to
testify. The claims were never made public.  Former MP  The CPS said last month that Cyril Smith, a former member
of Parliament who died in 2010 at the age of 82, should have
been charged with sex abuse in 1970, after eight men accused him
of abusing them when they were living in a children’s home. The
decision to not charge Smith wouldn’t have been made today,
prosecutors said. That case isn’t part of the Savile probe.  The Met said reports of sex abuse have increased across the
country since the Savile investigation started.  Former BBC Director General George Entwistle stepped down
Nov. 10 as a result of the Savile scandal, which includes claims
the BBC dropped an earlier news investigation into the claims
and aired tributes to the TV star shortly after his death.  The BBC appointed former Court of Appeal Judge Janet Smith
and ex- British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  journalist Nick
Pollard on Oct. 17 to head internal investigations. Victims’
lawyers have said they may sue the BBC over claims it’s liable
for Savile’s wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  