-- Berlusconi Adds to Italy Turmoil With Signal He’d Step Aside
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-12-13T12:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/berlusconi-offers-to-withdraw-his-candidacy-if-monti-runs.html
Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  threw his week-old political comeback into doubt,
signaling he’d yield if Premier  Mario Monti  agrees to enter the
election campaign as part of a coalition of “moderates.”  “If Monti decides to accept the request of the whole
moderate bloc” and seek the premiership, “I would not have any
problem in withdrawing my bid to be prime minister and could
accept to be the coordinator of the coalition,” he told
reporters in  Rome  late yesterday.  Berlusconi’s remarks came a day after the  Northern League 
party, his coalition partner in all three of his governments,
said it wouldn’t support his latest candidacy. Berlusconi’s
party had less than 20 percent support in a poll released
yesterday. The euro jumped following his comments.  “Berlusconi is in a corner,” said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a
professor of politics at Luiss University in Rome. “At this
point, anything can happen, including that he won’t run at all
and that his party eventually implodes. In any case, if he
decides to run in these circumstances, he would lose badly.”  Berlusconi’s announcement came six days after his party
withdrew its support for Monti’s government. That decision
prompted Monti to announce his plan to resign, sending Italian
bond yields soaring and sparking a backlash from Berlusconi’s
critics and even some of his own supporters and allies.  Bond Yield  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield fell 1 basis point to 4.63
percent, taking back a bit of the 29-point advance on Dec. 10,
the first day of trading after Monti announced he planned to
step down when Berlusconi’s forces deserted.  Investors did back Italian debt at an auction today when
the Treasury sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of three-year
bonds at 2.5 percent, the lowest rate at an auction in more than
two years.  Berlusconi’s challenge may add pressure on Monti, 69, to
enter the race. There is already a group of parties running on
pro-Monti platforms and encouraging the premier, who heads an
unelected government of non-politicians, to seek another term.  A poll by Ispo Ricerche showed Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party with 16.3 percent, with the Union of Centrists,
Future and Freedom for Italy and Toward the Third Republic --
the three parties backing Monti -- at a combined 8.8 percent.
That would give Berlusconi’s hypothetical coalition of moderates
25.1 percent, making it the second-biggest bloc after the
coalition led by the  Democratic Party  which had more than 40
percent, according to Ispo.  Democratic Party  Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the Democratic Party, is also
making overtures to Monti.  “I have told Monti that he must continue to have a role,”
Bersani said at a press conference in Rome today. “The day
after the elections, if I win, I will consider together with
Monti” what he might do.  Berlusconi’s maneuver may be a way of pressuring the
Northern League to return to his fold, D’Alimonte said.
Berlusconi said that he would make sure that League-run regional
governments in Piedmont and Veneto would fall if the party
didn’t agree to join his efforts.  The three-time premier said Dec. 11 that Monti’s German-
centric policies had left Italy worse off than when he stepped
down 13 months ago. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
responded to the remarks yesterday.  “Italy will have elections and in general we don’t
interfere with the internal policies of member states,”
Schaeuble said in Brussels. “But everybody knows that Italy has
made great progress under Monti that didn’t happen under his
predecessors in the years before.”  Meeting Merkel  Berlusconi may meet German Chancellor Angela Merkel today
in Brussels as the two are due to attend a meeting of the
European  People’s Party .  Berlusconi has said that the widening difference between
Italian and German borrowing costs, which reached a record 575
basis points in the week before he resigned, was a “scam” and
that “it wasn’t important.”  Berlusconi also yesterday blamed the surge in the Italian-
German spread in June of last year on  Germany .  “I know for sure that Germany through the Bundesbank asked
all German banks to sell Italian  government bonds ,” he said.
“I know this for sure because there was an Italian bank there
that was told that if it refused to obey the order to sell the
bonds it would have its banking license withdrawn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Brussels at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Brussels at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  