-- Billionaire Quek Makes $1.1 Billion Bid to Buy Out Guoco
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S o p h i a   Y a n
-- 2012-12-12T04:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/billionaire-quek-makes-hk-8-3-billion-bid-to-buy-out-guoco-group.html
A group led by Malaysian
billionaire Quek Leng Chan offered HK$8.25 billion ($1.1
billion) to take  Guoco Group Ltd. (53)  private after the financial
and real-estate company trailed a rally in Hong Kong stocks.  The group is offering HK$88 a share, 25 percent more than
the closing price before the stock was suspended on Dec. 4,
according to a statement to the Hong Kong exchange. Guoco
jumped as much as 29 percent in morning trading.  The proposed privatization would give Guoco Chairman Quek
more control of the company’s 15 percent stake in  Bank of East
Asia Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest family-run bank, worth about
HK$9.5 billion. Quek’s net worth is estimated at $3.9 billion
today, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Guoco
had fallen 2.4 percent this year before today, trailing a 21
percent gain in the benchmark index.  A buyout “will provide the offeror group with greater
flexibility to support its future business development,”
Guoco said in the statement.  Guoco was 29 percent higher at HK$91 as of the midday
break in Hong Kong, heading for the biggest increase since
April 2001.  Today’s offer was made by a subsidiary of Hong Leong,
which is 49 percent controlled by Quek.  Weaker Markets  Guoco reported a net loss of HK$1.29 billion for the year
ended June 30, compared with net income of HK$4.16 billion for
the previous 12 months as weaker financial markets trimmed
profit from its property and financial units, according to its
annual report.  Bank of East Asia may become an acquisition bet, Deutsche
Bank AG said last month after  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316)  won approval from the U.S. Federal Reserve to boost its
holding in the Hong Kong lender to as much as 9.9 percent from
the current 4.7 percent.  A unit of Sumitomo Mitsui,  Japan ’s second-biggest bank by
market value, agreed to buy new stock in Bank of East Asia on
Dec. 4, doubling its stake to 9.5 percent.  Spain’s  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA and Guoco Group were among
shareholders that have increased their stakes in Bank of East
Asia as its shares underperformed those of local rivals,
Deutsche Bank analyst Sophia Lee said last month. The two are
the biggest investors in the bank, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Still, taking Guoco private would mean Quek would lose
one source of financing, said Mike Werner, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “By privatizing, they won’t be able to raise equity to
support purchases and/or a possible takeover for BEA,” Werner
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Yan in Hong Kong at 
 sophiayan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  