-- Billabong Signs Indian Distribution Deal With Arvind
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-12T06:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/billabong-signs-indian-distribution-deal-with-arvind.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
 Australia ’s biggest surfwear maker, signed an exclusive
distribution agreement with  Arvind Ltd. (ARVND)  to expand sales of its
products into India.  The deal with the Arvind Lifestyle Brands Ltd. unit
includes products sold through standalone outlets as well as
department stores and other retailers, Ahmedabad, Gujarat-based
Arvind said in a statement today. Billabong spokesman Chris
Fogarty confirmed the agreement.  The pact gives Billabong access to Arvind’s national
network in the world’s second-most populous nation as the
surfwear maker seeks to revive earnings after last year posting
its first loss since listing in 2000. The Indian company is
already Tommy Hilfiger Corp.’s partner in the country and has
licensing deals with labels including Gant, Mossimo and Geoffrey
Beene.  “Arvind has licensing relationships with a number of
international partners,” Phil Nicole, Billabong’s general
manager for Asia, said in the statement. “We are therefore
convinced that we have found in Arvind a great partner for
Billabong as we seek to further grow our Asian operations.”  Arvind Lifestyle, which recently agreed to acquire the
Indian franchise of  Debenhams Plc (DEB) ,  Next Plc (NXT)  and Nautica Apparel
Inc., is adding international brands to its portfolio as
consumer spending on apparel in India may grow to $60.4 billion
by 2015 from $32.5 billion in 2009, according to estimates by
A.M. Mindpower Solutions.  Revenue Target  Billabong rose 2.2 percent to 93 Australian cents at the
close of trading in Sydney. Arvind Ltd.’s  shares  rose as much as
1.7 percent in Mumbai trading today, and were up 0.8 percent to
90.70 rupees as of 12:19 p.m. India’s benchmark Sensitive Index
fell 0.1 percent.  Arvind is targeting revenue of 50 billion rupees from sales
of branded clothing in the next five years, of which 20 billion
rupees would come through acquisitions, joint ventures and new
brands, the company said in the statement.  India ’s government in January removed a 51 percent limit on
foreign ownership of retail stores selling a single brand,
allowing companies such as Ikea and Gap Inc. to wholly own local
ventures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  