-- BofA Seeks to Knock Out MBIA Claims Tied to Countrywide
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-12T20:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/bofa-seeks-to-knock-out-mbia-claims-tied-to-countrywide.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, began an effort today to defeat bond
insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s bid to force the bank to pay billions of
dollars over home loans.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit and MBIA,
which have been locked in litigation since 2008, appeared before
New York state Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in
Manhattan today seeking judgments on claims in MBIA’s lawsuit
over loans packaged into securities during the real estate boom.  The case is among mortgage lawsuits  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America is contending with four years
after acquiring Countrywide, the home lender whose lax loan
standards helped fuel the housing bubble. Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  has spent more than $40 billion to
clean up defective mortgages and improper foreclosures.  An $8.5 billion settlement with investors over Countrywide
mortgage bonds is tied up in court. In October, the U.S. sued
Bank of America over loans sold by Countrywide to Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac that the government estimates led to more than $1
billion in losses for the companies.  In the MBIA case, Bank of America’s strategy is to delay
the litigation and push the insurer “to the brink of
insolvency,” said  Isaac Gradman , an attorney at Perry, Johnson,
Anderson, Miller & Moskowitz LLP in Santa Rosa,  California , who
isn’t involved in the case.  Settlement Pressure  “They want to try to drag this out as long as possible
because they know MBIA is relying on these recoveries,” Gradman
said. “The longer they delay giving in to them, the weaker
MBIA’s balance sheet looks and the more pressure they’ll have to
settle for a pittance.”  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, says Countrywide committed
fraud by securitizing loans that were riskier than promised.
MBIA, which guaranteed payments to investors in the securities,
claims 56 percent, or more than 200,000 loans, were “materially
defective,” according to a court filing.  At least $12.7 billion in loans are materially defective,
Philippe Selendy, an attorney with Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan representing MBIA, said in court today.  MBIA has to show that breaches caused an increased risk of
loss, and not that they led to defaults on the loans, Selendy
said.  ‘Exceptionally High’  “That risk should never have been passed to the insurer in
the first place,” Selendy said. “The loans should have never
been in there. The probability of default is exceptionally
high.”  Selendy pointed to two examples of loans in the
securitizations where borrowers had misrepresented their earning
power -- one where a borrower said they earned $7,000 a month as
head of a funeral home whose actual income turned out to be a
little more than $400 a month and another mortgage where the
borrower claimed to earn $6,800 a month as manager of a grocery
store yet was actually earning about $1,200 a month as a self-
employed limousine driver.  Loan files were missing key documents, which increase risk
because incomplete or improper documentation can prevent
ownership of mortgages from being transferred to the trust and
thwart foreclosure proceedings, Selendy said.  Repurchase Obligation  Countrywide had an obligation to repurchase mortgages
within 90 days of becoming aware of issues with the loans, yet
it never made any buybacks within that time frame despite
“rampant and systemic” defects, Selendy said.  Countrywide isn’t honoring its obligation to repurchase
defective loans and is “frustrating efforts” to enforce that
remedy, including creating processes specifically targeted at
monoline insurers, Selendy said.  “It fundamentally frustrated and repudiated contracts by
dishonoring repurchase obligations,” Selendy said. “These
pervasive breaches and misrepresentations warrant an award of
repurchase.”  MBIA has paid more than $3 billion in claims to investors
under the insurance policies, according to spokesman Kevin Brown. The company seeks to recover those payments, plus future
payments and interest, he said. MBIA’s claims against Bank of
America total more than $4.5 billion, MBIA Chief Financial
Officer Chuck Chaplin said on an earnings  call  in November.  MBIA wants Bransten to rule that Countrywide misrepresented
the quality of loans underlying the securities and is liable for
refusing to buy back faulty loans.  Riskier Loans  Countrywide contends MBIA insured the securitizations,
which were issued between 2004 and 2007, even though it knew the
lender’s loans were becoming riskier. The insurer also didn’t
review loan files and disregarded results of Countrywide’s
third-party review, Countrywide said in court papers. MBIA says
it paid for and relied on Countrywide’s representations about
the loans.  “Rather than accepting responsibility for the insurance
policies it wrote, MBIA seeks to walk away from its contracts,”
Countrywide said.  A hearing on whether Bank of America should also be held
liable is scheduled for January. Bank of America argues that
MBIA’s argument for making the bank pay would “severely
undermine the vital, long-established” principle that parent
companies aren’t liable for the conduct of subsidiaries.  ‘No Basis’  “There is no basis in settled doctrine for MBIA to now
punish BAC for rescuing Countrywide by exposing BAC’s assets to
MBIA’s claims against Countrywide -- claims that long preceded
BAC’s appearance on the scene,” Bank of America said in court
papers.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the dispute before the hearing.  MBIA’s request for more than $3 billion in damages and the
repurchase more than $12 billion in loans is “remarkable,”
“extraordinary” and possibly “unprecedented,” David Apfel,
an attorney with Goodwin Proctor LLP who is representing
Countrywide, said in court today.  MBIA is misconstruing the information in loan files,
including one instance where it said documents showed that a
borrower was out of work while they were still employed, Apfel
said. The insurer has sued nearly every lender whose mortgages
it insured, alleging they were “engaged in some sort of
conspiracy to underwrite bad loans,” Apfel said.  Separate Litigation  “Countrywide loans have outperformed and indeed have
performed extremely well given the economic conditions we have
gone through since 2007,” Apfel said.  MBIA and Bank of America are battling in separate
litigation over the bond insurer’s 2009 restructuring, which the
bank claims hurt holders of financial guaranty policies by
transferring assets out of MBIA Insurance.  The bank argued at a trial earlier this year that New
York’s approval of the transaction was based on misleading
information and should be reversed. The judge in that case
hasn’t yet ruled.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  