-- Bond Disclosure Before Debt Sales Considered by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-12-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/bond-disclosure-before-debt-sales-considered-by-u-s-regulators.html
U.S. regulators are considering
whether to require underwriters to make bond documents available
to the public ahead of municipal-debt sales in the $3.7 trillion
market.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which crafts
regulations for the market, said it is evaluating a requirement
to post so-called preliminary official statements on its
Internet repository for bond documents. Those documents are sent
to prospective investors and sometimes voluntarily posted,
though they aren’t widely available on a centralized site.  The shift would push disclosure rules in the municipal- bond
market  closer to those that apply to businesses, which must file
documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission before
selling stocks and bonds. Nearly half of all municipal debt is
owned directly by individuals, who don’t have the same access to
information as professionals such as mutual funds.  “In terms of protecting investors, we want to make sure
they have access to information as soon as possible,” Lynnette Kelly, executive director of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
board, said in an interview.  A board proposal would have to be approved by the SEC.  U.S. regulators have been moving to improve the information
provided to investors in the municipal bond market, a source of
money for states and cities, as well as borrowers such as real-
estate developers.  Offering Documents  Regulators are barred from requiring municipal borrowers to
file offering documents ahead of sales as a result of securities
laws passed in the 1970s. The SEC imposes disclosure regulations
in the municipal market indirectly, through its power over firms
that underwrite securities.  The board said it is considering requiring underwriters to
file the preliminary bond offering documents on the same day
they receive them. The documents provide detailed descriptions
of a borrower’s finances and plans to repay the debt.  The MSRB said it’s considering giving borrowers the right
to prevent underwriters from filing the documents. That would
prevent the rule from running afoul of laws that keep regulators
from requiring local governments to make such filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  