-- Bradford Stuns Arsenal to Reach English League Cup Semifinals
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/bradford-stuns-arsenal-to-reach-english-league-cup-semifinals.html
Bradford City upset Arsenal 3-2 in a
penalty shootout to reach the semifinals of English soccer’s
League Cup for the first time.  Bradford’s Nathan Doyle, Gary Jones and Alan Connell scored
in the shootout, while goalkeeper Matt Duke made one save and
Arsenal’s Marouane Chamakh and  Thomas Vermaelen  hit the frame of
the goal.  “The lads were terrific, the commitment was first class,”
Bradford manager Phil Parkinson told  Sky Sports . “People will
talk about penalties but our overall performance was
outstanding.”  Bradford, which is ranked 65 places below Arsenal in
 England ’s fourth level, will be joined in the last four by  Aston
Villa , which beat Norwich 4-1.  The quarterfinal round continues tonight as Swansea hosts
Middlesbrough. The remaining match between Leeds and Chelsea
will be played Dec. 19.  With Arsenal seeking its first trophy since 2005, manager
 Arsene Wenger  broke with his tradition of fielding second-string
players for League Cup matches by making three changes from the
Dec. 8 Premier League win over West Brom.  “When you go out it’s never good enough at Arsenal,”
Wenger said. “I cannot fault the effort we gave for 120 minutes.
You have to give credit to Bradford on the night.”  Before a crowd of 23,971 at Coral Windows Stadium, its
biggest since 1960, Bradford went in front in the 16th minute as
Garry Thompson was left alone at the far post to volley home
Will Atkinson’s free kick.  Francis Coquelin almost drew Arsenal level when he hit the
post in the 38th minute and Gervinho failed to connect with
 Kieran Gibbs ’s cross from about two yards out (1.8 meters).  While Arsenal constantly pressured the Bantams end of the
field in the second half, Duke didn’t make his first save until
he stopped Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s shot in the 70th minute.  The Gunners, who were trying to reach the semis for a
record 15th time, scored with two minutes left as Vermaelen
headed in a cross from Santi Cazorla at the far post.  Duke then made two diving saves against Cazorla before the
game went to extra time. Cazorla came closest to scoring by
hitting the crossbar in the extra 30 minutes.  After Doyle scored for Bradford, Duke dived to stop
Cazorla’s try and Arsenal fell further behind when Chamakh
struck the post after Jones converted.  Arsenal’s Wojciech Szczesny saved shots from Ritchie Jones
and Stephen Darby before Vermaelen hit the right post, sending
the Gunners to their first League Cup exit at the hands of a
fourth-tier club.  “Arsenal have got world-class players and played their
strongest team, but you have to give the players so much
credit,” Parkinson said. “I hope this can be the first of many
nights like this for Bradford City.”  In Norwich, Andreas Weimann scored twice late in the second
half as Aston Villa gave manager  Paul Lambert  a win against his
old club. Lambert left Norwich over the summer for Villa.  Norwich, playing in the quarterfinals for the first time
since the 1995-96 season, got a goal from  Steve Morison  after 19
minutes, only to have  Brett Holman  pull Villa even two minutes
later.  Weimann put Villa in front in the 79th minute and scored
again six minutes later to make it 3-1. Christian Benteke scored
in stoppage time to clinch Villa’s 14th semifinal appearance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 