-- Toll-Road Builders Accept Lower Returns as Rousseff Cuts
-- B y   G i u l i a   C a m i l l o   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 2012-12-12T16:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/builders-accept-lower-returns-as-rousseff-cuts-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s biggest infrastructure
companies from Santos Brasil Participacoes SA to EcoRodovias
Infraestrutura & Logistica SA are settling for lower returns
from government contracts, betting that a rebounding economy
will make new projects viable.  EcoRodovias, Brazil’s largest toll-road operator, expects
returns of about 9 percent, Chief Executive Officer Marcelino
Rafart de Seras said yesterday at the Bloomberg Forum: Brazil
event in Sao Paulo. That’s down from at least 15 percent for
toll roads auctioned to private investors in the 1990s, said
Banco Itau BBA SA. TPI Triunfo Participacoes & Investimentos SA
CEO Carlo Alberto Bottarelli sees lower rates “near double
digits,” while port operator Santos Brasil CEO Antonio
Sepulveda expects returns “slightly above” 10 percent.  “The trend is for the rate of return to fall, but there’s
going to be more competition among infrastructure assets --
there’s going to be a ports package, a road package, a rail
package,” Bottarelli said at the event. “For us, what’s
important is the contract. And if the contract is stable, then
we’ll take a look.”  President  Dilma Rousseff  is pushing companies from
utilities to wireless carriers to accept lower profits after her
administration cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 5.25
percentage points since August 2011 to a record 7.25 percent.
Brazil is providing funding at below-market rates for many
infrastructure projects ahead of the 2014  World Cup  and 2016
Olympics.  $66 Billion  Rousseff, seeking to stimulate the economy and solve
infrastructure challenges that stem from a decade without
investment, in August announced a $66 billion package that
includes licenses to run 7,500 kilometers (4,660 miles) of roads
and 10,000 kilometers of railways. The economy in Brazil, the
world’s second-largest emerging market, is estimated to grow
1.03 percent this year, according to a central bank survey
released this week, the lowest of so-called BRIC countries.  Carlos Hamilton, the Brazilian central bank’s head of
economic policy, said at the Bloomberg Forum that economic
growth in coming years may top market forecasts averaging 3.7
percent should Rousseff’s reform efforts succeed.  Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said government funding
for roads and other projects will ensure that investors are
rewarded.  “The return for shareholders is not the same as the rate
of return on the project, especially for projects with financing
at low or even negative interest rates,” Augustin said at the
same event yesterday. “And, for me, the rate of return is a
reflection of risk.”  Best Returns  Brazilian infrastructure operators have provided some of
the industry’s best returns on equity. Sao Paulo-based  CCR SA (CCRO3) ,
which manages highways, has posted an average return on equity
of 29 percent in the past five years, the most among 61
transportation infrastructure companies worldwide with a market
value above $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Toll-
road operator  Obrascon Huarte Lain Brasil SA (OHLB3)  comes in third with
28 percent, while Sao Paulo-based EcoRodovias ranks ninth with a
return of 20 percent.  It’s natural for returns to fall as interest rates decline,
said Roberto Altenhofen, an analyst at Empiricus Research.
Infrastructure operators also aren’t at risk of the government
intervening to change contracts, he said.  “The market is already used to this new reality,”
Altenhofen said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The
risk profile for these projects is improving. It doesn’t make
sense for them to continue giving returns of about 15 percent
with lower risk.”  Stock Rally   Investimentos & Participacoes em Infra-Estrutura SA, which
has the lease to run Guarulhos, the nation’s largest airport,
expects to boost income by offering more services, such as
parking and restaurants, CEO Gustavo Rocha said. Invepar, as the
company is known, seeks to increase revenue from sources other
than airport fees to about 65 percent by 2015, from between 35
and 40 percent in 2009, he said.  Triunfo, part of the group that won the February contract
to expand and operate the Campinas airport in Sao Paulo state,
is taking on a mix of port, road and airport projects in a bid
to protect returns, Bottarelli said. Tolls account for about 70
percent of revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil started auctioning its first contracts for airports
last year. Triunfo’s stock has rallied 38 percent since it was
awarded the Campinas contract, compared with an 8.6 percent drop
for the benchmark Bovespa index. EcoRodovias has gained 26
percent, and Santos Brasil is down 0.5 percent.  Triunfo rose 0.3 percent to 11.79 reais at 1:57 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading, while EcoRodovias was unchanged at 16.88 reais.
Santos Brasil declined 1.7 percent to 29.18 reais.  Port Investments  The nation also seeks to attract private investment for
ports to reduce transport costs and bolster economic growth. The
government will offer ports for private licensing, Ports
Secretary Leonidas Cristino said Dec. 6. Part of the spending
will be financed with long-term loans, he said.  Santos Brasil sees opportunities to expand in the North and
Northeast in Brazil, CEO Sepulveda said at the Bloomberg Forum.  “Every project has its allure, its risks, its strategy,”
Invepar’s Rocha said at the event. Infrastructure companies are
all seeking returns around 10 or 11 percent, he said. “In the
end, the important thing is to have a stable regulatory
framework.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giulia Camillo in Sao Paulo at 
 gcamillo@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  