-- Rothschild Plots Ouster of Bumi Board That ‘Failed’ Holders
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-12-13T15:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/bumi-seeks-to-end-ties-with-bakries-as-von-schirnding-named-ceo.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , scion of a
centuries-old banking dynasty, said he may seek to remove the
board of the coal venture he founded with  Indonesia ’s Bakrie
family in the coming weeks because it has failed shareholders.  London-listed  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  lacks a viable plan to sever ties
with the Bakries and their “acolytes who will remain behind in
even greater voting control of Bumi Plc,” the financier said in
an e-mailed statement. Bumi said yesterday it’s working to cut
its association with the family and sell a 29 percent interest
in Jakarta-based PT Bumi Resources “as soon as practical.”  Rothschild and the Bakrie Group, a palm oil-to-property
empire, bundled stakes in Indonesian coal producers  Bumi
Resources (BUMI)  and PT Berau Coal Energy in a $3 billion transaction
two years ago. Boardroom infighting that led to Rothschild and
Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie resigning from the company and
investigations in London and Indonesia into possible financial
anomalies have prompted moves by both to unwind the deal.  Bumi Plc’s “board needs to be removed as soon as possible,
to safeguard investor interests and prevent further value
destruction taking place at Bumi Resources and Berau,”
Rothschild said. “Unless the board dramatically alters course,
this is exactly what we shall be doing in the weeks ahead.”  New CEO  Rothschild has made repeated demands for Chairman Samin
Tan, owner of about 23.8 percent, and Rosan Roeslani, a director
who indirectly controls about 13 percent of Bumi, to resign. The
board “has yet again failed to do the right thing for its
shareholders,” Rothschild said.  Bumi yesterday promoted Nick von Schirnding, head of
communications and investor relations, to chief executive
officer effective Dec. 31 after current CEO Nalin Rathod told
the board he planned to step down. Rathod, who’s also president
director of PT Bakrie & Brothers, was appointed to the role in
March. He will remain a non-executive director.  “We need to put an end to the shareholder infighting that
has plagued the company for the last year,” Von Schirnding said
yesterday in an interview. “I believe our shareholders deserve
better. We need to move on.”  The Bakries said they welcome the statement from Bumi and
see it as a step toward completing their proposed exit from the
company. They own 23.8 percent of the stock.  Shares Slump  “We would like to reiterate that we are acutely conscious
that the creation of Bumi Plc has been a major disappointment to
shareholders, not least ourselves,” Bakrie unit Long Haul
Holdings Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement. The group repeated
a demand that Rothschild and other founders give up the 16
million bonus shares they received as a success fee.  Bumi dropped 0.9 percent to 268.4 pence by 2:29 p.m. in
London. The stock has slumped 70 percent this year, valuing the
company at 638 million pounds ($1 billion).  Shares in Bumi Resources gained 4.9 percent in Jakarta
trading today, while Berau Coal was unchanged.  “It is another positive and ‘cleansing step’, particularly
the appointment of Nick von Schirnding,” said  David Butler  and
Ian Rossouw, London-based analysts at  Barclays Capital . “It
would also seem the company is moving forward with selling out
of its interest in PT Bumi Resources, which could also
potentially remove the Bakries from the register.”  Macfarlanes Probe  Bumi has received a near-final version of a report by law
firm Macfarlanes LLP after a probe that began in September into
potential financial “irregularities” at some of its Indonesian
operations.  Bumi “is evaluating all legal and commercial options
available to it and has been engaging actively with U.K.
regulators and will continue to do so as appropriate,” it said
yesterday. Its own investigation has discovered that information
linked to the probe was “obtained illegally by e-mail
hacking,” Bumi said.  It’s unlikely there will be any writedowns as a result of
the probe, Bumi said. Still, there will be a “significant”
year-end accounting adjustment to the value of its holding in
Berau Coal.  Bumi announced Sept. 24 an inquiry into “potential
financial and other irregularities” at its Indonesian
operations, Bumi Resources and PT Berau.  The Bakrie Group said this week some documents used to
justify the investigation were stolen or accessed by hacking.  ‘Misleading Impression’  “Some of these documents appear then to have been
‘doctored’ to give a purposely misleading impression of a number
of business transactions at Bumi Resources,” Chris Fong, a
Bakrie Group spokesman, said Dec. 10. The Bakries plan to submit
a report to U.K. police and regulatory authorities, while
Indonesian police are probing the hacking complaints, Fong said.  Rothschild, 41, whose ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s
war against Napoleonic  France , has described the allegations as
a “desperate attempt to divert the inquiry” by the Bakries and
Chairman Samin Tan.  “If there were any issue that the board had a concern
about in terms of the investigation, clearly Samin Tan would not
be where he is,” Von Schirnding said. “The board is very
supportive and comfortable with his position.”  Rothschild today called on Von Schirnding to make the full
Macfarlanes report available “as soon as possible” so
investors can make their own judgments on Tan.  The Bakries offered to buy Bumi Plc’s assets, holdings in
Berau and Bumi Resources, in a $1.2 billion proposal to help end
“irreconcilable differences” with Rothschild and the other
founders, according to a letter containing the Oct. 10 approach.
Bumi yesterday said it has no intention of recommending the sale
of its Berau stake under the terms proposed by the Bakries.  Shareholder Support  Rothschild said this week his proposal has the support from
the top five institutional shareholders and commitments totaling
$342.5 million, including $75 million of his own funds.  Abu Dhabi Investment Council, Schroders Investment
Management Ltd., Standard Life Investments, Taube Hodson Stonex
LLP and Artemis Investment Management LLP all back Rothschild’s
proposal to restructure the group, bringing total support to 28
percent of the voting rights of Bumi, according to Rothschild.  Bakrie Group’s Fong said Dec. 11 the group was “skeptical
that Mr. Rothschild really had secured the support he claimed to
have.” Rothschild’s proposal requires current shareholders PT
Borneo Lumbung Energi and Metal and PT Bukit Mutiara to sell
their holdings in the London-listed group, Bumi said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  