-- CA Taps Taleo’s Gregoire as CEO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-12-13T21:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ca-names-taleo-s-gregoire-as-ceo-replacing-retiring-mccracken.html
CA Inc. (CA) , a maker of software for
managing  information technology , named former Taleo Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Michael Gregoire as its next CEO, replacing
the 70-year-old Bill McCracken.  Gregoire, 46, will start as CEO on Jan. 7, Islandia, New
York-based CA said yesterday in a statement. The company said in
June that it had begun succession planning for McCracken, who
will retire on March 31 and step down from the board on Jan. 7.  At Taleo, a maker of talent-management software, Gregoire
orchestrated a sale to Oracle Corp. for about $1.9 billion in
April. Before that, he navigated the Dublin, California-based
company through its 2005 initial public offering and boosted
revenue to $324 million from $78 million, CA said.  CA “has a compelling value proposition, a strong
reputation and a growing relevance for customers, software
engineering, and partners,” Gregoire said in the statement.  He previously worked at PeopleSoft Inc., another business-
software maker that was acquired by Oracle. Prior to that,
Gregoire spent 12 years at EDS Corp., a provider of computing
services that was eventually bought by Hewlett-Packard Co.  Gregoire’s history of working for takeover targets doesn’t
suggest that CA is expecting to be sold, said Mark Moerdler, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .
International Business Machines Corp., a CA competitor, has said
that it isn’t interested in acquisitions of more than $1.5
billion. CA’s market value is about $10 billion.  ‘Too Pricey’  CA’s business selling products for mainframes -- high-
powered computers serving a shrinking market -- may make it less
attractive to buyers, Moerdler said.  “I don’t know that CA is well-positioned as a sale
target,” Moerdler said. “They’re too pricey to be an IBM
acquisition, and I could see Oracle considering it if it wasn’t
for the mainframe business.”  CA shares  rose less than 1 percent to $21.91 at the close
in New York. The stock has gained 8.4 percent this year.  Gregoire will earn a salary of $1 million a year and is
eligible for an annual cash bonus of 150 percent of his base
salary, as well as a long-term incentive performance award of at
least $5.5 million. He’ll also get a sign-on equity grant of $3
million in  stock options  and $2 million in restricted stock,
which will vest over time. CA is paying him an additional
signing bonus of $500,000, in part to help cover his relocation
to New York.  Transitional Period  McCracken, who was already CA’s chairman, stepped in as CEO
after John Swainson retired at the end of 2009. Swainson was
hired by Dell Inc. as president of its software group earlier
this year. McCracken will help Gregoire with the transition
until he retires in March.  CA said last January that it would return $2.5 billion to
shareholders by March 31, 2014. Taconic Capital Advisors LP had
urged the company to boost shareholder returns after the hedge
fund acquired a stake of more than 5 percent. CA said yesterday
in a filing that it remained committed to the $2.5 billion plan,
which includes a $1-a-share dividend.  Gregoire will be taking on a bigger company than he’s
managed before, so it may take time for him to get up to speed,
Moerdler said.  “He does not seem to have any experience in corporate
turnarounds or personally managing a very large organization,
which some investors had hoped would be part of the resume of
CA’s new CEO,” Moerdler said in a note. “We therefore do not
expect to see him announcing very large initiatives in the near
term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  