-- California’s Brown Has Prostate Cancer, Doctor Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/california-s-brown-being-treated-for-prostate-cancer.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  is
being treated with radiation for early prostate cancer, one of
the most common forms of the disease affecting American men.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, will continue a full work
schedule during the treatment, which will be completed the week
of Jan. 7, according to a statement released by his office.  “Fortunately, this is early-stage, localized prostate
cancer, which is being treated with a short course of
conventional radiotherapy,” Eric Small, Brown’s oncologist at
the  University of California , San Francisco, said yesterday in
the statement. “The prognosis is excellent, and there are not
expected to be any significant side effects.”  Local stage means that there is no sign that the cancer has
spread outside of the prostate, according to the  American Cancer
Society ’s website. The gland is part of the male reproductive
system.  About 241,740 cases of prostate cancer will be diagnosed in
the U.S. this year and it will kill about 28,170 men, according
to the cancer society. The disease is the second-deadliest
cancer for men, after lung cancer. The vast majority of cases
are discovered in the earliest stages, where survival for more
than five years is almost 100 percent.  Most Frequent  “For men in Governor Brown’s age group, prostate cancer is
the most frequent tumor that we find,” Mark Litwin, chairman of
the urology department at the University of California, Los
Angeles, said in an interview. “The overwhelming majority of
them live out perfectly happy, healthy lives that are fully
productive with no significant impact at all from the cancer.”  Among prostate-cancer survivors are  Warren Buffett , the
billionaire chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , Rudolph Giuliani, the former  New York  City mayor, and Andy Grove, former
chief executive officer of the world’s largest computer
chipmaker,  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Prostate tumors tend to be low-risk, low-grade nuisances at
worst and are effectively treated with radiation, surgery or
other means, Litwin said.  “The majority of men who have prostate cancer age through
their lives and die with it, and not of it,” Litwin said. “It
sounds as though Governor Brown has a tumor of that type.”  Brown had surgery last year to remove a basal cell
carcinoma from the right side of his nose. The procedure was
performed as an outpatient with local anesthetic and required
some reconstructive surgery, his office said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  