-- Calpers Bankruptcy Strategy Pits Retirees vs. All Others
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-12-12T18:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/calpers-bankruptcy-strategy-pits-retirees-vs-all-others.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  is trying to rewrite the rules for bankrupt
cities, claiming that it should get paid before almost everyone
else, including bondholders.  The biggest U.S. public pension fund would set a legal
precedent should courts adopt Calpers’s position that, as an arm
of the state, it is exempt from rules that apply to other
creditors in the Chapter 9 bankruptcy cases of San Bernardino
and Stockton. A Calpers victory would threaten public services
in a city trying to reorganize in bankruptcy, or in an extreme
case, cause a city to disincorporate, attorney James E. Spiotto
said in an interview.  “Chapter 9 was never intended to cause the liquidation of
a municipality or the reduction of services,” said Spiotto, who
isn’t involved in the San Bernardino and Stockton cases. “What
Calpers is doing is threatening the basic tenet of Chapter 9.”  Pension costs for retired public employees are straining
local governments from  California  to  Rhode Island . In  Southern
California , San Bernardino says it is so strapped for cash it
must put off $13 million in payments to Calpers or risk public
safety. About 400 miles (644 kilometers) north, creditors of
Stockton are fighting Calpers in court as well, arguing that the
pension fund shouldn’t be given preferential treatment and
urging the city to take an aggressive stance in negotiations.  San Bernardino will battle Calpers in a federal court in
Riverside, California, on Dec. 21 over two related legal issues:
whether Calpers can sue the city to force it to make about $7
million in missed payments and whether the city should be kicked
out of bankruptcy.  ‘Short-Sighted’  Calpers blames elected officials for San Bernardino’s
financial problems, saying in an e-mail that they made
“irresponsible and short-sighted” decisions. Cutting back on
what the city owes employees would make it hard to recruit
qualified workers, Calpers spokesman Robert Glazier said.  “The city will be worse off if they choose not to fulfill
their obligations,” Glazier, deputy executive director for
external affairs, said an e-mailed response to questions. “We
have a responsibility as fiduciaries to protect our members and
the soundness of the retirement system just as our members were
responsible in making their contributions, going to work and
doing their jobs.”  In the private sector, when bankrupt corporations fall
behind on such payments, the shortfall is considered an
unsecured debt owed to the pension fund. Only part of the debt
is given priority by bankruptcy courts, Spiotto said.  Administrative Claim  Calpers is arguing that all of its debt should be treated
as an administrative claim, which means only a handful of
creditors would be paid first, such as the lawyers and financial
advisers working on the bankruptcy case, Spiotto said.  “What Calpers is trying to do is rewrite the priorities of
the  bankruptcy code ,” Kenneth N. Klee, who helped revise
Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the 1970s as a lawyer
working for Congress, said in an interview. He isn’t involved in
the California cases.  Stockton filed for bankruptcy at the end of June. San
Bernardino followed on Aug. 1. Both blamed the slowdown in the
economy, which pushed down  tax revenue , and rising costs for
pensions, retiree health care and wages, especially for police
officers and firefighters.  In the San Bernardino case, Calpers asked a judge to waive
a restriction preventing the fund from suing the city in state
court, where it would have the chance to force payment.  “The city’s failure to make these contributions is a
violation of state law,” Calpers said in court papers.  Seizing Assets  While a city is in Chapter 9, creditors are barred from
seizing assets or suing. One exception is for government
agencies that are enforcing a law using their police or
regulatory powers.  “Simply put, if the city is forced to pay Calpers, the
city’s ability to continue to function would be seriously
threatened,” San Bernardino officials said in court papers.  In Stockton, Calpers General Council Peter Mixon issued a
statement arguing that pensions and other public employee
benefits are protected by the California Constitution and have
priority over other creditors.  Stockton has an unfunded pension liability of $147.5
million owed to Calpers, according to the city’s bankruptcy
petition. The city also owes $124.3 million on pension
obligation bonds and about $142 million for various public
projects.  Unfunded Pension  San Bernardino, about 60 miles east of  Los Angeles , has an
unfunded pension liability of about $143 million and is in
default on $50.4 million in bonds issued in 2005 to help cover
pension obligations, according to court documents and the city
budget.  Central Falls , Rhode Island, exited bankruptcy earlier this
year after cutting pensions and health-care benefits for
retirees. The state sided with bondholders in that case, passing
a law that allowed them to put a lien on city tax revenue. The
city’s bondholders were paid in full, according to court
documents.  Municipal bond investors are watching San Bernardino’s
fight with Calpers, partly because so much of the city’s debt is
tied to pensions, said Richard P. Larkin, director of credit
analysis for Herbert J. Sims & Co., a municipal-bond underwriter
in Iselin,  New Jersey .  “If Calpers wins, I think people are going to look at
bankruptcies for municipalities much more negatively,” Larkin
said by telephone. “This is a precedent-setting case, not just
in California but nationally.”  Immediate Effect  The California bankruptcies probably won’t have an
immediate effect on the municipal-bond market, where prices are
rising and yields are shrinking, Larkin said. Investors are more
focused on the debates in  Washington  over the fiscal cliff and
whether municipal bonds will remain tax-exempt, he said.  Should Calpers win, investors who buy municipal bonds will
eventually demand higher  interest rates  from cities and counties
to compensate for the increased risk, Richard A. Ciccarone of
McDonnell Investment Management LLC said in an interview.  “It would put more bondholders at risk than would normally
be at risk,” said Ciccarone, chief research officer at  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based McDonnell, which oversees about $8 billion
in municipal debt.  Employee pensions should be paid ahead of sophisticated
investors who understood the risks of buying municipal bonds,
Calipers’ Glazier said in the e-mail.  “Calpers will champion our members who have relied on the
retirement promises made by the City of San Bernardino,” he
said.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  