-- Canada to Consider Buying Jets Beyond Lockheed’s F-35
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-12-13T18:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/canada-to-consider-buying-jets-beyond-lockheed-s-f-35.html
Canada will consider purchasing
fighter aircraft other than  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet,
after a report showed the planes would cost C$45 billion ($45.7
billion) over 42 years, Public Works Minister Rona Ambrose said.  The  report  prepared for the government by KPMG LLP follows
concerns expressed by lawmakers about the escalating cost of the
F-35. In the U.S., the program to buy a planned inventory of
2,443 fighters is now estimated to cost $395.7 billion, 70
percent more than when Lockheed Martin won the contract in late
2001. It’s the Pentagon’s costliest weapons system.  “The next step is a full review of options,” Ambrose told
reporters yesterday, saying the government has frozen funding
for acquisition of the F-35. “We have hit the reset button and
are taking the time to do a complete assessment of all available
aircraft,” which she said still includes the F-35.  Lockheed Martin fell 2 percent to $89.96 in  New York 
trading at 1:15 p.m. after gaining 13 percent this year.  The Canadian government had said in July 2010 that it would
buy 65 F-35s to replace the country’s aging fleet of CF-18
Hornet jets. The decision yesterday means the Canadian
government may consider alternatives including  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s F-18
Super Hornet and Eurofighter GmbH’s Typhoon.  International Markets  Lockheed Martin, the world’s biggest defense contractor,
has said developing international markets for the F-35 was among
the company’s priorities for growth. The Canadian aircraft are
important because they were to be built early in the program, a
schedule that would help reduce unit costs and stabilize
production, according to  Robert Levinson , an analyst for
Bloomberg Government.  “While Canada’s order isn’t a big share of the 3,173 F-35s
planned, it could prompt others to second-guess their
commitments,” Levinson said. “It also could have some impact
on Canadian companies participating in the program, as this was
sort of a quid pro quo for buying the jet.”  Lockheed Martin “has been a partner with the Canadian
Forces for more than 50 years,” Laura Siebert, a spokeswoman
for the Bethesda, Maryland-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We continue to look forward to supporting the
Canadian government as they work to provide their Air Force 5th
Generation capability for their future security needs.”  Mismanaged Purchase  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government was criticized
in April by the country’s auditor general for mismanaging the
F-35 purchase, prompting it to set up a secretariat within the
public works department to coordinate the acquisition of new
fighter jets.  The Department of National Defence was “too involved”
with the development of the F-35 program to run a fair
competition for new fighter jets, Auditor General Michael
Ferguson said in an April 3 report. Defense officials didn’t
provide complete cost information to members of the nation’s
parliament or fully inform decision makers about the risks of
buying the jets, the report found.  The project’s budget had been set at C$25 billion over 20
years in 2008, including C$9 billion to buy the jets and C$16
billion to operate and maintain them.  Canada  has been involved with Lockheed’s “Joint Strike
Fighter” program since 1997. Canada signed memorandums of
understanding to participate in the program in 1997, 2002 and
2006.  Keeping CF-18s  The government said it will assess available aircraft in
production or scheduled for production based on Canada’s
military needs, according to  documents  released yesterday. The
nation also will evaluate the ability of its fleet of CF-18 jets
to be used beyond their current  life expectancy .  Canada wants “to ensure a balance between military needs
and taxpayer interests,” Defence Minister Peter MacKay said.
“To do so, we need to have all viable options on the table.”  The government didn’t provide a time frame to complete the
work. Matthew Kellway, a spokesman for the opposition  New
Democratic Party  on military procurement issues, told reporters
the process is still not open.  “They’ve quickly retreated back behind closed doors to do
this process once again in secrecy,” Kellway said.  Canada’s decision follows cutbacks in F-35 plans by other
nations. The Italian government announced in February it would
buy 90 F-35s instead of the 131 previously planned, according to
the U.S. Congressional Research Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  