-- Carlos Slim, Howard Buffett and a Puma Named Zeus: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-12T20:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/carlos-slim-howard-buffett-and-a-puma-named-zeus-scene.html
Carlos Slim , the richest man in the
world, arrived at the  Happy Hearts Fund  gala last night as a
mariachi band blasted. In one corner, mole and coffee were
served, in another, a 9-week-old puma named Zeus jumped around a
mockup of his native habitat.  Slim, too, was a focus of the event organized with
assistance from the  Mexico  Tourism Board.  Guests dashed from across the room to greet the Mexican
tycoon who has made his fortune in industry, construction,
finance and telecommunications. As of 5:30 last night, Slim’s
estimated worth was $75.4 billion according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  At the Altman Building in Manhattan’s Chelsea district, he
offered open arms, a big smile and a twinkle in his eye as he
said hello to the chairman of ING Latin America, Carlos Muriel;
Howard G. Buffett, a son of  Warren Buffett ;  Jennifer Lopez ’s ex,
 Marc Anthony , and Juan Francisco Beckmann Vidal, chairman of
 Jose Cuervo .  Slim showed the warmth of  Bill Clinton , except more teddy
bear than statesman. At one point he even wore a pink butterfly
on his finger, borrowed from a centerpiece.  The context was certainly feel-good: raising money to build
schools in areas affected by natural disaster, led by the model
Petra Nemcova, founder of the Happy Hearts Fund.  Referring to Slim, she said, “I couldn’t imagine
celebrating Mexico without you.”  Buffett Helps  No one says no to Nemcova, said Kevin Martins da Silva, of
Three Ocean Partners LLC. His firm’s donations have built two
schools.  Howard Buffett  has also come under her spell; he was
honored for his achievements in philanthropy, which range from
building a school in Peru with Happy Hearts to ensuring this
week that clean water reaches the town of Goma in the eastern
Congo to prevent deaths from cholera.  At the lectern, Buffett, who also farms and serves on
corporate boards, praised Slim’s approach to philanthropy, which
includes building the Soumaya Museum in Mexico City and funding
education, health and sports programs.  “When Carlos got into philanthropy, he said he expects
things to happen differently and to get results,” Buffett said.  Buffett also talked of attending planter’s school at a John
Deere dealership, where an instructor told students that they
have about 40 chances in their lifetime to grow the best crop.
He used the story to emphasize that we should take advantage of
our limited chances to improve the world.  As soon as Buffett left the stage, Slim was at his side,
thanking him for his remarks.  ‘My Way’  A lot else happened at the event, from an operatic
rendition of Paul Anka’s “My Way” to the auctioning of tickets
to Vanity Fair’s Oscar night party, for $100,000, to the
honoring of Lynne Greene, group president of  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) ,
who noted the happy coincidence that Clinique has a perfume
named  “Happy Heart.”   Carlos Slim’s son Carlos Slim Domit hung out with Anthony,
while Howard Buffett’s son, Howard W. Buffett, enjoyed guacamole
and sea bass seated with Justin Rockefeller, with whom he said
he shares an interest in farming.  As for who left the most lasting impression: That honor
belongs to Stephanie Lopez, an 11-year-old girl of Tabasco,
Mexico, and a student at a school built by Happy Hearts.  She said she likes the computer lab, where she’s learning
how to use PowerPoint and Excel. She wants to be a lawyer
working for  women’s rights .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 