-- Carney Says Canadian Crisis Policy Lessons May Not Apply to U.K.
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/carney-says-canadian-crisis-policy-lessons-may-not-apply-to-u-k-.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney
comments on lessons learned in Canada and their applicability
when he takes over the Bank of England in July.  “My comments about the Bank of England are best first
delivered to the Treasury Select Committee, given their role,
and we are working with the committee right now to find a date
in the New Year that works for both of us,” Carney said at a
press conference after a speech today in Toronto.  “There are experiences of  crisis management  that we had
here in Canada, and much is made in Canada that we didn’t have
 bank failures  and we didn’t have other issues.”  “In part we didn’t have those because we made tough
decisions in a timely fashion, I feel we were transparent, up
front about the scale of issues,” including a frozen market in
asset-backed commercial paper.  “You have to level with people on the scale of problems;
it does no good to try to spin your way out of a crisis.”  Canada had strong coordination “amongst the major
authorities.”  “The broader point I would say on monetary policy and
financial stability policy writ large, I know one of the
strengths of the  Bank of Canada  is the breadth and depth of
talent in the institution and as a Governor the importance of
listening to diverse points of view.”  Carney also referred back to his speech about how central
banks signal their intentions on  interest rates  and the Bank of
Canada’s 2 percent inflation target, saying it has “suitability
for these times, for both normal times and times of crisis.  ‘‘But in order to get the most benefit from that framework,
transparency, communications is absolutely crucial, and there
are ways to use communication to potentially amplify that power
in extraordinary circumstances, which may be appropriate in some
jurisdictions, not appropriate in other jurisdictions. Those are
general lessons, which aren’t necessarily directly applicable to
the  Bank of England .’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  