-- Cayman Islands Premier Returns for Police Questioning
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-12-12T21:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cayman-island-premier-faces-more-police-questioning-after-arrest.html
Cayman Islands  Premier McKeeva Bush
finished a second day of questioning by police after being
arrested yesterday for misuse of government funds and other
charges.  Bush, 57, will be on bail until February “to allow further
investigations to take place both here and abroad in connection
with the allegations made against him,” according to a
statement e-mailed by the police today. Authorities seized  a
“considerable amount of property, including computer
equipment.”  Bush, who took office in 2009 and is known as “Father of
the House” for his almost three decades of service in the
country’s parliament, was arrested for misuse of a government
credit card, conflicts of interest and importing explosive
substances, according to police.  Deputy Premier Julianna O’Connor-Connolly would serve in
Bush’s place if he is unable to govern.  The Cayman Islands, a British Overseas Territory which has
the highest number of  hedge funds  in the Caribbean, has
historically attracted companies such as Bain Capital LLC and
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , which use subsidiaries based there to lower
their tax obligations. The nation was home to 10,979 funds as of
Sept. 30, up from 9,258 in 2011, according to the country’s
monetary authority.  Reputation Damage  Bush’s arrest was a surprise, said Chris Duggan, president
of the Cayman Chamber of Commerce.  “We were fully aware of the police investigation but we
did not know what action, if any, would be taken by the police
and when,” Duggan said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“The Chamber unequivocally supports the actions by Cayman’s law
enforcement officials to root out any alleged unethical behavior
that may damage the reputation of the Cayman Islands.”  In a statement, the Chief of Staff to the Premier’s office
said that “an occurrence of this nature cuts deep in our small
and close-knit community” and called on the Cayman’s 57,000
islanders to reserve judgment.  “Sadly, it is a feature of our society that simply being
accused of wrongdoing tends to taint one’s reputation as if one
has been proven guilty,” according to an e-mailed statement
from the Cayman government yesterday. “Even if subsequently
cleared of the accusation, the blemish on one’s name tends to
remain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  