-- CBOE’s New CEO Tilly Pledges to Expand VIX Trading
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-12-12T21:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cboe-s-new-ceo-tilly-pledges-to-expand-vix-trading.html
Edward Tilly, who will become chief
executive officer of  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  next year, said he will
expand trading of the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index to drive growth at the biggest U.S. options market.  CBOE also plans to expand its customer base by setting up a
new hub in London and focus on investor education. It will seek
to increase business in customized trading technology, he said.
Tilly, the Chicago-based company’s president and chief operating
officer, is succeeding William Brodsky, who is stepping down
after 16 years at the exchange, according to a statement from
the company today.  “VIX and its expansion is key,” said Tilly in an
interview today. “The growth there has been unique to us and we
want to ensure the trajectory continues.”  CBOE, the largest of nine American options markets, saw the
most trading ever in August for its exclusive options on the
VIX, which accounts for about 10 percent of revenue, according
to Macquarie Group Ltd. The VIX measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The exchange last month reported third-quarter profit that
beat analyst projections as options volume surged. Trading rose
47 percent to a record 5.48 million contracts per day, on
average.  Tilly was a market maker and CBOE member between 1989 and
2006, according to the company’s website, and was named to his
current post in November 2011. Edward Provost, the chief
business development officer, will succeed Tilly as president
and COO, according to today’s statement.  Tilly said today he will focus on driving growth at CBOE as
“a standalone” company. The CBOE, started in 1973 as the first
U.S. equity derivatives market, became the last major American
bourse to convert to shareholder ownership with its 2010 initial
public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  