-- CBOE’s Brodsky to Step Down After 16 Years, Tilly Named C
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-12-12T19:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cboe-s-brodsky-to-step-down-after-16-years-tilly-appointed-ceo.html
William Brodsky  will step down as
chief executive officer of  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  in May, ending his
16-year tenure running the biggest operator of U.S. options
markets. He will become executive chairman of the board.  Edward Tilly, the Chicago-based company’s president and
chief operating officer, will replace him, the owner of the
Chicago Board Options Exchange said in an e-mailed statement
today. Brodsky, 68, converted the CBOE to a publicly listed
company in 2010 from a mutual ownership structure and came to
the exchange after more than a decade as the head of  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange.  “He’s one of three or four who’ve materially changed the
nature of the derivatives industry and a great leader,” Richard Sandor, the founder of the Chicago Climate Exchange who said
he’s known Brodsky for more than 30 years, said in a telephone
interview. “He is one of the people who took the Chicago model
international, an innovator, with an incredible depth of
knowledge.”  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange , started in 1973 as the
first U.S. equity derivatives market, became the last major
American bourse to convert to shareholder ownership with its
initial public offering. The exchange last month posted third-
quarter profit that beat analyst projections as options trading
volume surged. Trading volume rose 47 percent to a record 5.48
million contracts per day on average, the company said.  VIX Options  CBOE, the largest of nine American options markets, saw the
most trading ever in August for its exclusive options on the so-
called VIX gauge of volatility, which accounts for about 10
percent of revenue, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. The VIX
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Brodsky, a lawyer by training, started his career in 1968
as an attorney in the securities industry. He joined the
 American Stock Exchange  in 1974 and became the head of options
trading in 1976. He joined the CME in 1982 as chief operating
officer, overseeing the launch of its Globex trading system and
developing and expanding its stock-index futures business.  Brodsky was chairman of the World Federation of Exchanges
from 2008 to 2010 and is a director of Integrys Energy Group,
Inc, an S&P 500 company.  Options Industry  “Brodsky was the face of the CBOE and really the face of
the broader options industry in the U.S. for a long time,”
 Edward Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York ,
said in a phone interview today. “It is fair to say that Tilly
was groomed for the role for a long time. You wouldn’t expect
too many changes because they worked together in strategy for
such a long time.”  Tilly was a market maker and CBOE member between 1989 and
2006, according to the company’s website, and was named to his
current post in November 2011. Edward Provost, the chief
business development officer, will succeed Tilly as president
and COO, according to today’s statement.  CBOE shares rose 0.5 percent to $30.06 at 2:16 p.m. in New
York, taking the gain in 2012 to 16 percent. They are trading
about a dollar above the initial public sale price of $29 in
June 2010.  “Over his long tenure at the CBOE, Bill Brodsky has been a
strong champion and advocate for the options industry,” Gary Katz, chief executive of the  International Securities Exchange ,
the third-largest market, said in an e-mail. “His experience
and dedication have contributed to the exceptional growth
achieved by the options industry over the past decade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  