-- Cengage Hires Pearson’s Education Sales Chief Stone
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-12-12T17:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cengage-hires-pearson-s-education-sales-chief-stone.html
Cengage Learning Inc., the
educational textbook company owned by Apax Partners LLP, named
Kevin Stone as its chief sales and marketing officer, hiring
away an executive from rival  Pearson Plc. (PSON)   Stone, 44, will report to Chief Executive Officer Michael Hansen, the company said today in a statement. Stone had been at
Pearson for more than 20 years and ran sales at Pearson’s higher
education unit since 2011. He will be based in  Boston .  Under Stone’s leadership, Pearson’s sales group
“consistently outperformed the industry over the last decade,”
Cengage said. Hansen, who joined as CEO in September, is
counting on the executive to help reverse a sales decline
triggered by intensifying digital competition and fewer student
enrollments.  Shrinking earnings and a drop in orders from a key
distributor prompted Moody’s Investors Service to lower
Cengage’s corporate rating by two levels last month.  London-based private-equity firm Apax Partners led a $7.75
billion acquisition of Cengage from Thomson Reuters Corp. in
2007. The company develops teaching materials for colleges,
schools, libraries and corporations, and provides print and
electronic publishing. Cengage acquired National Geographic
Society’s school-publishing unit last year. Hansen, 51, took the
reins as CEO from Ronald G. Dunn, who became executive chairman.  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  agreed last month to sell its education
unit to  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  for $2.5 billion after
deciding to focus on its financial-services business.  Pearson, meanwhile, agreed to combine its Penguin unit with
Bertelsmann SE’s Random House in October to create the largest
book publisher in the U.K. and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  