-- CFTC Defeats Challenge to Mutual Fund Commodities Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-12T23:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cftc-defeats-challenge-to-mutual-fund-commodities-rule.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission defeated a federal court challenge to a rule
requiring mutual funds with commodities investments to register
with the agency.  U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell in  Washington  today
rejected arguments by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
 Investment Company Institute  that the rule is unnecessary, and
that the commission didn’t properly assess the costs and
benefits when it approved the regulation in February.  “The court is satisfied that the CFTC considered the
relevant factors, acted well within its discretion, and that
there was nothing arbitrary or capricious about the CFTC’s
actions in promulgating the final rule,” Howell wrote in a 93-
page ruling dismissing the lawsuit.  The case is one of several brought by the financial
industry as it pushes back against tighter regulations passed in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis. CFTC commissioners, who
approved the registration requirement in a 4-1 vote, said it
would increase investor protections and eliminate a decade-old
loophole that let funds investing in futures and swaps tied to
commodities evade their oversight.  ‘Pool Operators’  Investment companies have “increased significantly” their
use of commodity futures, swaps and options since the agency
determined in 2003 that they didn’t need to register as
“commodity pool operators,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said
when the rule was passed.  Under the rule, funds would have to file reports with the
CFTC about their use of leverage, exposure to risk from
counterparties and other investment trading data.  The groups argued the measure isn’t needed because mutual
funds are already overseen by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The complaint about “redundant regulation appears to be
based on a false premise about the SEC’s capacity and interest
in regulating for the CFTC’s purpose,” Howell said in her
ruling.  The CFTC noted in the final rule, the judge said, that the
SEC “itself had acknowledged that ’it had not developed a
comprehensive and systematic approach to derivatives related
issues.’”  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, and Ianthe Zabel, a
spokeswoman for the Investment Company Institute, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail messages seeking comment on the
ruling.  Reviewing Decision  Blair Latoff , a spokeswoman for the Chamber of Commerce,
said the group is reviewing the decision and considering its
options.  “We continue to believe that the CFTC’s new regulations of
registered investment companies are fundamentally flawed,” she
said. “They inject more confusion into our  capital markets ,
without offering any real benefits to investors.”  When the lawsuit was filed in April, ICI President Paul Schott Stevens, whose Washington-based trade group lobbies on
behalf of mutual funds, said in a call with reporters that the
rule, “if allowed to stand, will impose enormous costs and
burdens” and that these costs would come out of “shareholders’
pockets.”  Mutual funds use commodity futures and other derivatives to
hedge risk, for portfolio diversification or as part of a
strategy for seeking higher returns, he said.  Dennis Kelleher, president and chief executive officer of
Better Markets, an organization advocating stricter financial
regulation, said in a statement the decision is “a total
victory not just for the CFTC, but also for financial reform.”  “This is also a victory for taxpayers as well who are
still paying the price for the financial collapse caused largely
by unregulated reckless trading and investments,” he said.  The case is Investment Company Institute v. U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, 1:12-cv-00612, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 