-- IIF’s Dallara Joins Ackermann on Kuwait’s NBK Advisory Board
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-12T13:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/charles-dallara-joins-ackermann-on-kuwait-s-nbk-advisory-board.html
Charles Dallara , managing director
of the Institute of International Finance, which represents more
than 450 financial institutions, has joined the  National Bank of
Kuwait  SAK’s international advisory board, the Gulf state’s
biggest lender said today in an e-mailed statement.  The 19-member board, which meets annually, also includes
Josef Ackermann, the former chief executive officer of  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , Mohamed El-Erian, CEO of Pacific Investment Management
Co., and former Citigroup Inc. Senior Vice Chairman William Rhodes.  Dallara, a former U.S. Treasury official, announced in June
his decision to step down as the  Institute of International
Finance ’s managing director after leading negotiations for
private creditors in Greece’s debt swap. He will be replaced at
the Washington-based institute by former U.S. Treasury
Undersecretary  Tim Adams .  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  posted a 37 percent increase in
third-quarter profit to 108.1 million dinars ($384 million). NBK
Group CEO  Ibrahim Dabdoub said in October the “operating
environment” is posing challenges to the lender’s growth
potential.  Kuwait, the fourth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, unveiled a $110 billion four-year
development plan in the 2010-2011 fiscal year to diversify its
oil-reliant economy and modernize infrastructure. Kuwaiti
private-sector borrowing grew at the slowest pace in at least 17
years in 2011 as the country failed to meet spending pledges and
stimulate investment. The Central Bank of Kuwait in October cut
the key interest rate by 50 basis points to 2 percent to spur
growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in  Kuwait  at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  