-- China, Russia Resubmit Proposal to Get Web Control
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-12-12T14:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/china-russia-resubmit-proposal-to-get-web-control.html
A proposal that would potentially
give countries sovereignty over Internet addresses has been
resubmitted to the  UN agency for telecommunications  by a
coalition including  China  and Russia, a day after the original
plan was scrapped.  An amendment of the draft says that  member states  should
have the right to manage all naming, numbering, addressing and
identification resources used for international
telecommunications services within their territories, according
to statements by different delegations in the plenary of the
World Conference on International Telecommunications in Dubai.  The proposal faces opposition from countries such as
Germany, the U.S., the  Czech Republic ,  Sweden , Australia, Canada
and U.K., which all had called for it to be struck off since
they’ve agreed not to talk about regulating the Internet at the
conference. The eight-country group pushing for more sovereign
control over web addresses includes Algeria, Bahrain, Iraq,
 Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates, Sudan, China and Russia.  The gathering is organized by the International
Telecommunication Union, a United Nations agency, and aims to
update the International Telecommunication Regulations Treaty as
the previous conference took place in 1988 when the Internet was
not widely used and many phone operators were still state
monopolies.  The Saudi-Arabian delegation said in a statement during the
plenary that the regulations wouldn’t affect the Internet and
were meant to regulate new networks.  “It’s unacceptable that one party to the conference gets
everything they want and everybody else must make concessions,”
the delegation said.  U.S. Opposition  The U.S. White House said yesterday it would reject any
measure that would move more control of the Internet to the
International Telecommunication Union. The U.S. delegation
characterized the new proposal as an attempt to “derail” the
discussion.  “The U.S. Delegation notes with concern that several
delegations at this conference continue to attempt to introduce
Internet-related proposals that are outside the scope” of the
conference, Terry Kramer, the head of the U.S. delegation, said
in a statement. “The US will continue to engage in good-faith
discussions with other delegations, despite these attempts to
derail the focus of conference negotiations.”  Extending Jurisdiction  U.S. companies including AT&T Inc.,  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  News Corp . have joined
forces to oppose efforts by China, Russia and other countries to
extend ITU jurisdiction to Internet matters, David Gross, an
attorney with the law firm Wiley Rein in Washington who is
leading the effort, said in an interview in May.  Web addresses are currently controlled by two non-
governmental organizations, the Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers and the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority.  The ITU has said that it will not use the WCIT to increase
its own authority over the Internet.  The new proposal has not yet been presented to the
conference, which is nearing the end of its two-week discussion.
The  WCIT is scheduled to begin reviewing the final draft of the
text today and tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Dubai via 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  