-- Chinese Shoppers Overtake U.S. as Top Luxury Buyers
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-12-12T07:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/chinese-shoppers-overtake-u-s-as-top-luxury-buyers.html
Chinese consumers have overtaken
U.S. shoppers this year to become the world’s biggest buyers of
 luxury goods , accounting for 25 percent of global sales through
purchases at home and overseas, consultancy firm Bain & Co.
said.  U.S. consumers now account for one-fifth of the world’s
luxury sales, followed by the Japanese shoppers at 14 percent,
according to a report released by Bain today.  The increasing affluence of Chinese consumer, who shop for
luxury brands at home and overseas, has encouraged companies
from  Burberry Group Plc. (BRBY)  to  Prada SpA. (1913)  to boost their Asian
presence. Chinese shoppers spend over 60 percent of their total
outlay outside the mainland, Bain found.  China’s domestic luxury sales, estimated to be worth 106
billion yuan ($17 billion) in 2011, are expected to grow 7
percent this year. That is a slowdown from 30 percent growth in
2011, as the expansion in the world’s second-largest economy
weakens and more Chinese buy abroad.  Mainland Chinese tourists often shop in  Europe , where they
can save as much as 40 percent on luxury watches because of the
weaker euro and on differences in tax or duties, according to
the report.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.4 percent in the
third quarter, the least in three years. The watch and jewelry
sectors have been the most severely hurt by slower growth in
China amid softer corporate gifting and increased overseas
shopping, Bain said.  The compounded annual growth rate of China’s watches sector
will probably slow to 5 percent this year, compared with 40
percent growth last year, according to the report.  Chinese officials should abandon extravagance and live more
frugally amid a broader push to fight corruption, the official
Xinhua News Agency  reported  this month, citing a ruling
Politburo meeting chaired by  Xi Jinping , the newly elected head
of the Communist Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  