-- China Sovereign Fund Said to Sell 6.9% Stake in Goodman
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-12T05:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/china-sovereign-fund-said-to-sell-6-9-stake-in-goodman-group.html
China’s sovereign wealth fund sold a
6.9 percent stake in  Goodman Group (GMG) ,  Australia ’s biggest
industrial property trust, to raise about A$519 million ($547
million), according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  China Investment Corp. sold the 116.67 million shares at
A$4.45 each and will retain a stake in Goodman of about 9.9
percent, said the people, declining to be identified as the
details aren’t public.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managed the
share sale to local and foreign investors, the people said.  CIC remains Goodman’s biggest investor following the sale,
the Sydney-based company said in a statement to the stock
exchange today.  “We have a strong relationship with CIC and look forward
to further building on this as we explore opportunities in all
of the major markets in which Goodman operates globally,” Chief
Executive Officer Greg Goodman said in the statement.  Beijing-based CIC, which helps  China  manage the world’s
largest foreign-currency reserves, was set up to improve returns
by investing overseas. It posted a 4.3 percent loss on its
overseas investments last year, its worst performance since the
company was set up in 2007, as declines in global commodity
prices roiled the value of its resources-heavy portfolio.  The price paid for the Goodman stock was 3.1 percent below
yesterday’s closing price. Goodman  shares fell  2.6 percent to
A$4.47 at the close of trading in Sydney, paring this year’s
gain to 57 percent.  Phone calls to CIC’s press office in Beijing seeking
comment today weren’t immediately answered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  