-- CIMB Says RBS to Help Regain Top Arranger Spot: Islamic Finance
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-12-13T05:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cimb-says-rbs-to-help-regain-top-arranger-spot-islamic-finance.html
CIMB (CIMB)  Group Holdings Bhd. plans to
take advantage of its purchase of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s Asian operations to regain its position as the world’s top
sukuk arranger after slipping to second place in 2012.  The Malaysian bank is in talks with companies in  India  and
 China  to sell ringgit-denominated sukuk as they seek to skirt a
lack of Shariah rules in their own nations, Badlisyah Abdul Ghani, chief executive officer of the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic
unit, said in a Dec. 11 interview. The lender managed 13 percent
of the record $45 billion in global issuance this year, trailing
the 25 percent of nearest rival HSBC Holdings Plc.  CIMB, which bought RBS units including those in  Australia ,
 Hong Kong  and  Taiwan  in April, also plans to open an office in
 Saudi Arabia , Qatar or  Abu Dhabi  early next year to win more
business in the Gulf Cooperation Council, Badlisyah said. HSBC
announced in October that it would stop offering Shariah-
compliant retail products in countries such as the  United Arab
Emirates  and Bahrain, and instead would focus on the larger
sukuk markets of Saudi Arabia,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia .  “Through RBS’s investment-banking operations in the Asia
Pacific, CIMB can open more doors,” Elsie Tham, Kuala Lumpur-
based senior manager at Manulife Asset Management Sdn., who
oversees more than $1 billion, said in a Dec. 11 interview.
“Coupled with CIMB’s experience, it will give the company an
edge in getting more Islamic bond deals.”  Development Boost  CIMB, Malaysia’s second-largest lender, also agreed to buy
the equities and investment units of Edinburgh-based RBS in
 Singapore , China and India.  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said it would also withdraw
from retail Islamic products in  Bangladesh , Singapore, the U.K.
and Mauritius, markets where it doesn’t have “sufficient
scale,” spokesman Patrick Humphris said in October.  Australia, Hong Kong and India have toyed with the idea of
introducing legislation that would pave the way for Islamic bond
sales, while Taiwan has yet to consider it as an option.
Singapore has rules in place, although that didn’t stop Noble
Group Ltd., First Resources Ltd. and  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) ,
who are all listed in the city-state, from tapping the Malaysian
sukuk market this year, the world’s biggest.  Government development programs to build railways, roads
and power plants in the Southeast Asian nation and the  Persian
Gulf  have helped spur this year’s record issuance of Shariah-
compliant bonds, which pay returns on assets to comply with the
Koran’s ban on interest.  ‘Further Boom’  Issuance in the six-member GCC, which includes Bahrain, the
U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, almost tripled to an all-time high of
$20.8 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
HSBC dominated that market, managing 43 percent of offerings,
while CIMB, which has a limited presence in the region with just
one office in Bahrain, handled 0.2 percent.  “Sukuk sales in the GCC will continue to grow because the
markets there are likely to see a further boom,” Rafe Haneef,
CEO of HSBC Amanah Malaysia Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , said in Dec.
11 interview. “In Malaysia, sales will continue to be dominated
by infrastructure project funding and refinancing.”  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co., Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding
Co. and Gulf Investment Corp. GSC are among companies from the
Persian Gulf that have tapped the ringgit market this year.  ‘Attractive’ Costs  Sales of Islamic bonds in Malaysia rose to an all-time high
of 93.4 billion ringgit ($30.6 billion) this year, more than
double the amount for the whole of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Malayan Banking Bhd., the country’s
biggest lender, leads the market in the Southeast Asian nation
after managing a 28 percent share followed by CIMB’s 27 percent.  There’s potential for offerings in Malaysia to surpass this
year’s record in 2013 given the current “attractive borrowing
costs” and the government’s $444 billion development plan,
Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz, CEO of Maybank Investment Bank
Bhd., a unit of  Malayan Banking , said in an interview yesterday.  International sales climbed to a record $45 billion this
year, surpassing the 2011 high of $36.7 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The notes have returned 9.3 percent in 2012,
according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index, while
debt in developing markets climbed 18.2 percent, JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Composite Index shows.  ‘Very Optimistic’  Average yields on global sukuk decreased one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.84 percent yesterday after
reaching an unprecedented low of 2.76 percent on Nov. 30,
according to HSBC. The difference between the average and the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, narrowed three basis
points to 190 basis points.  In Malaysia, borrowing costs on the 3.928 percent dollar-
denominated Islamic notes due in 2015 dropped one basis point
this week to a record 1.29 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The difference between Dubai’s 6.396
percent securities maturing in November 2014 and Malaysia’s debt
was little changed this week at 88 basis points.  The Bloomberg-AIBIM Bursa Malaysia Corporate Index, which
tracks 57 ringgit issues, has retreated 0.4 percent so far this
week to 101.599, trimming its gain this year to 3 percent.  Sukuk demand may triple to $900 billion by 2017, according
to a Sept. 9  report  from Ernst & Young’s Global Islamic Banking
Center of Excellence. Shariah banking assets held by commercial
lenders worldwide are set to reach $1.8 trillion in 2013
compared with $1.3 trillion in 2011, according to a Dec. 10
statement from the company.  “Now that we have the footprint with the RBS operations,
prospects are good and we are very optimistic,” CIMB’s
Badlisyah said. “We hope to be able to get some good wins as we
want to be a significant player at all times and be involved in
all major and landmark deals.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 