-- Coca-Cola Amatil Drops as Consumer Sentiment Hits Volume
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-12T06:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/coca-cola-amatil-drops-as-consumer-sentiment-hits-volume.html
Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL) ,  Australia ’s
largest beverages company, fell the most in more than a year in
Sydney trading after saying weak consumer sentiment and
discounting by competitors hurt growth in sales volume.  The stock declined 2.6 percent, its  biggest drop  since Nov.
17, 2011, to A$13.56 at the close in Sydney, with trading  volume 
at more than three times the daily average in the past three
months. “Price-driven competitor activity” has restrained
sales volume growth in the second half of the year, and
“consumer spending levels continue to be soft,” the Sydney-
based company said in a statement today.  The Coca-Cola Co. bottler has been so highly rated by the
markets that its share performance won’t permit any
disappointment,  Dan Hurren , an analyst at UBS AG, said by phone
from Sydney. It’s the second-highest valued large Australian
consumer staples company, using a measure of enterprise value
and estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The valuation hasn’t taken into account that there’s
natural risk around the weather for this stock,” said Hurren,
who rates Coca-Cola Amatil sell. “We’ve had a relatively cool
start to the summer months in Australia.”  Coca-Cola Amatil said it still expects to boost volume and
sales in the six months through December in Australia, its
 largest market  responsible for about 70 percent of revenue.  Strong growth continues in the Indonesia and Papua New
Guinea operations, while earnings in New Zealand and Fiji will
fall in line with the broader market, the company said, without
providing earnings figures.  Coca-Cola Amatil’s enterprise value is about 10.4 times
estimated earnings this year, the second-highest after  Treasury
Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE)  among Australian consumer staples companies
with more than A$1 billion ($1 billion) in annual sales,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  