-- Community Banks Eye Fiscal-Cliff Plan for Deposit Program
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/community-banks-eye-fiscal-cliff-plan-for-deposit-program.html
Community bankers who expect the
 U.S. Senate  to pass a bill tomorrow that would extend a program
intended to help them retain deposits also believe they will
have a tougher time getting the measure though the House.  Facing strong opposition in that Republican-controlled
chamber, including from Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia 
and incoming Financial Services Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , supporters of the Transaction Account
Guarantee program may now try to add the extension to fiscal-
cliff legislation.  While leading  House Republicans  oppose the extension, many
rank-and-file members “are not going to want to pick a fight
with community banks,” said  Brian Gardner , senior vice
president of Washington research at investment bank Keefe
Bruyette & Woods Inc. “If it gets through the Senate the House
will go along and let it get into a fiscal cliff bill.”  The TAG program guarantees $1.5 trillion in non-interest
bearing accounts above the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
general limit of $250,000. It was created in 2008 and extended
in 2010 to provide unlimited backing for the accounts to keep
them in community banks. Republicans have labeled TAG as a
bailout-era program that shouldn’t be extended.  Small businesses, local governments and non-profit
organizations use the transaction accounts for payroll and other
recurring expenses.  Sufficient Liquidity  The FDIC said in a Dec. 4 report that community banks now
have sufficient liquidity to manage TAG’s expiration even if the
deposits it attracts do migrate to bigger institutions.  While Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  angered
community bankers during a Senate Banking Committee hearing in
July when he said, “it’s not necessary to extend” the TAG
program, the White House issued a statement this week supporting
the measure.  “While the administration supports a temporary extension
of the program, it remains committed to actively evaluating the
use of this emergency measure created during extraordinary times
and a responsible approach to winding down the program,”
according to a statement issued by the White House yesterday.  Cantor objects to the extension because the program was
supposed to be temporary, said his spokesman, Roy Cooper. “When
initiated at the height of the financial crisis, this was
intended to be a temporary guarantee program,”  Cooper wrote in
an e-mail. “The majority leader believes we should not continue
to extend these taxpayer guarantees and therefore opposes the
proposal.”  Depositors’ Assumptions  While community banks are healthier than they were in 2008,
many such bankers worry they’ll lose transaction accounts to
bigger rivals because of a public perception that big
institutions will be rescued by the government if there is
another crisis.  “If they could extend this just 24 months and say it’s
over that would be fine to get over the hump,” said James Getz,
chairman and chief executive officer of $1.8 billion-asset
Tristate Capital Bank in Pittsburgh. “For Main Street America
this recession is not over.”  That view was supported by Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat.  “Our nation’s economy is certainly in a different place
than it was in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis when
this program was created, but with concerns about the fiscal
cliff in the U.S. and continued instability in European markets,
I believe a temporary extension is needed,” Johnson said on the
Senate floor yesterday.  ‘Must-Do’  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  is sponsoring the
extension bill in the Senate. He has described it as a “must-
do” before the end of the year.  James Ballentine, executive vice president of congressional
relations and political affairs at the  American Bankers
Association , said members of House doesn’t share that sense of
urgency.  “Based on conversation held thus far, it has not garnered
must-pass legislation status and you certainly want it to get
that status as time winds down in this Congress,” he said.  “House conservatives want to shrink the government safety
net and that means letting TAG expire,” said  Jaret Seiberg ,
senior policy analyst at Washington Research Group, a unit of
Guggenheim Securities LLC. “I think for this to get enacted
into law, it needs to be part of a much bigger package.”  Gardner, the Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Washington
analyst, said the strategy of tying the measure to the fiscal
cliff bill faces the risk that House leaders will block
unrelated amendments if the bill appears overloaded with them.
He put the extension’s chance of passage in the House at about
50 percent, calling it a “crapshoot.”  Broader Package  Still, Independent Community Bankers of America Chief
economist  Paul Merski  said he supports the fiscal-cliff strategy
to extend TAG.  “Once it demonstrates it has the support in the Senate it
could be rolled into a broader package,” Merski said. “Because
of the timing” during the lame-duck session “there’s not going
to be much appetite for stand-alone bills.”  ICBA has sent multiple letters to lawmakers urging them to
support the extension.  “Congress shouldn’t be rolling the dice with the fate of
$1.5 trillion in deposits that will become uninsured and a risk
asset for businesses and state treasurers overnight if TAG is
allowed to expire on Dec. 31,” Camden Fine, president and CEO
of ICBA, said in a Dec. 4 statement. “The good news is that
Congress holds the power right now to ensure these deposits
remain insured.”  Divided Industry  The issue also has divided the banking industry. The
Financial Services Roundtable, whose members include big banks
such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , sent a letter
to Reid and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
calling TAG’s extension unnecessary. Merski said the Roundtable
opposition helps the community banks.  “It demonstrates how this is opposed by a handful of the
mega banks while over 7,000 mid-sized banks are supporting it,”
Merski said. “It sets up a distinct vote.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  