-- Company Insolvencies May Be Publicized Under EU Draft Rules
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-12T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/company-insolvencies-may-be-publicized-under-eu-draft-rules.html
Creditors and distressed-asset
investors may get more insight from proposed European Union
rules to publicize information on company insolvencies.  Judges and creditors need to know when insolvency cases in
other countries begin to aid decisions on making claims, the
European Commission said in the proposal. There is currently no
EU requirement to publish decisions on the start of insolvency
proceedings and no joint register to search bankruptcies across
the 27-nation bloc.  “By publishing a list of companies in insolvency
proceedings, businesses will be quickly and easily able to find
out whether their business partners are solvent,” said
Christoph von Wilcken, a lawyer at Schultze & Braun in Berlin.
“It should be easy to implement and is a quick win that will
bring benefits to the whole of the business community.”  The new EU rules, which need the support of EU governments
and the European Parliament before they can be enforced, would
clarify which country’s courts will handle cases and would
require coordinating insolvencies for company units. The EU said
the rules would increase the efficiency of cross-border
insolvency proceedings that affect 50,000 companies in the bloc
every year.  Courts in other countries would be also able to refuse so-
called secondary proceedings if another jurisdiction was
handling the case. This would bolster decisions such as those by
U.K. courts to appoint English administrators to handle the
liquidation of the European assets of  Nortel Networks Inc. (NRTLQ) ,
Collins & Aikman Corp. and MG Rover Group Ltd.  Second Chance  The EU also wants to offer bankrupt entrepreneurs a second
chance and are encouraging governments to draft laws by 2013
that would result in so-called “honest entrepreneurs” having
their debts discharged within three years after a bankruptcy, it
said. Insolvency rules could distinguish between such cases and
“dishonest” bankruptcies, where a business failure was caused
by fraud or irresponsibility, regulators said.  Officials are also weighing rules on filing and verifying
creditors’ claims “to reduce uncertainty and create equal
treatment among creditors,” the EU document said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 