-- Skadden, Cravath, Gibson Dunn, Simpson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-12T12:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/cravath-gibson-dunn-simpson-foley-business-of-law.html
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom
LLP advised  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE) , the fourth-largest U.S.
pipeline company, on the agreement to buy its first oil system
from  Kinder Morgan  Energy Partners LP and two other owners for
$1.25 billion in cash.  Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP, Shearman & Sterling LLP and
Blakes, Cassels & Graydon LLP are advising the sellers.  Spectra will buy the Express-Platte pipeline, which runs
from  Canada  and  North Dakota ’s Bakken Shale to refineries in
 Montana ,  Wyoming  and  Illinois , the Houston-based company said in
a statement yesterday. The agreement includes the assumption of
$240 million of debt.  The 1,717-mile (2,760-kilometer) pipeline, owned by
Borealis Infrastructure, the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  and
Kinder Morgan, can transport 280,000 barrels of oil a day. The
system is one of three major pipelines that bring oil to Midwest
refineries from expanding onshore North American production.  The Skadden team includes partners Michael Rogan and Marc Gerber, corporate; Ann Hawkins and Clifford (Mike) Naeve,
energy; Cliff Gross and Sean Shimamoto, tax; and John H. Lyons,
antitrust.  Sullivan & Cromwell represents Borealis Infrastructure,
which is the infrastructure investment arm of the OMERS pension
plan, and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan board. Joseph Frumkin, head of the firm’s mergers and acquisitions practice
group, led the S&C team. Additional partners include David
Spitzer, Andy Solomon and Ron Creamer, tax; and Yvonne Quinn,
antitrust.  Shearman & Sterling is advising Singapore Airlines. The
Shearman & Sterling team included partners James Comyn, mergers
and acquisitions; Trevor Soames and Dale Collins,
antitrust/competition; and Iain Scoon, tax.  Blakes advised  Kinder Morgan. (KMP)  The team was led by Mungo
Hardwicke-Brown and Katie Jamieson and included partners Jason
Gudofsky, investment Canada /competition; Brian Thiessen,
employment; and John Eamon, energy.  Spectra currently operates 19,000 miles of natural gas
pipelines in  North America .  Spectra said the deal would add $130 million to 2013
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
and 3 cents to 5 cents to earnings per share annually. Spectra
is expected to earn $1.64 a share in 2013, excluding one-time
items, the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Cravath, Simpson Thacher Advise on Delta, Virgin Atlantic Deal  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP advised  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  on
its agreement to buy a 49 percent stake in  Richard Branson ’s
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. for $360 million to boost its share
of the lucrative trans-Atlantic travel market.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP served as Virgin Atlantic’s
U.S. antitrust counsel on the transaction.  The carriers will begin a joint venture on 31 daily round-
trip flights between the U.K. and North America as they use
Virgin Atlantic’s base at  London ’s Heathrow airport,  Europe ’s
busiest, according to a statement yesterday. The Virgin Atlantic
stake has been held by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  since 1999.  The Cravath team was led by mergers and acquisitions
partners Scott A. Barshay and George F. Schoen and included
partners Christine A. Varney, antitrust, and Lauren Angelilli,
tax.  Antitrust partner Kevin Arquit is leading the Simpson
Thacher team on behalf of Virgin.  The deal positions Atlanta-based Delta to grab a bigger
slice of flights across the North Atlantic, the world’s richest
lode of premium passengers. Delta’s 10 daily U.S. nonstop
flights to the U.K. would be added to the 21 that Virgin
Atlantic plans to operate under its summer 2013 schedule.  While the Virgin Atlantic brand will remain and founder
Branson will retain control, the deal marks the end of a go-it-
alone strategy for the Crawley, England-based carrier the 62-
year-old U.K. billionaire established almost three decades ago.  Delta and Virgin Atlantic said they will seek antitrust
immunity from regulators, letting them coordinate schedules and
pricing and share costs and revenue from joint-venture flights
regardless of whose plane operates the route. They also will
offer reciprocal frequent-flier benefits and allow elite-level
loyalty-program members to use each other’s airport lounges.  For more, click here.  Gibson Dunn, Simpson Thacher Advise on TNS Deal with Siris  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP acted as legal counsel to the
special committee of the board of directors of  TNS Inc. (TNS) , a maker
of networking products, which agreed to be acquired by an
investor group led by Siris Capital Group in a deal valued at
about $862 million.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing an investor
group led by Siris.  Gibson Dunn ’s team is led by Stephen Glover, co-chairman of
the firm’s mergers and acquisitions practice group, and includes
corporate partner Anne Benedict. Additional partners are Aaron
Adams, finance;  Michael Collins , benefits; Benjamin Rippeon,
tax; David Kennedy, intellectual property; and John Millian,
litigation.  Simpson Thacher corporate partner Dan Clivner is leading
the team for Siris. Additional partners include Katharine Moir,
tax; Tristan Brown, executive compensation and employee
benefits; and Lori Lesser, intellectual property.  Siris, a private-equity firm, will pay $21 a share in cash,
a 47 percent premium over the stock’s average price during the
past month, according to a statement yesterday. The companies
expect the deal to be completed in the first quarter.  TNS, founded in 1990, supplies networking products and
services to retailers, banks and telecommunications providers.
Amid slowing sales, the company is changing its focus from
selling older, so-called legacy networks to newer data-
communication applications. TNS said it will maintain this shift
as a closely held affiliate of Siris.  For more, click here.  Moves  Foley Hires Partners in California and Florida Offices  Foley & Lardner LLP hired three new partners: Jose L.
Patino and Nicola A. Pisano have joined the intellectual
property litigation practice in the San Diego/Del Mar office,
and Robert Q. Lee joined the Orlando and Miami offices, where he
will be a part of the transactional and securities,  China  and
Latin America practices.  Patino and Pisano were previously partners at  Jones Day ,
the firm said. Before joining Foley, Lee was a partner with
Diaz, Reus & Targ LLP.  Patino represents companies in commercial and intellectual
property disputes. He has experience with patent litigation
proceedings, including before the International Trade
Commission, and as special intellectual property counsel in
 bankruptcy court . Pisano has litigated patent and trade secret
matters in federal district courts and in proceedings before the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  Pisano has experience litigating software, wireless
communications, encryption, semiconductor, telephony, Internet-
based, mechanical and medical device technologies, and also
advises startup and mid-sized technology companies in connection
with patent portfolio management, procurement and investment
diligence.  Lee focuses on the representation of public, private and
emerging growth companies in corporate and commercial matters,
such as mergers, asset and stock acquisitions and divestitures,
reorganizations and roll-ups.  Foley has about 900 attorneys in 21 offices in North
America, Europe and  Asia .  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Franchise Partner in Los Angeles  Corporate lawyer Matthew B. Gruenberg joined Barnes &
Thornburg LLP’s  Los Angeles  office as a partner in the corporate
department and will chair the franchising and distribution law
practice group. He was formerly with Gruenberg Garnett Harris
LLP.  Gruenberg has focused his practice on domestic and
international franchising, licensing and distribution matters.
His practice also includes general corporate, trademark and real
estate matters.  “His addition continues the expansion of our practice by
adding corporate and real estate transactional capabilities to
our Los Angeles office,” David Allen, managing partner of
Barnes & Thornburg’s Los Angeles office, said in a statement.  The Los Angeles office, which opened in February 2011, has
22 attorneys who practice in a number of areas, including
complex litigation, labor and employment, intellectual property,
corporate and an entertainment and music practice.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Energy & Resources Partner Harrison Joins Minter Ellison  Minter Ellison  hired  Michael Harrison  as a partner based in
Sydney, though he will spend time in Perth and the Asia region.
He was previously a partner at Corrs Chambers Westgarth.  Harrison focuses his practice on energy, resources and
infrastructure projects. He has handled work in the power, oil
and gas, mining, natural resources, transport and waste sectors,
and is has pan-Asian experience.  Harrison’s client base includes industry participants and
project sponsors as well as governments, government-owned
corporations and state-owned enterprises, regulatory authorities
and financiers.  Minter Ellison has 15 offices in Australia,  Hong Kong ,
mainland China, Mongolia,  New Zealand  and the U.K.  Litigation  Goldman Says Financial Diligence ‘Not Our Job’ in Dragon Sale  A lawyer for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it wasn’t the
firm’s job to do financial due diligence for its client, Dragon
Systems Inc., in the company’s 2000 sale to a Belgian company
that collapsed in an accounting scandal.  John Donovan Jr., a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP and a
lawyer for the New York-based bank, told a jury in federal court
in  Boston  yesterday that Goldman was hired to negotiate the
terms of the transaction for Dragon, not to uncover the fraud at
the acquirer, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV. The founders
of Dragon are suing Goldman for what they claim is bad advice
that led to a disastrous $580 million all-stock transaction.  “Financial accounting diligence was not Goldman’s job,”
Donovan told six jurors and six alternates in his opening
statement. “You turn to auditors and accountants to ask
questions about auditing and accounting.”  Jim and Janet Baker, pioneers in computer speech
recognition, claim Goldman’s failure to pursue red flags cost
them their company and access to technology they spent their
professional lives creating, including the rights to Dragon
NaturallySpeaking, the company’s popular dictation software.  Within months of the sale’s June 2000 close, Lernout &
Hauspie filed for bankruptcy after an investigation found the
firm had fabricated customers and reported phony revenue.
Several executives were prosecuted and jailed in the scheme.  “Lernout & Hauspie was a fraud,” Donovan argued. “They
cooked the books and it was a highly sophisticated scheme that
took years to unravel.”  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more, click here.  News  Copper Users Urge U.S. to Examine LME Warehouse Wait Times  Copper consumers including  Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  urged U.S.
regulators to examine waiting times for withdrawing the metal
from London Metal Exchange inventories, citing concern about
possible repercussions on supply.  “Lucrative incentives” to store copper offered by
warehouse operators including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may result in
“a devastating impact” on the U.S. supply chain, Eaton & Van
Winkle LLP said in a letter to the Securities and Exchange
Commission dated Dec. 7. Members of the group represented by the
New York-based  law firm  also include  AmRod Corp. , Southwire Co.,
Luvata and hedge fund RK Capital LLC.  Withdrawing metal may take as long as about 39 weeks in  New
Orleans , the world’s biggest repository for LME zinc stockpiles,
Bloomberg calculations based on minimum delivery rules
established by the exchange show. The city also holds 58,275
metric tons of copper. Encore and Southwire are concerned they
may be unable to supply enough copper products to customers
including  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the law firm said.  “The financial incentives make delivery to warehouses more
profitable than selling to industrial end users and the scarcity
of metal that is created by the forced wait for delivery
likewise drives up premiums that producers can charge above
prevailing LME prices,” the law firm said. “The situation
became most alarming in the past few months in New Orleans.”  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, declined to
comment. The exchange, the world’s biggest marketplace for
industrial metals, was taken over this month by Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  JPMorgan’s plan to introduce an exchange-traded fund backed
by physical copper may increase consumers’ difficulty in finding
metal as it removes more supplies from the market, according to
the letter. The SEC should investigate the warehouse backlogs
before approving the marketing of copper-backed ETFs, Eaton &
Van Winkle’s Robert Bernstein said by phone yesterday.  Detroit Won’t Run Out of Cash as Council Clears Lawyer Deal  The Detroit City Council approved a $300,000 contract for a
law firm to advise it on a recovery plan, clearing the way for
 Michigan  to release $30 million to stabilize municipal finances
and ensure that the city won’t run out of cash this month.  The decision yesterday to hire Miller Canfield Paddock &
Stone Plc was part of a November agreement with the state to
avert the possibility of an emergency manager takeover. The firm
was named in the agreement at the insistence of Mayor Dave Bing.
The city, whose annual budget is $1.6 billion, continues to
amass a deficit that may top $400 million by June.  The council had balked at the contract with Miller
Canfield, saying the firm’s role in designing the agreement was
a conflict of interest. It was the most contentious of about 20
measures required before the state would release money from a
$137 million bond sale.  Bing had warned that without the state money, he’d fire as
many as 500 workers and place others on unpaid furloughs in
January. The $30 million won’t solve the deficit, which grows
despite steps including a 10 percent pay cut for city workers.
Bing’s administration has struggled to implement a five-year
plan to wipe out the deficit.  For more, click here.  Video  Filmmaker’s Lawyer Asserts Privilege to Oppose NYC Subpoena  John Siegal, partner at Baker & Hostetler LLP, talks about
his representation of filmmakers Ken Burns, Sarah Burns, David
McMahon and their company, Florentine Films, in a battle with
the City of  New York  over unused footage from their new
documentary, “The Central Park Five.”  Siegal, speaking with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck, also
discusses “journalistic privilege” and distinguishes his case
from a ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit that upheld subpoenas against filmmaker Joseph Berlinger
for footage from his film “Crude.”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  