-- Crude Gains as IEA Sees Rising Demand; OPEC Keeps Quota
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-12-12T13:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/crude-rises-as-iea-boosts-demand-forecast-opec-meets.html
Brent crude  rose to a five-day high
after the  International Energy Agency  increased its oil demand
forecast for 2013 and as OPEC ministers completed their meeting
in Vienna to discuss production limits.  Futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent in  London , a third
straight advance. Global oil consumption will expand to 90.5
million barrels a day next year, more than previously forecast,
amid signs of a rebound in Chinese demand, the IEA said in a
report today. OPEC will maintain its output ceiling at 30
million barrels a day, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi 
said after the closed-door talks concluded.  “Most member states in the exporting group are happy with
the current market balance and price levels, while fearing that
falling production could see a further price rise and hurt
already struggling demand growth into 2013,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said by e-
mail.  Brent for January settlement added as much as $1.27 to
$109.28 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the highest since Dec. 5. Futures were at $109.14 as
of 1:53 p.m. local time. West Texas Intermediate for January
delivery was at $86.23 a barrel, up 44 cents, in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , leaving it $22.89 a
barrel below Brent.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along an upward-
sloping trend line on the daily chart, at about $85.73 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A sustained drop
below this line, which connects the intraday lows of June and
November, will signal a so-called downside breakout, when losses
tend to accelerate.  Rising Consumption  Global consumption in the final three months of 2012 will
average 90.5 million barrels a day, about 435,000 barrels, or
0.5 percent, more than previously forecast, the Paris-based IEA
said in a monthly report today.  “Markets have grown somewhat more optimistic about the
Chinese economy as confidence indicators recently turned
expansionary after a long period in the doldrums,” the IEA
said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ meeting
was its second this year. The group decided to extend Abdalla El-Badri’s term as Secretary-General by one year, al-Naimi said.  While OPEC’s own forecasts show that it’s pumping more than
consumers need,  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq , Iran, the United Arab
Emirates,  Angola ,  Ecuador  and Libya have indicated that supply
and demand are approximately in balance.  Falling Output  Total production from all 12 OPEC nations slid to an 11-
month low of 30.78 million barrels a day last month, according
to a monthly report from the group yesterday that cited
secondary sources for its data. That’s still above the official
cap and about 1.03 million barrels a day more than the projected
average demand for OPEC crude next year.  “The Saudis will do as they always do and cut production
further going into next year to protect prices at $90 to $110”
for Brent, Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst at  DNB ASA (DNB)  in
Oslo, said by phone before today’s decision.  An Energy Department report today may show crude supplies
shrank by 2.5 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Crude inventories grew by  4.27 million barrels  last
week, the most since August, data from the  American Petroleum
Institute  showed.  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S. increased by 2.76 million
barrels last week, the API data showed. They are forecast to
rise by  2 million  in the government report, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in the Bloomberg News survey.
Distillate inventories, a category that includes diesel and
heating oil, rose by 2.24 million barrels compared with an
estimate for the Energy Department data of 1.1 million.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  