-- Daimler Names Troska to Board to Support China Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-12-12T11:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/daimler-names-troska-to-board-to-support-china-sales.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , appointed Hubertus Troska to
its management board to revive sales growth in  China  as its
Mercedes-Benz brand loses ground to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  Troska, currently head of Daimler’s Mercedes trucks unit,
will take over the new position to become Daimler’s eighth board
member starting tomorrow, the Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker
said today in a statement.  “With the decision to establish a board of management
position specifically for this market, we are underscoring the
strategic importance of China,” Chairman Manfred Bischoff said
in the statement. “We continue to see great potential there.”  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  is seeking to shore
up operations in China after Mercedes sales in the world’s
largest car market slumped 6.6 percent in November. The decline
contrasts with a 26 percent gain by Audi, the segment leader in
China, and a 62 percent surge by Bayerische Motoren Werke AG.  The November drop dragged down Mercedes’s growth in China
for the year to 4.2 percent. The brand’s sales in the country
totaled 177,301 cars and sport-utility vehicles in the first 11
months of 2012, less than half Audi’s 370,559 deliveries there
and trailing BMW’s 295,974 autos.  Command Chain  “It’s a decisive step,” said Frank Biller, a Stuttgart-
based analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg. “China is
important for all the carmakers, and the appointment shortens
the chain of command at Daimler.”  Daimler  rose  as much as 1 percent to 39.84 euros and was
trading up 0.7 percent at 12:32 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has
climbed 17 percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at 42.4
billion euros ($55.2 billion).  As part of its effort to boost sales in China, Daimler is
combining two separate sales units -- one for imported vehicles
and other for locally made cars -- into a single entity.  The lack of growth in China has held back Mercedes a year
after CEO Zetsche announced a goal of overtaking Munich-based
BMW in global sales by the end of the decade. Mercedes
deliveries through November rose 5.1 percent to 1.19 million
cars. BMW-brand sales increased 11 percent to 1.39 million
vehicles, while Audi reported a 13 percent jump to 1.34 million.  24-Year Career  Troska, 52, has worked for 24 years at Daimler, where he
has also served as a manager for the trucks division in  Mexico 
and the U.S. and worked in  Turkey  for the Mercedes car unit. He
was head of Mercedes’s AMG high-performance auto business from
2003 to March 2005.  “With the new China board of management position, we will
ensure that all aspects of this dynamic  market  are dealt with
directly,” Zetsche said in the statement. “We have found the
right man for this task.”  Troska’s contract runs through Dec. 31, 2015. He will be
replaced at the Mercedes commercial-vehicle business by Stefan Buchner, who currently oversees procurement and powertrain
operations at the Daimler Trucks division, Daimler said. The
carmaker also extended the contract of Andreas Renschler, the
head of the Daimler Trucks division, until Sept. 30, 2018.  Ulrich Walker, the head of Daimler’s operations in
northeast  Asia , will retire after more than 30 years at the
company. He will assist Troska in a “transitional phase,” the
German manufacturer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  