-- Dale Says Carney’s GDP Mandate Suggestion Has Credibility Risks
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-12T14:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dale-says-qe-halt-justified-even-without-boe-coupon-transfer.html
Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said a suggestion by BOE Governor-designate  Mark Carney  that a central bank’s mandate may need to change to allow
further stimulus poses risks to officials’ credibility.  Carney, currently Governor of the  Bank of Canada , said in a
speech in Toronto yesterday that  interest rates  close to zero
mean policy makers may need to consider measures such as
adopting a target of nominal gross domestic product. The BOE is
charged with keeping  inflation  at 2 percent, and its key rate
has been at 0.5 percent since March 2009.  Speaking at an event hosted by MNI-Deutsche Boerse Group in 
London today, Dale said the introduction of a new mandate must 
be considered in light of other policy options available, and in 
the case of the U.K., the use of  quantitative easing , which he 
said has had a material impact on the economy.  “The punchline is, there’s no free lunch to coming out of
these problems, there’s costs and risks associated with QE, and
there’s costs and risks associated with things like committing
to levels of GDP,” he said. “It doesn’t mean one’s right and
one’s wrong but it does mean we need to see both of these in the
round.”  Dale also said at GDP target is a “commitment to keep
policy looser for longer than you might otherwise have done.”  “You let the economy overheat relative to what you
otherwise would have done, and you do that because of a
commitment you made two or three years ago,” he said. That
raises two questions, first, “will people really believe that
you really will let the economy overheat, and secondly, do you
really want to do that.”  No Signal  Carney said his comments weren’t signaling anything about
Canadian or U.K. policy. He said he would save detailed comments
about his  Bank of England  post for a parliamentary committee
hearing next year.  Dale’s comments were made in response to audience questions
after he delivered a speech in which he said U.K. inflation is
likely to remain “sticky” and that he would have halted bond
purchases even if the U.K. Treasury didn’t take income from
gilts the central bank holds.  “In all likelihood I wouldn’t have voted for more QE even
in the absence of the government’s decision,” Dale said. He
also said while the coupon transfer doesn’t undermine the
Monetary Policy Committee’s ability to set policy, there is a
possible complication when those payments are reversed at some
point in the future.  The Treasury said in November it will use income from the
stock of bonds the BOE holds under its  asset-purchase program  --
about 35 billion pounds ($57 billion) -- to reduce government
debt and increase the amount of money in the economy. The MPC
halted its bond-buying program that same month.  ‘Sting’  Dale said that while the MPC remains “firmly in control”
of monetary policy, there is a potential “sting in the tail”
from the transfer as future cash flows between the central bank
and the Treasury may raise “understandable concerns.”  “We should have our eyes open that large financial flows
between the fiscal and monetary authorities may raise
understandable concerns,” he said.  The reverse transfers are likely to take place at a time
when the MPC is tightening monetary policy -- actions that will
be increasing government borrowing costs rather than reducing
them as now, Dale said. “This relationship might be further
complicated if, at that very same time, the government has to
increase its debt issuance in order to finance these reverse
flows back to the bank,” he said.  Dale said that the coupon transfers didn’t warrant a vote
to reverse asset purchases by an equivalent amount in November
as “the impact of selling an equivalent amount of gilts is
likely to have been far greater than that of the government’s
actions.”  “In subsequent meetings, I’ll take the government’s
actions into account, both in terms of any decision to increase
further the size of the asset purchase programme and,
potentially, in terms of the timing at which we begin to tighten
monetary policy,” Dale said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  