-- Darty Plans to Scale Back in Unprofitable European Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-12T17:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/darty-hints-at-more-market-exits-as-it-seeks-to-restore-profit.html
Darty Plc (DRTY) , the owner of France’s
biggest consumer-electronics retailer, said it may scale back
unprofitable European businesses amid pressure from its largest
shareholder.  The owner of the BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart chains said
today that it plans to “eliminate the losses in our non-core
markets of  Italy ,  Spain , the Czech Republic and Slovakia.” The
company announced a deal to sell its unprofitable Italian unit
last month and that’s “the kind of option we’re looking at,”
Chairman Alan Parker said on a conference call with reporters.  The plan has the backing of Knight Vinke, Darty’s largest
investor with a 25 percent stake, meeting one of eight demands
made by the activist investor, according to a person familiar
with the company, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private. Most of  Knight Vinke ’s requests have now been
met, according to the person, including the appointment of a new
adviser, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and an intention to appoint a
new chief executive officer by April.  Darty said in September that CEO Thierry Falque-Pierrotin
would step down after almost four years at the helm.  The retailer’s likely exit from the three countries is
“encouraging news,” said Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour
Pierce with a hold recommendation on the shares.  Darty rose 12 percent to 53 pence in London trading, the
most since Nov. 21.  500 Stores  The company has almost 500 stores in nine countries across
 Europe , where the sovereign-debt crisis has sapped  consumer
confidence  and spending. Darty said it plans to focus on France,
 Belgium  and the Netherlands. Its business in  Turkey  will remain
“under review,” the London-based retailer said.  Also today, Darty reported an adjusted loss before tax of
10.8 million euros ($14 million) for the six months ended Oct.
31. That compared with the average estimate of three analysts
compiled by Bloomberg for a loss of 9.3 million euros.  “Current market conditions remain challenging and have
been deteriorating in recent months,” Parker said in the
statement. “Our plan will nevertheless deliver an improvement
in earnings over the medium term.”  The  retailer  has been aligning online and store prices and
adding services such as home delivery and repairs to try and
compensate for a weakening market in  France , its largest market.  Parker told reporters that Darty will focus on growing Web
sales, improving stores with more self-service and better
merchandising such as tablet computers, and marketing more
strongly its value credentials as a price-competitive retailer.  “I see the Web as an opportunity, not a threat,” he said.  Darty announced a  dividend  of 0.875 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  