-- Death in Panic Shows Fears of Fire for Bangladesh Workers
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-12-12T05:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/death-in-panic-shows-fears-of-fire-for-bangladesh-workers.html
In the panic that spread after
shouts of “fire” sent workers racing out of Dhaka’s Apparel
Today factory last week, 23-year-old Morzina Begum tumbled over
a broken railing and bled to death. There was no fire -- it was
a false alarm.  Garment workers in  Bangladesh ’s capital city have reason to
be afraid. In the two weeks since a blaze at Tazreen Fashion
Ltd. killed more than 100 people, at least eighteen smaller,
non-fatal fires have broken out at garment factories around
Dhaka. There have been at least 150 fires in the country this
year.  “These incidents happen on a regular basis,” said Ineke
Zeldenrust, international coordinator for the labor rights group
Clean Clothes Campaign in Amsterdam. “The Bangladesh garment
industry is growing very rapidly, so the capacity of this city
and its infrastructure to absorb that is at its limits.”  Surging wages and inflation in  China , the largest apparel
supplier, have prompted retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  to shift production to Bangladesh. In
response, an $18 billion manufacturing industry has sprung up,
marred by factories operated in buildings with poor electrical
wiring, an insufficient number of exits and little fire-fighting
equipment.  “Fire-fighting equipment is not adequate,” said Abdus
Salam Murshedy, president of Exporters Association of
Bangladesh, and managing director of textile company Envoy
Group. “There are some factories that do not have easily
accessible fire exits.”  Bamboo Poles  At a fire at a Swan Group warehouse just two days after the
fatal one at Tazreen, Kalpona Akter of the non-governmental
organization Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity saw workers
climb down a bamboo pole because they couldn’t exit through the
stairs.  Swan’s factory is in compliance with workplace safety
rules, said Feroz Kobir Prodhan, the company’s manager of
administration, human resources and compliance. However, the
building where the company’s warehouse is located is not, he
said.  About 700 garment industry workers have died in the South
Asian country since 2005 because of unsafe buildings, according
to the  International Labor Rights Forum .  Tazreen’s factory had no emergency exits, and many workers
were burnt alive, as they got trapped in heavy smoke, Muhammad
Mahboob, a director at the Fire Service and Civil Defence said
after the fire. Tazreen made clothes for Wal-Mart, which has
said it has fired a supplier which was not authorized to send
orders to that facility.  Garment Boom  There were no deaths in the 18 smaller fires since the
Tazreen incidents, according to data compiled by Bangladesh Fire
Service and Civil Defence.  Bangladesh’s readymade garment exports surged almost four-
fold in the last decade to $17.9 billion in 2011, or 78 percent
of the nation’s total exports, according to the  Bangladesh
Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association.   The global garment industry would have to spend about $3
billion over five years to bring safety standards at Bangladesh
apparel factories to Western standards, an analysis, provided to
 Bloomberg News  by the Worker Rights Consortium, shows.  The European Union was the destination for about 60 percent
of Bangladesh garment exports in the year ended June 2012, and
another 28 percent went to the U.S. and  Canada , according to
data from the Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association.  Low Wages  “Brands are not saying they’re going to fix this before
they expand production into the country--they’re just flooding
the place with orders,” said Zeldenrust. “And manufacturers
are accepting orders even when they don’t have the capacity to
safely produce.”  Garment workers in Bangladesh, on average, earn about $43 a
month, compared with $150 to $250 in China and $87 in  India ,
according to a 2012 report from the  World Bank , that cited 2010
data.  “Ultimately the price per garment will go up because the
manufacturer will have to make certain investments, and have
certain costs,” Zeldenrust said. “At the same time, the cost
of producing in Bangladesh is so cheap right now that the guess
is the supply chain can actually absorb that.”  Wal-Mart has visited supplier factories to identify those
deemed “high risk for fire safety hazards,” it said on its
website. In 2011, the company stopped working with 49 factories
in Bangladesh due to fire safety issues, it said.  Stampede  Morzina Begum, the woman who died in the stampede at the
Apparel Today factory, came from Mymensingh, a northern
district, and used to earn 5,000 taka ($62) a month, Kamal
Hossain, deputy general manager of the company’s HR and
compliance, told Bloomberg by phone.  She fell over as a railing collapsed in the stampede and
bled to death on the way to the hospital. “It was a sad,
unfortunate incident,” Hossain said.  The company makes clothes for European and American buyers
through sub-contracts, Hossain said.  The fires have convinced some of Bangladesh’s apparel
workers, the jobs are not worth the risks. On a visit to Dhaka
from Rajbari, an impoverished district in central Bangladesh,
Sohrab Ali Sheikh, 48, said he was there to convince his two
garment worker daughters to go back home.  “I don’t want to see my daughters die in a fire this way.
If I can survive in my village, so can they,” Sheikh said,
standing near the burnt-out Tazreen Fashion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  