-- Defense, CEOs Push Budget Deal as Labor Invokes Scrooge
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-12-12T16:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/defense-ceos-push-budget-deal-as-labor-invokes-scrooge.html
The final votes in this year’s
election are still being counted, and some lawmakers already are
facing threats of 2014 primary challenges if no agreement is
reached to avoid automatic spending cuts and tax increases in
January.  Lobbyists for industries that stand to lose money if the
government goes over the so-called fiscal cliff are working
 Capitol Hill  hallways. And Democratic and Republican groups
active in the just-finished presidential race are pelting
senators and representatives with advertisements and phone calls
pressing for their favored version of a budget deal.  There are lighthearted methods: To the tune of Jingle
Bells, Democratic activists on Dec. 10 arrived at the home state
offices of Montana’s two senators singing: “Enough is quite
enough. That’s why we’re here to stay. It’s time to raise some
revenue and make the Scrooges pay.” Senator Jon Tester’s aides
sang along.  Yet those moments are an aberration from harder-edge
messages also being delivered to lawmakers.  “Members of Congress need to know that we are watching,
and we will hold them accountable,” said Garlin Gilchrist II,
national campaign director of MoveOn.org, a Democratic-leaning
online organization. The “accountability” piece includes
“maybe even primarying people who vote the wrong way,” he
said.  Primary Threats  Americans for Prosperity, a nonprofit that helps fund the
anti-tax Tea Party, also has its eye on future elections.  “We are not big on threats, but we have clearly taken
Republicans to task on spending, wind energy and other issues
over the years. And we’ll do so on this,” said  Tim Phillips ,
AFP president. “AFP has a history of good, strong grassroots
organization in districts back in the states. We’ve shown a
willingness to fund an effort to talk to the American people.”  Election-style ad wars also are under way, with some
members and their constituents being lobbied from both sides of
the fiscal talks. Three unions and MoveOn are running
commercials in a few of the same districts and states as
Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, a Washington-based
Republican-leaning nonprofit.  Democratic Senator  Mary Landrieu , who is facing re-election
in 2014 in Louisiana, a state that voted for Republican
presidential challenger  Mitt Romney , is among those targets.  Radio Ads  A radio ad by Crossroads asks listeners to call Landrieu’s
office and “tell her Washington needs to stop the spending and
give us a balanced plan.” MoveOn wants her to instead focus on
the voters who elected her -- people who are more concerned
about protecting their benefits.  “Senator Landrieu, I can’t afford any cuts,” a woman says
in a MoveOn television ad.“That’s why I voted for you and
President Obama to protect Social Security and Medicare.”  Although facing competing pressures, Landrieu said she’s
“not caught in the middle, I am comfortable in the middle.”
The three-term incumbent said she doesn’t “respond to either of
them” because “the people of my state know I am right in the
middle” and “that’s where they want me to be.”  The outside advertising doesn’t “move me too much one way
or another,” she said. “I’m always happy to hear from people
in the state about their views about what we can do, but I’ve
been very clear from the beginning that we’ve got to do both:
We’ve got to raise revenues and find a way to cut spending. I’m
going to remain open to debate and to make a decision based on
the proposals that come our way.”  Persuadable Senators  Joining Landrieu on Crossroads’ radar are Democratic
Senators  Mark Begich  of Alaska,  Tim Johnson  of South Dakota, and
 Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina .  “Those senators are persuadable based on their past voting
records and the largely center-right constituencies in the
states they represent,” Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for
Crossroads, said in an e-mail. In addition, Romney won all those
states.  The $240,000 radio buy began this week, according to a
Crossroads news release. In addition, the nonprofit, guided by
former George W. Bush strategist  Karl Rove , spent $500,000 on  a
national cable TV ad that says President Barack Obama’s plan
“is all about tax increases.”  MoveOn’s TV ads target Landrieu and five others: Democratic
Senators  Max Baucus  of Montana and  Charles Schumer  of New York
and Republican Representatives Bill Young of Florida, Gary Miller of California and  Eric Cantor  of Virginia.  MoveOn Targets  Gilchrist said those members were chosen because they are
either Republicans in districts that Obama won or are Democrats
who haven’t explicitly said they’re against cutting benefits on
such programs as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Cantor
is getting attention because he’s the House majority leader.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee today
released radio and online ads aimed at 21 “vulnerable House
Republicans” -- most of whom come from districts that either
voted for Obama or narrowly went for Romney.  The movie-trailer-style web ads show a car zooming along a
road and plunging off a cliff as a narrator says, “Tea Party
House Republicans are holding the middle class hostage to get
more tax cuts for millionaires.”  “This holiday season, if you make only one phone call,
send only one e-mail, tell Congressman  Gary Miller , ‘Don’t drive
us off the cliff,’” the narrator says in one tailored to the
California representative.  CEOs’ Letter  Business executives are stepping up their efforts to push
for a deal. In a letter yesterday, more than 150 chief executive
officers, including JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Jamie Dimon  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  Lloyd Blankfein , called on Obama and
House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio to compromise on a  deficit -
reducing budget agreement that would include new tax revenue and
spending cuts.  The International Franchise Association, a Washington-based
group that advocates for small business, responded that CEOs
have been “courted by President Obama’s recent charm
offensive.” The CEOs are “out of touch” with how raising
taxes will impede job growth, the IFA said in a statement
yesterday.  Defense Push  The defense industry is gearing up for a December push
against automatic defense cuts, which total $500 billion over 10
years. Four lobbyists for the Aerospace Industries Association
are canvassing Capitol Hill to push lawmakers to consider the
job losses that the  defense  cuts could yield, often with
lobbyists of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and other key AIA
members in tow, said Chip Sheller, a spokesman for the
Arlington, Virginia-based group.  AIA officials met on Dec. 10 to discuss a possible print ad
campaign and other marketing for later this month to raise
awareness about the impact of the cuts on defense jobs, Sheller
said. The group also is planning a “social media blitz” on
Facebook and Twitter that will use some of its research on the
impact of defense cuts, he said.  On the political side, groups are turning to Christmas
themes and organized events to engage the public in the debate.  MoveOn and organized labor partnered for the Dec. 10
caroling office visits and rallies across the country that
involved more than 3,000 people, Gilchrist said.  ‘Merry Taxmas’  Americans for Prosperity has a “Merry Taxmas” website
that includes “naughty” and “nice” lists of senators and
representatives. By clicking on a member’s photo, a visitor can
send a Twitter message that either says, “We’ll tax your eye
out, kid” (for the naughty) or “Thank you for standing up for
our economic freedom” (for the nice).  Obama has also embraced Twitter as a tool in the effort,
promoting a “My2K” hash tag that people can use to say what a
$2,000 tax increase would mean to them. That’s the average
increase that would take effect if Congress and the White House
fail to reach a deal.  One Tea Party group, Let Freedom Ring, is trying to grab
attention by asking people to mail a dollar bill to their
representative with the message, “Can you spend THIS much less
each year?”  The AARP, which lobbies on issues important to older
Americans, spent $10 million on national TV and print ads. One
commercial says, “We can do better than a last-minute deal that
would hurt all of us.”  AARP Agenda  The group wants Congress to resist curbs to spending on
Social Security and Medicare. It is also pressing Congress to
oppose a change in the way Social Security benefit increases are
calculated on an annual basis.  Three labor unions that also oppose entitlement spending
cuts -- the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, the Service Employees International Union and the
National Education Association -- have combined resources for an
ad campaign targeting members of Congress they say have shown an
openness to compromise.  These lawmakers include Democratic Senators Mark Warner of
Virginia and  Claire McCaskill  of Missouri, who have pushed for a
longer-term agreement to reduce federal budget deficits, and
Republican Representatives Denny Rehberg of Montana, who’s
leaving Congress after losing a Senate race, and Pat Tiberi of
Ohio, a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.  Primary challenges pushed by far-right or far-left groups
have mixed results.  MoveOn and other progressive groups helped Ned Lamont, a
businessman, defeat Connecticut Senator  Joe Lieberman  in the
2006 Connecticut Democratic primary. Lieberman then became an
independent and ran as a third-party candidate in the general
election, defeating Lamont.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  