-- Delta Sets June Deadline to Decide on Investors Returns
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-12-12T21:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/delta-sets-june-deadline-to-decide-on-investors-returns.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will decide on
returning cash to investors by mid-2013, when it predicts no
change in capacity, and will seek to boost unit revenue through
gains in corporate travel and fare management.  A share buyback, urged by analysts including John Godyn of
Morgan Stanley, would be the first since 2000, when Atlanta-
based Delta bought back $500 million of its stock. The world’s
second-largest carrier has been focused on lowering its debt to
$10 billion before considering shareholder returns. That target
should be achieved next year, President Ed Bastian said.  “We need to deploy capital shrewdly, but at the same time
we need to make investments for three to five years from now,”
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said today on the
webcast of an investor presentation in  New York . “Our real
focus now is to continue to return cash to shareholders while
reducing our debt.”  Delta will do a “proper analysis” with its board of
directors about how to “return a reasonable amount of cash to
shareholders” and reveal its decision at an annual meeting in
June, Anderson said.  Delta rose 0.6 percent to $10.72 at the close in New York,
after a 5.1 percent jump yesterday. The  stock ’s two-day gain was
the biggest in two months.  The carrier has bought used aircraft including  Boeing Co. (BA) 
717 jets from Southwest Airlines Co. and MD-90s from Chinese
carriers to replace older fuel-guzzling planes it is retiring.
Delta owns 90 percent of its fleet and has a “large number of
airplanes that are fully depreciated without a monthly
payment,” Anderson said. That helps the carrier manage capacity
and the associated costs to match demand, he said.  ‘Revenue Premium’  Delta will continue to “build revenue premium” in the
coming year to compensate for the lack of capacity growth and
help mute expenses such as wage increases, the addition of lie-
flat seats on widebody jets and the overhaul of its website,
according to a  regulatory filing .  Yesterday, Delta agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in
Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. for $360 million
as they pursue a joint venture for flights between the U.K. and
U.S.  Delta is also benefiting from having the integration of its
2008 purchase of Northwest Airlines Corp. completed while
competitors such as United Continental Holdings Inc. and
Southwest struggle to mesh operations with their merger
partners, Anderson said.  Another large merger will likely take place to consolidate
the U.S. industry down to four major carriers, Anderson said.  American Airlines parent AMR Corp. CEO  Tom Horton  said this
week that the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company is close to
completing its bankruptcy reorganization plan and an evaluation
of whether to stay independent or merge with  US Airways . That
combination would surpass United Continental as the world’s
biggest carrier.  “The last piece of that puzzle is American and US
Airways,” Anderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  