-- Deutsche Bank to Pay $49 Million to Ex-Client, Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-12-12T16:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/deutsche-bank-to-pay-49-million-to-ex-client-judge-says.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was ordered by a
Singapore court to pay $49 million to former client Chang Tse Wen in a dispute over losses on investments tied to Citigroup
Inc. shares.  “All the losses that Dr. Chang suffered were caused in
fact and in law by” his banker and Deutsche Bank’s breach of
the duty of care, High Court Justice Philip Pillai wrote in a
71-page verdict released yesterday.  Deutsche Bank sued Chang, a Taiwanese scientist who
invented the Xolair asthma drug, in 2009 for $1.8 million that
he failed to pay back after incurring losses on investments tied
to Citigroup shares. Chang countersued, claiming the bank was
negligent in its advice and made fraudulent misrepresentations,
resulting in him losing $49 million.  “Deutsche Bank will appeal the court’s decision and
believes it has strong grounds to do so,”  Michael West , a Hong
Kong-based spokesman at the German lender, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Chang’s lawyer Muralidharan Pillai had argued that the
scientist “entrusted his first ever windfall of monetary
wealth” to the bank, which had promised tailor-made financial
advice. Chang received $118 million in 2007 after Genentech Inc.
acquired Tanox Inc., the company he founded, for $919 million.  The case had “unusual facts,” including a so-called pre-
service agreement where the bank represented that it would
advise Chang on managing his wealth, Pillai said in the ruling.  Marketing Pitches  Deutsche Bank claimed presentations it made to Chang before
he opened his account were “marketing pitches” and
“salesman’s puffs” that weren’t actionable, Pillai said.  Chang was also given an unsolicited margin account of as
much as $35 million by the bank, without an explanation of the
risks involved, the judge said.  Chang was a “sophisticated man” who ignored the advice of
his banker to diversify his investments from a product that
committed him to buying shares of  Citigroup (C)  at a set price for a
specified period, Deutsche Bank’s lawyer had argued.  The case is Deutsche Bank AG v Chang Tse Wen S731/2009 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  