-- Diane Von Furstenberg Sues Ex-Distributor Over Discounts
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-12-13T00:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/diane-von-furstenberg-sues-ex-distributor-over-discounts.html
Diane von Furstenberg Studio LP sued
a former distributor claiming it is selling the luxury brand’s
inventory too cheaply to discounters such as TJ Maxx,
 Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  and Marshalls.  Von Furstenberg terminated a license agreement with London-
based ID Beauty International Distribution Ltd. on Nov. 5. The
distributor has since then disregarded its demands to cease
sales of formerly licensed  products , according to the complaint,
which seeks a temporary restraining order until an arbitration
panel can hear the case.  “ID Beauty’s malfeasance has not only destroyed the value
of the fragrance brands, it also is spilling over to DVF’s core
luxury ladies’ clothing and footwear brands,” lawyers for DVF
said in the complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court.  Chancery Court Judge J. Travis Laster granted the request
for a temporary injunction,  Michael Kelly , an attorney for DVF
with McCarter & English LLP, said in an e-mail.  Diane von Furstenberg, who introduced her iconic wrap dress
in 1972, is widely considered one of the greatest apparel
designers active today, according to the complaint. The
company’s products, including accessories and apparel, is sold
at specialty and high-end retailers such as  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)   Continued Sales  ID Beauty’s license agreement required the company to
consult DVF for any retail channel less prestigious than the
high-end space, according to the complaint. Lawyers for DVF said
such consultation never occurred before ID Beauty sold products
in  Canada  and the U.S. to mass market retailers, including  TJX
Cos. (TJX) , the owner of TJ Maxx and Marshalls, without honoring a
six-month exclusivity period of sale to specialty and high-end
retailers.  ID Beauty sold DVF’s fragrance Love Diane to TJ Maxx and
Marshalls before the October 2012 date it would have been
available to first-tier stores, according to the complaint.  ID Beauty continued to sell products after the termination
of the license agreement and failed to remove references to DVF
and von Furstenberg from its websites and marketing literature,
according to the complaint.  “I don’t think we are going to comment,” Armineh Lascu,
ID Beauty’s vice president of sales, said in a telephone
interview.  The case is Diane Von Furstenberg Studio LP v. ID Beauty
International Distribution Ltd., CA8097, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  