-- Dimon Says Fiscal-Cliff Deal May Mean Booming Economy
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-12-12T15:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dimon-says-fiscal-cliff-resolution-could-unleash-booming-economy.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the  U.S. economy  would thrive next year
if lawmakers reach an agreement to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff of spending cuts and tax increases.  “You might have a booming economy in a couple of months,”
with economic growth accelerating to 4 percent rather than 2
percent, Dimon said today at a conference in  New York  hosted by
the New York Times’s DealBook. With unemployment falling and
housing on the rebound, “the table is set very well right
now,” he said.  Dimon, 56, urged lawmakers to reach a compromise that would
avoid the package of more than $600 billion in automatic
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January. President  Barack Obama  reduced his demand for higher
taxes to $1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion as he and House
Speaker  John Boehner  traded another round of offers.  The two sides remain hundreds of billions of dollars apart
on taxes and spending, and they continue to disagree on whether
a year-end deal should include an increase in the debt limit and
fresh programs to boost the economy.  Dimon said if an agreement were reached, the U.S. economy
could generate 300,000 jobs a month. That’s about twice as many
as the average monthly gain for the past year. He said any
increases in tax rates should be linked to “rational” spending
cuts.  Housing Rebound  “Corporations, middle-market companies, small businesses
are in good shape, 5 million more people are working than four
years ago, housing has turned the corner,” Dimon said. “Let’s
just keep it going.”  Dimon also said Obama should enlist people with business
experience in his cabinet, though he said he’s not personally
suited to take a job such as Treasury secretary.  “I would like to see the cabinet have some people who are
deeply involved in business,” Dimon said.  Obama has said he would “love” to pick a business leader
for his economic team in the second term, though talented
executives may be discouraged from serving by the U.S. Senate
confirmation process. Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
suggested last month that Dimon would be best to lead the
Treasury Department in a crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  