-- Dish Smartphone Service Wins Approval by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-12T21:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dish-smartphone-service-wins-approval-by-u-s-regulators.html
A proposal to allow  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  to offer smartphone service was approved unanimously by
the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, whose chairman
called it a “major step” to boost mobile competition.  The second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider needed FCC
approval to start a wireless service that could compete with the
largest U.S. mobile provider, Verizon Wireless, and No. 2  AT&T
Inc. (T)  Dish has built up its spectrum holdings as it seeks to
decrease its reliance on the satellite-TV business, which is
losing subscribers.  The vote is “a major step to free up spectrum for mobile
broadband and to drive new services, new competition in the
mobile sector,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said at a news
conference at the agency’s headquarters in  Washington  today.  Dish had objected to the order’s requirement limiting power
for its planned network, saying that would cripple its ability
to enter the wireless business. The requirement was intended to
prevent interference with government-owned frequencies known as
the H block, which is slated to be auctioned.  “The commission has taken an important step toward
facilitating wireless competition and innovation,” Jeff Blum,
Dish senior vice president and deputy general counsel, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Following a more thorough review of the
order and its technical details, Dish will consider its
strategic options and the optimal approach to put this spectrum
to use for the benefit of consumers.”  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , rose 65 cents today, or
1.8 percent, to $36.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  ‘Transformative Outcome’  “No matter how you slice it, this is a transformative
outcome for Dish to expand beyond its pay-TV business,” Paul Gallant, Washington-based managing director at Guggenheim
Securities, said in an interview. “Even if Dish loses the
spectrum interference battle it’s been fighting, it still got
most of what it wanted from the FCC.”  Responding to the FCC’s proposal, Dish last week offered to
let part of its spectrum be used as a so-called guard band to
preserve the H block.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which may seek to
acquire the H block at auction, responded that Dish’s offer
still “would substantially reduce” the value and utility of
that block of frequencies.  Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen met with Genachowski and his
staff Nov. 29, and Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse
spoke by telephone with the FCC chairman Dec. 5, according to
filings with the agency.  Dish Plans  Genachowski declined to comment on how the FCC would react
if Dish moves to sell the spectrum. “Our expectation is that
Dish will do as it has announced, but our focus is on freeing up
that spectrum for mobile broadband,” he said.  Sprint has approached Dish in recent months about a
potential partnership that would allow the satellite-TV company
to offer mobile-phone service over Sprint’s network, with Sprint
getting access to Dish’s mobile airwaves, according to two
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Sprint called the commission’s move “a balanced and
equitable decision,” according to an e-mailed statement last
night from the Overland Park, Kansas-based company.  “By allocating this spectrum for commercial broadband use,
the commission is helping to bring more wireless broadband
directly to consumers,” Larry Krevor, Sprint’s vice president
for government affairs, said in the statement.  Mobile Demand  An earlier attempt by Genachowski’s FCC to designate
satellite airwaves for smartphone use foundered. The agency in
February reversed its tentative approval to LightSquared Inc.
after officials said the mobile service would interfere with
global positioning system-based navigation gear, and the company
filed for bankruptcy.  The FCC is trying to accommodate rising demand for mobile
Internet service as consumers turn to smartphones and data-
hungry tablet computers. The agency in 2010 voted to ease
restrictions on smartphone use of the airwaves Dish now owns.  Dish first asked for FCC approval in August 2011 after
paying about $3 billion for airwaves from bankrupt satellite
companies DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. in
deals  announced  last year.  The agency in March approved Dish’s taking control of the
airwaves, and said it would write the rules that the commission
approved today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  