-- Dollar Declines as Fed Adopts More Treasuries-Buying Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-12T22:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dollar-declines-as-fed-adopts-more-treasuries-buying-stimulus.html
The dollar fell against the euro
after the  Federal Reserve  added to its monetary-stimulus program
by announcing plans to buys more Treasuries, renewing concern
the measures will debase the U.S. currency.  The U.S. currency weakened versus most of its major peers
after the central bank tied its policies to economic benchmarks
and said it will buy an additional $45 billion of Treasuries a
month, adding to its third round of quantitative easing, and
matching economists’ forecasts. The yen fell to the weakest in
eight months versus the dollar as Japan’s  Liberal Democratic
Party , which has pledged fiscal stimulus to stoke economic
growth, leads in polls before Dec. 16 elections.  “The market tends to have that kind of reaction when an
action is perceived as more quantitative easing,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a telephone interview. “Even though we saw
the dollar fall, any weakness in the dollar will generally be
capped by safe-haven flows.”  The dollar declined 0.5 percent to $1.3074 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, reaching the lowest since Dec. 5. The euro
gained 1.4 percent to 108.86 yen. The Japanese currency lost 0.9
percent to 83.26 per dollar, reaching the lowest level since
April 2.  Yen Trade  “Dollar-yen is holding above 83, which is quite remarkable
given that the Fed just eased policy,”  Marc Chandler ,  New York- 
based global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., said in a telephone interview. “If you would’ve
told most people the Fed would announce aggressive QE, they
would’ve expected the dollar to get sold off across the board.”  The central bank linked the outlook for its main interest
rate to unemployment and inflation.  “The conditions now prevailing in the job market represent
an enormous waste of human and economic potential,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference in
Washington today after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee . The Fed plans to “maintain accommodation as long as
needed to promote a stronger economic recovery in the context of
 price stability ,” he said.  The Fed said  interest rates  will stay low “at least as
long” as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation “between one and two years ahead” is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent. The committee “views these thresholds
as consistent with its earlier date-based guidance.”  Fed Plans  A Fed program known as Operation Twist, which was designed
to hold down borrowing costs by lengthening the average maturity
of the Fed’s holdings, will expire at year-end. The central bank
kept its  target rate  for overnight loans between banks between
zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008 to spur economic
growth.  The nation also faces a fiscal cliff of $607 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax boosts starting Jan. 1 if
lawmakers can’t reach agreement. That would cause the economy to
contract 0.5 percent next year, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  The greenback gained 0.1 percent against the euro on Oct.
24 after Fed policy makers announced they would maintain
mortgage security purchases of $40 billion a month. Two previous
rounds of quantitative easing totaling $2.3 trillion failed to
breathe life into the labor market.  Policy Outlook  “The dollar found another negative in that the Fed kept
some of its powder dry, signaling it had other monetary tools at
its disposal,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
wrote today in a note to clients. “But since today’s actions by
the Fed didn’t represent a marked change in the foreseeable
course for Fed policy, the dollar might soon regain composure,
once the dust settles.”  In Japan, LDP leader and former premier Shinzo Abe has
called for a doubling of the central bank’s inflation goal to 2
percent and “unlimited” easing to end more than a decade of
falling prices. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is due to a hold a monetary
policy meeting on Dec. 19-20.  The 17-nation euro rose as former Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  offered to drop his plans to run for premier
on the condition that Italian Premier  Mario Monti  agrees to
enter the election campaign and lead a coalition of
“moderates.”  The euro was already rising on Berlusconi’s comments before
the FOMC news, said Chandler of Brown Brothers Harriman.  Technical Strength  The euro may strengthen against its U.S. counterpart to
$1.3490, its highest level since Dec. 2, 2011, if it closes the
week above a so-called retracement level of $1.30, according to
 Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical strategy at UBS
AG in London.  The Swiss franc’s rebound from a three-month low against
the euro shows that even bank charges for deposits and a lull in
Europe’s debt crisis can’t deter demand for the currency.  The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  will keep its franc
ceiling at 1.20 per euro tomorrow, according to all 14 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey. While the currency weakened after
Credit Suisse Group AG said on Dec. 3 it would set negative
rates for franc cash balances, it pared almost all those losses
in a three-day run of gains.  China’s  yuan  weakened versus all but one of 24  emerging
markets  currencies on speculation the People’s Bank of China is
limiting gains in the currency to aid exporters.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 6.2515 per dollar
after earlier falling to 6.2566, its lowest level since Oct. 23.
This marked the third straight day of decline for the yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  