-- Yen Falls to 9-Month Low Versus Dollar on BOJ Outlook
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-13T22:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dollar-trades-near-week-low-as-fed-expands-bond-purchases.html
The yen fell to the weakest level in
almost nine months versus the dollar amid speculation the party
of Japanese opposition leader Shinzo Abe, an advocate of
unlimited monetary easing, will win weekend elections.  The dollar gained against the majority of its 16 most-
traded counterparts on haven appeal after Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  said the White House isn’t serious about
cutting spending and “appears willing to slow-walk our economy
right up to, and over, the fiscal cliff.” The yen slid against
most of its major peers amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
Tankan survey will show manufacturers’ pessimism grew. The pound
dropped after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook on Britain’s
top credit rating to negative.  “The dollar-yen has been moving for Japan-specific
reasons, like the Abe regime shift to a more dovish BOJ,” Dan Dorrow, head of research in  Stamford , Connecticut, at Faros
Trading LLC, said in a telephone interview.  The yen dropped 0.5 percent to 83.65 per dollar at 5 p.m.
 New York  time, after touching the weakest level since March 21.
It slid 0.5 percent to 109.39 per euro after depreciating to the
least since April 4. The dollar was little changed at $1.3077
per euro.  Pound, Krona  The pound slipped after S&P lowered the outlook on
Britain’s AAA ratings, citing weak economic growth and a
worsening debt profile. The outlook, revised from stable,
reflects the view that S&P has a one-in-three chance of lowering
the ratings in the next two years, according to a statement from
the ratings company.  “It’s not much of a surprise that the U.K. rating outlook
has been cut,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Standard Chartered Group Plc in London. “Some of
the  ratings agencies  are becoming more concerned that the
targets are slipping. Over the next couple of days there will be
some downside risk for the pound.”  Sterling declined 0.2 percent to $1.6112 and lost 0.3
percent to 81.16 pence per euro.  Sweden’s krona fell to its weakest level against the euro
in more than five months after data released today showed
 consumer prices  fell for the first time in three years and
unemployment rose, increasing the likelihood that the central
bank will lower  interest rates  next week.  The krona dropped 0.5 percent to 8.7343 per euro after
reaching its lowest level since July 4.  Real, Kiwi  The Brazilian real decreased versus most of its major
counterparts as the country’s swap rates dropped for a second
day as evidence of an economic slowdown spurred speculation that
the central bank will keep borrowing costs at record lows
through the first half of next year.  The currency declined 0.7 percent to 2.0856 per  U.S.
dollar .  New Zealand’s dollar rose versus most of its major peers
before a private report tomorrow forecast to show Chinese
manufacturing is strengthening. China is New Zealand’s second-
biggest export market.  The so-called kiwi gained 0.4 percent to 70.53 yen,
touching the highest level since October 2008.  The dollar gained as Boehner repeated his insistence that
President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal is “anything but“
balanced, and accused the president of being “not serious”
about cutting spending.  Fed Meeting  The greenback fell yesterday when Bernanke said at a press
conference after a meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
that the Fed said it planned to “maintain accommodation as long
as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery in the context
of  price stability .”  He added that monetary stimulus cannot offset the so-called
fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion package of tax
increases and spending cuts that will come into force early next
year if politicians fail to agree on a new  federal budget .  Abe, whose  Liberal Democratic Party  leads in opinion polls
before the Dec. 16 ballot, has called for a doubling of the
central bank’s inflation goal to 2 percent and unlimited easing
to revive growth.  The BOJ’s quarterly Tankan survey, released at 8:50 a.m.
Tokyo time tomorrow, will show sentiment among large
manufacturers slid to minus 10 in the fourth quarter from minus
3 in the third, according to the median estimate of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the lowest
since the first quarter of 2010.  The central bank is due to a hold a monetary policy meeting
on Dec. 19-20.  “The market is pricing in a poor Tankan, an Abe majority
and further BOJ stimulus, which all point to a weaker yen,”
said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in London.  The yen lost 6.2 percent in the past month, the worst
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar fell 1.8
percent, while the euro gained 1.5 percent. The  New Zealand
dollar  increased the most, strengthening 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  