-- Dragon Systems Founder Says ‘Part of Me Died’ After Sale
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-12T22:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dragon-systems-founder-says-part-of-me-died-at-trial.html
Dragon Systems Inc. co-founder Jim
Baker told a jury in his lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  that it “felt like part of me had died” when the Belgian
firm that bought his company dissolved in an accounting scandal.  Baker, his wife, Janet, and two other Dragon co-founders
claim in a lawsuit filed in federal court in  Boston  that New
York-based Goldman Sachs gave faulty advice which led to the
disastrous $580 million all-stock sale of Dragon, a maker of
computer speech-recognition products, to Lernout & Hauspie
Speech Products NV.  “We put our whole life into it, and it was more than
that,” Baker testified on the third day of trial. “It was the
dream we had for 25, 30 years.”  Dragon’s founders claim that a four-man team of Goldman
Sachs bankers assigned to the transaction failed to pursue
questions about Lernout & Hauspie’s finances that should have
led them to avoid the deal.  They say they lost their company and access to the
technology they had spent their careers developing, including
Dragon NaturallySpeaking dictation software, when Lernout &
Hauspie filed for  bankruptcy protection  in November 2000.  Goldman Sachs claims its team gave Dragon competent advice
and says it urged company management to press their accountants,
at Arthur Andersen LLP, to probe Lernout & Hauspie’s finances.  Fabricated Customers  A later investigation of the firm, which was based in
Ieper,  Belgium , found that it had fabricated customers, used
related-company transactions to artificially inflate revenue and
reported phony sales figures.  U.S. District Judge Patti Saris said the trial, which began
Dec. 10, may last until Jan. 25.  Baker, who took the stand for a second and final day today,
described his unsuccessful attempt to buy back some of Dragon’s
technology at a bankruptcy sale. Dragon NaturallySpeaking is now
sold by  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , based in Burlington,
 Massachusetts .  Baker and his wife owned about 51 percent of Dragon when it
was sold to Lernout & Hauspie, he said. The Bakers’ lawyer, Alan
Cotler of Reed Smith LLP, showed him copies of memos and e-mails
relating to Goldman Sachs’s due diligence efforts on the
transaction. The investment bank was paid $150,000 a quarter for
its work for Dragon, with a $5 million payment for bringing
about a sale.  Due Diligence  In a Feb. 17, 2000, e-mail, Dragon Chief Financial Officer
Ellen Chamberlain said, “I am expecting GS to drive and
analyze” due diligence, according to Baker.  Questions for Lernout & Hauspie included the identity of
major customers and the nature of the business contracts with
them, according to Baker. The Goldman Sachs team never
recommended against the sale and never told Baker they needed to
pursue more due diligence before going forward with the sale, he
testified.  “They were positive about it,” Baker said.  Baker also said Dragon officials had a telephone conference
with a Goldman Sachs analyst who, they were falsely told,
covered Lernout & Hauspie. A different Goldman Sachs analyst had
covered the company and left before the Dragon transaction,
Baker said he learned after suing the bank. Goldman Sachs had
discontinued coverage of the Belgian firm by that time, the
Dragon founders claim.  Customers Contacted  Baker told jurors about reading a Wall Street Journal story
in August 2000, after the sale had closed, in which reporters
contacted customers claimed by Lernout & Hauspie in  South Korea ,
where the company had reported it made much of its revenue. Some
of the purported customers said they had no business with
Lernout & Hauspie. Others said they bought much less than the
company claimed.  “I thought, in fact, that this is part of what Goldman
Sachs had analyzed, so I began to have doubts,” Baker
testified.  In October 2000, Baker, who had been forced to hold his
Lernout & Hauspie shares under the agreement, sold what he could
for about $7 million. He said lost the rest of the sale price.  Citing the value of Dragon at the time of the deal, the
Bakers claim to have lost as much as $288.8 million in the sale
and its aftermath. Dragon co-founders Paul Bamberg and Robert Roth have said they lost as much as $50 million.  In court filings, Goldman Sachs said the damages are less
than what the plaintiffs have already recovered in settlements.
The Bakers, who sued parties including Lernout & Hauspie’s
principals, its investment bankers and accountants, have
recovered about $70 million in settlements.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  