-- Dutch Economic Woes Will Negatively Impact Banks, Moody’s Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2012-12-12T00:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/dutch-economic-woes-will-negatively-impact-banks-moody-s-says.html
Dutch banks face a difficult
operating environment next year as the economic downturn weighs
on margins, Moody’s Investors Service said, retaining its
negative outlook on the industry.  “Deteriorating macro-economic conditions combined with key
economic structural weaknesses will negatively impact the banks’
financial condition through increased loan losses and higher
funding costs,” Moody’s analysts including Nick Hill and
Yasuko Nakamura said in a report today.  ABN Amro NV, the lender nationalized after  Fortis Bank (FBAVP) 
collapsed in 2008, said last month that the profit outlook was
“unfavorable” citing higher bad loan provisions. The Dutch
economy, the euro area's fifth-largest, contracted 1.1 percent in
the third quarter and its  consumer-confidence indicator  slid to
minus 41 last month, the lowest on record.  Moody's said net interest margins, a measure of interest 
returns relative to expenses, will narrow, while competition in 
the domestic consumer banking business intensifies, limiting the
capacity of lenders to strengthen capital buffers.  The negative outlook on Dutch banks is in line with the
nation’s sovereign rating, Moody’s said. The ratings company
referred to a report by the Dutch central bank, which said
economic growth from 2008 to 2014 would be the weakest since the
World War II.  There is a high probability that the Netherlands will
support ABN Amro Bank NV, ING Bank NV, Rabobank and SNS Bank NV,
which Moody’s defined as the most systematically important
lenders, because the government has sufficient financial
flexibility, according to the report.  The structural weaknesses of banks in the country include
 household debt , high balance-sheet leverage and “considerable
reliance” on market funding, Moody’s said.  Commercial real estate and, to a lesser extent, residential
mortgages will have the biggest impact on higher loan losses,
the ratings company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  