-- The Liberal Case Against Right-to-Work Laws
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-12-12T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/the-conservative-case-for-right-to-work-laws.html
The  enactment of  a so-called right-
to-work law by the state of Michigan this week is indeed, as the
news media have described it, a blow against the union movement.
Michigan, of all places. But it is also a blow against fairness
and common sense.  “Right to work” sounds like a law guaranteeing you a job,
or at least protecting your job once you’ve got it. A lot of the
 propaganda  by the Chamber of Commerce and similar business
groups is about so-called forced unionism. In fact, it’s almost
the opposite. The main effect of right-to-work laws is to outlaw
regulations of employment and allow your boss to fire you
without cause.  Here’s a little Labor Law 101. The  Wagner Act of 1935 ,
which officially gave workers the right to join a union, and the
 Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 , which filled in some details, were
supposed to create a system that was generally welcoming to
unionism but didn’t dictate any of the terms. The notion was
that the government would create and supervise procedures for
labor negotiations, but the details of employment contracts
(such as pay levels) would be negotiated by the parties.  Before Taft-Hartley, employers and unions were allowed to
negotiate a “closed shop.” That meant a workplace in which you
had to be a member of the union in order to get a job. If the
union threw you out, for whatever reason, you were out of a job
as well. This turned some unions into guilds, which excluded
minorities or employed only relatives of current members, and so
on. Taft-Hartley outlawed the closed shop as well as the “union
shop,” meaning a workplace where the employer could hire anyone
it wanted, but you had to join a union after you were hired.  Without a rule like this, unions faced a “free rider”
problem: People could enjoy the benefits of union membership,
including negotiation of wages, without sharing in the cost. Not
only was this unfair to those who did pay their share, but it
made organizing a union significantly harder. Why should I pay
union dues if my fellow workers don’t?  Taft-Hartley did allow the “agency shop”: a workplace where
you didn’t have to join the union, either before or after you
were hired, but you had to pay union dues. This was supposed to
prevent the free rider problem while avoiding a “freedom of
association” problem under the First Amendment, because no one
would be forced into a union.  However, the notorious  Section 14(b)  of Taft-Hartley goes
even further and allows individual states to ban even the agency
shop if they want. These are the “right to work” laws, and the
24 states that have them, now including  Michigan , are right-to-
work states.  So why should you have to join a union in order to keep
your job?  Answer: You don’t have to. But in non-right-to-work states,
if your contract provides so, you do have to pay union dues. 
Otherwise, there is that free-rider problem.  For principled conservatives, there is another question:
Why should there be laws that limit the freedom of individual
employers to negotiate any deal they want with their employees?
Or at least that ought to be a question for conservatives,
though I’ve never seen any of them struggling with it.  On another level, right-to-work laws have become another
weapon in the pointless, costly and ultimately zero-sum
 competition  among states to attract new businesses. No factory
moves to a new state without the factory’s owners blackmailing
the state for a package of benefits that typically includes
right-to-work status along with various financing arrangements
misusing the states’ power to issue federal-tax-free bonds.  For the federal government to be subsidizing all sides of
this ultimately futile competition is insane. But studies  show ,
naturally, that states with right-to-work laws attract more new
business than states without them. No doubt. That’s not the same
as proving that the favors and privileges offered to business by
states make economic sense.  Michigan is where I grew up, and in its current
circumstances you can’t really blame it for trying almost
anything. It’s just a shame its politicians picked this, because
not only does it spit on the state’s union heritage, it probably
won’t even work.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or  @michaelkinsley  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 