-- Eastman Chemical Says Earnings May Climb 50% Through 2015
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-12-12T21:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eastman-chemical-says-earnings-may-climb-50-through-2015.html
Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN) , which acquired
Solutia Inc. this year for $3.38 billion, said profit may
increase 50 percent over the next three years on sales of
ingredients used in tires, coatings and windows.  Earnings in 2015 will rise to about $8 a share, from about
$6.25 next year and $5.30 to $5.40 this year, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  said today by phone. Profit was
estimated to be $5.37 this year and $6.27 next year, according
to the average of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Free  cash flow  through 2015 will exceed $2 billion, Chief
Financial Officer Curt Espeland said in the phone interview.
Eastman defines free cash flow as operating cash flow less
 capital spending  and dividend payments.  “Depending on how successful we are at putting that cash
flow to work, we could even be above 8 bucks in 2015,” Rogers
said.  Eastman, which doubled its sales in the Asia-Pacific region
with the July addition of Solutia, expects 13 percent sales
growth through 2015 in Brazil,  Russia , India, China,  Indonesia ,
 Turkey  and  Mexico , Rogers said. Global annual sales may climb 4
percent to 6 percent in that time as economic growth improves to
about 3 percent a year, he said.  Operating earnings in the advanced materials unit, which
makes interlayer films used to strengthen windows for high rises
and autos, should more than double to $380 million by 2015,
Eastman said in a  slide presentation . Earnings in the additives
and functional products unit may climb 48 percent to $475
million by 2015 on sales of tire ingredients and coatings.  Tire Demand  Solutia makes Crystex insoluble sulfur used to make tires,
and Eastman expects global tire demand to rise 4 percent to 5
percent next year after “a difficult” 2012, Mark Costa, an
executive vice president, said in the interview. Growth may be
slower in the commercial tire market, which is the primary
market for Crystex, he said.  Using free cash to pay down debt will be a “top
priority,” the CEO said. Still, the Kingsport, Tennessee-based
company will consider making “bolt-on” acquisitions that have
a good strategic fit, Rogers said.  “We are not just going to sit there and let a good
opportunity pass us by,” Rogers said. “The hurdles are
higher” because of the recent Solutia transaction, he said.  Eastman rose 2.4 percent to $63.65 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 63 percent this year.  Cheap Gas  Eastman is beginning to make the case to investors that the
company’s shares merit a higher earnings multiple because
Solutia has accelerated the move away from commodity products
and toward a “specialty chemical company” with higher profit
margins, Rogers said.  Cheap natural gas in the U.S. adds about 10 percent to
earnings before interest and taxes, primarily because it reduces
costs for making ethylene and propylene, Rogers said. The
company is considering whether to power some of its
manufacturing site in Kingsport with gas rather than coal, he
said.  Raw materials  at the site will still be coal derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  