-- Heavy Alberta Oil Drops to Record Low as U.S. Supplies Increase
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-12-12T20:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/heavy-alberta-oil-drops-to-record-low-as-u-s-supplies-increase.html
Heavy  Alberta  oil tumbled to a
record low against the U.S. benchmark crude as supplies were
driven up by increased output, limited pipeline space and a
Midwest refinery unit shutdown.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  processed the first oil at the Firebag 4
complex, an in-situ steam-assisted gravity drainage operation
that was commissioned in the third quarter, about three months
ahead of schedule, the company said in a statement Dec. 6. The
plant was producing about 130,000 barrels a day by the end of
November, Suncor said.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said last month that shipments on segments of
crude-oil Lines 4 and 67 were apportioned for December in
aggregate by 13 percent.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting refinery in  Indiana 
shut Pipestill 12, the largest crude unit at the plant, for part
of a project that’s expected to be completed by the middle of
next year, a person familiar with the situation said Nov. 5.  Western Canada Select, a sour crude blended from
conventional, heavy Canadian oils, dropped for the third
straight day, declining $3 to a discount of $37 a barrel against
West Texas Intermediate at 2:23 p.m.  New York  time, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the oil’s weakest level since
May 2008, when Bloomberg began compiling pricing.  Syncrude Down  Syncrude, a synthetic oil upgraded from tar-like bitumen in
Alberta into feedstock for refineries, slid $1 to 85 cents a
barrel above WTI, the lowest premium since Dec. 3.  In the U.S.  Gulf Coast , West Texas Sour gained 25 cents to
a $15.50-a-barrel discount to WTI.  Light Louisiana Sweet’s premium increased 30 cents a barrel
to $23.75 above the benchmark, the highest level in more than
three weeks. Heavy Louisiana Sweet’s premium rose 25 cents to
$23 a barrel.  Poseidon’s premium widened 40 cents to $18.50 a barrel
versus WTI. Mars Blend increased 50 cents to $18.25 a barrel
over WTI, and Southern Green Canyon gained 90 cents to a $19
premium.  The premium for  Thunder Horse , a sour crude with lower
sulfur content than Mars, Poseidon and Southern Green Canyon,
slipped 40 cents to $19.40 a barrel above WTI.  The spread between WTI and European benchmark Brent crude
widened 51 cents to $22.73 a barrel based on settlement prices,
the biggest differential since Nov. 28. When Brent’s premium to
WTI gains, it typically strengthens the value of U.S. grades
that compete with oils priced using the European benchmark.  “The Brent-WTI spread widened today, and that impacts the
crude oils that are traded on the Gulf Coast,”  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said by
telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  