-- ECB May Limit Governing Council Oversight Powers, Document Shows
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-12T14:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ecb-may-limit-governing-council-oversight-powers-document-shows.html
The European Central Bank could
limit the powers of its Governing Council as a way to reassure
non-euro nations who might sign up to common banking oversight,
according to a Dec. 9 opinion from the ECB and the European
Commission.  The balance of ECB power has been a key obstacle for
finance ministers trying to reach a deal this month on a single
supervisor for banks. The ministers meet again today in
Brussels. The Dec. 9 document shows renewed efforts to separate
the ECB’s monetary-policy and supervisory functions, while also
reassuring non-euro countries that they could get a fair shake
in banking decisions.  The ECB’s Governing Council would need to state monetary-
policy concerns in order to object, in writing, to bank-
oversight decisions. The ECB would have a separate supervisory
board that would operate “under the largest degree of autonomy
permissible” under European Union treaties, according to the
document, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Frankfurt-based ECB is due to take over financial
supervision throughout the euro area next year, as part of EU
efforts to break links between banking woes and sovereign-debt
struggles. Joint bank supervision would be required for nations
that use the euro and optional for countries outside the
currency bloc.  Non-euro nations could be allowed to object to ECB
supervisory decisions under some circumstances, the draft
document shows. For example, they could be allowed to object to
Governing Council instructions without being obliged to drop out
of the common bank supervision, the document says.  Draft Decision  Also, non-euro nations could inform the ECB’s Governing
Council of its disagreement with a draft decision by the
Supervisory Board and request a review. The Dec. 9 document
further proposes that nations outside the currency zone could be
present in discussions among euro countries when supervision
matters are on the agenda.  “This setup would provide for strong governance
arrangements which could be enhanced in the future following a
treaty revision, if deemed required,” the Dec. 9 document says.
The report says nations could signal “that a specific point to
be addressed by treaty change would be to strengthen democratic
accountability over the ECB insofar as it acts as a banking
supervisor” as they establish the new oversight regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 