-- Hedge Fund Executives to Meet With White House on Budget
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-12-12T15:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/hedge-fund-executives-to-meet-with-white-house-on-budget.html
The Obama administration is
continuing its outreach to Wall Street executives in pressing
for a resolution of the U.S. budget dispute, with a meeting
planned today between  Valerie Jarrett  and hedge fund managers,
according to an administration official.  Jarrett, a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama , will
meet with financial services executives, including Daniel Och,
chief executive of Och-Ziff Capital Management, according to the
official, who requested anonymity when discussing private
meetings.  Others scheduled to attend, the official said, include
Stefan M. Selig, executive vice chairman of global corporate and
investment banking at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch; Jonathan D. Gray, global head of real estate at Blackstone Group Management
LLC; and Jes Staley, chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
corporate and investment bank.  Today’s Wall Street session with Jarrett, reported earlier
by the New York Times, follows her meeting on Dec. 3 with  Marc Lasry , managing partner and founder of Avenue Capital Group LLC,
and Gary D. Cohn, president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Two days
later, Obama also addressed the Business Roundtable, an
association of chief executive officers, and repeated his
argument that more tax revenue needs to come from the top 2
percent of earners while rates for middle-income Americans stay
the same.  Reaching Out  As Obama works to enlist the support of the financial
services industry, he has won praise from some Republicans,
including those who raised money for  Mitt Romney  during the
election.  “I think the president is reaching out pretty aggressively
in the context of trying to make connections to the other side
to get a deficit deal done,”  Steve Schwarzman , chairman and
chief executive officer of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and a Romney
donor, said today on CNBC. “It’s pretty clear that we are one
nation.”  Obama and his staff are negotiating with congressional
Republicans, led by House Speaker  John Boehner , on a plan to
avoid more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts that will begin taking effect Jan. 1.  Boehner has resisted Obama’s plan to let top tax rates rise
and the White House has been seeking support from corporate
leaders, financial executives, labor unions and activists to
build pressure for a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  