-- Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood Abused Protesters at Rally, HRW Says
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-12T10:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-abused-protesters-at-rally-hrw-says.html
Members of  Egypt ’s Muslim
Brotherhood unlawfully detained and abused at least 49 anti-
government protestors outside the Presidential Palace last week
as security forces stood by,  Human Rights Watch  said.  The New York-based research and advocacy group called on
Egypt’s public prosecutor to open an investigation into the
incident, which it said was documented by numerous videos and
eyewitness testimonies, in a report released today. It laid the
blame on President Mohamed Mursi and his supporters.  “Instead of condemning illegal detentions and abuse right
outside the presidential palace, President Mursi instead spoke
out against the victims,” said  Joe Stork , deputy  Middle East 
and North Africa director at HRW.  Clashes broke out at the palace on the night of Dec. 5
after Mursi supporters broke up a sit-in by several dozen
protesters. Ten people were killed, mostly Muslim Brotherhood
members, and more than 748 injured, HRW said, citing the Health
Ministry. It was the most violent episode in three weeks of
protests against Mursi’s Nov. 22 decree expanding his powers,
and counter-rallies by the president’s supporters.  Mursi in a Dec. 6 speech referred to “confessions” of
detained protestors as evidence they were “hired thugs.” Essam
al-Erian, deputy secretary of the Brotherhood’s political wing,
the Freedom and Justice Party, encouraged people on television
and radio to go to the palace and separate “thugs” from
“revolutionaries” to reveal “the third party,” a reference
to a claim often repeated by government supporters that the
protesters are paid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  