-- Teijin May Build U.S. Plant on Shale Gas Boom, Car Demand
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-12-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/teijin-may-build-u-s-plant-on-shale-gas-boom-car-demand.html
Teijin Ltd. (3401) , a supplier of carbon
fiber used in the Airbus SAS superjumbo jet, is considering
plans to expand output in the U.S. to meet demand for the
lightweight material in cars and storage tanks for natural gas.  Teijin plans to increase its global output by about 36
percent to 18,900 metric tons a year by 2016, Executive Vice
President Norio Kamei said in an interview in Tokyo. It may
expand its Tennessee factory or build a plant with a 5,000-ton
production capacity, he said, declining to give a cost.  Teijin and its larger domestic rival  Toray Industries Inc. (3402) 
are pushing sales in North America where the boom in extracting
natural gas from shale rock is jacking up demand for the fiber
used to wrap storage tanks to increase strength. It’s used in
Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus LFA sports car and Teijin is working
with  General Motors Co. (GM)  on technology that cuts carbon fiber
molding time and costs to enable mass production, Kamei said.  “Carbon fiber will play a bigger role in manufacturing to
cut weight and conserve energy as we move toward a low-carbon
society,” Kamei said in the Dec. 10 interview. “We expect the
auto industry to be a bigger customer from 2015 onward.”  Toray, the world’s top supplier of carbon fiber, will use
its South Korean plant, slated to open next year, as a base to
ship the material to the U.S., President Akihiro Nikkaku told
reporters in Tokyo on Nov. 21. It holds an 80 percent share of
the market for strengthening gas tanks, he said.  Share Decline  Shares in Teijin, which supplies fibers and materials in
products ranging from bulletproof vests and Airbus’ A380s to
solar battery panels, have fallen 20 percent this year as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s slowing growth eroded earnings.
It slashed its full year profit outlook by 75 percent on Nov. 2,
the second revision in three months.  In Tokyo trading yesterday, the stock rose 1 percent to 190
yen.  Teijin, which operates carbon fiber plants in  Japan  and
 Germany , has a 20 percent share of the 40,000 ton-a-year global
market, the biggest after Toray.  Last week, it opened a  pilot plant  to produce carbon fiber
composite parts at its Matsuyama plant in southwestern Japan.
The plant uses technology that cuts the manufacturing process
from carbon fiber to molded composites to within one minute, a
speed that meets the need of vehicle mass-production lines,
according to a Dec. 4 statement.  Carbon fiber makers are competing against steel and
aluminum producers to boost supply to automakers, highlighting
lower weight that leads to increased fuel-efficiency.  The material is about 10 times stronger and 75 percent
lighter than steel, according to a Toray presentation.  Carbon vs. Steel  Nikkaku said last month high-end fiber typically costs as
much as 5,000 yen per ton, more than 50 times the price of
steel. Because of the cost, use of carbon fiber is currently
limited to as many as 5,000 super cars and luxury vehicles sold
each year, Kamei said.  “While there’s limited room to cut a vehicle’s weight when
steel and aluminum is used, cars can be much lighter when using
carbon fiber,” Kamei said. “The key is how much we can
minimize processing costs.”  Teijin aims to boost annual sales from carbon fiber
composites to as much as 200 billion yen ($2.4 billion) by 2020,
he said. Its advanced fiber and composites division expects
sales of 120 billion yen, or 16 percent of its total revenue in
the year through March 2013.  Toray unveiled a plan in March to spend 45 billion yen to
boost annual production capacity by half to 27,100 metric tons
over three years through 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  