-- Lilly Alzheimer’s Drug Delayed on Need for Added Study
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-12-12T21:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eli-lilly-to-do-added-study-of-alzheimer-s-drug-candidate.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said it will conduct
an additional late-stage study of its experimental Alzheimer’s
treatment, a move that could push the drug’s introduction back
three years to 2016. The shares fell.  Lilly doesn’t believe it has enough data to gain U.S.
marketing clearance for the medicine, based on conversations
with the  Food and Drug Administration , the Indianapolis-based
company said in a statement today.  While the drug, called solanezumab, failed to meet the main
goal of two large studies, an analysis of the data from that
research found it did slow progression in people with milder
stages of Alzheimer’s. The new study, looking only at those
patients, will start by the third quarter of 2013, Lilly said.
That could delay FDA approval until 2016, said  Mark Schoenebaum ,
an analyst with ISI Group in  New York .  “Given wide-ranging investor expectations, we’d expect
Lilly to be down at least $1 on this news,” said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann in  Boston , in a note to
investors. “However, we believe it is the right decision for
solanezumab as it avoids setting up what we believe would have
been a negative catalyst.”  Lilly fell 3.2 percent to $49 at 4 p.m. New York time. The
stock has gained 26 percent in the past 12 months, in part, on
positive expectations for solanezumab.  Lilly Competitors  The only other Alzheimer’s therapy in final-stage testing
is  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) ’s Gammagard. The product from the
Deerfield, Illinois-based company is an expensive, scarce
treatment for those whose immune systems can’t protect them from
infection. Results on whether it could slow or stop Alzheimer’s
may be available next year.  Merck & Co., based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , said
this month it moved an experimental Alzheimer’s treatment into
the second of three stages of testing required to get market
clearance and could begin a larger study by late 2013. That
could put Merck and Lilly in a head-to-head race to become the
first drugmaker to sell a treatment to slow the progression of
the mind-wasting disorder.  While Alzheimer’s researchers had widely expected Lilly
would have to do more study to garner approval, Lilly said it
was waiting to discuss its options with regulators before making
a decision. If approved, solanezumab would be the first
treatment to alter the course of Alzheimer’s, a market that may
be worth as much as $10 billion.  Solanezumab attaches to a protein called beta amyloid that
clumps in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients. Lilly’s treatment
is designed to prevent those clumps from forming.  Drugs on the market now address only the symptoms, not the
underlying cause, and none has been shown to slow progression of
the disease. About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, the
most-common form of dementia, a number expected to surge to as
many as 16 million by 2050 as the population ages, according to
the  Alzheimer’s Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  