-- Kcel Raises $525 Million for TeliaSonera in London IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-12-12T11:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/teliasonera-raises-525-million-from-london-ipo-of-kazakh-unit.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  will receive $525
million from an initial public offering of its Kazakh wireless
unit Kcell, the second share sale in one of the Swedish
operator’s emerging-market units within two weeks.  The sale of 50 million shares was priced at $10.50 each,
giving Kcell a market value of about $2.1 billion, Stockholm-
based TeliaSonera said in a statement today. The price is the
lower end of a range of $10.50 to $13 the shares were offered
at. The stock will begin trading in  London  today.  “We received all the hits we could in 2011 because of
competition and regulation so we don’t expect any more”
downsides, Veysel Aral, chief executive officer of Kcell, said
in an interview in Bloomberg’s London office today. Investors in
the sale had many questions on the country’s regulatory
environment, he said.  TeliaSonera, Sweden’s biggest phone company, is selling
stakes in emerging-markets ventures to gain funds, while
retaining holdings in them to benefit from growth that’s faster
than in its home markets. Another TeliaSonera holding,  OAO
MegaFon (MFON) , last month completed a $1.7 billion IPO in London after
postponing its sale earlier in the year.  More than $600 million in dividends have been paid out to
TeliaSonera since it agreed to buy a remaining 49 percent stake
in Kcell for $1.52 billion in December, Aral said.  Entrenched Operators  Kcell, which has 11.6 million subscribers, is the largest
operator in  Kazakhstan  with a subscriber market share of about
48 percent and a revenue market share of 57 percent, he said.  Kazakhstan has three entrenched mobile operators and no
space for a new entrant because frequencies have already been
allotted, Aral said. “We make sure we don’t miss anything when
it comes to developments on frequency spectrum,” he said.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  control the two other larger
Kazakh mobile operators, according to the companies’ websites.  The IPO comes at the end of a year in which volumes of the
initial share sales in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa fell
to a third of what they were in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Companies in the EMEA region raised $12.4 billion in IPOs
in 2012, compared with $37.3 billion in the previous year.  TeliaSonera  shares  slipped 0.7 percent to 44.64 kronor in
the Swedish capital at 11:55 a.m.  Tough Market  “In a short period of time, and in a relatively tough
stock market, we have managed to successfully complete two
IPOs,” TeliaSonera Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said in
the statement. “This increases the value of our stakes in both
MegaFon and Kcell, which continues to be one of our most
valuable subsidiaries and a strategic asset.”  Kcell was offering a dividend yield of about 10 percent to
attract investors, people familiar with the matter said on Nov.
30. After this month’s sale, TeliaSonera will control about 61.9
percent of the Kazakh operator.  The sale was managed by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , UBS AG and
Visor Capital. Investors from London, Almaty and the U.S. were
dominant among subscribers to the IPO, Aral said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  