-- Mellanox’s Waldman Spurns Silicon Valley
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-12-13T11:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/mellanox-s-waldman-spurns-silicon-valley-with-113-nasdaq-gain.html
Eyal Waldman, the Israeli army major
who built  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  into the best-performing
stock on the nation’s benchmark equity index, is determined to
stay independent while peers sell out.  Unlike startups bought by Silicon Valley tech giants,
Waldman is confident his 13-year-old company, which makes chips
that help connect servers, can be an acquirer, even after
disappointing investors for the first time with a fourth-quarter
 forecast  that missed analysts’ estimates. While the stock lost
more than half its gains, it’s still up 111 percent this year,
the best on the  Tel Aviv ’s TA-25 Index.  “We definitely think we can grow faster than other
companies we work alongside,” Chief Executive Officer Waldman,
52, said in a Nov. 5 interview in Tel Aviv. “As long as we can
grow faster than we could being part of a larger company, it’s
better for our shareholders that we stay independent.”  Waldman will soon face increasing competition from one of
his customers and former employer,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Mellanox sank to
a four-month low last week on concern the world’s largest maker
of chips is gaining ground on its InfiniBand technology.
Becoming an acquirer would set the CEO apart in  Israel ’s high-
technology industry.  Flash-memory producer Anobit Technologies Ltd. of Herzlia
Pituach was bought by Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc. for
an undisclosed amount on Jan. 10.  Oridion Systems Ltd. (COV) , a maker
of medical-safety devices, agreed to a $295 million takeover by
Dublin-based Covidien Plc on April 5. RadVision Ltd., a Tel Aviv
maker of video-conferencing systems, was sold on June 6 for $128
million to Avaya Holdings Corp. of Basking Ridge, New Jersey.  Information Storage  With 148 deals totaling $5.9 billion in 2012, Israeli
companies are the third-most popular takeover targets in the
 Middle East  and  Africa  after  Egypt  and South Africa, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mergers are increasing as initial
public offerings remain dormant.  Caesar Stone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE) , a
maker of stone products, was the only Israeli company to go
public this year, with an $73.3 million initial share sale in
 New York .  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, is home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S. and has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .  Mellanox New York-listed shares rose the most this year in
the Bloomberg index of the most-traded Israeli companies listed
in the U.S. and  ranked  10th among the 379 shares in the  Nasdaq
Computer Index (IXK) , with a 113 percent rally, on surging demand from
suppliers of information storage and data systems.  Paring a Rally  Sales for Mellanox, based in Yokneam Elit, a town southeast
of Haifa in northern Israel, have exceeded analysts’ estimates
 every quarter  since its 2007 IPO, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company, 8.9 percent owned by  Redwood City ,
California-based  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , has benefited from demand for
InfiniBand, which is used to transfer and store data in high-end
computing and data centers.  That success is facing its biggest challenge yet as
investors speculate Santa Clara, California-based Intel is close
to selling a competing product.  Mellanox shares pared their 283 percent surge this year
through Sept. 6 after its fourth-quarter  revenue outlook  of $145
million to $150 million was below the $156.6 million estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Intel currently buys InfiniBand chips from Mellanox,
in 2015 the U.S. company plans to start supplying its own 100
gigabit per-second devices, according to Clal Finance Batucha
Brokerage Ltd.  ‘Industry Gorilla’  Intel agreed in January to buy QLogic Corp.’s InfiniBand
business for $125 million. Three months later the company said
that it will spend $140 million to acquire  Cray Inc. (CRAY) ’s
technology to connect server chips.  “The challenge of Mellanox will be to be able to leverage
its dominant position in the high performance connectivity
market and compete with an industry gorilla like Intel,”
Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal in Tel Aviv, said in a
telephone interview on Nov. 11.  Waldman says he’s  undeterred  by Intel’s market penetration
as Mellanox has a product customers prefer.  “We are better at execution,” Waldman said by phone from
Sunnyvale,  California  on Dec. 6. “It will be a challenge for
Intel to take some of the design wins.”  Mellanox’s name comes from combining Xerox -- an adviser
told Waldman that many company names, like Xerox, don’t have a
meaning -- the word millennium, because the company was founded
in 1999, and Ella for his ex-wife, to whom he attributes much of
his success.  ‘Fastest Switch’  Spending on cloud services, which let users store data and
software on servers that can be accessed anywhere, will reach
$100 billion in 2016, up from about $40 billion this year,
Framingham, Massachusetts-based data research firm IDC said in
its August report.  “Mellanox right now has the fastest switch,” said Louis Navellier, the chief investment officer of Navellier &
Associates Inc. in a Nov. 19 interview. “Everyone wants to be
in the cloud, so everyone wants the Mellanox switch because
everyone wants the fastest server time,” said Navellier, whose
West Palm Beach,  Florida , firm manages $3.5 billion, including
shares of the Israeli company.  Sales for the three months ended September more than
doubled to  $156.5 million , beating the $153 million mean
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income surged
10-fold for the quarter to $48.4 million, the company said Oct.
17. Revenue is expected to grow 21 percent next year according
to the mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Scuba Diver  Waldman, a kite boarder and scuba diver, started in
Israel’s high tech industry before he finished his masters’
degree in electrical engineering from the Technion Israel
Institute of Technology in Haifa. “My mother still thinks I am
a failure because I don’t have a Ph.D.,” he said. He owns a 3.8
percent stake in Mellanox valued at about $111 million.  He spent 18 months as a sub-contractor at Haifa-based  Elbit
Systems Ltd. (ELST) , then three years at Intel before he left to start
his first company, Galileo Technology Ltd. The company was
acquired by  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  for $2.2 billion in
January 2001, two years after Waldman left because of
disagreements with his partners.  “I felt that Galileo should do acquisitions and the chief
executive and chief financial officer decided that wasn’t the
right thing,” Waldman said.  Cash Reserves  Mellanox went public on Feb. 7, 2007 issuing 6 million
shares at $17, raising $102 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company acquired Voltaire Ltd., an Israeli
maker of switches for $179 million in November 2010.  Waldman said in an interview in July that he intends to use
reserves “mainly for mergers and acquisitions.” At the end of
the third quarter the company had $398 million in cash and
equivalents,  according to data compiled by Bloomberg.   A multi-tasker who once spent a night at a command center
directing Israeli troops while instructing Galileo’s U.S. team
on a conference call, Waldman said he runs the 1,300-employee
company as a startup.  “Eyal is the kind of person you want to be in a small boat
with,” co-founder Ron Ashuri, who is currently the company’s
vice president of engineering, said in a phone interview on Oct.
10.  Porsche 911  There are parts of the job Waldman doesn’t enjoy, like
getting onto a plane alone, he said during an Oct. 11 interview
in his 15th floor apartment in Tel Aviv’s Ramat Aviv Gimmel
neighborhood. “I don’t like to do presentations and I don’t
like giving feedback.”  He pampers himself with a  Porsche 911  turbo convertible and
Range Rover parked at his U.S. home, and a BMW 330i convertible
and second Range Rover garaged in Israel.  The threat of Intel could also be an opportunity for
Mellanox because it shows how important the technology has
become for the data industry, according to DS Securities &
Investments.  “Even if Mellanox will be faced with new competition,
chances are that the whole market will grow,” Eran Jacoby, the
head of research at DS Securities in Tel Aviv, said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 10. “Mellanox will also stand to
benefit from this growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  