-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Volatility Falls to Seven-Year Low
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-12-12T11:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/emerging-stocks-rise-for-sixth-day-on-fed-volatility-falls.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
sixth day and price swings in the benchmark index fell to the
lowest level since 2005 on speculatation the Federal Reserve may
extend measures to boost the world’s largest economy.  Celltrion Inc. (068270) , a biopharmaceutical company, rose to the
highest since Sept. 25 in Seoul after saying it plans to pay
stock dividends. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest
producer of the metal, added the most in almost a week after RIA
news service reported Billionaire Roman Abramovich may lift his
Norilsk stake.  E-Star Alternativ Nyrt. (ESTAR) , a Hungarian energy
supplier, fell the most in five years, heading for a record low
as the Budapest Stock Exchange doubled the maximum trading
ranage for the shares after the company filed for bankruptcy.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,040.92 as of 10:07 a.m. in  London , poised for the highest
close since April 3 and its longest winning streak in three
months. Ten-day  volatility  for the gauge fell to the lowest
level since September 2005. The Fed will announce today $45
billion in monthly Treasury buying after a two-day meeting, a
Bloomberg News survey of economists shows, while President
 Barack Obama  is seeking a budget deal with Republican lawmakers
to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  “I’m very positive because what we have witnessed in the
last few years is an incredible build up of money emanating from
various central banks around the world,” Templeton Emerging
Markets Group’s Mark Mobius, who oversees more than $40 billion,
said in a phone interview from Nairobi today. “At the end of
the day, it’s all about how much money is available in the
system.”  Extra Yield  The 21 countries in the emerging-markets index send about
17 percent of their exports to the U.S., according to data
compiled by the World Trade Organization. If U.S. politicians
resolve the “underlying fiscal issues” and growth in the
world’s biggest economy recovers “towards the 3 percent level,
then emerging equities would be among the main beneficiaries,”
John-Paul Smith, an emerging markets strategist at Deutsche Bank
AG in London, said in an emailed report dated Dec. 10.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 274 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong rallied 1.5 percent, closing at the highest
level since March 16.  Thailand ’s SET Index added 1 percent, the
highest close since February 1996. South Korea’s benchmark Kospi
index rose for a second day, and the won rose to the highest
level since September, 2011.  Romanian Cabinet  Benchmark indexes in  Turkey  and the Czech Republic also
rose.  Russia ’s Micex Index added 1.2 percent, posting its
longest winning streak since July 2011.  “The market is expecting the Fed to be supportive and I
guess it also expects a positive outcome of the fiscal cliff,”
 Gaelle Blanchard , emerging-markets strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London, said by email. “The liquidity story is
always good for risky assets.”  Romania’s leu strengthened 0.3 percent versus the euro,
leading gains among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Prime Minister Victor Ponta, whose Social Liberal
Union, or USL, won 67 percent of the 588 seats in Parliament,
said yesterday it will seek to bolster its two-thirds majority
with the aid of minority parties. The news eased uncertainy
about the new cabinet ahead of Romania’s talks on an accord with
the International Monetary Fund.  E-Star  The MSCI’s emerging-markets gauge has risen 13.6 percent
this year, beating the 12.6 percent gain by the MSCI World Index
of developed countries. The developing-nations measure trades at
12 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  E-Star fell 20.6 percent in Budapest, heading for a record
low. The stock has plunged 95 percent this year as the company
failed to redeem bonds that matured in October and struggled to
buy back the securities as well as bonds due 2014 and later.
Hungary’s BUX Index allowed the shares to rise or fall by a
maximum of 30 percent, compared with the earlier daily limit of
15 percent on either side, according to a statement  from the
exchange late yesterday.  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  jumped 9.3 percent, the most since December
2009, its second day of gains on bets the United Arab Emirates
fuel producer’s $920 million Islamic bond restructuring will
spur profit growth.  Norilsk  Norilsk Nickel advanced 2 percent in Moscow, headed for its
highest close since July 3. Billionaire Roman Abramovich may
increase his Norilsk stake to 7.5 percent or as much as 10
percent, state-run RIA news agency reported late yesterday,
citing an unidentified person with knowledge of discussions.
John Mann, Abramovich’s spokesman, declined to comment when
called by Bloomberg.  OAO RusHydro fell 1.3 percent, the most on the Micex Index
and headed for its biggest drop in two weeks in Moscow, as board
members of Russia’s largest hydropower company said they wanted
to resign. “Several” board members have said they would like
to step down, RusHydro’s spokesman Boris Zverev said by phone
today, declining to specify the board members and their reasons
for resigning.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell for a fourth day, even
as government data showed the nation’s factory output in October
beat estimates.  India ’s inflation accelerated last month,
reinforcing the case for the central bank to hold off on an
interest-rate cut next week. Sri Lanka’s Colombo All-Share Index
rose 1.8 percent, the most since September 14, after the central
bank unexpectedly lowered its policy interest rates for the
first time since 2011 to spur economic growth.  Shanghai Trading  Trading volumes for the Shanghai Composite Index were 21
percent above the 30-day average, 20 percent higher for Taiwan’s
Taiex Index and 52 percent higher for Russia’s Micex Index.  Celltrion  climbed  7.3 percent to the highest level since
Sept. 25 in Seoul, after saying it will pay stock dividend of
0.148 share for every stock shareholders own.  Robinsons Land Corp. (RLC)  rose 4.1 percent in  Manila  to a
record. The Philippine Daily Inquirer said the developer is
close to reaching an agreement with Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada on a casino venture in Manila. Robinsons Land President
Frederick Go and Vice Chairman Lance Gokongwei didn’t
immediately respond to mobile-phone messages seeking comment on
the report.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , a maker of solar-panel
wafers, soared 11.2 percent in Hong Kong, leading gains on the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  China will allocate an additional 7
billion  yuan  ($1.1 billion) in solar subsidies, Xinhua News
Agency reported.  Indonesia  LG Display Co. dropped 4.9 percent, the biggest loss since
June 4, on speculation Apple Inc. may introduce an upgraded
iPhone 5 version earlier than expected, potentially cutting the
South Korean company’s shipments for the existing model.  PT Unilever  Indonesia , a unit of the world’s second-biggest
consumer goods company, sank 10.8 percent in Jakarta, the
largest decline since June 2005. The company said in a statement
today that total royalties to Unilever NV would increase to 5
percent of its revenue beginning next year. That compares with
3.5 percent now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  