-- Enbridge Pipeline Faces Scallop-Farmers Fight
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-12-12T14:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/enbridge-pipeline-faces-scallop-farmers-fight.html
A line of yellow buoys marking the
boundaries of a scallop farm outside Prince Rupert, British
Columbia presents the biggest challenge  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  may face
in its bid to connect Canada’s oil sands to  Asia .  The aboriginal communities on British Columbia’s northern
coast, already a port for ships to load grain and coal sent by
rail from Canada’s interior, are expanding shellfish farming and
ecotourism, said Art Sterritt, executive director of Coastal
First Nations. The native group seeks to develop an economy
based on renewable resources and has attracted investment from
former Prime Minister Paul Martin and Chinese companies.  Coastal First Nations plans to fight any attempt by
Enbridge to bring oil tankers to the area, said Sterritt.  “The real foundation of who we are on the coast is
shellfish,” he said from a boat bobbing on 10-foot waves
outside Prince Rupert’s harbor. “That’s really what created
wealth on the coast.”  Wildlife conservationists and native groups like Coastal
First Nations are already preparing legal action to stop
Calgary-based Enbridge’s C$6 billion ($6.1 billion) Northern
Gateway pipeline, potentially delaying it should Enbridge win
approval to begin construction. Hearings to determine the
environmental impact of the proposed pipeline began this week in
Prince Rupert, where regulators will be told for the first time
about marine concerns. The regulator has until next December to
make a recommendation.  Crude Discount  The debate pits local groups against one of  Canada ’s
largest companies and what Enbridge says is an effort to help
Canada earn more money for its oil, the nation’s most valuable
export. Oil trades at a discount of $34 to the benchmark U.S.
crude. That makes Northern Gateway a decision about Canada’s
economic “prosperity,” said Executive Vice President Janet Holder, in an interview in Prince Rupert.  “This isn’t about Enbridge,” she said. “This is really
about Canada and improving the value of our number one export --
oil.”  Enbridge, Canada’s largest pipeline operator, on Nov. 7
reported third-quarter net income of C$189 million compared with
a loss of C$5 million in the year-earlier period, helped by
higher volumes on its liquids pipelines and a smaller loss from
derivatives contracts. The shares rose 11 cents to C$41.99 at
9:40 a.m. today and have gained 10 percent this year, compared
with a 3 percent increase for the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index.  Exxon Valdez  Enbridge has already heard from opponents further inland
along the pipeline route, which stretches 1,177 kilometers (731
miles) from west of  Edmonton  to the port of Kitimat. With a
majority of British Columbians against the project, the pipeline
operator also faces a backlash from investors, said Vancouver-
based fund manager John Clark.  About 57 percent of British Columbians are opposed to the
Northern Gateway project while 53 percent would “definitely”
or “probably” ban  oil tankers  in coastal waters, according to
an online poll of 800 British Columbians by Angus Reid Public
Opinion.  “People remember the Exxon Valdez and they remember the
pictures of the ducks and the wildlife that were soaked in
oil,” said Clark, who oversees C$110 million in assets as
president of Pacific Spirit Investment Management Inc. “They
don’t want to have that in British Columbia’s waters, especially
since it’s an area that would be very difficult to clean up once
it happens.”  “More and more, the clients are giving me a look and a
question, ’Do we need to hold Enbridge?’” Clark said at an
energy investment conference in Toronto. Clark recommends
investors hold the stock because of its growth opportunities.  Enbridge has already tried to accommodate concerns
expressed by groups in the mountainous central region of the
province and may do so again as criticism about the marine
shipping plan surfaces in the hearings, said Holder.  Thicker Steel  “What we have offered so far has been an evolution so we
have already made commitments over and above what we would have
originally thought of four years ago,” she said. “And we will
continue to evolve that as we feel it’s appropriate and as
people raise things that we may not have contemplated.”  The company in July said it would spend an additional C$500
million to use thicker steel and increase monitoring on the
proposed Northern Gateway pipeline in response to criticism
about the risks of an  oil spill .  Similar kinds of improvements to protect the marine
environment are “meaningless” because of the scale of the
potential damage from a spill like the 1989 Exxon Valdez, said
Brian Falconer marine operations coordinator at Raincoast
Conservation Foundation.  “It doesn’t matter how many times things don’t go wrong,”
he said. “It matters when it does.”  Great Bear  Ocean-based industries currently contribute as much as
C$1.2 billion to communities along the northern coast where
Prince Rupert, with a population of about 12,500 people, is the
largest town, according to a study published today by University
of British Columbia researchers Ngaio Hotte and U. Rashid Sumaila.  Martin’s Capital for Aboriginal Prosperity and
Entrepreneurship fund invested C$5 million in Coastal Shellfish
LP, a venture of three aboriginal groups that also has support
from  China ’s Dalian Blossom Group.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has emphasized the
significance of diversifying Canada’s oil exports with Asia,
punctuated last week with the approval of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s takeover
of  Nexen Energy Inc. (NXY)  The federal government, including the prime
minister and his cabinet, holds the final say on whether the
Enbridge pipeline goes ahead or not.  Opponents like Sterritt vow to do everything they can to
protect the region’s ecosystem, including the Great Bear
Rainforest, the world’s largest intact tract of temperate
rainforest about the size of  North Dakota , as well as the
intertidal areas that support shell fish industries.  “There’s still oil about a meter down in areas where the
Exxon Valdez spill took place,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  