-- Equity Residential Sells Four Complexes for $100 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-12-12T20:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/equity-residential-sells-four-complexes-for-100-million.html
Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, sold four properties in
 Florida  for about $100 million as it pares assets to support its
acquisition of Archstone Inc.  The deal consisted of a three-property portfolio in
Jacksonville with 882 units, and a 252-unit complex in  Orlando ,
according to a statement by Elco Landmark Residential, the
Tampa-based buyer. Marty McKenna, a spokesman for Equity
Residential, confirmed the sale and the price.  “This is part of their strategy for redeploying equity and
doing additional acquisitions,” Joseph Lubeck, chief executive
officer of Elco, said in an interview. “We’re happy that it
worked out well for them and it worked out well for us.”  Elco Landmark, combined with Landmark Apartment Trust of
America, a non-traded real estate investment trust of which
Lubeck is the executive chairman, owns 25,000 apartments in
eight states, he said.  Equity Residential, the Chicago-based REIT founded by
billionaire  Sam Zell , is selling assets in markets it sees as
outside its core growth areas. The company is accelerating
dispositions to help fund its purchase of 60 percent of
Archstone from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., a deal that will
bolster holdings in cities where it already has properties,
sometimes across the street.  Coastal Focus  Equity Residential is teaming with  AvalonBay Communities
Inc. (AVB)  in the cash-and-stock deal for Archstone, valued at about
$6.5 billion, and plans to sell as much as $4 billion in
properties. Chief Executive Officer David Neithercut said in a
Nov. 26 conference call that the company will sell “a large
portion of our remaining assets” in Phoenix; Atlanta; Orlando
and Jacksonville, Florida; and  California ’s  Inland Empire .  Equity Residential is focusing its portfolio on coastal
cities where land is scarce and zoning restrictions limit
development. Since 2005, the company sold more than 129,000
apartment units for about $10.7 billion combined. according to
its latest  quarterly report .  The communities it sold to Elco include Jacksonville’s
Waterford at Deerwood, built in 1985; Royal Oaks, constructed in
1991 and Bermuda Cove, built in 1989. The three properties are
94 percent occupied, according to Elco.  Elco also acquired the 24-year-old Lexington Park complex
in Orlando, which is within 5 miles (8 kilometers) of the
Universal Studios amusement park and is 92 percent occupied.  The buyer plans to spend as much as $5,000 per unit to
renovate the assets and to eventually increase average monthly
rents, currently about $1,000, by about $100, Lubeck said.  “We’re certainly going to be standing in line and
hopefully we get the opportunity to do more business with EQR,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  