-- Escape From WaMu Leads Angel Oak to Best of Funds: Mortgages
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-12-12T13:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/escape-from-wamu-leads-angel-oak-to-best-of-funds-mortgages.html
Timing is everything. Brad Friedlander quit his job overseeing $8 billion of bonds at
 Washington Mutual  Inc. in 2008, six months before it became the
biggest bank failure in U.S. history.  That year, he co-founded Angel Oak Capital Partners LLC to
buy the same types of risky mortgages that brought down the
bank. The Atlanta-based firm has grown to $1.4 billion,
including $570 million in  mutual fund   Angel Oak Multi-Strategy
Income Fund (ANGLX) , that returned 23 percent this year, beating 99
percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “During the financial crisis, these  mortgages  were labeled
toxic assets and there was no rational thinking about what they
were worth,” Friedlander, 35, said in a phone interview. “We
saw an opportunity to participate in an eventual recovery.”  The  housing crash  that sunk WaMu, Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and dozens of mortgage originators to trigger the worst
financial crisis since the 1930s has turned into a sustained
recovery benefiting buyers of subprime and other risky home
loans that fueled the boom. Angel Oak’s founders -- Friedlander,
his WaMu colleague Sreeni Prabhu, and Michael Fierman, who had
been a partner at SouthStar Funding LLC before it collapsed in
2007 -- all had ringside seats at the rise and subsequent crash
of the mortgage market.  Mortgage Rally  Now as the housing market picks up momentum, mortgage debt
without the backing of the U.S. government is rallying,
returning more than 20 percent a year in three of the past four
years. The securities can deliver as much as 10 percent a year
over the next two years, said Friedlander, as the  housing
rebound  continues. Yields, currently in the 5 percent to 7
percent range, will attract investors looking for income in a
world of record low interest rates, he said.  That view is shared with some of the world’s largest and
best-known bond managers, including  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s
DoubleLine Capital LP and TCW Group Inc., which also profited
from the rebound in the $970 billion market.  “Non-agencies have more room to run than other asset
classes,” said Philip Barach, co-manager of the $37 billion
 DoubleLine Total Return Fund (DBLTX) , which had 29 percent of its money
in the debt as of Oct. 31, according to the website of the Los
Angeles-based company.  At Washington Mutual, Friedlander had been a  money manager 
since 2003, helping oversee a $25 billion investment portfolio
with responsibility for fixed income. In 2007, the bank’s  stock 
fell 70 percent as  home prices  tumbled and at the start of 2008
the Seattle-based company reported its first quarterly loss
since 1997 after writing down the value of its home-mortgage
unit.  Hard Hit  The bank’s holdings of non-agency mortgages, which
represented the riskiest end of the market, were especially hard
hit as the housing market plunged from its 2006 peak and
foreclosures piled up. The debt includes prime, subprime and
Alt-A, a type of home loan that typically didn’t require
documentation such as proof of income.  As the mortgage market cratered, the banks that normally
purchased the debt backed away, said Prabhu. “If they weren’t
going to buy these securities, who would?” he said.  In May 2008, the pair started the new firm with Fierman,
who had been a partner at SouthStar, an Atlanta mortgage company
that at its peak originated more than $6 billion a year in
subprime loans. In April 2007 SouthStar filed for bankruptcy
after the securitization market for subprime mortgages shut
down.  Game Over  “The business came to a standstill overnight,” said
Fierman. “It was over and we went home.”  They shared a view that even under very pessimistic
assumptions for the economy and housing, prices for non-agency
mortgages had fallen too far and that a patient investor would
do well holding them.  The bond managers at Los Angeles-based TCW came to the same
conclusion. The firm began buying non-agency debt in the second
half of 2008 because “prices were not reflective of the
underlying fundamentals,” Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage
bonds, wrote in an e-mail.  The $8.4 billion TCW Total Return Bond Fund had 35 percent
of its money in non-agency mortgages as of Sept. 30, according
to the Los Angeles company’s website.  Washington Mutual was seized by government regulators on
Sept. 26, 2008, and its branches and assets were sold to New
York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Its failure came less than two
weeks after the demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  First Fund  Angel Oak raised money for its first hedge fund in July
2008 and a second in February 2009. The first fund suffered
losses initially as the non-agency market fell further. The
second roughly coincided with the market bottom. It has returned
about 150 percent since inception, according to Friedlander.
“There was a lot of analysis and a little bit of luck,” he
said.  The funds bought higher quality non-agency debt, a blend of
prime and Alt-A mortgages with senior positions in the  capital
structure , he said. While subprime debt was attractive, its
volatility was too great for the investors the firm hoped to
cultivate.  “It was going to be too wild a ride,” said Friedlander.  Angel Oak has focused on mortgages originated between 2003
and 2005. Friedlander’s Washington Mutual experience taught him
that loans from that period were made with stricter underwriting
standards than those made in 2006 and 2007, which meant
borrowers were less likely to default.  Individual Investors  The firm’s early  hedge funds  didn’t use leverage, he said.
A more recent fund uses about two dollars of borrowed money for
every dollar invested to enhance returns.  All of the funds, including the mutual fund, were aimed at
individual investors seeking income. While yields on the
securities have fallen from the 20 percent range in 2008, they
are still attractive compared to other fixed-income options,
said Friedlander.  “At a time when you are struggling to find yield, this is
an opportunity to earn high single-digit returns with good
collateral, said Steven Roge, a portfolio manager with Bohemia,
New York-based R.W. Roge & Co., which oversees $200 million,
including shares of the Angel Oak Multi-Strategy Income Fund.  The mutual fund, created in June 2011, was the top
performer among funds that invest in mortgage-backed securities
this year, Bloomberg data show. It had 78 percent of its money
in non-agency mortgages as of June 30, 2012, according to Angel
Oak’s website. The second best performing mortgage fund was TCW
Total Return, which gained 13 percent.  Rally Faltered  The non-agency rally faltered in 2011 as  Europe ’s sovereign
crisis and an acrimonious debate about raising the U.S. debt
ceiling prompted investors to dump risky assets. The Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York ’s decision to sell some of the
mortgages it acquired bailing out  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  contributed to the slump in prices, Friedlander said.  TCW’s Whalen estimated non-agency mortgages fell 7 percent
last year before rebounding more than 20 percent in 2012.  Friedlander’s original bet on mortgages was based on the
premise that the securities were undervalued. “We were not
relying on a housing recovery,” he said, “but clearly we will
benefit from a housing recovery.”  Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose 3 percent in September
from a year earlier, the most since 2010, the S&P/Case-Shiller
index showed last month. The median price of an existing home
sold in October jumped 11 percent from a year earlier to
$178,600, the steepest annual increase since November 2005,
according to the National Association of Realtors. The group
forecasts existing- home price may rise 5 percent in 2013, with
comparable gains in 2014.  Bond Supply  Housing will keep the rally in non-agency going, said
Prabhu, even if gains going forward can’t match those of the
past few years. “It is now more of an opportunistic asset class
than a distressed class,” he said.  Supply and demand will also work in favor of investors, he
said. The market has been shrinking steadily since 2008 because
very little new supply has been created, and more buyers,
including hedge funds, insurers and asset managers have been
attracted to the space.  Over time, Friedlander expects his firm’s heavy
concentration in non-agency to diminish, replaced by investments
in structured products such as  student loans , commercial
mortgages and collateralized-loan obligations.  “This rally is not going to continue forever but we are
not close to the end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  