-- MetLife Deposit Sale Approved, Easing Bank-Status Exit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-12-12T23:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/metlife-deposit-sale-approved-easing-bank-status-exit.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  received conditional
U.S. approval from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
to sell $6.5 billion of bank deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
easing the insurer’s path to boosting its dividend and
repurchasing shares. MetLife advanced in extended trading.  After the deal is complete, MetLife will work with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal Reserve  to
deregister as a bank holding company, according to a statement
today from the New York-based insurer.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  is selling bank
assets to reduce oversight from the Fed, after the regulator
blocked the insurer’s plans to return capital to shareholders.
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is seeking to add deposits to
diversify funding sources and reduce reliance on debt markets.  “Until our de-banking process is complete, we remain
regulated by the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company,”
MetLife Chief Financial Officer John Hele said last month.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, has kept its annual
 dividend  at 74 cents a share since 2007 and hasn’t announced a
 buyback  since 2008. No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  increased
its payout four straight years. The Newark, New Jersey-based
company isn’t subject to the same Fed scrutiny.  The insurer said in March that it would escape bank status
by the end of June. Kandarian later backed away from that
assessment, saying he couldn’t read regulators. MetLife had
faced a June 12 deadline to submit a fresh capital plan to the
Fed, and the overseer extended the deadline.  Shares Climb  MetLife climbed 2.5 percent to $34.45 at 5:45 p.m. in New
York. The company had advanced 7.8 percent this year on the New
York Stock Exchange, while the KBW Insurance Index gained 15
percent. GE was little changed in extended trading.  “This regulatory approval is another important step in
this transaction,” said  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for GE’s
finance unit “We’re targeting first quarter for closing. We
look forward to executing on our deposit strategy.”  Andrew Gray , a spokesman for the FDIC, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  