-- EU, Arczar, BIO-Key, Chrysler: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-arczar-bio-key-chrysler-intellectual-property.html
The European Union’s first region-
wide patent system could be in place by early 2014 after EU
lawmakers broke a decades-long deadlock on plans to make the
protection of inventions in  Europe  cheaper and easier.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg,  France , voted
yesterday in favor of three proposals that will create a patent
valid across 25 of the EU’s 27 nations, the language system to
go with it and a specialized patent court system.  Costs for getting the protection could be cut by more than
30,000 euros ($39,000) under the new system, the European
Commission, the EU’s executive agency, said. While a European
patent valid across the EU’s 27 nations costs about 36,000
euros, this could be cut to about 5,000 euros under the so-
called unitary patent. A unified patent court with specialized
judges would also be established under the plans.  Attempts to reach an agreement on an EU patent in the past
have faltered over the language regime to be used. The EU has 23
official languages and numerous compromise proposals in the past
have failed to satisfy political demands or risked increasing
translation costs for companies. The commission proposed a
compromise deal after governments failed to reach consensus on
which languages should be legally binding. EU leaders in June
agreed on the seat of the new patent court, clearing the last
hurdle to an agreement.  The closest thing to an EU-wide patent at the moment is for
companies to file an application with the  Munich-based European
Patent Office , which isn’t part of the EU and has 38 member
countries. Once granted, the patent breaks up into a bundle of
national patents which companies must defend in each individual
country.  Applications for the unitary patent would still be made
through the EPO and once granted would be valid across the 25 EU
participating nations.  Spain  and  Italy  challenged the EU’s decision in March 2011
to move forward with a common patent system under a mechanism
called enhanced cooperation whereby  member states  can work
together as long as at least nine agree. The two countries had
objected to the plan largely over language concerns.  An advocate general at the EU Court of Justice, the bloc’s
highest court, said in a non-binding opinion yesterday that the
court should reject Spain’s and Italy’s challenges.  The commission said the first unitary patent could be
granted as soon as April 2014, if at least 13 EU nations have
ratified the draft agreement on the new Unified Patent Court by
November 2013.  Arczar Files Six Patent Suits Related to Computer Vision Systems  Arczar LLC , a patent-licensing company based in Marshall
 Texas , filed five patent infringement lawsuits Dec. 10 against a
range of defendants.  The company sued toymaker  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ,  Nintendo of America
Inc. , Ikea North America Services LLC,  ZipRealty Inc. (ZIPR)  and Sony
Computer Entertainment America LLC.  Although the suits are all slightly different, the disputed
technology in each relates to vision systems. Sony is accused of
infringing five patents, Arczar claims Nintendo infringed two
and Ikea is accused of infringing one, as are ZipRealty and
Hasbro.  Arczar specifically objected to Hasbro’s Lazer Tag system,
the Sony Playstation Vita, the Nintendo 3DS, the Ikea catalog
mobile application, and Emeryville, California-based ZipRealty’s
real-estate mobile application, claiming each infringed at least
one of the patents at issue.  The patent-licensing company seeks awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs. Last week, Arczar sued San
Francisco-based  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , accusing the social-network user-
review website company of infringing one of the same patents.  The suits were all filed in federal court in the Eastern
District of Texas, a judicial district some patent lawyers say
is favorable to plaintiffs in patent-infringement suits.  The cases are Arczar v. Sony Computer Entertainment LLC,
12-cv-787; Arczar v. Nintendo of America Inc., 12-cv-786;
Arzcar v. Ikea North American Services LLC, 12-cv-785; Arczar v.
ZipRealty Inc., 12-cv-788; Arczar v. Hasbro Inc., 12-cv-784; and
Arczar v. Yelp Inc., 12-cv-639,  U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Marshall).  Bio-Key Settles Patent-Infringement Suit Brought by Blue Spike  Bio-key International Inc., a developer of biometric
fingerprint identification technology, said in a  statement 
yesterday that it settled a patent case with  Blue Spike LLC  of
Sunny Isles Beach,  Florida .  Blue Spike sued Bio-key in federal court in Tyler, Texas,
in August, claiming that four patents related to monitoring and
analyzing signals were infringed.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed. Wall, New
Jersey-based Bio-key said only that the parties reached an
agreement which resulted in dismissal of all claims asserted in
the litigation.  The suit is one of more than 60 pending cases brought by
Blue Spike.  The case is Blue Spike LLC v.  Bio-key International Inc. (BKYI) ,
12-cv-531, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chrysler Sued for Trademark Infringement by Moab Industries  Chrysler Group LLC was sued for trademark infringement by
an  Arizona  company that customizes off-road performance motor
vehicles.  According to the complaint filed Dec. 7 in federal court in
Arizona,  Moab Industries LLC  of Prescott, Arizona, objects to
Chrysler’s use of “Moab”  with a particular Jeep model . The
auto-customizer said it has used “Moab” and “Moab
Industries” since 2005, and that Chrysler’s Jeep-branded
vehicles are among those most frequently brought in for
customization.  Additionally, Moab says it buys and customizes Jeeps for
resale.  The Arizona company registered its “Moab Industries” with
the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  in February 2011, it said
in its pleadings.  Moab said that it exchanged “multiple e-mail messages”
and met with Chrysler officials in efforts to solve the dispute.
It also objects to an application Chrysler filed in June 50
register “Moab” as a trademark in connection with motor
vehicles.  That application was denied in a Sept. 3 patent office
action on the grounds it would cause consumer confusion,
according to court papers.  Moab claims it’s been injured by Chrysler’s actions and
that consumers are likely to get the “false and misleading
impression” that some connection exists between Chrysler and
Moab Industries.  It asked the court to bar Chrysler’s use of “Moab,” and
for an order for the destruction of all packaging and
promotional materials bearing the “Moab” mark.  Additionally, Moab seeks awards of money damages, gross
profits the automaker derived from its alleged infringement,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  Chrysler didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Moab Industries LLC v. Chrysler Group LLC, 12-
cv-8247, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Prescott).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  TekSavvy Warns Customers Voltage Pictures Seeks User Information  TekSavvy Solutions Inc. , a Chatham, Ontario-based Internet
service provider, has sent precautionary notices to more than
1,000 customers, warning them about a request it received from a
Los Angeles movie studio for personal information, Toronto’s
Globe and Mail newspaper  reported .  Voltage Pictures  sent the request to TekSavvy shortly after
 Canada ’s Copyright Modernization Act went into effect, according
to the newspaper.  The request is part of Voltage’s look into possible
copyright infringement activity related to unauthorized
downloading of its films, the Globe and Mail reported.  Voltage said in federal court that it hired  Canipre , a
digital forensics firm, to monitor traffic on the BitTorrent
file-sharing network looking for illegal downloading, according
to the newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 