-- UN Emission Reduction Units Fall to Record on EU Vote Wagers
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-12-12T18:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-carbon-falls-as-bloc-announces-schedule-for-2013-permit-sales.html
United Nations Emission Reduction
Units erased losses after falling to a record on speculation
that the European Commission may vote to ban the carbon credits
at a meeting of national climate experts tomorrow.  ERUs for December fell as much as 40 percent before closing
unchanged. The European Union’s regulator postponed its vote on
a revision of the bloc’s carbon registry rules from the next
meeting of the Climate Change Committee, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter. The Commission confirmed the delay
in a  statement  published after the close of trading.  ERUs for December fell as low as 15 euro cents ($0.20) a
metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, its biggest-
ever fall and the lowest price for any carbon credit or permit
since the second phase of the market started in 2008. The
contract later closed at 25 cents.  The EU was seeking to limit the use of some imported
emission credits to help trim an oversupply in the bloc’s market
that has grown to nearly 1 billion tons, according to Jos
Delbeke, the EU’s director general for climate. The influx of
carbon credits has boosted an existing surplus of EU permits and
helped cut prices, he said on Oct. 2.  European Union carbon permits fell for a second day after
the bloc said it will sell 819 million metric tons of allowances
in 2013 and  Germany ’s economy minister reiterated objections to
a stopgap measure to support prices.  The benchmark permit contract fell as much as 2.6 percent
to 6.66 euros a ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, and
closed at 6.75 euros. United Nations offsets for December
dropped as much as 33 percent to 31 euro cents, the lowest since
the contract first traded in 2008, before closing at 43 cents.
They’ve lost 36 percent since the start of this month.  Auction Schedules  The bloc’s regulator said yesterday 20 member states will
hold auctions three times a week next year to sell 383 million
tons of permits. Germany will sell 183 million allowances in
weekly sales, and the U.K. will offer 95 million permits in
fortnightly auctions, according to a  statement  posted on the EU
website. Five more countries will join the sales when they have
completed preparations.  German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler sent a letter to
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier rejecting his call for a
reform of the EU’s emissions trading system, Handelsblatt
reported, citing the letter. Altmaier had earlier written to
Roesler urging him to join in backing the EU’s planned reform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  