-- EU Lawmakers Seek Greek Swap Details After ECB Bars Files
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-12-12T14:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-lawmakers-seek-greek-swap-details-after-ecb-bars-files.html
Lawmakers in Italy and  Germany  are
urging their governments to demand greater transparency from the
 European Central Bank  after a court upheld its decision to keep
documents secret that show what the central bank knew about
 Greece ’s finances before its bailout.  “Technocracies and kleptocracies cannot prevail over
politics and democracy,” Senator Elio Lannutti, a member of the
Italian Values party, said in a phone interview today. “The ECB
is impermeable to transparency.”  Lannutti, speaking in the lower house of parliament on Dec.
5, asked the government for clarity on how Greece masked its
debt and how it plans to eliminate any doubt that the country’s
financial situation may be worse that what it reported. He also
sought an estimate of how much it may cost Italy to save Greece.  The European Union’s General Court in Luxembourg on Nov. 29
ruled that the central bank was right to withhold documents from
2010 because disclosure “would have undermined the protection
of the public interest so far as concerns the economic policy of
the European Union and Greece.” The case brought by  Bloomberg
News  was the first legal challenge of the ECB to make public
details of its decision-making process, leaving one of the
region’s most powerful institutions free from public scrutiny.  Austerity Measures  Greece’s two bailouts totaling 240 billion euros ($313
billion) have pushed countries from  France  to  Spain  to introduce
austerity measures in an effort to curtail their budgets and
reassure investors of their ability to repay their borrowings.  Germany and Italy face elections next year, with the euro
crisis taking center stage in campaigns in both countries. About
43 percent of Germans want Greece to exit the euro area,
according to a  poll  in Stern magazine published today.  German lawmakers told Die Welt that the court was wrong to
allow the ECB to withhold the files, the newspaper reported.  The German government must “wholeheartedly” support the
disclosure of the documents because Germany is on the hook for
billions of euros on the back of the Greek bailout, said Klaus-
Peter Willsch, from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s ruling CDU party,
according to the Welt report today.  Opposition lawmaker Carsten Schneider from the SPD said
because the ECB is one of the main players in the financial
crisis, it has to adhere to the highest level of transparency
and the documents should at least be available to national
parliaments, die Welt cited him as saying.  Green Party finance spokesman  Gerhard Schick  said it’s “in
the public interest” to disclose the ECB documents, according
to Die Welt.  Disclosure Rules  The central bank already sets narrower limits on its
disclosures than its U.S. equivalent, the  Federal Reserve . The
court’s decision shows the ECB has too broad a discretion to
reject requests for disclosure, academics and lawyers have said.  Bloomberg sought access to two internal papers drafted for
the central bank’s six-member Executive Board. The first
document is entitled “The impact on government deficit and debt
from off-market swaps: the Greek case.” The second reviews
Titlos Plc, a structure that allowed  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) ,
the country’s biggest lender, to borrow from the ECB by creating
collateral from a securitization of swaps on Greek sovereign
debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  