-- EU Ministers Move Toward Accord on ECB Bank Oversight
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-12-13T01:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-ministers-move-toward-accord-on-ecb-bank-oversight.html
European Union finance ministers
moved closer to an agreement on a single euro-area bank
supervisor that could give the European Central Bank more time
to take on its expanded oversight role.  After 12 hours of talks, the ministers early today were
considering a March 2014 target date for the new supervisor to
be fully functional, or 12 months after the EU publishes
regulations to set it up, whichever comes first, according to a
draft proposal prepared by Cyprus, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency.  Yet the proposal also allows the ECB unlimited discretion
to delay if it wants more time to prepare for its oversight
mission.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and his French
counterpart  Pierre Moscovici  led a chorus of voices yesterday
calling for a deal, before a year-end deadline set by leaders
aiming to break the link between banking woes and sovereign-debt
struggles. Ministers are striving to agree on which banks the
ECB will oversee, how to balance the needs of large and small
countries and how the new system would affect non-euro lenders.  “I’m confident that we will find a solution today or next
week that everyone can agree to,” Schaeuble told reporters on
his way into the meeting yesterday. He reiterated  Germany ’s
concern that ECB supervisory duties not interfere with monetary
policy and called for a “clear separation” of tasks.  Key Obstacle  The balance of ECB power has been a key obstacle for
finance ministers trying to reach a deal on the single
supervisor this month. Joint oversight is a required first step
before banks can tap the euro zone’s 500 billion-euro ($652
billion) firewall fund instead of passing through national
authorities, as was required in  Spain ’s financial-sector rescue.  “The outlines of an agreement exist,” Moscovici said
yesterday. “It’s very important to wrap up on banking
supervision. It’s one of the causes of the crisis, it’s about
getting at its roots.”  The most recent proposal would allow participating nations
to seek mediation if they disagree with an ECB supervisory
decision and simplify procedures for objections from non-euro
nations that opt to join the oversight regime. Nations were
still wrestling with voting procedures on the ECB’s supervisory
board and on the membership of a steering committee within that
board.  Finance ministers aim to reach agreement before EU leaders
meet later today to begin two days of meetings in Brussels.
Draft summit conclusions call for the EU to begin work on a
euro-area bank resolution plan once it finishes the single
supervisor and other current proposals on how countries handle
failing banks and manage national deposit-insurance schemes.  Public Debate  France  would be willing to accept bank-size thresholds in
order to get the new supervisor up and running, Moscovici said.
Nations are closing in on proposals to require direct ECB
oversight for lenders with more than 30 billion euros in assets
or units in multiple countries, as well as for banks whose total
assets are larger than 20 percent of their home country’s gross
domestic product.  The ECB would prefer to avoid specific targets and
eliminate the multiple-countries threshold, ECB Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said.  The latest compromise altered the proposal for when cross-
border operations would trigger direct ECB oversight. The
changes mean fewer banks would be caught by that requirement.  ECB supervision would be required for nations that use the
euro and optional for countries outside the currency bloc. Non-
euro nations were pressing for concessions on how to handle
voting rules at the London-based European Banking Authority,
which sets standards and handles disputes among EU regulators.  Double Majority  Early today, finance ministers were on track to agree on a
U.K.-backed proposal for divvying up EBA voting rights,
according to draft documents. The U.K., home to  Europe ’s biggest
financial center and which won’t join the banking union, has
sought a requirement that EBA decisions be taken by so-called
double majority voting, so that nations outside the supervisory
mechanism can’t be automatically overruled by those who take
part.  Limits on the powers of the ECB Governing Council could be
set up to reassure non-euro nations that accept common banking
oversight, according to a Dec. 9 opinion from the ECB and the
European Commission obtained by  Bloomberg News . The report also
says nations could signal “that a specific point to be
addressed by treaty change would be to strengthen democratic
accountability over the ECB insofar as it acts as a banking
supervisor” as they establish the new oversight regime.  ‘Interim Solution’  Germany backs current efforts to set up a common supervisor
as an “interim solution” until nations can agree on a
permanent framework, Schaeuble said. “A limited treaty change
would be the better regulation, but that can’t be done
overnight,” he said.  When the new supervisor is up and running, the ECB will
want to make sure its officials can access all the information
they need, said  Daniel Gros  of the Center for European Policy
Studies and Thorsten Beck of the European Banking Center at
Tillburg University. In difficult times, they said in a report
today, financial stability can be the biggest threat to  price
stability .  “A strict separation of supervision and monetary policy is
not desirable during a financial crisis,” wrote Gros and Beck
in a report to the European Parliament’s economic affairs
committee. “The key problem hampering the ECB today is a lack
of detailed information, which is often highly confidential, on
the state of the health of the banking system.”  ‘More Divided’  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said the ECB’s common
supervision would leave Europe “more divided” than it has
been, by creating a rift between countries inside and out of an
emerging banking union. At the same time, he said his nation
would not block the single supervisor as long as its concerns as
a non-participating nation were addressed.  As the new supervisor takes shape, smaller countries are
vying to ensure their vote counts as much as their larger
counterparts when the ECB takes supervisory decisions. Tonio Fenech, the finance minister of Malta, said his country was
worried about the consequences of its banks being among the
smallest institutions referred for ECB oversight.  “When you have to review big companies or big banks, you
put in your best people, when you have smaller banks or smaller
companies, you put your junior staff,” Fenech said during
public debate. “In our case, we are presently having our best
people supervising our more important banks in the economy.
These will be transfered to the ECB to be supervised by juniors.
Sorry, no thank you, I will not risk my economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  