-- EU’s Barroso Urges ‘Rapid’ Agreement on Single Bank Supervisor
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-12T10:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-s-barroso-urges-rapid-agreement-on-single-bank-supervisor.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  pressed euro-area governments to deepen financial
integration to overcome the three-year-old debt crisis, saying
the  economic situation  in  Europe  remains “fragile.”  Barroso said a meeting of European Union leaders on Dec.
13-14 must make good on pledges to create a single banking
supervisor for the 17-nation euro. The  European Central Bank  is
slated to take on the supervisory role.  “We must not lose the sense of urgency for action,”
Barroso told the  European Parliament  today in Strasbourg,
France. “The situation has improved but remains fragile.
Complacency is not an option,” he said.  EU heads of government have committed to centralize banking
supervision for the euro area, a step that the ECB and the
 International Monetary Fund  have said is needed to untie the
fates of sovereigns and their banks. EU finance ministers are
due to meet this afternoon in Brussels to help pave the way for
the creation of a “single supervisory mechanism.”  “Rapid political agreement” on a single supervisory
mechanism and its endorsement by EU leaders at their Dec. 13-14
meeting are “crucially important,” said Barroso. “The SSM is
the single most important step for the further deepening and
completion of the economic and monetary union.”  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, in September proposed the creation of a single bank
supervisor for the euro area. The commission proposed that the
Frankfurt-based ECB become the top-level supervisor of every
lender in the currency bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  