-- EU to Sell Record Carbon Volume in 2013 as Regulator Seeks Cut
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-12-12T16:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-to-sell-record-carbon-volume-in-2013-as-regulator-seeks-cut.html
The European Union will sell a
record volume of carbon permits next year in the bloc’s market,
the world’s largest, as the regulator seeks to cut proposed
sales volumes by 50 percent to counter plummeting prices.  Twenty countries will together sell 383 million tons on
European Energy Exchange AG, and  Germany  will separately auction
183 million, the Leipzig, Germany-based bourse said yesterday.
 Poland  will begin selling permits separately once it selects an
auction platform. The U.K. will sell 95 million permits on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  EU permit prices plunged to a record on Dec. 5 as the euro-
zone crisis damped industrial output and demand for allowances.
The EU proposes to hold back 900 million permits from auctions
through 2015 to trim excess supply and boost prices. The auction
calendar published by EEX yesterday does not take into account
the proposed withholding of 400 million tons in 2013.  “Over the first quarter of 2013, auction supply will be
roughly in line with our expected power sector demand,” Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “There will be weeks when
the supply will exceed the compliance purchasing, as both demand
from the power sector as well as supply volumes fluctuate.”  Wider Sales  Poland, the  Czech Republic ,  Liechtenstein ,  Norway  and
 Iceland , which have a combined volume of 68 million tons, have
not been included in the schedule because “an auctioneer has
not yet been admitted” for each country, Eileen Hieke, a
spokeswoman for EEX, said in an e-mail today.  When these countries are admitted to the sales, volumes may
average as much as 14 million tons a week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The U.K.’s fortnightly sales may add as
much as 2 million tons a week, bringing the weekly supply to 16
million tons, according to EU data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 27-nation EU is moving to a wider sale of permits, now
largely granted for free, to meet its climate-protection goals.
Selling the allowances will add to operating costs for power
generators and may encourage emissions reductions that can be
achieved for less than the cost of the permits.  The bloc will start selling outstanding aviation carbon
permits for 2012 in February, after freezing the sales process
in November. These sales will continue through April, after
which the EU will begin sales of Phase 3 aviation allowances, it
said on its website. Airlines will have to surrender permits
matching their emissions in 2012 no later than the end of April.  The EU said in a statement posted on its website yesterday
that about 819 million allowances would be sold in 2013, after
subtracting about 152 million tons that are to be allocated free
of charge to 10 nations. This partial opt-out from auctioning
gives electricity producers in those states the possibility to
invest in modernizing  power plants . The value of these
investments must at least equal the value of the free
allowances, according to EU law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  