-- EU to Dilute Timeline for Euro-Area Overhaul, Draft Shows
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-12T16:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-to-dilute-timeline-for-overhaul-of-euro-area-draft-shows.html
European Union leaders are set to
dilute the timeline for overhauling the euro zone, as German
Chancellor Angela Merkel steps on the brakes.  A draft statement for tomorrow’s EU summit drops a three-
stage timetable that would commit euro leaders to consider as of
2014 paying into a budget to help absorb economic shocks.  Such a budget could be weighed as the euro area “evolves
toward deeper integration,” the document obtained by  Bloomberg
News  said, without giving a deadline. Advances toward fiscal
federalism “will take more time and will require in-depth
consultations.”  With Merkel running for a third term in late 2013, the
Berlin government has chafed at offering further debt-crisis aid
or venturing into a longer-term euro remake potentially bearing
hidden costs for German taxpayers.  Merkel’s objections had already led EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  to banish talk of moves toward common debt issuance from
a roadmap for the euro’s future issued last week.  Pushback from  Germany  and northern creditor-country allies
was reflected in today’s proposed summit statement, which
abandoned the stage-by-stage timetable for deeper integration
that featured in a Dec. 3 draft.  German Stance  While the three-stage timetable lives on in Van Rompuy’s
Dec. 6  roadmap , it won’t be binding on euro governments. Merkel
dismissed the roadmap as “preliminary” yesterday, according to
a German official who sat in on a closed-door session with the
chancellor.  Germany’s focus is on steps to increase  Europe ’s
competitiveness, leaving questions such as a euro-area “fiscal
capacity” to an indeterminate point in the future, another
German official told reporters in Berlin today.  German emphasis on economic discipline clashes with
 France ’s call for the pooling of financial burdens, echoing the
ideological battles of the 1980s and 1990s that led to the
euro’s fragmented management.  For now, the upper hand rests with the German-led bloc, the
main underwriters of 486 billion euros ($634 billion) in rescue
loans for four countries since the outbreak of the debt crisis
three years ago.  Germany’s plea for sounder economic policies was endorsed
in the latest summit draft, which foresaw “individual
arrangements of a contractual nature with EU institutions” to
keep governments on the reform path.  Bank Supervisor  France wants the tighter discipline to go hand in hand with
financial support. While Merkel has dangled the prospect of
European funding for national reforms, she has stopped short of
backing France’s call for a European unemployment insurance
program.  As debate swirls over what the euro will look like in five
to 10 years, the near-term priority is to set up a single  bank
supervisor  followed by a common bank-resolution system, a
European official told reporters in Brussels.  With European leaders coming to town tomorrow, finance
ministers returned to Brussels today to tackle the bank-
supervision proposals. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  spoke of a “good chance” of an accord, if not today,
then before the Christmas break.  The summit draft set a target of June 2013 for finance
ministers to agree on common norms for handling failing banks
and setting minimum standards for deposit guarantee schemes.  More ambitious proposals for a “single resolution
mechanism” for countries that take part in common bank
supervision will be made by the  European Commission  in 2013, the
draft said. Creditor countries have resisted putting up extra
money to fix  bank failures  elsewhere.  Separately, there are no plans for tomorrow’s summit to
appoint a successor to Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  as chairman of euro finance meetings, the Brussels
official said. Juncker plans to step down in early 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  