-- EU-Wide Airline Slot Trading Is Endorsed by European Parliament
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-12T14:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/eu-wide-airline-slot-trading-is-endorsed-by-european-parliament.html
The  European Parliament  voted to let
airlines trade takeoff and landing slots while rejecting a
proposed stricter rule on the use of them under draft
legislation meant to tackle a “capacity crunch” at airports.  Current  European Union law  is silent on the question of
slot trading, a practice permitted in the U.K. and banned in
some EU nations including  Spain . Existing legislation requires
carriers to use airport slots at least 80 percent of the time in
order to retain them the following year.  The 27-nation Parliament today approved the EU-wide
secondary trading of slots by airlines, a step proposed a year
ago by the  European Commission . The assembly rejected a separate
proposal by the commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, to raise
the use-it-or-lose-it slot obligation to 85 percent.  “We need to facilitate the trading of slots,” said
 Giommaria Uggias , an Italian member who steered this measure
through the EU Parliament in Strasbourg,  France . The assembly’s
stance on slots largely mirrors that of EU national governments,
which reached a preliminary accord among themselves in October.  With  Europe ’s share of the worldwide aviation market set to
fall from second behind  North America  to third behind it and the
Asia-Pacific region, the commission is pushing for the industry
to make better use of scarce airport space.  The number of Europe’s saturated airports is due to rise
from five, including  London Heathrow  and Paris Orly, at present
to 19 major hubs over the next two decades without policy
changes, according to the  commission,  which says this would lead
to delays affecting half of all flights in the EU.  Secondary Trading  The commission says it proposals on slots would allow EU
airports to handle an extra 24 million passengers a year by
2025. Of that number, 14 million would result from the secondary
trading of slots. Almost 800 million passengers used EU airports
in 2010.  In addition to rejecting a rise in the use-it-or-lose-it
obligation to 85 percent, the EU Parliament opposed a related
proposal to lengthen series in which slots are allocated. The
assembly threw out a commission proposal to expand those blocks
from a minimum of five slots allocated at the same time on the
same day of the week in the winter and summer seasons to 10 in
winter and 15 in summer.  The commission’s draft proposals also seek to increase
competition in ground services at airports by building on a 1996
EU market-opening law. While that legislation fully opened the
market for most ground services, it allowed EU nations to limit
competition to a minimum of two suppliers in four handling
areas: baggage, ramp, fuel and freight/mail.  Flight Delays  To give airlines more choice and tackle flight delays that
are caused mainly at airports rather than in the air, the
commission proposed to increase to three the minimum number of
service providers in these four “restricted” categories. The
measure would apply to airports with at least 5 million
passengers or 100,000 metric tons of freight a year.  The Parliament decided today to refer this matter back to
its transport committee. That committee rejected the ground-
services proposal in early November, prompting EU Transport
Commissioner Siim Kallas to threaten to withdraw the whole
package of draft legislation should the full 754-seat Parliament
take the same position.  “We are ready to work with the committee,” Kallas told
the Parliament today.  Countries including Germany, Austria and Portugal limit
competition in the restricted service categories to two
providers, while nations such as the U.K., the Netherlands and
 Poland  permit more than the current minimum.  Preliminary Accord  The commission’s package of proposals needs the support of
the EU Parliament and member-state governments. In their
preliminary accord in October, EU governments endorsed the
secondary trading of slots and more ground-services competition
while rejecting changes in the use-it-or-lose-it rule and the
slot series.  A final deal on the whole package will require EU
governments and parliamentarians to iron out any differences in
a process that will continue into next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.ne  