-- Europe Exports to Asia Seen Surging in Deepening Crisis: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-12-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/europe-exports-to-asia-seen-surging-in-deepening-crisis-freight.html
When Swedish Trade Minister Ewa Bjoerling visited China in September, she took executives from
fashion retailers Lindex AB and Gina Tricot AB to talk about
selling more in China, a country better known for exporting
clothing.  She’s also promoted Swedish exports in trips to  India ,
 South Korea , India and  Indonesia  as the government predicts a
one-third increase in sales to Asia in four years.  Beneficiaries of the shift may include the companies
carrying the West-East shipments. Among them: container lines
 A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  and Hapag-Lloyd AG.  Shipping lines used to sail one full container to Asia from
 Europe  for every three loaded with China-made goods that came
back. Those “massive” imbalances are easing now as Europe
consumes less and China more, according to BIMCO shipping
analyst Peter Sand. Already, shipping lines send two containers
to Asia for every three to Europe, he said.  “This trend is likely to continue as Asian imports grow
faster than European imports,” said Sand, based in Bagsvaerd,
 Denmark .  Sweden , which relies on exports by companies such as  Volvo
AB (VOLVB) , Ikea Group and  Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  to generate half its economic
output, estimates that the volume of goods shipped to Asia and
 Australia  will soar 32 percent through 2016, according to a Dec.
6  prognosis  by the Foreign Ministry. That’s double the pace of
export growth to the European Union.  “Asia, and especially southeast Asia, is a growth region
with big future potential and it’s therefore important for
Sweden to have a presence in these markets,” Bjoerling said in
an e-mailed response to questions on Dec. 11.  “In many of
these countries there is strong demand, which of course is
interesting for many of Sweden’s competitive companies.”  China-Bound  Other nations are also shifting their focus, global data
indicate. Containerized trade to Europe from Asia will contract
3.3 percent this year, ship broker Clarkson Plc estimates.
Imports to Asia from Europe will increase 5.5 percent, it said.  In Denmark, home to Maersk, exporters have been “hurt by
the weak cyclical trends in many of our biggest markets in
Europe,” Trade and Investment Minister Pia Olsen Dyhr said in a
Dec. 10 statement on her ministry’s website.  Danish exports to  Brazil ,  Russia , India and China rose 10.1
percent in the August-October quarter from the previous period,
 Statistics Denmark  said Dec. 10. Exports to Europe fell 0.4
percent over the same period, it said.  “We must continue to focus on increasing exports to BRIC
countries and other developing nations that will make up growing
markets in the years to come,” Dyhr said. She plans to visit
China twice a year and wants Denmark’s exporters to double
shipments to the nation through 2016, she said.  ‘Large Organization’  Maersk, based in Copenhagen, is investing in its China
operations by “building up a large organization there so we can
be ready to help customers who want to export to China,” Chief
Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said in an interview.  Hapag-Lloyd, Europe’s fourth-biggest shipping line, has
built up its technology platforms to identify trade flows so it
can react quickly to any shifts, according to Rainer Horn, a
spokesman for the privately owned Hamburg-based company.  Raising capacity for the Europe to  Asia  route “shouldn’t
be a problem,” Horn said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
Empty containers on routes experiencing surplus capacity will be
redeployed, he said.  “Every extra container filled with cargo heading from
Europe to Asia will help to reduce the significant imbalance in
this trade,” he said. “Hapag-Lloyd has intelligent steering
software in place to reduce imbalances and to raise utilization
of its over 650,000 boxes globally.”  Rising Shares  Shares in Maersk, which also comprises oil and retail units,
have gained about 14 percent in the past 12 months. That
compares with an 18 percent increase in the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index. (SXXP)  Hapag-Lloyd isn’t publicly traded.  Companies that fail to make the shift will be left behind,
said Kai Miller, Hamburg-based head of the container desk at
London ship broker ICAP.  “China is turning into an import nation,” he said. “If
you’d have a booming import cargo stream from the  Far East  to
Europe, and you have to bring all the containers back empty,
it’d be monkey business.”  As Europe struggles to emerge from recession, China is
targeting more consumer-driven growth after Vice President  Xi Jinping  replaced President  Hu Jintao  as Communist Party head.  Retail Sales  “It’ll be very, very positive for us -- and probably also
for the rest of the world -- if China succeeds in this
development,” Maersk CEO Andersen said.  While China’s gross domestic product slowed to 7.4 percent
in the July-September period from a year earlier, gauges of
manufacturing and retail sales have pointed to a recovery.
China’s economic expansion will accelerate to 7.7 percent this
quarter and to 7.9 percent in the three months through March
2013, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg in October.  “A well-balanced import and export trade lane is the best
thing a container line can have,” Miller said. “There are only
big benefits with getting more cargo attracted to  China .”  The shift in export and import flows is likely to be long-
term as Europe stays mired in sluggish growth for as long as a
decade, according to Robert Bergqvist, chief economist at
Stockholm-based bank SEB AB.  “The rucksack that Europe has to carry is still quite
heavy and will continue to be pretty heavy for perhaps five to
10 years, and that will damp growth,” Bergqvist said in a Dec.
10 telephone interview. “At the same time we’re seeing that
these are big potential markets in Asia and I think it’s
incredibly important that we’re in the forefront there.”  Carriers need to acknowledge that they’re unlikely to find
growth in Europe, according to Ken Bloom, the chief executive
officer of U.S. e-commerce shipping platform INTTRA, which
handles 525,000 shipments a week.  “The supply side of the equation is incredibly
challenging,” he said by phone. “On the demand side, in the
consumer-oriented European market there is no emergence of hope
right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  