-- European Stocks Are Little Changed as Fed Decision Looms
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-12T16:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/europe-stock-futures-rise-on-fed-policy-budget-optimism.html
European (SXXP)  stocks closed little
changed as investors waited for the  Federal Reserve  to announce
its decisions on interest rates and economic stimulus, while
American lawmakers continued talks on a new budget.  PSA Peugeot Citroen surged 10 percent after a report that
Algeria make acquire a stake in it. Wacker Chemie AG jumped 12
percent, the most since April 2009, after China announced a
subsidy for solar projects. Barry Callebaut AG dropped 2.3
percent after saying it will buy a unit of Petra Foods Ltd.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to
280.64 in London. The equity benchmark has rallied 1.8 percent
so far this month as U.S. President Barack Obama struck a
conciliatory note on talks to prevent more than $600 billion of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts from coming into
effect next year.  “The Federal Reserve has a commitment, both to try to
stabilize inflation and get unemployment back down,”  Stephen King , chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, told  Mark
Barton  on Bloomberg Television. “In the absence of anything
else, more quantitative easing is the inevitable consequence
we’ll see later today. It’s not so much the idea of getting
roaring growth coming back, it’s more about preventing another
dip in the economy.”  Rate Decision  The Federal Open Market Committee, which began a two-day
meeting yesterday, will announce its interest-rate decision at
12.30 p.m. in Washington, followed by forecasts on economic
growth, unemployment and inflation.  The Fed will expand economic stimulus by announcing $45
billion in monthly Treasury purchases, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  Republicans in Congress hardened their resistance to
Obama’s proposed higher taxes for top earners and demanded a
spending-cut plan, as lawmakers in both parties said it’s
becoming less likely a budget agreement can be enacted before
the Christmas holiday.  Obama’s plan is “mainly tax hikes,” House Speaker  John
Boehner  said. “We’ve got some serious differences.”  In Asia, Japan’s  machinery orders  gained 2.6 percent in
October from September, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo. The
median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
called for a 3 percent increase.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.4 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 was little changed. Germany’s DAX rose 0.3
percent.  Peugeot Stake  Peugeot jumped 10 percent to 5.42 euros after La Tribune
reported that Algeria may take a stake in Europe’s second-
largest carmaker. Francois Hollande’s envoy Jean-Pierre Raffarin
discussed a possible investment when he visited the North
African country in November, the paper said.  Separately, Peugeot said it will eliminate 1,500 job
positions in addition to the 8,000 announced in July. The auto
company, whose shares have plummeted 49 percent so far this
year, will make the cuts by not replacing people who leave,
according to spokesman Jonathan Goodman.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the second-biggest maker of solar-grade
silicon, surged 12 percent to 48.61 euros. China’s ministry of
science and technology announced a second round of solar
subsidies for this year, identifying projects with 2.8 gigawatts
of power as eligible for state aid.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  soared 8.2 percent to 1.16 euros, while  SMA
Solar Technology AG (S92)  advanced 6.3 percent to 18.56 euros.  KBC, TomTom  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  gained 4.9 percent to 23.44 euros after Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation on Belgium’s biggest bank and
insurer by market value to overweight, the equivalent of buy,
from equal weight. Exane BNP Paribas SA upgraded the stock to
outperform from neutral.  TomTom NV (TOM2)  advanced 5.7 percent to 4.06 euros. Apple Inc.
may seek to buy the supplier of navigation applications for the
iPhone 5, Hans Slob, an analyst at Rabobank International, wrote
in a report.  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN)  dropped 2.3 percent to 919 Swiss francs
after saying it will buy Singapore-based Petra Foods’ cocoa-
ingredients unit for $950 million. The deal, scheduled to be
completed in mid-2013, will be the biggest acquisition made by
the Swiss maker of bulk chocolate.  L’Oreal SA (OR)  dropped 1.3 percent to 105 euros after Galderma,
a venture it jointly owns with  Nestle SA (NESN) , agreed to buy Spirig
Pharma AG. Galderma didn’t disclose the details of the purchase.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) , the U.K. maker of chip
technology for tablets and smart phones, slid 5.2 percent to 425
pence. The company’s operational expenditure has lowered its
profit margins, Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  