-- Teva Focuses on Central Nervous System, Respiratory Drugs
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-12-12T21:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/teva-focuses-on-central-nervous-system-respiratory-drugs.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
shares fell the most in 16 months on investor disappointment
with Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin’s plan to replace
revenue from branded drugs losing patent protection in the next
three years.  Teva’s  American depositary receipts  fell 5.3 percent to
$39.47 at the close in  New York , the biggest single-day decline
since Aug. 8, 2011, adding to yesterday’s 2 percent drop. Before
yesterday, the receipts had gained for seven straight days.  Teva’s new CEO, speaking yesterday to analysts and
investors in New York, vowed to refocus the company’s branded
effort on areas such as neurology while delivering cost-cuts of
as much as $2 billion. While acknowledging that sales for best-
selling Copaxone and other branded drugs may decrease as
competition intensifies and patents expire, Levin said investors
who stick around won’t be disappointed as he positions Teva to
grow organically in the long-haul.  “The company laid out a promising vision for the long-term
but it might have been less clear for some how they’re going to
boost growth in the next few years,” Judson Clark, an analyst
at Edward Jones & Co. who has a buy rating on the stock, said by
phone. “In the shorter-term, some investors may be concerned
that there isn’t a visible catalyst or any one drug that can
easily replace Copaxone,” a multiple sclerosis treatment that
generated $1.05 billion in sales in the third quarter.  ‘Not Enough’      “We do not see a pipeline drug with enough innovation to
replace Copaxone,”  Jami Rubin , an analyst at Goldman, Sachs &
Co., wrote in a report yesterday after the presentation. “More
importantly, we would have liked to see a greater commitment to
rewarding investors with additional cash returns.” She has a
“neutral” rating on the stock.  Jason Gerberry, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co., cut the
stock to neutral from buy, citing a “challenging revenue
outlook” and a lack of near-term catalysts. Ronny Gal of
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. reduced his price estimate to $50
from $55. Teva will go through a “long transition process” and
cost cuts won’t have much of an effect until 2014, he said.  Some investors were disappointed with the lack of update on
CT-011, an experimental cancer drug, said Douglas Tsao of
Barclays Plc.  “We are doing the proper diligence to assess the potential
of the drug,”  Michael Hayden , the company’s chief scientific
officer, said of CT-011 in an interview yesterday. “We haven’t
made a decision yet.”  In  Tel Aviv , the stock declined 3.9 percent to close at
156.70 shekels, the biggest drop since Oct 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  