-- Level Global Co-Founder’s Lawyer Tells Jury Witness Lied
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/level-global-co-founder-s-lawyer-tells-jury-witness-lied.html
A lawyer for Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson told jurors at his client’s
insider-trading trial that the key government informant is a
liar whose testimony wasn’t supported by the evidence.  Reid Weingarten , the attorney, said Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who once served as an analyst for Chiasson, lied to
the  fund manager , hid the fact that he was giving the portfolio
manager nonpublic information, and continued to lie on the
witness stand when he testified for the prosecution.  “Sam Adondakis is a liar,” Weingarten said yesterday in
his closing arguments. “Sam Adondakis will lie when it is in
his interest. No doubt. You can’t get around that.”  Chiasson is on trial with former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman . They are accused
of reaping more than $70 million on trades based on illicit tips
provided by analysts who worked for them. Both pleaded not
guilty. Jury deliberations began yesterday afternoon.  Adondakis testified he was part of a group of friends who
were hedge fund analysts. They obtained nonpublic information
from insiders at technology companies including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  He said he passed the illegal tips to Chiasson, who
traded on them.  He and five others who were part of the scheme have pleaded
guilty, including his friend, Jesse Tortora, who was Newman’s
analyst at Diamondback.  Possible Sentence  Chiasson and Newman are charged with conspiracy and
securities fraud. The latter crime carries a term of as long as
20 years in prison.  While Adondakis testified that he gave Chiasson nonpublic
information from company insiders that he got from Tortora,
Weingarten said Adondakis frequently edited the information he
sent the portfolio manager, omitted the source and claimed
analyst research done by Tortora as his own.  Weingarten argued there was no direct evidence
corroborating Adondakis’s claims that Chiasson knew about the
scheme. The lawyer showed jurors e-mails Adondakis sent Chiasson
and compared them to the original e-mails Adondakis received
from Tortora. The messages Chiasson received were edited down by
Adondakis with some information modified or removed, Weingarten
said. He said his client never knew the analyst’s information
was illicitly obtained.  “The bottom line is that there was a profound difference
between information that was going on in the group and the
information Adondakis was sharing with Chiasson,” Weingarten
said.  ‘Big Fish’  Adondakis, caught committing  insider trading , eagerly
decided to give investigators Chiasson, who Weingarten said
wasn’t part of the analysts’ scheme. When Adondakis made
consensual recordings of telephone conversations he had with a
co-conspirator, the men mentioned “big fish,” Weingarten said.  “They wanted a big fish, a portfolio manager” Weingarten
said.  “They wanted to go after the biggest fish that they can
get,” he said. “Sam Adondakis saw his way out of trouble by
making a case against his boss.”  The government said that in 2008, Chiasson and Level Global
earned $57 million on illegal tips on Dell, while Newman and
Diamondback earned $3.8 million on the alleged secret
information about Dell. In 2009, Chiasson and his fund earned
$10 million on Nvidia tips while Newman and Diamondback earned
$48,000, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan, who’s presiding over
the trial, began giving the jury legal instructions this
afternoon. He told jurors they would begin their deliberations
after he concludes the instructions.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 