-- Ex-Dallas Cowboy Lockhart Gets 4 1/2 Years for Scam
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-12-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ex-dallas-cowboy-lockhart-sentenced-for-role-in-mortgage-scam.html
Former Dallas Cowboys linebacker
Eugene Lockhart was sentenced to four and a half years in prison
for his role in a $20.5 million  mortgage fraud  that traded on
his association with the  National Football League .  U.S. District Judge Jorge A. Solis in Dallas handed down
the punishment yesterday as several one-time Cowboys players,
including Hall of Fame defensive lineman Randy White, looked on.
Lockhart, once known as “Mean Gene the Hitting Machine,”
pleaded guilty last year to one count of conspiracy to commit
 wire fraud , days before the scheduled start of his trial.
Prosecutors had sought a five-year term.  Lockhart and eight other people were indicted in 2009 for
allegedly running a scheme that used real estate entities
incorporating references to the Cowboys or “America’s Team”
into their names and that deployed straw borrowers to get
inflated loans for distressed and pre-foreclosure homes in the
 Dallas  area. “America’s Team” is a nickname for the Dallas
football franchise. Two more defendants were indicted in 2010.  “I wasn’t raised up to do anything like that,” the former
football player told the judge yesterday.  Four people, including William Randolph Tisdale Jr. -- whom
prosecutors said led the fraud with Lockhart -- were found
guilty after a trial in February. Lockhart yesterday disputed
the notion that he was a leader of the scheme.  ‘Looked Good’  “I stepped into a ring I didn’t know anything about,” he
told the judge. “It looked good. The money looked good, and I
fell into it.”  The judge rejected this assertion.  “He’s more involved in this than he would like to claim,”
Solis said. “You defrauded and hurt a lot of people,” the
judge told Lockhart.  The jury in February returned no verdict against co-
defendant Suzette Switzer Hinds, who was named in only one of
four counts in the indictment. Solis dismissed that charge
yesterday. Six other people entered guilty pleas and testified
at the trial.  “The scope of the conspiracy involved approximately 54
fraudulent residential property loan closings resulting in the
funding of approximately $20.5 million in fraudulent loans,”
then-U.S. Attorney James T. Jacks of Dallas said when announcing
the charges.  Nine Years  Lockhart, 51,  played nine years  as a linebacker in the NFL,
including seven with the Cowboys, who drafted him in the sixth
round in 1984 out of the  University of Houston . He finished his
career with 16 sacks, six interceptions and a touchdown. He
retired after the 1992 season, after two years with the  New
England Patriots .  Appearing with White at the sentencing yesterday were
fellow defensive lineman Ed “Too Tall” Jones, receiver Drew
Pearson and defensive back Everson Walls.  White, who in 1994 was inducted into the Pro Football Hall
of Fame in Canton,  Ohio , and is a member of the Cowboys’  Ring of
Honor , testified for Lockhart at yesterday’s sentencing.  “I don’t think him having to go to jail is going to help
anyone,” White told the court. He called his former teammate
“an honest guy.”  The case is U.S. v.  Lockhart, 09-CR-00247, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  