-- Ex-Massachusetts Treasurer’s Trial Ends in Jury Deadlock
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-12-12T21:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ex-massachusetts-treasurer-s-trial-ends-without-verdict-1-.html
A mistrial was declared after a jury
failed to reach a unanimous verdict on charges that former
 Massachusetts  Treasurer Timothy Cahill misused state lottery
advertising funds in his failed campaign for governor.  The jury of seven women and five men in state court in
 Boston  today told Suffolk Superior Court Judge Christine Roach
it was deadlocked. Deliberations began Dec. 4.  Scott Campbell ,
Cahill’s former campaign manager, was acquitted yesterday of
conspiracy and procurement fraud in the case.  Cahill, 54, was accused of giving the go-ahead, as state
treasurer, to spend 75 percent of the lottery’s ad budget on TV
and radio spots that promoted his 2010 campaign, Massachusetts
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said in April. Prosecutors said
he planned to use $1.5 million of public money.  “I’m very happy with the outcome,” Cahill said outside
the courtroom. “I did my job and I think the jury saw that.”  Cahill was charged with two counts of conspiracy and one
count each of procurement fraud and using his office for
unwarranted privileges. He faced as long as five years in prison
if convicted.  Documents showed there was coordination between Cahill’s
campaign for governor and the lottery, Coakley said. Although
the ads didn’t name Cahill, they said that the lottery was
“consistently well-managed.” His effectiveness in managing the
lottery and allocating ticket revenue to municipalities was one
of his key campaign points, she said.  Ethics Laws  This was the first time criminal charges had been brought
under state ethics laws that were made tougher in 2009.  In his closing arguments Dec. 4, Cahill’s lawyer, Jeffrey Denner, said the ads were aired to defend the lottery against
political advertising placed by the  Republican Governors
Association  that maligned its management. He said the RGA ran
the spots out of fear that its candidate, Charlie Baker, was
falling behind Cahill with voters.  Cahill, who ran as an independent, lost the race to
incumbent Democrat  Deval Patrick .  “We consider this to be vindication,” Brad Bailey,
another attorney for Cahill, said. “We hope it sends a message
that the proper place for these cases is in a civil context.”  ‘She Can’  Asked about the prospect of another attempt by Coakley to
try him, Cahill said, “She can do whatever she wants to do.”  The jurors “had strong feelings and they communicated that
from time to time,” a juror who didn’t want to give his name
told reporters outside the courtroom. He said the prosecutors
hadn’t proved a conspiracy “beyond a reasonable doubt.”  After the jury was dismissed, Assistant Attorney General
 James O’Brien  asked the judge to set a conference on the case
for Jan. 4.  Cahill’s wife, Tina, told reporters the case was a “huge
financial burden” on her family and Campbell’s. She said her
husband took out $50,000 in loans from family members to pay for
his defense.  Alfred Grazioso, the former chief of staff of the lottery,
is awaiting trial on charges of obstructing justice during the
attorney general’s probe.  The case is Commonwealth v. Cahill, SUCR2012-10348, Suffolk
County, Massachusetts, Superior Court (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  