-- Facebook Adds Tools to Help Its Members Manage Data
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-12T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/facebook-adds-tools-to-help-its-members-manage-data.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is adding controls to
help users manage what information is shared and who sees it on
the world’s largest social-networking service.  New privacy shortcuts will be introduced in the coming
weeks that allow users to tweak settings from the home page
instead of having to click to other parts of the site to make
adjustments, said Samuel Lessin, director of product  at the
Menlo Park, California-based company. Facebook is also making
changes to the activity log, which lets users see what they have
posted on the service and manage content.  “We’re basically helping people understand what’s out
there, and to take the action that is appropriate,” Lessin said
in an interview.  Facebook is stepping up efforts to improve privacy settings
as it comes under scrutiny from regulators and users about how
it handles personal information. Last month, consumer groups
including the Center for Digital Democracy criticized Facebook
for changes to the company’s governing documents, such as ending
votes for users on proposed privacy changes.  As part of the new changes, Facebook is trying to better
inform users of where information might show up with  notices,
according to an e-mailed statement. That will include showing
messages that explain how something hidden on Timeline -- a
profile that shows activities on the site -- may still appear in
News Feed, for example.  In addition, the activity log is getting revised navigation
and management tools. It’s also providing a new way for
requesting removal from multiple photos in which users have been
associated with, or “tagged.” With the new tool, users can
more easily ask friends to take down the pictures they don’t
like, Facebook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  