-- Fiat Said to Start Italy Spending Amid Monti Resignation
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-12T16:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/fiat-ceo-said-to-start-italian-investment-plan-next-week.html
Fiat SpA Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  may start his new investment plan for  Italy  as
soon as next week in the southern town of Melfi, three people
familiar with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Marchionne will probably give details then on the initial
spending at the Melfi plant to build Jeep and Fiat sport-utility
vehicles, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plans have not been revealed yet.  The carmaker, which controls Chrysler Group LLC, will go
ahead with the projects outlined in October even with possible
political instability in Italy after Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
announced his intention last weekend to resign, the people said.
A spokesman at Turin-based  Fiat (F)  declined to comment.  “Marchionne is making a brave choice at the right
moment,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Milan brokerage
Alisei Sim.  Marchionne plans to boost sales of more expensive models to
turn around Fiat’s European operations, which are forecast to
post 700 million euros ($913 million) in losses this year and
led the manufacturer to cut its 2014 trading-profit  goal  by 31
percent to 5.2 billion euros. The CEO intends to introduce 19
models through 2016 that will be produced in Italy, including
nine Alfa Romeo-badged vehicles and six Maseratis.  Model Strategy  Of the new vehicles, 15 will be made for both export
outside the region and sale in  Europe . Fiat and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler plan to invest as much as 18 billion
euros in the next two years, mainly to develop new models in
Europe, according to an Oct. 30 investor presentation. Fiat
predicts it will break even in Europe in 2015 at the earliest as
it adopts the higher-priced vehicle strategy.  “Marchionne is doing well in taking this opportunity, and
his focus on the high-end market segment goes in the right
direction,” said Carlo Scarpa, professor of industrial economy
at the University of Brescia. “A new government wouldn’t make a
big difference and, in the medium term, the economic trend
should be positive.”  Fiat was  unchanged  at 3.58 euros at 5:08 p.m. in Milan
after rising as much as 1.2 percent. The stock has gained 1.1
percent this year, valuing the company at 4.49 billion euros.  Monti said today that he’s concerned by the crisis in
carmaking in Europe and its effects on industry in his country.
The region’s auto-manufacturing association expects a fifth
annual decline in sales this year.  ‘Not Inevitable’  The Italian industry has particularly suffered “from the
slow and inevitable erosion of competitiveness that has been
underestimated for a long time,” Monti said in a speech at the
annual meeting of the Italian carmakers lobby Anfia in  Rome .
“Let me correct myself: it’s not inevitable. It can and must be
reversed.”  The prime minister intends to resign as soon as next week,
when Parliament is expected to pass his 2013 budget. Monti
announced he would step aside after Silvio Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party withdrew its support when the former three-time
premier said he would run again. Once Monti resigns, Parliament
will be dissolved, with elections held as soon as February.  Fiat said Dec. 7 that it plans to eliminate 1,500  jobs  in
Poland to reduce production as the European auto market is on
track to hit a 17-year low in 2012. The carmaker, which last
year moved production of the new Panda model from  Poland  to its
home market, doesn’t plan to cut more jobs in Italy after
shutting a plant on the island of Sicily in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  