-- Four Stars for Blanca’s 25-Course, $700 Food Fest: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/four-stars-for-blanca-s-25-course-700-food-fest-review.html
During the final hour of a 25-course
meal at Blanca, a bearded patron approached the communal record
player and put on Metallica’s “Ride the Lightning.”  Such heavy-metal mayhem would raise eyebrows if we were
burning cash at cushy Per Se.  But at our newest four-star restaurant, it somehow felt
right.  We were in a converted garage in the Bushwick section of
 Brooklyn . The music accompanied the grilling of American Wagyu,
which came out suffused with the aromas of earth and pan
drippings.  It’s a startlingly great steak and Blanca, from the chef
behind Roberta’s next door, is one of New York’s great
restaurants. Other selections that evening included chicken-
fried sweetbreads and spaghetti-like glass shrimp.  There’s no printed menu, and the bread course is timed to
arrive around the 90-minute mark of a 3-hour grand tour through
chef Carlo Mirarchi’s prodigious culinary repertoire.  So even if the music -- not too loud, by the way -- isn’t
to your taste, Blanca will be. Its 12 extremely comfortable
counter seats overlooking the kitchen are booked a month out.  Your meal will cost $180 plus $85 for the beverage pairing,
plus tax and tip. That’s about $700 for two.  Subway Down  Dinner begins at 6 p.m. except on Saturdays, when it might
start as early as 4:45 p.m. Show up late and you’ll find the
meal already in progress. Lesson: The subway gets you to
Bushwick in half the time of a very expensive cab ride.  Mirarchi kicks off the meal with a dollop of golden osetra
from  Germany . The pearls are firm and nutty, more like expensive
Caspian roe. What’s the trick? He adds a dash of parsnip cream.
Brilliant.  This goes down nicely with a few fingers of Pierre Moncuit
Champagne, if you’ve chosen the beverage pairing. You should,
since it eases the stress of matching wines with more than two-
dozen plates. Otherwise, the bottle is reasonably priced at $82;
good rieslings are available for about the same.  Maine sea urchin is next. The musky maritime gonads, orange
and engorged, sit a pool of tart radish yogurt, another winner.  Then comes a plate of oily raw fish: a few rich bites of
herring, some crimson bonito with smoked skin and a warm sardine
with tiny dots of finger lime. To keep you sharp amid all these
omega-3’s, you’ll be sipping a floral Dassai 23 sake.  White Truffles  Blanca is about minimalism. Few ingredients, intense
flavors. Neither the palate nor the eyes are confused. The
front-row view allows you to watch Mirarchi shave white truffles
over pine-nut agnolotti. Some restaurants would levy a $175
supplement for such fungi. No hidden fees here.  Japanese Wagyu comes with the meal as well. The beef’s
silky, striated fat all but melts into the sweet kohlrabi broth
it’s finished in, like shabu-shabu.  And then you have the game-changing pasta, a raviolo filled
with soft nduja sausage. The spice of Calabrian chile ignites
the pork in your mouth. It’s a humble dish made luxurious via
perfection and scarcity -- you’re only allowed one.  The grilled Iberico ham course is the opposite of scarcity.
Once you finish the nutty, medium-rare meat, Mirarchi offers a
few more bites and the sommelier pours another splash of
fragrant Moser Moscato Giallo.  Later on, there might be chicken in a seaweed-spiked
vegetable broth or rare-roasted yearling with a crystal clear
mint jelly.  La Tur cheese is creamed into a soup with hints of bitter
rind and citron. It needs honey, which appears in liquefied form
as a Ronchi di Cialla dessert wine.  Want more cheese? Treviso ice cream comes next. The finale
is an earthy, sweet hemp-flavored marshmallow. No, this is not
Le Bernardin, Daniel or Jean Georges. It’s four-star, Brooklyn-
style.  Rating: ****  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Tasting at $180, pairing at $85.  Sound Level: Never quiet, never loud. About 70 decibels.  Date Place: If you got the scratch and your friend’s a gem.  Special Feature: Wines on the pairing list are available by  the glass for $14 to $32.  Inside Tip: Reservations taken the first of the month.  Back on My Own Dime: About once a year.  Blanca is at 261 Moore St. Information: +1-646-703-2715;
 http://www.blancanyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on life and
 Amanda Gordon  on N.Y. Scene.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 