-- Fuji Heavy Pushes Back Decision on Increase in U.S. Capacity
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-12-12T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/fuji-heavy-to-push-back-decision-on-u-s-capacity-increase.html
Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s
president said the Subaru carmaker delayed making a decision on
its U.S. capacity expansion as slumping demand in  China  and
 Europe  gave the company more room to ship vehicles to America.  The  company  will decide on the matter by the end of the
fiscal year ending March, instead of the previous plan to do so
by the end of December, President Yasuyuki Yoshinaga said in an
interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters yesterday. Fuji
Heavy will probably choose an “incremental” expansion in U.S.
manufacturing rather than building a new factory, he said.  The comments illustrate how the slump in Chinese demand for
Japanese products -- fueled by a diplomatic row between the two
countries that flared in September -- is interfering with global
strategies. Auto-parts makers from Koito Manufacturing Co. to
 Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802)  have said they’re considering
stepping up their expansion in regions such as  Southeast Asia  to
counter the risk of conducting business in China.  Fuji Heavy shares have almost doubled this year, the best
 performer  on Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, as the
automaker’s lack of manufacturing plants in China shielded the
company from the sales slump in the country relative to  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  The stock rose
2.9 percent to close at 918 yen yesterday in Tokyo.  U.S. Boost  Yoshinaga, 58, said the company coped with declines in
China and Europe by diverting shipments to the U.S. and Japan,
where sales have been rising. He ruled out Fuji Heavy, which
allocates some of its U.S. capacity to make Camry sedans for
Toyota, would scale back those ties in the company’s next
expansion plans.  Fuji Heavy expects to sell 348,800 cars in the U.S., its
largest market, during the current fiscal year. The company is
counting on demand of the Legacy and Forester sport utility
vehicles to drive growth next year.  Fuji Heavy may sell 400,000 vehicles in the U.S. in the
fiscal year ending March 2016, exceeding an earlier forecast for
380,000, Takeshi Tachimori, chief of Fuji Heavy’s U.S. unit,
said in June.  Not all models are doing well. The carmaker is considering
discontinuing production of the Tribeca SUV, Yoshinaga said.
Subaru sold only 2,800 units of Tribeca last year in the U.S.,
compared with 146,000 units of the Legacy SUV.  In  Japan , the  company  has said it will increase production
at its main domestic plant in Gunma Prefecture by 20 percent to
180,000 vehicles by the summer of next year. Government
subsidies helped boost domestic sales by 30 percent to 47,528
vehicles for the six months ended September, led by the Legacy
and Impreza, according to the company.  In China, Fuji Heavy saw sales through the end of November
tumble 27 percent to 39,602 units, resulting in the company
piling up as much as six months’ worth of inventory. Inventory
will return to normal levels by March, Yoshinaga said.  Still, the company -- the only major Japanese automaker not
to have received approval to manufacture vehicles in China --
isn’t giving up on the country yet, Yoshinaga said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in  Tokyo  at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  