-- Galderma Agrees to Buy Spirig to Gain Skin-Care Treatments
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-12-12T16:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/galderma-agrees-to-buy-spirig-to-gain-skin-care-treatments-1-.html
Galderma SA , the Swiss maker of
Cetaphil skin creams, agreed to buy Spirig Pharma AG to gain
dry-skin and sun-protection treatments and said it expects to
grow faster than the market.  Spirig, which makes a range of products that it says
prevent precancerous conditions, generated sales of 98.4 million
Swiss francs ($106 million) last year, Lausanne-based Galderma
said today. Financial details of the purchase weren’t disclosed.
Spirig said last month it was evaluating strategic partnerships.  Galderma,  founded  in 1981, is owned by  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and
 Nestle SA. (NESN)  The  Cetaphil  product line includes cleansers,
moisturizers and sunscreens for sensitive skin. It also sells
Azzalure, a Botox competitor manufactured by Ipsen SA. Galderma
had sales of 1.6 billion francs last year.  The global market for medical skin treatments is growing at
a 4 percent pace, said Humberto Antunes, Galderma’s chief
executive officer. “We expect it to continue to grow at the
same rate and we will grow faster than the market,” Antunes
said in an interview in Egerkingen,  Switzerland , without
providing details.  Galderma also continues to scout for further acquisition
opportunities even as sales at existing divisions grow, he said.
“If the inventions happen outside and make sense, we’ll be
ready,” Antunes said.  Galderma gets about half of its revenue from prescription
treatments, while over-the-counter products account for about 27
percent of its business and so-called aesthetic and corrective
products bring in 23 percent of sales. The company is benefiting
from changing demographics as people live longer, Antunes said.  “With an aging population, there’ll be more need for
dermatology” products, he said.  The Spirig transaction is expected to close in early 2013.
Credit Suisse Group AG advised Galderma, while Kurmann Partners
advised Spirig.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  