-- Germany to Sell Real Estate to Lone Star for $1.4 Billion
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-12-12T15:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/germany-sells-commercial-buildings-to-lone-star-for-1-4-billion.html
The German government agreed to sell
TLG Immobilien, a company that owns about 800 buildings in the
country’s eastern states, to  Lone Star (LSTG)  Funds for 1.1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) including debt. It’s the country’s biggest
commercial-property deal of the year.  Lone Star, a private equity firm based in  Dallas , will
acquire TLG Immobilien’s stores, offices, warehouses and hotels,
the Berlin-based Finance Ministry said today in a statement.
Lone Star will pay 594 million euros in cash and assume about
500 million euros of debt, a government official said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government, in an effort to
reduce its budget deficit, is taking advantage of an increase in
German property prices fueled in part by low interest rates and
a lack of investment alternatives. Last month, it agreed to sell
the residential arm of TLG Group, the real-estate management
company that includes TLG Immobilien, to Hamburg-based  TAG
Immobilien AG (TEG)  for 215 million euros.  “From the government’s perspective, the current market
situation was ideal for the sale of the TLG Group,” Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said in the statement.  Former Brewery  TLG Immobilien manages buildings ranging from a  Porsche
showroom  in Dresden to  a factory in Chemnitz  and the
Kulturbrauerei, a former brewery in east Berlin that was
converted into restaurants, bars and music venues. The company
was valued at 1.4 billion euros in the sales prospectus.  TLG “has attractive properties in good locations, most of
which were acquired or developed in the past 10 years,”
Alexander Hesse, managing director of Lone Star’s German
business, said in a statement today. The assets will be managed
by Lone Star’s Real Estate Fund II, the firm said.  TLG Group replaced Treuhand Gesellschaft, the company that
oversaw the sale and restructuring of thousands of companies
after the collapse of communist East Germany and the 1990
reunification. The government shelved a plan to sell TLG in 2008
because of the global financial crisis.  Foreign investors are buying German real estate as
investment opportunities in other countries that use the euro
dwindle amid low interest rates and economic weakness in
countries such as Spain and  Portugal .  In April, Lone Star agreed to buy property loans formerly
held by the German arm of now defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. from the Bundesbank. Those loans had a nominal value of 1.4
billion euros, the German central bank said.  Budget Deficit  The German government targets a deficit of 17.5 billion
euros in 2013 compared with 25 billion euros this year. The sale
of TLG’s two units will generate net proceeds of 812 million
euros, which will be added to the 2013  federal budget , according
to the government official.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advised the government on the transaction.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Cerberus Capital
Management also bid for TLG Immobilien, according to people with
knowledge with the auction.  Lone Star was chosen because it offered a high price and
obtained financing in advance, the government official said. The
private equity firm said it will keep TLG Immobilien intact
instead of selling its assets, he said. The German company
employs 200 people.  The federal government plans to sell more real estate
including its shares in the Berlin Brandenburg, Cologne and
Munich airports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 