-- German Stocks Rise Amid Speculation of U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-12T16:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/german-stocks-rise-amid-u-s-budget-stimulus-optimism.html
German stocks  advanced to the
highest in almost five years as investors awaited the Federal
Reserve’s decisions on interest rates and economic stimulus,
while U.S. lawmakers continued discussions on a new budget.  Allianz AG contributed the most to the DAX Index’s rise as
Exane BNP Paribas raised its price estimate on the stock.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, gained 3.8
percent as Jefferies Group Inc. upgraded its recommendation on
the shares.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  surged 12 percent after  China 
announced a new round of solar-project subsidies.  The DAX added 0.3 percent to 7,614.79 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, its highest level since January 2008. The
gauge has  rallied 28 percent  from its low on June 5 as European
Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-purchase
program and the Federal Reserve announced a third round of
quantitative easing. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.3 percent.  “Close to the end of the year, markets seem to know only
one direction -- further upwards,” Roger Peeters, chief
executive officer at Close Brothers Seydler Research in
 Frankfurt , wrote in a note. “The technical situation is
improving with some encouraging economic figures. It does not
look like this trend will stop in the short term.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 6.1
percent below the average of the last 30 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Federal Open Market Committee, which began a two-day
meeting yesterday, will announce its interest-rate decision at
12.30 p.m. in  Washington , followed by forecasts on economic
growth, unemployment and inflation.  Stimulus Optimism  The Fed will expand economic stimulus by announcing $45
billion in monthly Treasury purchases in addition to its program
to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  President  Barack Obama  lowered his demand for tax increases
to $1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion in a bid to reach agreement
on a budget to avoid more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts from coming into effect next year.  Still, Republicans in Congress hardened their resistance to
Obama’s proposed higher taxes for top earners and called on him
to propose spending cuts.  Obama’s budget plan is “mainly tax hikes,” House Speaker
John Boehner told reporters today in Washington. “We’ve got
some serious differences.”  Allianz rose 1 percent to 103.95 euros, contributing the
most to the benchmark index’s gain, as Exane raised its target
price for  Europe ’s biggest insurer by 12 percent to 125 euros.
Exane kept its outperform rating, meaning investors should buy
the stock.  ThyssenKrupp Gains  ThyssenKrupp advanced 3.8 percent to 17.83 euros. Jefferies
raised the stock to buy from hold, saying that estimates for the
steelmaker have become more realistic after it posted its second
straight annual loss on a bigger-than-expected writedown of its
Americas unit. Jefferies also increased its forecast price on
the shares to 21 euros from 17.50 euros.  A gauge of commodity companies gained the most of the 19
industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Wacker Chemie, a maker of the main raw material in solar
panels, surged 12 percent to 48.61 euros, its biggest gain since
April 2009, as China announced its second round of subsidies for
solar projects this year.  Daimler AG (DAI)  advanced 1 percent to 39.86 euros after the
world’s third-largest maker of luxury vehicles appointed
Hubertus Troska to its management board to revive sales growth
in China as Mercedes-Benz loses ground to Volkswagen AG’s Audi.  Troska, 52, currently head of Daimler’s Mercedes trucks
unit, will take over the new position to become Daimler’s eighth
board member starting tomorrow, the Stuttgart, Germany-based
carmaker said today in a statement.  Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second biggest lender, added 2.7
percent to 1.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  