-- Ghana Opposition Rallies as Akufo-Addo Challenges Loss
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ghana-opposition-rallies-as-akufo-addo-challenges-loss.html
Supporters of  Ghana ’s main
opposition party protested the defeat of their leader, Nana Akufo-Addo, as he vowed to challenge his election loss at the
country’s highest court.  “We are taking our matter to the  Supreme Court , and they
will decide the fate of this elections,” Akufo-Addo said in a
speech at a rally in Accra, the capital, yesterday, which was
broadcast on closely held Oman FM. He urged his backers to stay
calm. “We know we won this election. The truth of this election
will come out however long it takes.”  The 68-year-old leader of the New Patriotic Party got 47.7
percent of votes in the Dec. 7 and Dec. 8 elections, while John Dramani Mahama of the ruling National Democratic Congress won
with 50.7 percent, according to the Electoral Commission. Six
other candidates received the rest of the votes.  Mahama, 54, who came to office in July following the death
of John Atta Mills, faces calls from Ghanaians to spread more
equally the benefits from oil production that began in 2010 and
rising output of gold. The economy expanded at the fastest pace
in  Africa  last year at 14.4 percent. It’s projected to grow 8.2
percent this year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Cedi Weakens  Ghana’s cedi, which has fallen 13 percent against the
dollar this year, weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8953 a dollar by
6:10 p.m. yesterday in Accra as investors “became nervous about
court challenges” which may annul or change vote results, Coura Fall, a sub-Saharan Africa strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The cedi is the third-worst performer this year of 22
African currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The yield on the
country’s $750 million of Eurobonds eased seven basis points to
4.96 percent. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage
point.  The legal team of the NPP is “checking the robustness of
the evidence” and a court appearance will be made within the
next few days, Chairman Jake Obetsebi-Lamptey told reporters
yesterday.  “This is not a matter of getting power or being in power,
it’s a matter of strengthening our democracy,” he said. “If we
find that there are flaws within the  Electoral Commission 
itself, then we need to bring it to the people of this country
so that they stop treating the commission as if it’s not
answerable to the law.”  Discredit Party  The NPP will “exhaust all the legal means available to
them,”  Kissy Agyeman-Togobo, an Accra-based partner with
Songhai Advisory LLP, said in an interview.  One man was stabbed “by one of the NPP supporters,” who
were gathered at Kwame Nkrumah Circle, one of Accra’s biggest
transportation hubs, and taken to hospital, Christian Tetteh
Yohuno, deputy Accra regional police commander, said by phone.
“Other people who walked by in NDC shirts or drove with NDC
signs on their cars were also attacked, but we were able to save
the situation and averted violence.”  If the NPP is unable to produce evidence to support its
claim of systematic electoral fraud, “then its legal challenge
will discredit the party itself, more so than Ghana and its
democratic processes,” Ben Payton, Africa analyst at Bath,
U.K.-based risk analysis company Maplecroft, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Deficit Widens  Investor confidence in Ghana may be affected if a court
case becomes a protracted legal battle that prevents the
government from “addressing its most urgent priorities,
particularly the structural deficit,” Payton said.  Ghana’s budget deficit widened to 7.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the first nine months of the year from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the central bank. By the
end of the year, the gap may reach 7.5 percent, according to
 Razia Khan , head of Africa research at Standard Chartered Plc in
 London .  During the campaign, Mahama pledged to reduce the deficit
to 5 percent, keep  inflation  below 10 percent and boost economic
growth to at least 8 percent annually.  Foreign and domestic observers including the Commonwealth
Observer Group and the Economic Community of West African States
have deemed the vote credible, urging all political parties to
accept the results.  The results announced by the electoral commission
“accurately reflect” the ballots cast on voting day, Justice
Vincent Crabbe, co-chair of the Coalition of Domestic Election
Observers, which deployed 4,500 people nationwide to monitor the
polls, said yesterday.  “President Mahama is adept at political reconciliation and
will likely extend several olive branches, including possibly a
few cabinet posts, to NPP leaders and others outside of the
ruling party,” Eurasia Group analysts Philippe de Pontet and
James Clinton Francis said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in  Accra  at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  