-- Gilead Sciences to Buy YM BioSciences for $510 Million
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-12-12T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/gilead-sciences-to-buy-ym-biosciences-for-510-million.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s
biggest maker of AIDS drugs, agreed to buy  YM BioSciences Inc. (YMI) 
for $510 million to obtain the Canadian company’s research into
treatments for a bone-marrow disorder.  YM BioSciences investors will receive $2.95 a share,
Gilead, based in  Foster City ,  California , said in a statement
today. The all-cash deal carries an 81 percent premium over
yesterday’s closing price for U.S. shares of YM BioSciences.  The Canadian company’s lead drug candidate, CYT387, combats
myelofibrosis, a bone-marrow disease that can lead to anemia and
an enlarged spleen, Gilead said. The drug is a so-called JAK
inhibitor, a class of medicines pharmaceutical companies are
testing for new treatments against cancer and autoimmune
diseases. CYT387 is expected to enter the third phase of testing
usually needed for U.S. approval in the second half of 2013, the
companies said.  “We continue to believe their asset CYT387 for
myelofibrosis had a strong efficacy and safety profile, and was
highly underappreciated,”  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with Wells
Fargo Securities, wrote in a note. The acquisition provides
Gilead “with a promising asset at a very reasonable price.”  First Quarter  The deal is expected to be completed in the first quarter,
the companies said. YM BioSciences, based in Mississauga,
Ontario, had C$125.5 million ($127.5 million) in cash and cash
equivalents as of Sept. 30, according to the statement.  The acquisition “represents an opportunity to add a
complementary clinical program” to treat blood cancers “to our
growing oncology portfolio,” Norbert W. Bischofberger, Gilead’s
chief scientific officer, said in the statement.  Gilead fell less than 1 percent to $76.23 at the close of
trading in  New York . YM BioSciences  jumped  77 percent to $2.88,
just below Gilead’s offer.  The acquisition “represents an opportunity to add a
complementary clinical program” to treat blood cancers “to our
growing oncology portfolio,” Norbert W. Bischofberger, Gilead’s
chief scientific officer, said in the statement.  Holders of YM BioSciences warrants and stock options will
receive the difference between $2.95 and the exercise prices,
the companies said.  YM BioSciences received legal advice from Gowling Lafleur
Henderson LLP, Heenan Blaikie LLP and Dorsey & Whitney LLP.
Gilead was advised by  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  and Blake
Cassels and Graydon LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  