-- Gold CEOs Told to Fix Slump as Investors Prove Restless
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-12-12T15:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/gold-ceos-told-to-fix-slump-as-investors-prove-restless.html
Gold-mine investors are losing
patience with management in the  $60 billion industry  as their
shares head for the first back-to-back annual slump since 1998,
even as the metal completes a dozen years of gains.  Producers from  Canada ’s  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
biggest, to  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  of the U.S. are failing to
control expenses. The average cost to extract an ounce of gold
by the largest miners jumped 23 percent to $584.70 in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In contrast, silver production costs
fell 12 percent to the lowest since 2007, the data show.  Money managers including billionaire investor George Soros
reacted by boosting stakes in physical gold, pushing gold-mine
executives to resign, or shifting into silver. Direct holdings
of the metal reached a record 2,629.3 metric tons Dec. 10,
valued at $145 billion, after more than tripling in five years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are very critical, voting with their feet and
pushing management teams to resign,” said  John Wong , a
portfolio manager at CQS Group’s New City Investment Managers,
who increased his silver holdings. “You can tell from the way
investors sold Barrick down that they are on short fuses.”  Barrick replaced Chief Executive Officer Aaron Regent with
Chief Financial Officer Jamie Sokalsky on June 6, saying it was
“disappointed” in the share performance after costs rose and
production dropped. Since then the stock lost another 19 percent
as the company missed earnings for four straight quarters amid
delays and cost overruns at its Pascua-Lama project on the
mountainous Argentina-Chile border.  At least five more gold CEOs lost their jobs this year.  Silver Alternative  Silver producers comprise three of the five biggest
holdings in Wong’s $94 million Golden Prospect Precious Metals
Ltd., led by Silver Wheaton Corp. In 2010, four of the funds’
five largest holdings were gold producers.  The  NYSE Arca Gold BUGS (HUI)  Index of gold mining companies has
declined 24 percent in the past two years compared with a 4.4
percent gain in the MSCI World Index. The performance is a
result of an “appalling track record of value destruction” by
management teams, according to Evy Hambro, manager of
BlackRock’s $12 billion World Mining Fund.  Hambro’s biggest holding is Rio Tinto Group, which only
produces gold as a byproduct from copper mining.  Gold producers make up six of the eight worst performers in
the S&P Global Resources index this year, with  IAMGOLD Corp. (IMG) ,
Harmony Gold Mining Company Ltd. and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
posting the biggest declines.  Share Performance  The Arca benchmark gold index fell about 12 percent this
year compared with a 9 percent gain in gold’s price. The
Bloomberg World Mining Index is little changed, while key
materials such as  iron ore  and thermal coal dropped 11 percent
and 16 percent respectively. Copper has gained 6.7 percent. Gold
was little changed at $1,711 an ounce by 3:52 p.m. in  London .  Gold companies also face competition from gold-backed
exchange-traded products, or ETPs, as investors bet on bullion
without the operational risks from mining.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  boosted his stake in
exchange-traded products backed by gold in the third-quarter.
 Soros Fund Management  increased its investment in the SPDR Gold
Trust, the biggest fund focused on the metal, by 49 percent to
1.32 million shares as of Sept. 30 from three months earlier, a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing showed.  “We are at a watershed where the message from shareholders
is very loud and clear: ‘We do not like what you do,’” said
Markus Bachmann, Johannesburg-based manager of the Craton
Capital Precious Metal Fund. “The costs are too high. The
returns are not good enough.”  Inflation Slowing  To be sure, producers with good management and operations
may be set to benefit from slowing cost inflation and rising
gold prices, investors say. Gold may advance to $1,850 an ounce
next year, according to the median forecast of 24 analysts,
while cost inflation of 19 percent in the past 12 months may
ease as the  mining industry  curtails expansion in response to
faltering Chinese demand.  “There are signs that the cost inflation is contained,
which will help the companies,” said Bachmann. “By and large
we will see a healthier industry next year.  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , Canada’s third-largest producer, fired
its CEO Tye Burt in August saying a change of leadership was
needed to guide the company through capital allocation and
project development improvements. In October, Kinross said CFO
Paul Barry will leave the company.  Spending Reduced  ‘‘Kinross was in fact the first of the majors to respond
decisively in early 2012 to industry wide cost escalation --
first by resequencing our growth projects to reduce our overall
capital commitments and second by pausing a large build at our
Tasiast expansion project in order to review smaller, less
capital intensive options,’’ J. Paul Rollinson, Kinross CEO,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘‘As a third step after I assumed the role of CEO in mid
year we reduced our  capital spending  by $200 million from our
original 2012 forecast and are continuing to look for every
opportunity to reduce costs,’’ Rollinson said.  Barrick said it’s continuing a review of its assets and has
deferred about $3 billion in capital expenditure. All
alternatives for investing shareholder capital will compete
against each other to allow it to return more to shareholders in
the future, repay debt and invest in assets.  ‘‘Our overriding objective is to translate Barrick’s
strengths and results into higher shareholder returns,” the
company said in an e-mail. “We intend to deliver this through a
disciplined capital allocation approach that maximizes risk-
adjusted returns on investment and free  cash flow .”  Overpaying, Writedowns  Newmont, the largest U.S. gold producer, was one of the
first companies to respond to costs rising across the industry,
the company said in a statement. That included cutting operating
and administrative expenses and reductions in spending on
exploration and advanced projects, it said.  Precious metal producers spent a record $53 billion on
deals in 2010 and a further $43 billion last year as record gold
prices spurred deals. That led to writedowns that are an
admission of overpaying.  Newmont took a $1.61 billion writedown on its Hope Bay mine
in Canada in February after putting the project on hold. The
company gained control of the mine as part of its C$1.5 billion
($1.5 billion) acquisition of Miramar Mining Corp. in 2007.
Kinross took a $2.49 billion writedown on its Tasiast mine in
 Mauritania , which it bought as part of its all-stock C$8 billion
acquisition of Red Back Mining Inc. in September 2010. Agnico-
Eagle Mines Ltd. wrote down its Meadowbank project in northern
Canada.  “The lack of capital discipline is probably the biggest
issue,” said Wong. “They’ve all relied on the gold price to
bail them out, which actually is a very bad way to manage a
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  