-- Good Conservative Policies Fall Off Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-12-12T23:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/good-conservative-policies-fall-off-fiscal-cliff.html
There’s a problem at the heart of
the fiscal cliff talks between U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker  John Boehner . Well, many problems, actually, but
one is especially apparent.  As they discuss a deal to head off the more than $600
billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled
for January, Democrats know exactly what they want in higher
taxes: $1.6 trillion, achieved mostly through higher tax rates
on top earners. Republicans, however, aren’t so sure of what
they want from Medicare spending cuts.  That’s why Republicans keep demanding that the White House
make a new offer on entitlements rather than providing a
detailed proposal of their own: They’re hoping the Democrats
will do their work for them, taking on both the technical and
political challenge of naming Medicare cuts.  One policy Republicans are pushing is an increase in the
Medicare eligibility age. This is not a good sign. Raising the
Medicare age is a particularly dumb cut. It’s disconnected from
any coherent theory of restraining health spending, such as
encouraging competition, ending fee-for-service payments or
using Medicare’s bargaining power to wring efficiencies from the
system. Worse,  according to the Kaiser Family Foundation , it
doesn’t even save money. It merely shifts Medicare costs to
employers, consumers and other public entities, including
Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act and the states.  Political Trophy  But an increase in the eligibility age would be a trophy
that Boehner could present to his political base -- proof that
he had bagged his prey. In the absence of good ideas that
Republicans agree on, bad ideas that Democrats hate will do.  Some conservatives, however, are pushing more ambitious
approaches. Jim Capretta, who worked on budgets in the George W. Bush administration, has emerged as one of the  Republican
Party ’s most influential voices on health-care policy. His big
idea is distilled in two words: “beneficiary engagement.”  One of Capretta’s (many) criticisms of the White House
approach to Medicare is that it casts seniors as nothing more
than passive bystanders in a push to control costs. Capretta
argues that the vast majority of seniors make serious, rational
decisions to supplement traditional Medicare with a Medigap
policy, an employer policy or Medicaid. Only 10 percent of
seniors, he says, are in traditional Medicare without some kind
of backup.  The problem, in Capretta’s view, is that seniors pay “zero
or very-near zero at the point of service.” In other words,
Medicare has turned into “an essentially unmanaged fee-for-
service program where the cost-sharing, the only speed bump
putting a check on use, is getting wiped out.” That’s a good
deal for Medicare beneficiaries, but a bad one for the country.  Capretta’s goal is to make seniors more cost-conscious at
the point of service. He even sees an opportunity to build on
some Obamacare reforms, despite being an implacable critic of
the law. He thinks the Affordable Care Act’s effort to expand
accountable care organizations -- provider networks that are
paid based on the quality, rather than the quantity, of care
they deliver -- should be encouraged. Trouble is, he says,
Democrats are encouraging the spread of such networks mostly by
paying them more. In order to hold costs down, he would like to
give patients a bigger role and greater financial stake in
choosing a network.  Physician’s Ideas  In the Senate, Oklahoma Republican  Tom Coburn , a physician
himself, has emerged as one of his party’s top thinkers on
Medicare. In  bipartisan legislation  with Senator  Joe Lieberman 
of  Connecticut , and a more partisan  effort  with Senator Richard Burr of  North Carolina , he has proposed a bevy of Medicare
reforms, including simplifying and raising deductibles,
increasing means-testing and transitioning to a defined-
contribution, premium support model, similar to that proposed by
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan .  When I spoke with Coburn this week, he didn’t spend our
interview trying to sell me on either bill.  “If I had the magic wand,” he told me, “I’d change how we
pay for Medicare.” That’s a common enough sentiment, but the
policy Coburn has in mind is a bit more radical than what’s
typically offered in  Washington .  “I’d change all physicians to time instead of fee-for-
service,” he says. “What we’re doing with fee-for-service, and
most people don’t realize this, is when you go to the doctor,
they have this pressure to see X number of patients a day to
meet their numbers.”  If we cut payments to doctors, Coburn says, “they’re going
to cut the time they spend per patient. When a patient is in a
room and you haven’t used your skills as a physician to really
listen, you walk out and cover that absence of time by ordering
tests. So if you say here’s all the hours we’ll pay for if
you’re a Medicare doctor, and we can actually audit that time,
doctors would have to demonstrate proof that they’re spending
this time with patients.”  That wasn’t, I noted to Coburn, a policy that appeared in
any of the bills he had sponsored, a fact he acknowledged with a
laugh. “I didn’t put that in there,” he said, admitting the idea
has little political support. “It’s just something I’ve thought
about a long time. Nobody should be seen for less than 20 or 30
minutes if you’re doing this properly. And if I knew I was going
to get paid for my time I wouldn’t be in a hurry to see the next
patient.”  I’m not sold on all of Capretta’s or Coburn’s ideas. At
least they’re attempts to address the central issue, which is
changing the way we deliver health care so that it costs less
and does more. That, and not crude cuts, is what the budget
debate ultimately should be about.  For budget negotiators, though, the problem with such
ambitious attempts to reform the health-care system is that they
require time to be implemented, and additional time for the
health-care system to adapt to them. They don’t necessarily help
politicians hit a big savings target in a short-term budget.
That’s why, in negotiations in which the goal is, say, $450
billion in health savings over a decade, there’s a tendency to
rely on spreadsheet gimmickry and dumb cuts.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 