-- Google to Shut Down Shopping Search Function in China Today
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-12T04:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/google-to-shut-down-shopping-search-function-in-china-today.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which pulled its search
engine from  China  in 2010, will shutter its shopping service in
the nation today, the second time in three months it withdrew a
product from the world’s largest Internet market.  The service will be ended because it “was not providing
businesses with the level of impact we had hoped,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Google’s service competed against Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce company, which runs a shopping
search engine called  etao.com . The shuttering by the  Mountain
View , California-based company follows the Sept. 21 announcement
that ended its three-year-old Google Music Search service in
China. Google will focus on advertising services for mobile
applications, desktop display, and export-oriented search, it
said today.  “Google should focus on non-search business,” in China,
said Wallace Cheung, a Hong Kong-based analyst with Credit
Suisse. “They posed no competition to Alibaba from day one.
AdMob and mobile/desktop display are good businesses for Google,
without any concern about their government relationship.”  Google said in January 2010 it was no longer willing to
comply with Chinese government regulations to self-censor Web
content and began redirecting search-engine users in China to a
Hong Kong-based site. The company’s  China-based landing page 
still offers translation services and an experimental group deal
aggregating service.  “We’ve never been afraid to try big, bold things, and that
won’t change,” Google said in the statement announcing the
closure of the shopping search service. “By targeting our
resources more effectively on our core mobile, display, and
export ads products, we can better help Chinese businesses grow
and thrive on the Web.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  