-- Google Chairman Says Android Winning Mobile War With Apple: Tech
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/google-chairman-says-android-winning-mobile-war-with-apple-tech.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android is extending
its lead over  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the mobile-software market at a rate
that compares with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s expansion in desktop
software in the 1990s, Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said.  Booming demand for Android-based smartphones is helping
Google add share at the expense of other software providers,
Schmidt said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . Android snared 72 percent of the
market in the third quarter, while Apple had 14 percent,
according to Gartner Inc. Customers are activating more than 1.3
million Android devices a day, Schmidt said.  “This is a huge platform change; this is of the scale of
20 years ago -- Microsoft versus Apple,” he said. “We’re
winning that war pretty clearly now.”  Schmidt’s remarks reflect Google’s growing confidence in
its ability to attract users and advertisers as more customers
rely on handheld devices and shun traditional computers. By
giving away Android, Google cedes revenue to hardware partners,
such as Samsung Electronics Co. Schmidt is willing to make that
sacrifice because it drives demand for ads and other Internet-
based services that benefit Google over time.  “The core strategy is to make a bigger pie,” he said.
“We will end up with a not perfectly controlled and not
perfectly managed bigger pie by virtue of open systems.”  During the hourlong interview, Schmidt also touched on
topics as varied as taxes, the economy and Google’s growing
roster of competitors.  ‘Tragic’ Outcome  Schmidt, who was succeeded by  Larry Page  as Google’s chief
executive officer in April 2011, said that economic growth is
improving in the U.S. and  China .  Still, the recovery would be threatened if U.S. lawmakers
can’t resolve a fiscal policy dispute and forge a budget deal
aimed at coping with a combination of tax increases and spending
cuts scheduled to take effect in January.  “It will be tragic for the country if the sum of the
government can’t resolve this,” he said. “You can think of
what’s going on as one set of special interests versus another,
and a big fight and they all have to feel like they’ve been
heard.”  While China’s recovery shows signs of pickup, the prospects
for  Europe  are less promising, he said.  Europe will undergo “difficult growth” for a “long
time” as countries in the South grapple with debt, offsetting
the effects of higher productivity in Northern Europe.  Google’s challenges in Europe extend beyond the economy.
It’s facing scrutiny from antitrust authorities and regulators
concerned about its tax policies.  Tax Shelter  The company avoided about $2 billion in worldwide income
taxes in 2011 by shifting $9.8 billion in revenue into a Bermuda
shell company, almost double the total from three years before,
filings show.  Governments in  France , the U.K., Italy and  Australia  are
probing Google’s tax avoidance as they seek to boost revenue.
Schmidt said the company’s efforts around taxes are legal.  “We pay lots of taxes; we pay them in the legally
prescribed ways,” he said. “I am very proud of the structure
that we set up. We did it based on the incentives that the
governments offered us to operate.”  The company isn’t about to turn down big savings in taxes,
he said.  “It’s called capitalism,” he said. “We are proudly
capitalistic. I’m not confused about this.”  Twitter, Netflix  That competitive approach can be seen across the company.
Schmidt touted other services, including Gmail, the Chrome Web
browser and social-networking service Google+. The social
service, started under Page, has drawn more than 100 million
active users, Google has said.  It’s a “viable competitor to Facebook,” Schmidt said.  Facebook is one of four technology companies, alongside
Amazon.com Inc., Google and Apple, that have created widely used
platforms for communication and delivering content and
information, Schmidt said. Companies that could eventually join
those ranks are microblogging provider Twitter Inc. and movie-
rental service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , he said.  Schmidt also reiterated his concern that the U.S. is headed
for a shortage of the airwaves needed to cope with surging
demand for wireless services.  “All the modeling says the existing strategy will run out
of cellular bandwidth in 2016 or 2017,” said Schmidt.  As a member of a White House advisory group, Schmidt backs
a proposal that encourages federal agencies and commercial users
to share airwaves. Using smarter antenna technology, wireless
customers could access airwaves previously unavailable.  Spectrum Sharing  “Today you get dedicated bandwidth on your phone, and your
phone doesn’t say, ’Ah ha! I can go over here or over up
here,’” Schmidt said. “Smart radios can do that.”  AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, has
opposed this approach.  “Full ownership of the spectrum has proven over time to be
the best model,” AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said at a conference in June.  Schmidt said the process wouldn’t be easy.  “Every space is occupied with a whole bunch of rules and
property rights,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  