-- Gross Sells Mortgage Debt After Fed Buying Cuts Yield
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-12-12T01:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/gross-sells-mortgage-debt-after-fed-buying-cuts-yield.html
Bill Gross  cut holdings of mortgage
securities in the world’s biggest bond  fund  to the lowest level
in 12 months after Federal Reserve purchases of the securities
pushed yields to a record low in September.  Gross trimmed mortgage bonds to 44 percent of assets in the
$285 billion Total Return Fund in November, according to a
report on the Newport Beach,  California , company’s  website 
yesterday. While Gross sold mortgages for a fifth month, they
are still the largest position in the fund. The second-biggest,
U.S. government and Treasury debt, shrank to 23 percent of
assets from 24 percent.  Mortgage bonds in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of
the securities yield 1.37 percent after falling to 0.75 percent
on Sept. 26, the least in data going back to 1992. Benchmark 10-
year Treasury notes yielded 1.65 percent today as of 10:17 a.m.
in  Tokyo . The figures are less than the 2.2 percent rate of
inflation based on consumer prices.  The Fed said in September it plans to buy $40 billion of
agency mortgage-backed securities each month as part of its
efforts to support the economy by capping borrowing costs. The
central bank will probably announce $45 billion in monthly
Treasury purchases following a meeting today, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund increased its holdings of debt
from non-U.S. developed nations to 12 percent in November from
11 percent, according to the report on the website.  Gross kept emerging-market debt at 8 percent, municipal
bonds at 5 percent and investment-grade credit at 11 percent.
High-yield bonds fell to 2 percent from 3 percent.  Treasuries and mortgages have both returned 2.5 percent in
2012, Bank of America indexes show.  The Total Return Fund gained 10.4 percent this year,
ranking in the 95th percentile among its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s government and Treasury
debt category includes U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
 managed  $1.92 trillion as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  