-- GTCR Is Said to Seek $3.25 Billion for Next Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-12-12T16:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/gtcr-is-said-to-seek-3-25-billion-for-next-buyout-fund.html
GTCR LLC, one of two private-equity
firms that spun out of Chicago-based buyout pioneer Golder Thoma
& Co., plans to seek $3.25 billion for its next private equity
fund, according to a person familiar with the situation and a
document prepared by a placement agent.  The firm, which is based in  Chicago , is expected to begin
officially marketing the fund next year, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. At that size, GTCR Fund XI LP raise about the same
amount as the firm’s prior fund, which was completed in 2011.  The fund, which will make investments in industries such as
financial services and technology, health care and growth-
business services, faces increasing competition for investor
capital. The number of funds vying for money in the third
quarter rose 11 percent to 1,918 from the same period last year,
according to researcher Preqin Ltd.  Eileen Rochford, a spokeswoman at The Harbinger Group,
declined to comment on behalf of GTCR.  The firm’s latest fund was about 37 percent invested as of
June 30, according to calculations based on Washington State
Investment Board disclosures.  Since that time, it has made a few more investments,
including the purchase of Premium Credit Ltd., a provider of
payment and financing services in the U.K. GTCR in October
teamed up with Cannondale Investments to acquire OneSource
Information Services Inc., a subsidiary of Infogroup Inc. It has
also exited an investment, agreeing in July to sell Classic
Media to  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  for $155 million.  Management Teams  While GTCR is returning to market just two years after
raising the predecessor fund, the firm’s model involves the
commitment of capital to management teams that acquire companies
and make add-on acquisitions, which means money is drawn down
over time rather than invested at once.  The firm’s $2.75 billion fund from 2006 was producing a 1.3
times multiple and 9.3 percent net internal rate of return as of
June 30, according to performance data from Washington State
Investment Board. The 2003 fund was generating a 1.8 times
multiple and 25 percent IRR as of the same date.  GTCR in October said that managing director Bruce Rauner
would leave the firm after more than three decades. Rauner
wanted to focus more on civic and philanthropic interests,
according to a statement at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  