-- Terrorist Questioning Disclosure Limited in Sept. 11 Case
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/guantanamo-judge-limits-disclosure-of-u-s-sources-methods-.html
 The military judge overseeing the
trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four others accused in the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks granted a U.S. government
request to limit disclosure of classified information about
“sources, methods and activities” used in fighting terrorism.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  made the ruling public
yesterday, saying in a statement that the judge’s decision would
prevent the public from learning about “illegal CIA torture.”  The written ruling by Army Colonel James Pohl also approves
the government’s request for a 40-second audio delay in relaying
proceedings from the military courtroom at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Mohammed, who has described himself as the mastermind of
the Sept. 11 attacks, was held by the Central Intelligence
Agency until 2006, before being sent to Guantanamo. The CIA has
acknowledged he was one of three al-Qaeda operatives who were
waterboarded. He underwent the procedure, which simulates
drowning, 183 times, according to government documents.  Prosecutors and defense lawyers spent part of a week in
October debating how a military tribunal should handle
classified and other sensitive information in the biggest
terrorism case in U.S. history.  A proposed protective order that will govern the case will
allow the government “to preserve information relevant to our
national security,” Pohl said in the five-page ruling.  Among issues to be considered classified, Pohl said in the
order he issued, are details about the capture of the accused,
countries where they were held, the “enhanced interrogation
techniques” that were used, conditions of their confinement,
and the “observations and experiences of an accused” on those
subjects.  ‘CIA Torture’  “We’re profoundly disappointed by the military judge’s
decision, which didn’t even address the serious First Amendment
issues at stake here,” Hina Shamsi, director of the ACLU’s
National Security Project, said in the statement. “The
government wanted to ensure that the American public would never
hear the defendants’ accounts of illegal CIA torture, rendition
and detention, and the military judge has gone along with that
shameful plan.”  Army Lieutenant Colonel Todd Breasseale, a Defense
Department spokesman, said Pohl’s ruling was proper.  “By imposing a protective order, he has done what all
courts do to responsibly handle national security information
while also ensuring both that the accused will receive a fair
trial and that the proceedings will be as open and public as
possible,” Breasseale said in an e-mail.  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  Manhattan , the
Pentagon in  Virginia  and a field in  Pennsylvania .  Audio Delay  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The
charges include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy,
murder in violation of the laws of war and attacking civilians.
The men could face the death penalty if convicted.  The next set of hearings in the case are scheduled for the
week of Jan. 28 at Guantanamo Bay.  Pohl said the 40-second audio delay to be used in relaying
court proceedings would prevent “any negligent or intentional
disclosure of classified information without unduly impacting on
the ability of the public and press to fully see and understand
what is transpiring.”  News Organizations  More than a dozen news organizations, including  Bloomberg
News , had filed a motion opposing the government’s proposed
secrecy rules.  “We are disappointed that the war court did not address
the constitutional concerns raised by the press” David Schulz,
a lawyer for the media companies, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Its order today fails even to acknowledge the
public’s constitutional right of access to criminal trials. We
are assessing our options.”  Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Sterling Thomas, a lawyer for
defendant Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, Mohammed’s nephew, said the ruling
will keep secret the “thoughts, memories and observations of
individuals who were tortured.”  “The judge ruled in favor of secrecy over transparency,”
Thomas said in an e-mail. “Judge Pohl issued an order that
expands the definition of classified information beyond the
bounds of the law.”  With a trial in the case possibly years away, lawyers for
the five men have filed a barrage of motions seeking to define
and expand the legal rights they will be afforded as they
attempt to air grievances about their treatment in captivity.  David Nevin, a lawyer for Mohammed, didn’t immediately
return e-mailed requests for comment on the ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial,
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  