-- Guns-to-Work Laws Spread in U.S. as Business Fights NRA
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/guns-to-work-laws-spread-in-u-s-as-business-fights-group.html
Republican-dominated legislatures in
at least four states are planning to consider allowing employees
to bring guns to work, turning two of the party’s traditional
constituencies against each other: gun-rights supporters and
businesses.  The measures, backed by the  National Rifle Association ,
would allow workers in Alabama, Tennessee,  South Carolina  and
 Pennsylvania  to keep the weapons locked and hidden in their cars
in employee parking areas. Seventeen states have approved
similar measures since 2003, according to a tally by the Law
Center to Prevent Gun Violence in  San Francisco .  The laws extend gun rights onto property controlled by
private employers, prompting opposition from companies such as
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The proposals are creating a
dilemma for Republicans, said Robert Spitzer, chairman of the
political science department at the State University of  New York 
at Cortland.  “The gun rights movement is now colliding against
traditional business interests,” Spitzer said. “It’s a direct
clash between a values issue and an economic one and both of
these competing forces are particularly strong within the
 Republican Party .”  Torn Allegiances  The conflict has torn allegiances even among legislators
who consider themselves strong backers of the U.S.
Constitution’s Second Amendment right to bear arms, as happened
this year in Tennessee when the NRA, the Fairfax, Virginia-based
pro-gun organization, helped defeat Republican House caucus
leader Debra Maggart in a primary. Maggart, who says she is a
gun-rights supporter, had opposed a workplace firearms law
because of concerns that it violated business and property
rights.  “I am the most pro-Second Amendment person you can meet,”
Maggart said in an interview. “I had a perfect voting record
with the NRA.”  The law’s proponents say the measures are needed to protect
employees during their commutes. They say that employers who ban
guns on their property are preventing workers from possessing
their weapons when they commute, leaving them vulnerable to
attack.  “This provides safety and protection for workers who
oftentimes travel 20 to 50 miles to their jobs,” said  Alabama 
state Senator Roger Bedford, a Democrat who has introduced a
parking lot gun law in the state’s Republican-controlled
legislature.  Second Amendment  Bedford said he introduced the measure at the request of
constituents. He couldn’t point to any incident in which a
commuter would have benefited from having a gun in the car.  “The problem we have is that businesses are being allowed
to erode and take away our Second Amendment right to bear
arms,” he said. “The guns would only be allowed for legally-
licensed people, and they’d have to be locked up and out of
sight.”  NRA spokesman Andrew Arulanandam didn’t return four calls
for comment about workplace gun laws.  Opponents say the laws threaten employers’ ability to
control  workplace safety  and violate their property rights in
the name of gun rights.  Workplace  homicides  average about 500 a year in the U.S.,
according to studies by ASIS International Foundation, an
Alexandria, Virginia-based security professional association,
and by the U.S. Justice Department. Shootings accounted for 80
percent of workplace homicides between 2005 and 2009, with most
involving robberies and 21 percent stemming from employee
disputes, according to the 2011 Justice report.  Measures Fails  Guns-to-work legislation has failed in 12 states in the 
past two years, including Alabama, Tennessee, Pennsylvania
and South Carolina, where lawmakers say they’ll push the
measures as legislatures convene next year.  Darrell Scott, a lobbyist with the South Carolina Chamber 
of Commerce in Columbia, said the bill is widely opposed by 
the businesses in his state because it limits their ability to 
control to set policy on their property.   In  Tennessee , FedEx, Volkswagen and the Tennessee Chamber
of Commerce & Industry worked to defeat or modify the workplace
gun law, opposing the NRA and the Tennessee Firearms
Association, a group that promotes the right to bear arms.  “We believe that a property owner’s right to provide a
safe work environment trumps an individual’s right to possess a
firearm on the owner’s property,” said Maury Donahue, a
spokeswoman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx, in an e-mail.  Reid Albert, in charge of security for Volkswagen’s
Chattanooga operations, told lawmakers the measure could
endanger 3,300 workers who park in company lots. Dismissals and
parking lot arguments might both become more dangerous if guns
are allowed in cars at the workplace, he said.  Protecting Lives  “Gun violence in the workplace is a real and ever present
threat,” he said in testimony earlier this year. “A law which
prevents an employer from addressing this situation hinders my
ability to protect the lives of all employees at Volkswagen,
Chattanooga.”  Richard Archie, a member of the Tennessee Firearms
Association, said he pushed for the law to protect his 34-year-
old daughter, a school teacher who commutes through dangerous
parts of Jackson, Tennessee.  House Republican leaders killed the bill in a procedural
move after the NRA didn’t agree to an opt-out provision or
liability protection for property owners, said Maggart, who was
the only one of those leaders with a primary challenger.  The NRA ran an advertising campaign against her, calling
her an enemy of the Constitution who had killed gun rights
behind closed doors. Billboards and pamphlets linked her with
Democratic President  Barack Obama  and special interests: “Bless
her heart,” said one. “Debra Maggart has lost her way.”  “I couldn’t overcome it,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  