-- Libor Arrests, AIG Bailout Ends, EU Transfers: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-12T13:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/libor-arrests-aig-bailout-ends-eu-transfers-compliance.html
A former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader is
among three people held in the first U.K. arrests as part of
global probes into tampering with the London interbank offered
rate, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Thomas Hayes, a former trader at  UBS (UBSN)  AG and Citigroup, was
arrested by the Serious Fraud Office and City of London Police
yesterday, said the people, who asked not to be identified
citing the continuing investigation. The other two men arrested
worked at brokerage firm  RP Martin Holdings Ltd. , according to
one of the people and a third person familiar with the
investigation, who also requested anonymity. The employees are
Terry Farr and Jim Gilmour, people with knowledge of the
investigation said.  The three men who were arrested, ranging in age from 33 to
47, are all British nationals living in the U.K. and were taken
to a London police station for questioning, the SFO said in an
e-mailed statement.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks such as
Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives or make
the lenders’ finances appear healthier. Swiss lender UBS is
expected to face a fine as early as this week that may surpass
the record 290 million pounds ($466.6 million) paid in June by
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, to settle claims
it attempted to manipulate Libor.  The agency and police also searched three homes in Surrey
and Essex, according to the SFO statement. Arrests in the U.K.
are made early in investigations, allowing people, who may not
be charged, to be questioned under caution.  Libor,  a benchmark  for more than $300 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
each day on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. The rates help determine borrowing costs for everything
from mortgages to student loans.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Accounting Board Should Focus on China Over U.S., ICAEW Says  The  International Accounting Standards Board  should stop
trying to get the U.S. to adopt its standards and instead focus
on China and other countries that are more willing to follow the
rules, a U.K. group said.  The era of convergence between U.S. and international
standards “should be ended formally in a matter of months” the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales said in
an e-mailed report. The IASB should look at “countries that
have moved their standards close” to its proposals, known as
IFRS.  Hans Hoogervorst , chairman of the IASB, last year
criticized the U.S.  Financial Accounting Standards Board ’s rules
that differ from IASB standards during a hearing in the European
Parliament in Brussels. U.S. rules, known as Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles or GAAP allow banks to be less transparent
about derivatives on their balance sheet, he said.  U.S. Opposes Expanding UN Agency’s Remit to Regulate the Web  The U.S. government said yesterday it will oppose any
proposals that would expand the United Nations
telecommunications agency’s remit to make rules governing the
Internet.  The  World Conference on International Telecommunications  is
working in Dubai this month to update the 24-year-old framework
that governs telecommunications networks.  In a blog post, the White House also said that in addition
to rejecting new powers for the International Telecommunication
Union, the country would oppose any rules that might lead to
more state control over online content. The statement comes as a
proposal backed by China and Russia that would give individual
countries sovereignty over Internet addresses and domains was
scrapped.  The ITU members are meeting in Dubai from Dec. 3 through
Dec. 14 to discuss changes to the 1988 International
Telecommunication Regulations, which don’t regulate the
Internet. The ITU has said the WCIT conference won’t address
expanding its powers.  For more, click here.  Bank Data Confidentiality Rule Awaits Obama After Senate Passage  Banks moved closer to greater confidentiality for
information they share with the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau after the U.S. Senate unanimously passed legislation to
extend the protection.  Senators backed amending the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
to give lenders assurance that providing information to the
bureau wouldn’t automatically waive any privileged status. The
measure would correct what lawmakers and the bureau agree was an
oversight that left the rule -- already in place for other
regulators -- out of the Dodd-Frank Act, which created the
agency.  Senators agreed yesterday to pass the bill by unanimous
consent after Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican
who is stepping down next month, removed a procedural block on
the measure. The House passed the bill on March 26 with
bipartisan support.  Earlier, some lenders supervised by the bureau, which will
examine banks with more than $10 billion in assets and some non-
bank firms, objected to Jan. 4 guidance issued by the agency
that said firms couldn’t withhold privileged information, such
as that protected by the traditional attorney-client shield.  Japan to Name Brokerage Employees Involved in Leaks, Jiji Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency plans to reveal the names
of staff found to be involved in leaks of non-public client
information that lead to  insider trading  or other illegal
actions, Jiji said, citing unidentified sources.  Naming the staff would apply in particularly malicious
cases. The agency also plans to disclose the names of fund
managers who demand tips, Jiji reported.  The measure was proposed at a meeting of the FSA’s
Financial System Council yesterday. The proposals are part of a
clampdown on insider trading based on leaks provided by
brokerages. The regulator didn’t identify securities firm
employees found this year to have leaked information on share
offerings of clients.  Compliance Action  AIG Bailout Ends Four Years After Two-Year Rescue Plan  The U.S. Treasury Department is exiting its equity stake in
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  through the final sale of
shares acquired as part of a 2008 bailout that swelled to $182.3
billion.  The insurer’s near-collapse and bailout was followed by
asset sales and a return to profit that helped Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  bring an end to the rescue.  For a timeline of the bailout events, click here and click
here.  EU Probes National Curbs on Cross-Border Bank Capital Transfers  The European Union is studying whether national regulators
broke EU rules by taking steps to stop banks from moving funds
across the bloc’s internal borders.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
is monitoring the situation, according to Stefaan De Rynck, a
spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief.
The  Wall Street Journal  reported yesterday that the EU was
considering taking steps against national regulators that
restrict banks from freely moving funds.  German and Italian regulators clashed over a move by
 Unicredit SpA (UCG)  to allocate funds raised from German depositors to
its central Italian unit, and the U.K. Financial Services
Authority has pressured the U.K.-based units of EU banks to
change their legal structure so that the FSA can set capital
requirements, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The European Banking Authority also has the power to step
in and investigate cases where regulators may have unfairly
blocked banks from moving funds, De Rynck said. The EBA can
mediate disputes between supervisors, he said.  Japan FSA to Begin Surprise Preventive Audits, Jiji Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency it will begin to make
unannounced visits to auditing firms suspected of “window-
dressing their books or engaging in other irregularities,” Jiji
Press said.  The surprise audits were made part of a draft of new
auditing standards being considered by the agency, according to
the newspaper. The standards were proposed by the agency at a
meeting yesterday of the subcommittee of the Business Accounting
Council. Members of the council “basically approved the draft
standards,” Jiji reported.  The FSA will apply the standards at the beginning of fiscal
year 2013, after they are finalized, the newspaper said. The
agency hopes to regain public confidence with the new, stricter
standards, after the accounting recent scandals in Japan
involving listed companies.  JPMorgan Pressed by SEC on Prop Trading Before London Whale Loss  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was pressed by U.S. regulators to
strengthen investor disclosures on proprietary trading almost a
year before a wrong-way bet on  credit derivatives  cost the bank
at least $6.2 billion.  The Securities and Exchange Commission asked Chief
Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein to provide information
about the bank’s so-called principal transactions revenue and
proprietary trading, according to letters between the agency and
the company from June 15 of last year through Feb. 17 that were
made public yesterday. Proprietary trading, in which banks make
bets with their own money, would be restricted under a Dodd-
Frank Act provision known as the Volcker rule.  The letters preceded JPMorgan’s assertion in May that a
portfolio of credit derivatives, which bet against the
creditworthiness of U.S. companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
was a hedge against a weakening economy rather than a
proprietary bet. The position was amassed by trader Bruno Iksil,
who came to be known as the London Whale because his wager was
big enough to move the market.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by  assets , has said the
trade was made through the company’s chief investment office, or
CIO, and resulted in a loss in the first nine months of this
year of more than $6.2 billion. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie
Dimon , 56, has said that figure could increase.  The U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations is
probing the loss.  Braunstein, 51, told the SEC that the bank had proprietary-
trading positions in its fixed-income, commodities and equities
desk within the investment bank. Trading with the firm’s own
money represented a “de minimis portion of the revenues and
earnings of the investment bank,” Braunstein said in a July 1
response to the SEC.  Mark Kornblau, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s exchanges with the SEC.  Courts  SEC Sues Consultant Who Arranged Chinese Firms’ Reverse Mergers  A New Jersey-based consultant who helped Chinese firms
become listed on U.S. exchanges stole money raised for a client
and manipulated stock-trading data to artificially reach the
number of shareholders a company needed to go public, U.S.
regulators said.  Huakang “David” Zhou and his consulting firm Warner
Technology and Investment Corp. located more than 20 private
companies in China from at least 2007 to 2010 to bring public in
the U.S. through so-called reverse mergers, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed yesterday at federal
court in Manhattan. Several of the firms have since failed,
including at least one that collapsed amid fraud allegations,
the SEC said.  The lawsuit, which accuses Zhou of using the stolen money
to pay his son’s mortgage, marks the latest move in a broader
SEC probe targeting the financial statements of firms based in
China that have listed their shares on U.S. exchanges. The SEC,
which has deregistered the securities of almost 50 companies and
filed fraud cases against more than 40 issuers and executives as
part of the investigation, has also targeted auditors who have
refused to turn over documents, citing Chinese law.  Many of the companies entered U.S. capital markets through
reverse mergers, in which a closely held firm buys a shell
company already public on an exchange, allowing them to list
shares without the scrutiny of a public offering.  Robert Brantl, Zhou’s attorney, declined to comment.  New York Fund Manager to Pay $1.3 Million to Settle SEC Claims  Steven B. Hart, a New York-based portfolio manager, will
pay $1.3 million to resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  claims  that he conducted illegal trading schemes to
benefit his investment fund Octagon Capital Partners LP.  The SEC claimed that Hart made more than $831,000 from the
trades over a four-year period, including one scheme in which he
illegally matched 31 pre-market trades to benefit his own fund
at the expense of his employer’s, according to a statement
yesterday by the agency.  A call seeking comment from Robert Anello, an attorney for
Hart, wasn’t immediately returned.  Rajat Gupta Should Pay Maximum Civil Penalty, SEC Says  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
found guilty at an insider-trading trial, should be required to
pay the maximum civil penalty, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a court filing.  Gupta was motivated by personal gain and can afford the $15
million fine the SEC is seeking because he still has tens of
millions of dollars for an “enviable retirement,” Kevin
McGrath, an SEC attorney, said in yesterday’s filing in federal
court in Manhattan. The former Goldman executive is worth about
$85 million, evidence at his trial showed, McGrath said.  Imposing the maximum penalty is needed to send a deterrent
message, McGrath said.  Gupta, who is appealing his conviction, should also be
barred from being an officer or director of a company and from
violating securities laws, the SEC said in a filing. Gupta
objected, saying the commission hasn’t shown that there’s a
likelihood he will violate securities laws in the future.  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of securities fraud.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Gupta, 11-07566, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Interviews  BlackRock’s Fink Comments on Libor Tampering, Economy  Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , talked about global probes into tampering with the London
interbank offered rate, the outlook for the  U.S. economy  and
investment strategy.  Fink, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed U.S.
fiscal negotiations and the selection of  Mark Carney  as the next
governor of the Bank of England.  Comings and Goings  Barclays Hires Former FSA Chief Hector Sants as Compliance Head  Barclays Plc, the bank fined for Libor manipulation, hired
former Financial Services Authority Chief Executive Officer
 Hector Sants  as head of compliance and government and regulatory
relations, a newly created role.  Sants, 56, will report to CEO Antony Jenkins and will
manage compliance employees at the bank, London-based Barclays
said today in a statement. His compensation wasn’t disclosed.
Starting on Jan. 21, Sants will also oversee relationships with
governments and regulators, including his former employer.  Barclays, Britain’s second-largest bank, was fined a record
290 million pounds ($468 million) in June for submitting false
London and euro interbank offered rates, leading to the
departure of top executives. Jenkins is seeking to overhaul the
culture of the bank following scandals including wrongly sold
loan insurance.  Sants announced his departure from the FSA in February
2010, but agreed to stay on after the government proposed
handing supervisory powers to the Bank of England.  Harvard-Trained Regulator Has Eyes Focused on Bank Behavior  Former Harvard and Yale economist Stefan Hunt is helping
U.K. market regulators protect consumers from those who might
profit from their tendency to make bad economic decisions.  In his work with the regulators, Hunt draws on research he
has done to understand why people make bad financial choices.
Hunt, who is part of a 25-strong research team at the Financial
Services Authority, said that while people are not completely
irrational, we do make some “systematic and predictable
mistakes.”  Regulators are attempting to use behavioral economics to
better understand the mindset behind the improprieties plaguing
Britain’s financial hub such as rogue trading and improper
sales.  Hunt, 37, said he hopes awareness of behavioral science
will make for better rules and fairer markets as the FSA
prepares to split its role and create a new consumer-protection
agency next year.  Behaviorists challenge the notion in traditional economics
that people weigh their options and pick the best outcome for
themselves. Instead, they look at the psychology of choices.  Hunt is a research manager within the Economics of
Financial Regulation team run by Peter Andrews. He’s less than
revealing about his work so far, because much of it isn’t yet
public, and the FSA didn’t publicize Hunt’s hiring. It’s clear,
however, that there is a strong focus on retail finance, a 1.2
trillion-pound industry in the U.K.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 