-- Michigan’s Anti-Union Law Breaks Hearts and Backs
-- B y   D e a n   B a k o p o u l o s
-- 2012-12-12T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/michigan-s-anti-union-law-breaks-hearts-and-backs.html
Michigan’s new  right-to-work law ,
this nation’s 24th, is ostensibly all about freedom.  Proponents such as Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , say it
simply gives workers the right to decide, solo, whether to pay
union dues -- freedom of choice. That’s a pretty American idea,
isn’t it?  Never mind one obvious retort: Paying for union services
only when you need them is like paying taxes for police and fire
services only if you use them. We pay taxes to ensure that if we
call 911, someone well trained shows up; yet nobody calls 911 on
a daily basis.  Union dues work the same way: They protect, often in unseen
ways, a collective against the interests of management in a
sustained and  organized way . That’s also a very American idea --
checks and balances.  There is a bigger, less discussed problem with right-to-
work laws. Plain and simple, they take our most vulnerable
laborers -- often those who have just clawed their way into the
middle class -- and make them vulnerable again.  My grandparents came to  Detroit  as war refugees in the
early 1950s. My grandfather, after working odd jobs for a few
years and borrowing money from friends, eventually got a United
Auto Workers job at  Ford Rouge , working the line. The union did
a lot for him. Not only did it secure good wages and benefits,
as it did for all its members, but also, when he briefly went on
medical leave at age 40, it made sure he had a job to return to
when he was well. A union steward brought him his prescriptions.  Workers’ Fear  My grandfather had fled a Stalinist purge and did hard
labor in a Nazi prison camp. He was terrified of powerful forces
-- his brothers had been killed for joining a resistance
movement -- and he lived in such fear of management and big
government that I know he would have never declared himself a
union member voluntarily. He was too afraid of the
repercussions; he would worry that his family would be in
danger.  He had evidence to back up his fears, too. Across town at
Dearborn Gear & Tool Co., a nonunion shop, my grandmother
refused to be part of a union organization effort, though she
desperately wanted to be a union member. She’d just seen her
best friend, a fellow immigrant who worked at the same plant,
get fired for signing a petition to organize. So my grandmother
stayed silent, and worked an exhausting manual-labor job without
high wages or good benefits.  Intimidating the most vulnerable members of the  labor force 
-- immigrants, young people, minorities or the poor -- is what
right-to-work legislation is really about in the long run.
Management can tell new workers all kinds of strange things when
union membership drives are under way, creating a culture of
fear-based obedience, easy to do when unemployment is high.  When I  was working  in Detroit as a young radio writer, a
manager privately advised me to boycott organization activities
at that station if I ever wanted to get a promotion. I was 19
and eager for a job; I refused to sign the union organizing
petition, for fear I would lose my eight bucks an hour.  With right-to-work laws on the books in  Michigan ,
management will no longer need to be so secretive in its
intimidation. Want a promotion, kid? Stay off the union rolls.
Want to avoid a layoff, amigo? Don’t pay your union dues. We’ll
take care of you.  When paid union membership becomes an individual decision,
workers who join unions will undoubtedly face reprisal from
management. The most vulnerable workers won’t publicly admit
their desire to organize by signing up at hiring time. With
decreased revenue, unions  will weaken , as will their political
influence.  Lower Bar  Wages will go down across Michigan, and not just in union
shops. Unions set the bar for how employers define a “good
job.” When that bar is lowered, all workers suffer. And
Michigan’s battered economy -- which is sustained, largely, by
the spending power of union laborers -- could collapse.  In light of all this, one might call Michigan’s right-to-
work law troubling. When I look back at my life, it’s clear that
my grandfather’s tenaciously saved and back-breakingly earned
 UAW  wages helped my mother make ends meet after my parents’
divorce. Those wages helped me pay for my first car which I
drove to my first job, helped me pay for college, and helped my
wife and me with a down payment for our first home.   When I consider all this, well, Michigan’s new law is more 
than troubling. For me, it’s the end of my family's version of 
the American dream, an end that's nothing short of heartbreaking.  (Dean Bakopoulos teaches at Grinnell College. His most
recent novel is  “My American Unhappiness.”  The  opinions 
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dean Bakopoulos at dean@ bakopoulos@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 