-- Tiger Asia Admits Guilt in $60 Million Court Settlement
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-12-13T07:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/tiger-asia-management-hedge-fund-said-to-plan-guilty-plea.html
Tiger  Asia  Management LLC, the New
York-based hedge fund run by Bill Hwang, admitted illegally
using inside information to trade Chinese bank stocks and agreed
to criminal and civil settlements of more than $60 million.  Hwang entered the guilty plea for Tiger Asia yesterday in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, admitting it used material
nonpublic information by selling short shares of  Bank of China 
Ltd. and China Construction Bank Corp. Tiger Asia agreed to
forfeit $16.3 million to resolve the criminal case.  Tiger Asia Management, Hwang, Tiger Asia Partners LLC and
former head trader Raymond Y.H. Park also will pay $44 million
to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit
filed yesterday. Tiger Asia used inside information received
through private placement offerings to engage in short selling
of the two banks, the agency said.  “Hwang today learned the painful lesson that illegal
offshore trading is not off limits from U.S. law enforcement,”
 Robert Khuzami , the SEC enforcement director, said in a
statement yesterday.  U.S. District Judge Stanley Chesler placed Tiger Asia on
probation for one year. He said the $16.3 million represents the
total illicit gain in the criminal case for the trades in
December 2008 and January 2009.  Matter ‘Resolved’  “Tiger Asia regrets the actions for which it accepts
responsibility today and is grateful that this matter is now
resolved and behind it in the U.S.,” Hwang said in a statement
yesterday. Hwang, 48, lives in Tenafly, New Jersey.  Tiger Asia’s attorney Lawrence Lustberg told Chesler that
the entire criminal forfeiture was paid yesterday.  “It reflects a just resolution of this matter,” Lustberg
told the judge. All investor capital has been returned, he said
in an interview.  Park, 40, of Riverdale,  New York , is “happy to put this
matter behind him,” his attorney, Steven Glaser, said in an e-
mail.  Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in  New Jersey , said Tiger
Asia was entrusted with confidential information and violated
that trust by “illegally trading millions of shares of the
company’s stock for huge profits.”  Block Sale  In pleading guilty, Hwang admitted that on three occasions,
investment bankers approached Park to gauge Tiger Asia’s
interest in joining a block sale of stock. Each time, Park
agreed to be brought “over the wall,” meaning Tiger Asia would
keep the information confidential and not trade on it, he said.  Hwang admitted that Tiger Asia sold short 87 million shares
of Bank of China stock, making $3.2 million in illicit profit;
sold short 93 million shares of China Construction Bank stock,
making $7 million; and sold short another 282 million shares of
Bank of China stock, making $5.7 million.  Tiger Asia Management and Tiger Asia Partners covered their
short positions with private placement shares bought at a
discount, according to the SEC. Hwang, Tiger Asia Management and
Tiger Asia Partners, aided by Park, also engaged in a
manipulative trading scheme that generated $496,000 in phony
management fees, the agency said.  As part of the SEC settlement, Hwang, Tiger Asia Management
and Tiger Asia Partners agreed to give up $19 million in illegal
gains and interest. Each also agreed to pay $8.3 million in
penalties, totaling $24.9 million. Park agreed to pay $39,819 in
illicit gain and interest, along with a $34,897 penalty. All
except Tiger Asia Management denied wrongdoing.  In August, the hedge fund said it was returning outside
capital to investors amid a three-year probe by  Hong Kong 
regulators. The fund, founded in January 2001, had produced
annual returns averaging 16 percent since inception.  Hong Kong  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission alleged the
hedge fund traded on inside information from bankers arranging
placements of  China Construction Bank (939)  and Bank of China shares
in 2008 and 2009, pocketing HK$38.5 million ($5 million).  Tiger Asia, which has no employees and physical presence in
Hong Kong, denied the allegations in an Oct. 12, 2010, letter to
investors. The firm told clients later that month that it had
received a subpoena from the SEC following the allegations by
the Hong Kong regulator.  Hong Kong proceedings are continuing, according to Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the SFC. Alan Linning, a lawyer for Tiger
Asia in Hong Kong, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call or
e-mail seeking comment.  Hong Kong’s SFC in February won a ruling against Tiger Asia
establishing the regulator’s power to independently seek civil
remedies for market misconduct. The Chinese city’s Court of
Final Appeal in April agreed to hear Tiger Asia’s appeal.  Japan Penalty  Separately today,  Japan ’s Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission recommended a 65.7 million yen
($786,000) fine against Tiger Asia Partners, saying its
executives in March 2009 attempted to manipulate the share price
of  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , according to a SESC statement distributed
at a press briefing in  Tokyo .  The fine is the biggest ever recommended by the SESC for
conducting unfair trades, a commission official said. The
investigative arm of Japan’s Financial Services Agency said it
based its findings on cooperation with the U.S. SEC.  Hwang earned an undergraduate degree in economics from the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles , and a master’s in
business administration from  Carnegie Mellon University  in
Pittsburgh.  In the early 1990s, he was an institutional stock salesman
at Hyundai Securities Co., where he dealt with  Julian Robertson ’s Tiger Management LLC.  Assets Cut  Robertson, a pioneer and mentor in the hedge-fund industry,
hired him in 1995 after Hwang won an annual prize awarded to the
person outside of Tiger who had contributed most to the fund’s
success.  Robertson built Tiger Management into one of the world’s
largest hedge funds by generating average annual returns of 32
percent, lifting his assets under management to $22 billion by
mid-1998. After customer defections and losses cut Tiger’s
assets to $6 billion two years later, Robertson decided to
return money to clients and employ Tiger Management to invest
his own fortune in hedge-fund managers, taking a share of
profits in exchange.  Tiger Management has employed at least 40 portfolio
managers and analysts who subsequently formed their own firms
and became known as Tiger “cubs.” Those he seeded after 2000
with his own capital are known as “grand cubs.”  The Hong Kong case is Securities and Futures Commission and
Tiger Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park,
William Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  