-- Import Prices in U.S. Fell 0.9% in November on Cheaper Oil
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-12T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/import-prices-in-u-s-fell-0-9-in-november-on-cheaper-oil.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. dropped in November for the first time in four months on
cheaper crude oil and business equipment.  The 0.9 percent decline in the import-price  index  was more
than forecast and followed a revised 0.3 percent increase in
October that was smaller than initially estimated, the Labor
Department reported today in Washington. The median forecast of
44 economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.5 percent
decrease. Prices excluding fuels fell 0.2 percent.  American companies and consumers may find limited price
pressures from abroad as a slowing global economy reduces demand
for commodities such as oil. Few signs of accelerating inflation
give Federal Reserve officials, who wrap up their final policy
meeting of the year today, room to add to record monetary
stimulus to stoke the expansion.  “Inflation is very far down the list of concerns at this
point,” Russell Price, senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report. “We’re really still
focused on worrying about the demand side of the equation.”  Projections in the Bloomberg  survey  ranged from a drop of
0.9 percent to a gain of 0.3 percent.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices decreased 1.6
percent in November, today’s report showed. They were unchanged
in the 12 months ended in October. Import prices were forecast
to fall 1 percent from the same month in 2011.  The cost of imported fuel decreased 3 percent in November
from the prior month, the most since June. Fuel costs fell 7
percent from a year earlier.  Imported food was 1.3 percent cheaper in November, the
biggest decrease since February. Coffee prices slumped and costs
of vegetables declined last month.  Auto Imports  Prices for imported automobiles, parts and engines were
unchanged from the prior month. Consumer goods excluding
vehicles showed a 0.1 percent drop.  Imported capital goods prices fell 0.3 percent, the most
since March 2010.  A pickup in the value of the U.S. dollar since mid-
September may also help make imported goods less expensive. The
Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track
the currency against that of six major trade partners including
the euro and yen, has increased 1.5 percent since Sept. 14
through yesterday.  Today’s report underscores the view of Fed policy makers
that inflation will stay within their goal. Central bankers
later today are projected to announce another $45 billion in
monthly Treasury purchases, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due
tomorrow and the consumer-price index on Dec. 14.  Prices of U.S. exports dropped 0.7 percent in November, the
most in five months, today’s figures showed.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  