-- Inditex Earnings Fail to Top Estimates for First Time Since 2010
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-12-12T11:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/inditex-profit-gains-on-emerging-market-growth-online-expansion.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, reported profit that failed to beat estimates
for the first time in more than three years.  Net income rose to 1.66 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in the
nine months through October, meeting the average of 19 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That was the first time since
the first quarter of fiscal 2010 that the Arteixo, Spain-based
retailer has failed to exceed predictions.  “We are used to very good results, always beating
estimates, and today’s earnings weren’t that great,” said Jose Rito, an analyst at Banco BPI in Porto,  Portugal . “They were
actually slightly negative, mainly because of operating costs.”  The owner of the Zara and Massimo Dutti brands is adding
outlets in markets such as  China  to keep up growth rates as its
domestic market faces a decline in  consumer spending . Revenue
growth at the company’s stores slowed to 15 percent in local
currencies from Aug. 1 to Dec. 9, compared with 17 percent
growth in the first half of that period, Inditex said.  The shares slid as much as 1.9 percent and were down 0.2
percent at 103.4 euros as of 12:17 p.m., while the benchmark
 IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  rose 0.4 percent. The stock has gained 63 percent
this year, making Inditex the  most valuable  company in  Spain  at
about 64 billion euros.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization climbed 25 percent to 2.78 billion euros as sales
rose 17 percent to 11.4 billion euros, Inditex said.  Store Openings  “Earnings are basically in line, showing a slight slowdown
in the second half of the third quarter,” said Peter Farren, an
analyst at Bryan Garnier in Paris. “Like-for-like sales will
moderate during the second half of next year.”  Operating costs in the nine-month period rose 15 percent,
mainly due to increased selling space “and the variable costs
linked to the strong sales performance,” Inditex said.  The retailer added 360 stores during the nine months,
increasing its total to 5,887 stores in 86 countries.  Inditex introduced Chinese  Internet sales  for Zara in
September and started online operations in the U.S. for Zara
Home and Massimo Dutti in October. Zara will start selling
online in  Canada  in spring-summer 2013, it said today.  “We manage a diversified sales platform,” Chief Executive
Officer Pablo Isla said on a webcast conference call, repeating
a target to open 480 to 520 stores this year. “The current base
offers huge growth potential for the coming years.”  The  gross margin  widened to 60.5 percent in the nine-month
period, compared with 59.6 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  