-- India Output Rebounds as Higher Prices Curb Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-12T08:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/indian-industrial-output-rebounds-in-boost-to-singh-growth-push.html
India’s industrial production grew
at the fastest pace in more than a year in October and consumer-
price inflation accelerated last month, reinforcing the case for
the central bank to hold off on an interest-rate cut next week.  Output at factories, utilities and mines climbed 8.2
percent from a year earlier after a revised 0.7 percent decline
in September, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement
in  New Delhi  today. The median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 5.1 percent gain. Consumer prices gained
9.9 percent in November from a year earlier, a report showed.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has opened the nation to more
foreign investment in the past three months and stepped up
efforts to pare a  budget deficit  to reinvigorate an economy
beset by faltering domestic spending and exports. The government
plans to announce measures to boost overseas sales this week
after shipments fell for a seventh month in November, while the
 Reserve Bank  of India has signaled it may reduce  interest rates 
next quarter if inflation eases.  “These numbers give some confirmation to the government
that this is the right way to go,” said Leif Eskesen, Singapore-
based chief India and Southeast  Asia  economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc. who previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund .
“The recipe for getting growth back up to speed in India is
quite clear and there has to be traction on these structural
reforms.”  Stocks Gain  The nation’s benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index of stocks
fell 0.3 percent as of 2:06 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee was little
changed at 54.2840 a dollar. The yield on the 10-year government
bond due June 2022 was little changed at 8.18 percent.  India’s factory output in October exceeded expectations and
the central bank will be “more focused” on wholesale inflation
data before deciding on  interest rates , Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chief economic adviser to the prime minister, said in a
Bloomberg TV India interview today. The consumer-price data
means the central bank may not have “freedom” to ease policy, he
said in a separate interview with CNBC-TV18.  Indian consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in three
months in November as costs of sugar and vegetables increased, a
report showed today. That makes it the fastest among 17
economies in the Asia-Pacific region tracked by Bloomberg.
The separate benchmark  wholesale-price inflation  rate was 7.45
percent in October, exceeding price gains in the BRIC group of
nations that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China . A report
Dec. 14 may show the gauge accelerated in November, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  Resisting Pressure  The central bank, due to review monetary policy next week,
has refrained from adding to an April interest-rate cut,
resisting calls from Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
for lower borrowing costs amid elevated inflation.  “Given the industrial production print for October 2012 and
the anticipated pickup in wholesale price inflation in November
2012, we expect the RBI to retain the repo rate in the upcoming
mid-quarter policy review,” Aditi Nayar, senior economist at
ICRA Ltd., said in a note today. “However, the RBI is likely to
reduce the  cash reserve ratio  by 25 basis points to ensure
credit flow to productive sectors.”  The  Indian rupee  is among Asia’s worst-performing
currencies this year as slower global growth and a recession in
 Europe  damp exports, while Singh’s push to lure more foreign
investors has been hurt by the widest budget deficit in major
emerging nations and months of policy gridlock earlier in the
year.  Growth Slows  Gross domestic product  in Asia’s third-largest economy
expanded 5.3 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from a
year earlier, slowing to match a three-year low. The trade
deficit held near the widest in more than 18 years in November
as exports fell, a report showed yesterday.  Local passenger car sales by companies such as Maruti
Suzuki  India  Ltd. fell 8.3 percent in November from a year
earlier, according to Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
data. Foreign direct investment fell 60 percent in the five
months through August compared with a year earlier.  To revive investor confidence and avert a credit-rating
downgrade to junk status, Singh’s government in September
unveiled curbs on fuel subsidies and said it would allow more
investment from abroad in industries such as retail and aviation.
Officials have also lowered a levy on overseas borrowing to spur
capital inflows and aid the currency.  Rating Outlook  Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their outlooks on
India’s credit rating, currently at the lowest investment-grade
level, to negative earlier this year. S&P, which rates Indian
debt BBB- with a negative outlook, said in a statement yesterday
the country’s large fiscal deficits and debt and its lower
middle-income economy are constraining ratings.  The expansion in industrial output is “encouraging” and the
government hopes to push ahead with plans to allow more foreign
investment in insurance and open up the pension sector, which
are crucial to improving economic sentiment and growth,
Chidambaram told reporters at a news conference today.  “We believe the Indian economy has bottomed and is
beginning to strengthen,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist
in  Singapore  at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a research note
today, citing declining market interest rates and the potential
boost to exports from the weaker rupee. “We are hopeful that the
government’s various reforms will provide a quick boost to
business confidence, encouraging some  capital investment  that
would otherwise not have happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  