-- Ingersoll Security Spinoff Creating Deal Target: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-12-12T23:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ingersoll-security-spinoff-seen-creating-deal-target-real-m-a.html
Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR) ’s plan to spin
off its commercial and residential security businesses is
creating a potential target for what would be the industry’s
biggest takeover on record.  Ingersoll announced the split this week after billionaire
investor  Nelson Peltz  pushed for a breakup. The new company,
with products ranging from steel doors to electronic locks, may
lure bidders including  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) , which sells
tools and security solutions, according to MKM Partners LLC and
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) , the maker of
commercial fire and security products, may also be interested,
said Keybanc Capital Markets Inc.  The security business, which will be incorporated in
Ireland and generates about $2 billion in annual  revenue , offers
buyers a low corporate tax rate and the chance to expand amid a
rebound in U.S.  construction spending , a driver of security-
device installation. The new company may be valued at about $3.8
billion including net debt, based on the average of three
analysts’ estimates. Even without a premium, that would be the
largest takeover in the security-services industry, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you’re an acquirer, you have the chance to buy this
business before the earnings expand based on a recovering set of
construction markets,” Steven Winoker, a New York-based analyst
at Bernstein, said in a telephone interview. “Security and fire
are attractive market segments for large multi-industry
conglomerates globally to consolidate. The markets are growing,
they’re generally profitable and they’re currently fragmented.”  Schlage Locks  Ingersoll’s board and management team reviewed “many
strategic alternatives” for boosting  shareholder value , Misty Zelent, a spokeswoman for Swords, Ireland-based Ingersoll, wrote
in an e-mail in response to whether the company would be open to
a sale of the security business. The focus was on selecting the
best option, which is the plan “to combine our security
businesses into one, publicly held company.”  Today, shares of Ingersoll rose 0.4 percent to $47.69.  The security divisions include  Schlage  brand lock sets and
deadbolts and Briton door closers, while the remaining Ingersoll
company manufactures refrigeration, heating, ventilation and
air-conditioning systems under brand names such as Thermo King.  In August, Peltz suggested in a filing that the company
split in three, the same month that the hedge-fund manager
joined Ingersoll’s  board .  Anne Tarbell , a spokeswoman for Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP, said Peltz declined to be interviewed because he
is an Ingersoll board member.  High Margins  Ingersoll said this week that the tax-free  spinoff  of the
combined residential and commercial security units will be
completed within the next year.  Nicholas Heymann , a New York-based analyst at William Blair
& Co., estimates the new company will post an operating profit
of about $405 million next year, for an operating  margin  of 19
percent to 20 percent.  The profitability of the operations may lure potential
buyers, said Jeff Hammond, a Cleveland-based analyst at Keybanc.  The security business makes sense as a takeover candidate,
Hammond said in a phone interview. “The securities space is
viewed as a very attractive space with good growth prospects,
and the Ingersoll-Rand business is a great franchise with very
good returns,” he said.  Ingersoll said the security company will be incorporated in
Ireland, where it will continue to have an effective  tax rate  in
the low 20 percent range, according to Bernstein.  Irish Taxes  The tax benefits may draw acquirers, said Joshua Pokrzywinski, an analyst with MKM in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . He
pointed to Eaton Corp.’s takeover of Cooper Industries Plc as an
example of a deal at least partly motivated by capturing
Ireland’s tax savings.  There’s also a chance for a buyer to get a hold of
Ingersoll’s security products before a potential building
recovery, said Bernstein’s Winoker.  U.S.  construction spending  climbed 1.4 percent in October,
almost three times more than  forecast  and the biggest rise since
May, the Commerce Department said last week. The increase was
driven by a healing residential real estate market, even as
government and businesses delay construction projects.  “Commercial and residential new construction in the U.S.
appears to be bottoming and security business revenue and cash
flow should increase in line with any future recovery,” Michael Lamach, Ingersoll’s chief executive officer, said on a
conference call with analysts this week regarding the spinoff.  Luring Acquirers  Stanley Black & Decker, with a market value of $12.2
billion, may be interested in acquiring Ingersoll’s security
business to further diversify away from power tools, Bernstein’s
Winoker said. The company bought Niscayah Group AB last year for
$1.2 billion to expand in surveillance and fire-alarm systems.  “They have some exposure to security and construction,”
MKM’s Pokrzywinski said in a phone interview. “It would be
complimentary to the portfolio. You wouldn’t have a lot of
product overlap.”  Tim Perra, a spokesman for Stanley Black & Decker, declined
to comment on whether the  New Britain , Connecticut-based company
would be interested in buying the business.  Ingersoll’s security operations also “would be a potential
fit” for Tyco, which makes fire detection systems and burglar
alarms, said Hammond of Keybanc. Tyco has a market value of
$13.2 billion.  Tyco Interest  While Tyco is a logical buyer for the commercial business,
it may not be interested in Ingersoll’s residential security
products, said Steven Scruggs, a  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
money manager at Bragg Financial Advisors Inc., which oversees
$850 million, including Ingersoll shares. Tyco spun off its ADT
Corp. home security business about two months ago.  “Tyco was the first name that came to mind,” Scruggs said
in a phone interview. “Part of it fits in but part of it
wouldn’t.”  Brett Ludwig, a spokesman for Schaffhausen, Switzerland-
based Tyco, said the company does not comment on acquisition or
divestiture candidates as a matter of policy.  William Blair’s Heymann projects an enterprise value for
the new security company of about $3.6 billion, including about
$1.2 billion to $1.3 billion in  net debt , according to a Dec. 10
report. Eli Lustgarten, an analyst at Longbow Research, said in
a note yesterday that the new company may have an enterprise
value of about $3.8 billion, while MKM’s Pokrzywinski estimated
about $4.1 billion. Ingersoll hasn’t disclosed how much debt the
new entity will take on.  Biggest Takeover  Based on an average enterprise value estimate of $3.8
billion, the spun-off company would already rank as the biggest
takeover of a security-services maker, even without accounting
for a premium, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
largest deal to date is the $3.2 billion acquisition of
Securitas Direct AB, a Swedish burglar alarm company, last year.  Bernstein’s Winoker wrote in a report yesterday that the
new security company could fetch $3 billion to $4 billion in a
takeover, based on a 20 percent to 35 percent transaction
premium to rivals’ trading multiples.  Buyers aren’t likely to weigh bids for Ingersoll’s security
business until after the spinoff is complete, said Lustgarten at
Longbow.  “A lot can happen in a year,” the St. Louis-based analyst
said in a phone interview. “You have no knowledge of the
financial structure of how this company is going to come out, so
there are a lot of issues that you have to deal with before you
make any judgment on how attractive as a takeover candidate it
would be.”  United Technologies  Still,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  could eventually be
interested in the unit to expand its surveillance and fire-
detection products, said Keybanc’s Hammond and Richard Tortoriello, an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York .  “ United Technologies  has been acquiring and growing their
security business,” Hammond said.  The Hartford, Connecticut-based company expanded in the
fire and security business through more than 60 acquisitions
from 2003 to 2010, including the purchases of General Electric
Co.’s security division, Kidde Plc and Chubb Plc. United
Technologies, which is valued at $74.4 billion, has been
reorganizing its fire and security business.  John Moran , a spokesman for United Technologies, declined
to comment on whether it’s interested in Ingersoll’s security
operations.  “This is a business that’s very digestible to these very
large companies,” Bernstein’s Winoker said. “If they like the
business, it’s for sale now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  