-- Internet Entrepreneur McAfee ‘Expelled’ From Guatemala
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o ,   H a r r i s o n   W e s t w a t e r   a n d   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-12-13T03:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/internet-entrepreneur-mcafee-expelled-from-guatemala.html
Internet entrepreneur John McAfee,
wanted for questioning by police in  Belize  over the murder of a
U.S. citizen, arrived in Miami after being expelled by Guatemala
for illegally entering the country.  “I am in South Beach,” McAfee, 67, wrote on his blog
after arriving at Miami’s international airport. Earlier today,
in an interview on Bloomberg Television before departing
Guatemala, he said he was being forced out of the Central
American country but that he was “perfectly happy with the
decision.”  Guatemalan authorities detained McAfee on Dec. 5 after he
crossed the border from Belize, where police call him a “person
of interest” in the murder of neighbor Gregory Faull, a 52-
year-old contractor and Florida native found dead in Ambergris
Caye last month.  McAfee, who sought asylum in  Guatemala , said he apologized
to President Perez Molina for putting him in a “slippery
position.”  The founder of a popular anti-virus software company has
turned his run from authorities into a spectacle, sending
updates to reporters and posting missives to his own website and
Twitter account. He has discussed eluding authorities by burying
himself in sand and changing his appearance.  McAfee relocated to Belize in 2008 after his $100 million
fortune was reduced to $4 million following a series of failed
investments in property, real estate and bonds at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to a 2009 article in the  New
York  Times.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  agreed to buy McAfee Inc. for $7.68
billion, at the time its largest acquisition, in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Harrison Westwater in  San Francisco  at 
 hwestwater@bloomberg.net ;
Cory Johnson in San Francisco at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  