-- Investec CEO Says ANC Must Bury Nationalization Talk
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 2012-12-13T06:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/investec-ceo-says-s-africa-s-anc-must-bury-nationalization-talk.html
South Africa’s ruling party must end
talk of nationalizing mines and set clear policy goals to revive
confidence in the economy, said Stephen Koseff, chief executive
officer of  Investec Ltd. (INL) , the country’s fifth-biggest bank.  The African National Congress has failed to curb corruption
and improve education in Africa’s biggest economy, even as the
government and central bank followed sound monetary and fiscal
policy since the end of apartheid in 1994, Koseff said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s office in Johannesburg.
Investec owns banks and money managers in South Africa, the U.K.
and  Australia .  As ANC members meet next week to elect leaders and decide
on policy for the next five years, some company CEOs and church
officials published letters this week demanding the party tackle
corruption and provide better schooling. Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service have warned they may cut the nation’s
credit rating again after downgrading its debt this year if the
ANC adopts policies that threaten to boost spending and widen
the budget deficit.  When investors “hear vague noise and talk of
nationalization and all funny things, they get very nervous,”
Koseff said about some of the ANC proposals. “Those things have
got to be buried, 10 kilometers under ground, with cement.”  Radical Change  The ANC’s youth wing has led a campaign for all the
country’s mines to be nationalized. South  Africa  is the world’s
biggest producer of platinum and chrome and the fifth largest
miner of gold.  The ANC should adopt the government’s National Development
Plan that calls for increased spending on infrastructure
projects to reduce the 25.5 percent jobless rate, Koseff said.
Business leaders support the proposals that seek to create 11
million jobs by 2030, he said.  While the plan was commissioned by President Jacob Zuma and
drafted by a team led by former finance minister, Trevor Manuel,
some members of the ANC have said that more “radical” policies
are needed to stimulate economic growth and create jobs.  “You can’t have everyone running down different plans,”
Koseff said. “Once you have cooperation between business, labor
and government, and the primary objective is to grow and develop
the economy, then you will see job creation.”  Labor Unrest  Economic growth  will slow to 2.5 percent this year, the
least since a recession in 2009, after the worst mining strikes
since 1994 and waning demand for manufactured exports from
Europe curbs output, according to the National Treasury and
Reserve Bank.  South Africa’s rand weakened 6.6 percent against the dollar
since Aug. 10, when the labor unrest started at the nation’s
mines, while credit-default swaps over five years have risen 14
basis points over the same period. The currency rose 0.1 percent
to 8.6472 per dollar as of 8:21 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The ANC will consider raising taxes on mining companies at
its meeting next week, Enoch Godongwana, the head of the party’s
economic policy committee, said in an interview last week. While
he and Susan Shabangu, the mines minister, have said that
nationalization of mining assets has been ruled out, members of
the ANC Youth League say they will continue to argue for it to
be adopted as party policy.  “The first thing we need is policy clarity,” Koseff said.
“There is some confusion as to what key government policy is.
It is very important that government recognize that there is a
strong voice from broader society saying we can’t tolerate this
anymore. We can’t continue to see a breakdown of our social
fabric.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  