-- Lira Gains as Fed Stimulus Seen Backing Basci’s Currency Caution
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-12T13:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/lira-gains-as-fed-stimulus-seen-backing-basci-s-currency-caution.html
The lira gained to its strongest in
more than a month on bets that stimulus from the U.S. will
reinforce risk appetite and after central bank Governor Erdem Basci ruled out “extreme measures” to curb currency gains.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent against the dollar to
1.7788 by 2:00 p.m. in Istanbul, the strongest level since Nov.
7. Yields on two-year benchmark debt were unchanged at 5.76
percent.  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee, which began a two-
day meeting yesterday, will announce its interest-rate decision
at 12.30 p.m. in  Washington , followed by forecasts on economic
growth, unemployment and inflation. A “measured” cut in
interest rates will be “sufficient” to counter lira
appreciation, Basci said yesterday. Economic growth does not get
priority in the central bank’s decision-making process as
inflation remains above target, he said.  “We are seeing dollar sales in the market before the FOMC
announcement,” Emir Baruh, a currency trader at  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “The market is waiting for
quantitative easing from the Fed.”  The Fed will probably expand economic stimulus by
announcing $45 billion in monthly Treasury purchases in addition
to its program to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Unwanted Gain  Basci said on Nov. 12 he won’t tolerate any unwarranted
currency gain jeopardizing the country’s external balances.
Fitch Ratings raised  Turkey ’s credit rating to investment grade
on Nov. 5.  The lira has lagged all emerging-market currencies in
 Europe ,  Africa  and the Middle East except the South African rand
in the past month as the Turkish central bank signaled it may
cut interest rates further after lowering the top-end of its so-
called rates corridor gradually to 9 percent from 11.5 percent
in the past three months.  “Markets are not expecting the central bank to ease
monetary policy aggressively anymore,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-
mailed comments. “This threat of cutting key rates to prevent
the lira from strengthening certainly made investors reluctant
to enter major lira-longs.”  The bank kept the overnight borrowing rate steady at 5
percent and the benchmark one-week repo rate unchanged at 5.75
percent last month. The rate-setting panel will meet on Dec. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  