-- Iran Nuclear Talks With IAEA to Begin Amid Low Expectations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-12-12T13:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/iran-nuclear-talks-with-iaea-set-to-begin-amid-low-expectations.html
International Atomic Energy Agency
officials travel to Iran today for talks about the possible
military dimensions of the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
program.  The IAEA’s team of seven officials, led by Chief Inspector
Herman Nackaerts, wants to gain access to more people and places
in Iran. They left Vienna this afternoon with atomic-detection
equipment needed to test sites at Iran’s Parchin military
complex.  “This trip is to reach agreement on a structured approach
to resolve the outstanding issues related to possible military
dimensions of  Iran’s nuclear program ,” Nackaerts said in
Vienna. “We also hope that Iran will allow us to go to the site
at Parchin. If Iran would grant us access we would welcome that
chance and we are ready to go.”  It will be the first meeting between both sides since talks
broke down in August. Trust between the agency and Iran has
subsequently deteriorated. Iran’s nuclear chief accused the IAEA
of spying on behalf of Western powers in September. Senior
international officials said those charges created an atmosphere
of intimidation for atomic inspectors working in Iran.  “I have my doubts about the sincerity of Iran,” said U.S.
IAEA envoy Robert Woods on Nov. 29 at a meeting of the IAEA’s
board of governors in Vienna. “ Iran  has done nothing other than
stonewall.”  Parchin Complex  The top goal for the IAEA delegation visiting Iran will be
to win access to Parchin, about 20 kilometers (12 miles)
southeast of Tehran. The IAEA says it was provided with
intelligence information showing Iran may have constructed a
blast chamber for testing nuclear-weapons components at the
site.  Iran, the No. 3 oil producer among the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, has repeatedly denied it ever
sought to make a nuclear weapon and has said that the IAEA’s
evidence is fake. Satellite photos show Iran has made changes to
the topography around the suspected site at Parchin.  Iran wants the main topic of tomorrow’s round of talks to
be the IAEA’s “alleged findings,” Iran’s state-run Fars news
agency reported today, citing Fereydoun Abbasi-Davani, the head
of the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization. The IAEA said Nov. 9
that its main goal for the visit is to win broader access to
people and places in Iran suspected of performing and housing
atomic work.  “There is now an opportunity to resolve the Iranian
nuclear issue through diplomatic means,” IAEA Director General
Yukiya Amano said Dec. 7 in a speech in  Washington . “The IAEA
remains firmly committed to dialogue. Now is the time for all of
us to work with a sense of urgency and seize on the opportunity
for a diplomatic solution.”  Inspectors may extend their single day of talks in Tehran
if negotiations go well, according to the Tehran’s Kayhan
newspaper, a publication controlled by the office of Iran’s
supreme leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  