-- Iran Bickering Leaves Larijanis at Front in Power Race
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-12-12T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/iranian-bickering-leaves-loyal-larijanis-at-front-in-power-race.html
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s loss of favor with the country’s ruling elite may
turn into a gain for Ali Larijani.  The parliament leader, one of five brothers who have all
served in public office, is increasing his influence ahead of
elections in June amid the most turbulent time in Iranian
politics since Ahmadinejad faced down street protests in 2009.
While Larijani hasn’t yet declared whether he will run for the
presidency, the heart of his family’s power is unwavering
allegiance to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  “They are undoubtedly one of the top few most important
political families in the Islamic Republic,” said Karim Sadjadpour, a senior associate at the Washington-based Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. “They are the closest thing
the Islamic Republic has to aristocracy.”  Larijani, whose family  Time magazine  in 2009 called the
“the Kennedys of Iran,” is cementing his rivalry with
Ahmadinejad as the country’s standoff with the U.S. and  Israel 
over its nuclear program prolongs and it battles a currency
slide sparked by international sanctions. The friction worsened
in recent months with a public dispute between the president and
Sadegh Larijani, head of the judiciary.  “They’ve done well positioning themselves very closely to
the Supreme Leader and by being very good at knowing where the
wind blows,” said Gala Riani, head analyst for the Middle East
at London-based consultants Control Risks. Ali Larijani is a
“main critic of Ahmadinejad and at the same time he ensures
that parliament conducts its business in accordance with the
wishes of the Supreme Leader,” she said.  Under Attack  While Ahmadinejad’s second term was marked by a cooling of
relations with Khamenei, the cleric intervened to temper the
attacks on the 56-year-old president by rivals blaming him for
mismanagement of the economy since he came to power in 2005.  In October, Khamenei told officials to stop bickering and
on Nov. 21 told lawmakers to scrap a plan to drag Ahmadinejad
before the parliament for questions over his alleged
shortcomings, saying it would be “what the enemy seeks.”  It followed a spat between Sadegh Larijani and Ahmadinejad
after the judiciary barred the president from visiting a Tehran
prison. Ali Larijani answered the same day that obeying
Khamenei’s demand “is a matter of pride” for lawmakers.  Same Ideology  In contrast to Ahmadinejad, whose father worked as a
blacksmith, the Larijanis are sons of the late senior cleric
Ayatollah Mirza Hashemi Amoli.  The family’s roots are in the northern Mazandaran province,
which borders the Caspian Sea. All five sons have some
background in religious studies and have held positions in
 Iran ’s power structure since the Islamic Revolution in 1979.  While no opponent has officially declared an intention to
run, what’s known is that the contest will be between candidates
loyal to Iran’s religious tenets with rivalries more about
factions than ideology. The Iranian constitution prohibits
Ahmadinejad from seeking another term on June 14.  Ali Larijani “will not move away from the core ideology of
the Islamic Republic and in essence a lot of the same principles
that Ahmadinejad adheres to,” Riani said. Still, he “would be
a potential candidate for Iran to be seen as having a more
pragmatic approach,” she said.  The parliament’s press affairs office referred requests for
comments from Ali Larijani to the  Ministry of Culture and
Islamic Guidance , which did not respond.  Clerical Praise  Ali Larijani, 54 this year, has “many skills both in terms
of knowledge and when it comes to his work,” Khamenei has said,
according to a report on the parliament leader’s website. “He
is a good thinker, is sharp, has a fresh mind and in terms of
faith and religion is among our brothers.”  Whoever it is, the next president will need such attributes
as the country’s economy lurches.  The rial slumped by about 43 percent against the dollar in
street trading since August, a decline Ahmadinejad blamed on
sanctions. The inflation  rate  rose to 25 percent in October,
according to Iran’s central bank, more than double the pace of
two years earlier.  The  U.S. approved  on Nov. 30 new financial penalties on
foreign businesses and banks involved in Iran’s energy, ports,
shipping and shipbuilding industries and in metals trading. The
latest sanctions came in addition to a European Union ban on
imports of Iranian crude that came into force July 1.  Seminary Sons  Ali Larijani was formerly top nuclear negotiator, culture
minister and head of Iran’s state broadcaster, while Sadegh
previously was a member of the Council of Guardians, a body able
to veto legislation.  The three other brothers also held key posts. Mohammad-
Javad Larijani, the country’s  top human-rights official  and an
adviser to Khamenei, worked as a deputy foreign minister. Bagher
Larijani did a stint as a deputy health minister and Fazel
Larijani was a diplomat in  Canada .  In Ali Larijani’s own words, the brothers are “seminary
sons who lost their way and accidentally ended up in executive
roles,” according to Tehran-based news website  Khabar Online .  Their distrust of Ahmadinejad is rooted in their social
standing, Sadjadpour said. They have “always looked down at
Ahmadinejad as a blacksmith’s son,” he said.  Some of the tension also stems from personal rivalries. Ali
Larijani quit in 2007 as nuclear negotiator under Ahmadinejad
over differences with the president. In the 2005 elections he
ran against Ahmadinejad, though failed to garner many votes. He
didn’t stand in the 2009 election.  Too Early  All candidates have to be screened by the Guardian Council,
a group of clerics and jurists, based on criteria including
their adherence to the theocracy’s principles. The two-week
campaign in Iran means candidates and platforms are only
introduced shortly before the vote.  Unlike Ahmadinejad, Ali Larijani is not a particularly
“mass oriented” person, and whether he takes part in the next
race is dependent on who else will run, said Farideh Farhi, a
lecturer at the University of Hawaii at Manoa.  Though it’s still “too soon to predict,” Farhi said,
Larijani is unlikely to run if Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer
Qalibaf or Khamenei’s foreign policy adviser, Ali Akbar Velayati, do “since he would be competing with them over
similar constituencies,” she said.  Clerical Backing  Ahmadinejad, a former mayor of the Iranian capital himself,
beat former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in June 2005
by mobilizing support through the country’s mosques and calling
for a better distribution of wealth in the energy-rich country.
He built on his working class background and religious faith.  Larijani’s participation may also be subject to the Supreme
Leader’s endorsement. In the 2009 race, it was Khamenei’s
backing that allowed Ahmadinejad to secure a second term in the
face of widespread street protests over alleged voting fraud.  “The most important vote in Iran’s presidential election
is that of Ayatollah Khamenei,” Sadjadpour said. “The question
is whether Khamenei would trust Ali Larijani to be his loyal
subordinate, or whether he suspects he’s too ambitious, like
Ahmadinejad proved to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  