-- Iraq to Pay Kuwait $500 Million in Few Days to End Air Dispute
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2012-12-12T10:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/iraq-to-pay-kuwait-500-million-in-few-days-to-end-air-dispute.html
Iraq will pay Kuwait Airways Co.
$500 million compensation in a few days to settle a debt
dispute, allowing  Iraqi Airways  to start flights to Europe for
the first time since 1990, an Iraqi airline official said.  Iraqi Airways will operate flights to the U.K. and
Frankfurt by the end of January after state-run Kuwait Airways
drops its legal claims against the carrier, Saad al-Khafaji,
director general of Iraqi Airways, said in an interview today.
The Iraqi airline is also negotiating routes to  Kuala Lumpur , he
said in Baghdad.  Kuwait in October endorsed by decree a deal reached with
neighboring Iraq in July to settle the financial dispute “and
stop litigations in this regard,” the state-run KUNA news
agency reported at the time.  Kuwait Airways, being prepared for sale, has been seeking
$1.2 billion in compensation for 10 aircraft taken during former
Iraqi President  Saddam Hussein ’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990. The
Kuwaiti airline won a U.K. court order to freeze the Baghdad-
based airline’s global assets on April 25, 2010, the same day an
Iraqi Airways flight landed in London for the first time in 20
years.  Iraqi Airways plans to start a three-year program in 2013
to train at least 500 pilots, according to al-Khafaji. The
carrier also plans to build the biggest air training and
development institute in the region, and awarded a 30.9 billion-
dinar ($26.5 million) contract to Romanian and United Arab
Emirates companies as part of a joint venture to build the
facility, he said.  Boeing Co. (BA)  will have a stake in the
institute, al-Khafaji said, without disclosing the size.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in  Baghdad  at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  