-- Israeli Envoy Sees Radicals Risk Preferable to Assad
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/israeli-envoy-sees-radicals-risk-preferable-to-assad.html
Israeli Ambassador to the U.S.
 Michael Oren  said the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
would be a boon to  Israel  and the Mideast, even if radical
Islamists try to fill the vacuum left by his departure.  “There’s the possibility that you’ll have Sunni extremist
elements who will try to come to the fore,” Oren said yesterday
in Washington. “Our opinion is that any situation would be
better than the current situation” in which the Syrian regime
has a strategic alliance with Iran and the Lebanese Shiite
Muslim terrorist group Hezbollah, he said.  U.S. officials repeatedly have expressed concern about
jihadi elements within the Syrian opposition and have said the
U.S. is unwilling to send arms to opposition forces for that
reason. The U.S. doesn’t want to help radical elements who may
seek power in post-Assad  Syria  or who may use weapons acquired
in Syria to attack U.S, Israeli or other targets in the region
and beyond.  Highlighting that issue, the U.S. State Department
yesterday designated the al-Nusra Front, one of the most
successful Syrian rebel militias, a terrorist organization.
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said al-Nusra “is simply a renamed al-Qaeda in  Iraq  trying to make inroads into
Syria.”  Oren, speaking to reporters at a lunch hosted by the
Christian Science Monitor, said that, since he became ambassador
in 2009 -- before the Syrian uprising began in March 2011 -- he
was briefing White House officials on the Israeli government
view that Assad had formed an “inextricable strategic alliance
with Iran and with Hezbollah,” and that his rule was
destabilizing and untenable.  ‘Ruthless and Reckless’  Oren, who’s also a Middle East historian, said Assad’s
father, Hafez al-Assad, “was ruthless, but somehow predictable,
somehow responsible,” while his son is “ruthless and
reckless.”  The younger Assad, Oren said, allied Syria with  Iran , a
sworn enemy of Israel; pursued a clandestine nuclear weapons
program; provided a headquarters for terrorist groups such as
Hamas, and armed Hezbollah with between 60,000 and 70,000
rockets.  Assad’s father also allied with Iran in supporting and 
arming Hezbollah and also hosted numerous Palestinian terrorist
groups.  The younger Assad’s “departure would be in Israel’s
interest, in the interest of the region,” Oren said, because it
“would deal a tremendous blow to Iran and to Hezbollah at the
same time.”  He said Israel is monitoring the status of Syria’s arsenal
of chemical weapons and is concerned that Hezbollah might obtain
some of them. Sharing chemical weapons with Hezbollah “would be
a game changer, and we would not remain passive,” he warned.  Israel’s Hope  Israel’s hope is for the speedy emergence of a democratic,
stable and peaceful Syria, he said.  Asked whether Iranian arms are making their way through
 Egypt  to terrorist groups in Gaza following a cease-fire to
hostilities between Israel and Hamas last month, Oren said Egypt
is the key to stopping smuggling through land routes into Gaza.  There is “the expectation” that Egypt will hold to its
pledge to stop the arms transfers, he said, and “we are
monitoring it very closely.”  Asked about the relationship between Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and U.S. President  Barack Obama , Oren
dismissed the notion that the prime minister supported
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . Romney, who met with
Netanyahu during a campaign trip to Israel, worked with
Netanyahu in the late 1970s at the  Boston Consulting Group .  Netanyahu “went to extraordinary lengths not to be dragged
into the U.S. political elections,” Oren said.  Obama and Netanyahu have met nine times, and Oren was
present at all the meetings, which he described as “friendly,
at times very funny, and very constructive and open.”  “The areas of our agreements vastly, vastly outweigh and
overshadow any disagreements we may have had,” Oren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  