-- Mississippi River Rock-Blasting Contract Awarded by U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-12-12T20:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/mississippi-river-rock-blasting-contract-awarded-by-u-s-.html
Kokosing Construction Co. and
Dubuque Barge & Fleeting Service Co. won an $8 million U.S.
contract to blast  Mississippi  River rocks that threaten to halt
traffic as water levels drop on the nation’s biggest waterway.  The companies may begin work as soon as Dec. 17, Bob
Anderson, a spokesman for the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers in
Vicksburg, Mississippi, said today in a phone interview. The
Corps had originally scheduled the work to start in February.  A stretch of river from  St. Louis  to southern  Illinois  may
become impassable within weeks as the worst drought in 50 years
cuts the flow of water. A shutdown would jam traffic on the
river, which carries about $7 billion in cargo including grain
and crude oil, in December and January, according to the
Waterways Council Inc., an Arlington, Virginia-based industry
group that includes shippers.  Kokosing, of Fredericktown, Ohio, and Dubuque Barge, of
Dubuque, Iowa, will use explosives to demolish almost 900 cubic
yards of submerged rock “pinnacles” near Thebes, Illinois,
about 128 miles (206 kilometers) downstream from St. Louis. The
Corps agreed to expedite the work after requests from lawmakers
including Senators  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, and  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican.  The contract won by the closely held companies calls for as
many as 16 hours of blasting a day, with eight hours set aside
for river traffic, Anderson said.  60 Days  The work may take as long as 60 days, according to the
Corps. Water levels near St. Louis will fall below 9 feet (2.7
meters) after Dec. 26, absent precipitation, the  National
Weather Service  said today in its four-week forecast. While the
Corps has said most barge traffic will stop if the water level
is less than 9 feet, carriers say many tow boats that push
barges need at least 10 feet of water to operate.  Jo-Ellen Darcy, the Army’s assistant secretary for civil
works, on Dec. 6 rejected the possibility of increasing the
water flow from a majority tributary, an option sought by
shippers and lawmakers from Illinois and  Missouri . Unleashing
water stored in reservoirs along the Missouri River would put
drinking supplies and wildlife at risk and may raise hydropower
bills, she said, siding with officials from the Dakotas, Kansas
and Montana.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  