-- Italy Rates Drop at Bill Auction as Concerns Ease
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-12T11:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/italian-rates-drop-at-bill-auction-as-political-concerns-ease.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs fell at an
auction of one-year bills today as the prospect that the
European Central Bank could buy bonds more than offset concern
that Prime Minister Mario Monti’s resignation would derail the
nation’s attempts to cut its debt.  The Treasury in Rome today sold 6.5 billion euros ($8.46
billion) of 364-day bills at 1.456 percent, the lowest since
March 13 and down from 1.762 percent at the previous auction on
Nov. 13. Investors bid for 1.94 times the amount of bills
offered, up from 1.76 times last month.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield on Dec. 10 climbed the most
since August after Monti announced he intended to resign,
sparking concern about the country’s commitment to meet European
Union budget targets. Investors are still betting on ECB’s
President Mario Draghi to keep the peace after his September
pledge to buy the bonds of governments willing to sign up to
reform.  “The new-found resilience of Italy’s bond market to the
deepening political uncertainty in  Rome  underscores the game-
changing nature of the ECB’s bond-buying program,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London ,
said by e-mail. “The question is whether this resilience will
endure in the run-up to the election.”  Political Vacuum  Monti said this week that the initial market reaction to
his decision to step down shouldn’t be “dramatized” and
investors “shouldn’t fear a political vacuum” in Italy.  Italy’s 10-year  yield  declined 4 basis points to 4.68
percent at 11:37 a.m. in Rome. That left the difference with
comparable-maturity German debt at 334.3 basis points. Today’s
auction was probably helped by 10.7 billion euros of redemptions
due Dec. 14.  The premier said on Dec. 8 that he will submit his
resignation after the 2013 budget law is passed before the end
of the year. His decision came after former premier Silvio Berlusconi withdrew his parliamentary backing for the government
and tossed his hat back into the political ring.  While the former EU commissioner said Dec. 10 he’s not
considering becoming a candidate at the moment, pressure on him
to run from centrist parties is mounting.  EU President Herman Van Rompuy and EU Commission President
Jose Barroso are among European officials who warned this week
that there’s no alternative to Monti’s economic policies.
“Italy has no magic solutions” and the next government “needs
to keep a strong commitment to reforms,” Barroso told a student
group in Oslo yesterday.  Italy Funding  Italy has nearly completed its 2012 funding requirements
and the borrowing target for 2013 will fall by 60 billion euros
to about 410 billion euros next year because the country will
face fewer redemptions and financing needs will drop by 20
billion euros, debt agency head Maria Cannata said Nov. 12.
Still, any increase in borrowing costs risks having an immediate
impact on a country whose debt is more than 126 percent of gross
domestic product, second in the euro zone to  Greece .  Italy’s national vote may be held as soon as February.
Under Italian law, elections can be scheduled 45 to 70 days
after the president dissolves parliament. In that period, Monti
may remain premier, or President Giorgio Napolitano could
appoint another caretaker.  “Should a snap election happen in February, we suspect the
best-case scenario for the country would be that no clear
winners emerge and another technocrat government works its way
out of the ongoing debt crisis,” Annalisa Piazza, a strategist
at Newedge Group in London, wrote in an e-mail to clients this
week.  Italy returns to the market tomorrow with the sale of as
much as 4.25 billion euros of longer-term maturity debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at o
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  