-- Mitsubishi UFJ Agrees to Buy BofA Stake in Japan Venture
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-12-13T08:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/mitsubishi-ufj-said-to-agree-with-bofa-on-japan-venture-buyout.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
agreed to buy  Bank of America Corp. ’s stake in their private
bank venture as  Japan ’s biggest lender expands services to
wealthy households.  The Japanese bank will complete the purchase of the 49
percent stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB Securities Co.
on Dec. 26, the companies said in a statement in  Tokyo  today.
Mitsubishi UFJ will pay 39 billion yen ($471 million), two
people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Mitsubishi UFJ joins Credit Suisse Group AG in expanding
 wealth management  operations in Japan through acquisitions to
compete for households’ $18 trillion in  financial assets . The
sale marks an end to the six-year venture with Bank of America
as the Tokyo-based company deepens ties with  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “Japan’s private banking business can be challenging
because wealthy individuals don’t want to give up control of
their assets to a bank, unlike  Europe ,” said Yoshinobu Yamada,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Mitsubishi UFJ has
a well-established brand and wider client base, so the bank
looks ready to expand its market share.”  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ rose 1.1 percent to 382 yen at the
close of trading in Tokyo before the announcement.  Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co. (BAC) , the Japanese brokerage
unit of Bank of America, will continue to provide mutual funds,
derivatives and structured products to the private bank after
selling the stake, the people said yesterday. Mitsubishi UFJ
will keep the employees who join from Merrill Lynch, they said.  Investment Banking  Bank of America, which employed 1,028 employees at its
securities operations in Japan as of March 31, will focus on
corporate and  investment banking  and trading businesses in the
nation, the people said. Its Japanese unit had 52.6 billion yen
in revenue for the year ended March, according to its website.  Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., the brokerage unit
that oversees an investment banking venture formed with New
York-based Morgan Stanley in 2010, will have a 51 percent stake
after the deal, and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. will hold
49 percent, according to the statement.  Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch had 1.8 trillion yen of assets
under management as of March 31, the companies said today.
Revenue was 25 billion yen for the year ended March.  The venture started operations in May 2006 and had 444
employees as of April 1, according to its website. Its net
income climbed 5 percent to 6.8 billion yen in the year ended
March 31, its financial statements show.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, said last
week it will ally with  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to add Japanese
private banking customers as the U.K. lender withdraws from
wealth management in Tokyo. Zurich-based Credit Suisse took over
HSBC Holdings Plc’s private banking operations in Japan in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  