-- Japanese Stocks Rise on U.S. Fed Monetary Easing Optimism
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-12-12T06:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/japanese-stocks-rise-on-u-s-fed-monetary-easing-optimism.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, with the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average heading for its highest close in almost
eight months, on optimism the U.S. Federal Reserve will add
stimulus. Shares held gains after North Korea launched a long-
range rocket in defiance of international sanctions.  Sony Corp. and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  were among exporters to the
U.S. that advanced. Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd., which gets
20 percent of its sales from aerospace and defense, gained 3.7
percent.  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  jumped 10 percent after the
Nikkei newspaper reported a withdrawal from European production
will boost the carmaker’s profits. Osaka Securities Exchange Co.
advanced 7.7 percent after the Financial Services Agency
approved its merger with the Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc.  The Nikkei 225 gained 0.6 percent to close in Tokyo at
9,581.46, the highest level since April 19. The broader Topix
Index climbed 0.7 percent to 791.29, with about three stocks
rising for every two that fell. Shares gained as data showed
 Japan ’s machinery orders rose for the first time in three
months. The Fed ends a meeting today at which it may announce
more bond purchases, known as quantitative easing.  “The U.S. economy is recovering, and the consensus is that
the Fed will make a move to add more strength to it,” said Koji Toda, chief fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo , which
oversees about 15 trillion yen. “The rocket launch surprised me
a bit because news reports said they were putting it off for
now. It’s not a good thing at all, but it hasn’t appeared to
scare the market much.”  The Topix has risen 9.5 percent since Nov. 14 when the
government called for elections on Dec. 16. Stocks gained as the
yen weakened on bets the opposition Liberal Democratic Party
will win and call for more monetary easing.  Relative Valuations  The Topix traded at 0.9 times  book value  today, compared
with 2.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.5 for the
Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number less than one means that
companies can be bought for less than the value of their assets.  Fed officials are considering whether to supplement $40
billion a month of mortgage-bond buying with purchases of
Treasuries when their Operation Twist program expires at the end
of the month. A two-day meeting concluding today will be
followed by statements on the economy and monetary policy.  Sony added 3.1 percent to 833 yen. Honda, which gets about
44 percent of its sales from North America, increased 1.3
percent to 2,749 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  advanced 0.9 percent to
3,560 yen.  Fed Stimulus  “The Fed is expected to announce QE4, or effectively $45
billion a month buying of U.S. treasuries to replace its
expiring Operation Twist,” said Cameron Peacock, Melbourne-
based strategist at trading-services provider IG Markets Ltd.
“In theory, there shouldn’t be a huge reaction to news that the
Fed is initiating this program given it has been speculated on
for some time and should be priced in. Look for a sizable
negative reaction if the Fed either does a smaller size or
delays the program until the New Year.”  Futures on the S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent today. The gauge
gained 0.7 percent yesterday as German investor confidence
climbed and traders awaited progress on  federal budget 
negotiations in  Washington . U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a
budget to prevent more than $600 billion of automatic tax
increases and spending cuts from coming into effect next year.  Defense contractors rose after North Korea’s rocket launch.
Kawasaki Heavy Industries gained 3.7 percent to 198 yen.  IHI
Corp. (7013) , which makes ships and rocket propulsion systems for
military use, advanced 2.7 percent to 188 yen. Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd., which supplies the defense agency with aircraft
parts, rose 2.9 percent to 918 yen.  North Korean Rocket  North Korea launched a long-range rocket today in defiance
of international sanctions, according to the South Korean and
Japanese governments. The rocket was launched at 9:49 a.m. and
debris fell into the sea away from the Korean peninsula and east
of the  Philippines , according to the Japanese government.  Mitsubishi Motors jumped 10 percent to 87 yen, the second-
biggest gain on the  Nikkei 225. (NKY)  The carmaker will add 15 billion
yen to operating profit annually by ending its European
production, the Nikkei reported, without attribution.  Canon Inc. rose 2.6 percent to 3,075 yen, the biggest
 contributer  to the Topix’s gains. The camera maker will cut
costs by 70 billion yen to 80 billion yen next year by reducing
inventory and increasing automation, the Nikkei reported,
without saying how it got the information.  Osaka Securities Exchange jumped 7.7 percent to 407,000
yen. The shares rose as much as 19 percent today after the
Financial Services Agency yesterday approved the merger of the
Osaka bourse and its Tokyo rival. The merged bourse, which will
be called the Japan Exchange Group, will list on the first
section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Jan. 4, the FSA’s
statement said.  The  Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index (VNKY)  lost 0.4 percent
to 17.39 today, indicating traders expect a swing of about 4.9
percent on the benchmark gauge over the next 30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  