-- Japanese Stock Futures Rise as Yen Weakens to Eight-Month Low
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-12T23:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/japanese-stock-futures-rise-as-yen-weakens-to-eight-month-low.html
Japanese stock futures rose as the
yen fell to the weakest level in eight months versus the dollar,
boosting the outlook for the nation’s exporters.  American Depositary Receipts of auto exporters  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. rose more than 1.2 percent. ADRs of
Panasonic Corp. gained 1.2 percent as Barclays Plc advised
buying shares of the Japanese electronics maker that’s facing a
second straight annual loss.  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU)  dropped 4.3
percent in Sydney as the world’s biggest zircon producer said
the declining price trend for the material is continuing.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed at 9,670
in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 9,570 in  Osaka , Japan. They were
bid in the pre-market at 9,670 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.3 percent in Wellington.  “There’s been a big move in the currency,” said Stan Shamu, Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a
provider of equities, currencies and commodities trading
services. “That’s the big positive for the Nikkei today and the
exporters will be the ones that benefit.”  The yen fell to the weakest level in eight months versus
the dollar as  Japan ’s Liberal Democratic Party, which has
pledged fiscal stimulus to stoke economic growth, leads in polls
before Dec. 16 elections. The Japanese currency lost 0.9 percent
to 83.26 per dollar yesterday, reaching the lowest level since
April 2.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The S&P 500 gained less than 0.1 percent
yesterday as optimism about Federal Reserve plans to buy more
bonds faded, with investor focus returning to the budget
deadlock in  Washington .  The Fed for the first time linked the outlook for its main
interest rate to unemployment and inflation and said it will
expand its asset purchase program by buying $45 billion a month
of Treasury securities starting in January to spur the economy.  “It wasn’t too surprising,” said IG’s Shamu. “They will
now be keeping an eye on unemployment and inflation as
thresholds of when to make a change in policy settings.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index advanced 11 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks took steps to support
economic growth. The gauge traded at 14.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.8 times for the S&P 500 Index and
12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 0.4 percent yesterday in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  