-- Japan Machine Orders Rise as Abe Vows Stimulus Ahead of Poll
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-12-12T07:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/japan-machine-orders-rise-as-abe-pledges-stimulus-ahead-of-poll.html
Japan’s machinery orders rose for
the first time in three months, a sign that companies may expect
the world’s third largest economy to return to growth in 2013.  Orders, an indicator of  capital spending , climbed 2.6
percent in October from the previous month, the Cabinet Office
said today in  Tokyo . The median estimate of 25 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a 3 percent increase. Large
orders can cause volatile results.  Rising orders and production in October suggest the economy
is laying the foundations for recovery after contractions in the
last two quarters. The yen has weakened around 3.9 percent
against the dollar in the last month, while Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal
Democratic Party , leading in polls before elections on Dec. 16,
has pledged fiscal stimulus to stoke growth.  “Companies are still cautious but a weaker yen and signs
of recovery in the global economy are providing some relief,”
said Akiyoshi Takumori, chief economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. “Japan’s economy is going to have a moderate
recovery.”  The  Nikkei 225  gained 0.6 percent to close in Tokyo at
9,581.46, the highest level since April 19. The yen was 0.3
percent lower at 82.75 per dollar as of 4:05 p.m.  Automobile Orders  Orders from the  auto industry  rose 17.8 percent, the first
rise in five months, according to the Cabinet Office. Honda
Motor Co. posted record U.S. sales in November as buyers
returned to showrooms that were disrupted by  Hurricane Sandy  a
month earlier.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  the world’s second-biggest maker of
construction and mining equipment, plans to spend as much as 50
billion yen ($606 million) over the next three years to improve
efficiency at four domestic plants, Hiroshi Ishihara, a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based company said yesterday.  “Abe’s likely victory could boost corporate sentiment,”
Kazuhiko Ogata, chief economist for Japan at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
said before the report. “The Japanese corporate sector holds
huge piles of cash and has the capacity to increase capital
spending at any time.”  Average cash and near cash holdings by companies in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Index were $3.99 billion as of Dec. 11,
according to data for 223 companies compiled by Bloomberg.
Companies in the  S&P 500 Index  held $2.85 billion.  A victory for Abe’s LDP in this month’s election may
increase pressure on the central bank to ease monetary policy.  “Unlimited Easing”  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s policy board meets next week to decide
whether to increase its 66-trillion-yen asset-purchase program.
On Oct. 30, the BOJ added 11 trillion yen, expanding its main
policy tool for the second time in two months.  Abe’s call for unlimited monetary easing and an inflation
target of 2 percent sent the yen to a seven-month low last
month. A weaker yen reduces the price of Japanese products in
overseas markets and increases the value of repatriated
earnings.  Gross domestic product shrank an annualized 3.5 percent in
the three months through September, according to a second
reading of government data released two days ago. The government
revised the previous quarter to a 0.1 percent contraction,
meeting the textbook definition of a recession.  The economy will shrink an annualized 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter and then grow 1.5 percent in the first three
months of 2013, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News  “Globally, the cycle of manufacturers’ performance seems
to be improving,” said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Tokyo. “We expect Japan’s GDP to return to a
growth path in the first quarter of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  