-- JPMorgan Pressed by SEC on Prop Trading Before Whale Loss
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-12-12T01:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/jpmorgan-pressed-by-sec-on-prop-trading-before-whale-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was pressed by
U.S. regulators to strengthen investor disclosures on
proprietary trading almost a year before a wrong-way bet on
credit derivatives cost the bank at least $6.2 billion.  The Securities and Exchange Commission asked Chief
Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein to provide information
about the bank’s so-called principal transactions revenue and
proprietary trading, according to letters between the agency and
the company from June 15 of last year through Feb. 17 that were
made public yesterday. Proprietary trading, in which banks make
bets with their own money, would be restricted under a Dodd-
Frank Act provision known as the Volcker rule.  “It is not clear how much of this revenue was generated
from your proprietary-trading business, hedge-fund activity and
private-equity funds that would be affected by the Volcker
rule,” Suzanne Hayes, assistant director of corporation finance
at the SEC, wrote in the initial letter. JPMorgan disclosed in a
previous filing that it liquidated proprietary holdings within
the equities unit and “it is not clear if this was the extent
of your proprietary-trading business,” she wrote.  The letters preceded JPMorgan’s assertion in May that a
portfolio of  credit derivatives , which bet against the
creditworthiness of U.S. companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
was a hedge against a weakening economy rather than a
proprietary bet. The position was amassed by trader Bruno Iksil,
who came to be known as the London Whale because his wager was
big enough to move the market.  ‘Textbook’ Example  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by  assets , has said the
trade was made through the company’s chief investment office and
resulted in a loss in the first nine months of this year of more
than $6.2 billion. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, has
said that figure could increase.  The U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations is
probing the loss, and the panel’s chairman, Michigan Democrat
 Carl Levin , called it a “textbook” example of why regulators
need to tighten the Volcker rule. The Ohio Public Employees
Retirement System and other pension funds are suing JPMorgan for
turning the CIO into a “secret hedge fund” while claiming it
was supposed to mitigate risk.  Braunstein, 51, told the SEC that the bank had proprietary-
trading positions in its fixed-income, commodities and equities
desk within the investment bank. Trading with the firm’s own
money represented a “de minimis portion of the revenues and
earnings of the investment bank,” Braunstein said in a July 1
response to the SEC.  Operational Risks  JPMorgan defines proprietary trading as trading in
securities, derivatives and futures “principally to realize
gains from short-term movements in prices for the firm’s own
account.”  The chief investment office manages the bank’s operational
risks such as those on  interest rates  and foreign currencies,
Braunstein said.  These activities “are designed to mitigate the firm’s
structural risk and preserve the firm’s longer-term capital
value through economic cycles and, as such, are clearly
distinguishable from proprietary trading activity,” Braunstein
wrote in the July 1 letter, which the bank asked the SEC to keep
confidential.  Mark Kornblau, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s exchanges with the SEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  