-- Knicks-Lakers Game Is Second Most-Expensive NBA Ticket at $567
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-12T19:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/knicks-lakers-game-is-second-most-expensive-nba-ticket-at-567.html
Tickets for tomorrow night’s game
between the first-place  New York Knicks  and the  Los Angeles
Lakers  are the second most-expensive of the National Basketball
Association season on the resale market.  The average listing for game, the only time the Lakers,
with  Kobe Bryant  and  Dwight Howard , visit Madison Square Garden
this season, is $567.01, according to the ticket-aggregator
 TiqIQ.com .  The Knicks’ game against the Brooklyn Nets at Barclays
Center on Nov. 26, postponed from Nov. 1 by  Hurricane Sandy ,
listed for an average of $592.39, according to the website.  Off to their best 21-game start since 1995, the Knicks
(16-5) have the highest average home ticket listings in the NBA
at $330.48. The Lakers (9-13), who have lost five of their last
six games, are second at $274.33.  TiqIQ spokesman Chris Matcovich said the secondary market
growth is a recent trend for New York, which hasn’t advanced
past the first round of the playoffs in 12 seasons.  “With the addition of stars including  Carmelo Anthony ,
upgrades to the arena, increasing ticket prices, as well as
consistent good play over the past 2 1/2 seasons, tickets on the
resale market have seen a huge boost in price,” Matcovich said
in an e-mail. “A product that you could have seen live five
years ago for $10, now will cost you at minimum above $50 to get
in the building via the resale market.”  The Knicks have won eight of their last 10 games and are
one game ahead of LeBron James and the defending-champion  Miami
Heat  atop the Eastern Conference. The team has sold out 74
straight home dates at the Garden prior to the Lakers game,
according to MSG spokeswoman Stacey Escudero, who said the team
doesn’t announce each game’s sales until tip-off.  Ticket Range  Face value for Knicks tickets range from $10 to $3,600 for
courtside seats that are part of season packages, Escudero said.
The lowest secondary market price for tomorrow’s game, the start
of a six-game New York homestand, is $152, with the most
expensive more than $26,000, according to TiqIQ.  “The Lakers, we know they’ve been struggling as of late,
but everybody tries to step up when they come to the Garden,”
Anthony told reporters after a 100-97 victory at Brooklyn last
night. “We have a great opportunity to do something special
over the next couple weeks having a homestand and we want to
take advantage of it.”  The only NBA team with a payroll topping $100 million, the
Lakers acquired Howard and two-time league Most Valuable Player
 Steve Nash  to complement Bryant this season. Nash is sidelined
with a broken left leg, and the team fired coach  Mike Brown 
after a 1-4 start, replacing him with former Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni .  Matcovich said the Lakers are still a big draw on the road.  ‘Fix Things’  “It’s gut-check time,” Los Angeles forward Antawn Jamison
said after the team’s 100-94 loss to the  Cleveland Cavaliers 
last night, the Lakers’ third consecutive defeat. “We have to
look in the mirror and fix some things.”  Madison Square Garden, which bills itself as “The World’s
Most Famous Arena,” is two-thirds through a $1 billion,
privately funded renovation. The building sold out all 20 Event
Level Suites that debuted last year, and has only a few of the
58 Madison Level suites still available, according to Escudero,
who declined to say how much each cost. The Knicks sold out
their season tickets for the third consecutive season, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  