-- Won Near 15-Month High, Kospi Gains After N. Korea Rocket Launch
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-12-12T07:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/korean-won-pares-gain-as-n-korea-launches-a-rocket-bonds-fall.html
South  Korea ’s won traded near a 15-
month high and stocks extended gains after North Korea launched
a rocket in defiance of international sanctions.  Government
bonds  were little changed.  The North America Aerospace Defense Command said in a
statement that it detected the launch at 9:49 a.m. local time.
The won strengthened in early trading after a report showed the
nation’s unemployment rate remained at a four-year low and on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will step up monetary easing
that may spur demand for emerging-market assets.  South Korea’s currency closed 0.2 percent stronger at
1,074.93 per dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 1,073.64, the strongest level since
September 2011, before temporarily paring gains following the
North’s rocket launch. The  Kospi index  of shares rose 0.6
percent, closing at the highest level since Oct. 9.  “ North Korea  had warned it would launch a rocket and so
the firing was expected by investors, which explains the
relatively muted reaction in financial markets,” said Yun Se Min, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Busan Bank.  The communist nation’s official Korean  Central News Agency 
confirmed the launch of the rocket that put a satellite into
space, calling it a success in the report. Japan estimated that
debris fell into the sea away from the Korean peninsula and east
of the  Philippines , whose Department of  Foreign Affairs 
condemned the firing in a statement.  ‘Learning Impact’  Moody’s Investors Service said the rocket launch has no
effect on South Korea’s rating while  Standard & Poor’s  said it
won’t raise geopolitical risks in the Korean peninsula on a
prolonged basis. South Korea’s finance ministry, Bank of Korea,
and the financial regular will hold a joint meeting tomorrow at
7:30 a.m. local time on North Korea.  “South Koreans are getting better and better at managing
this kind of unexpected risk from North Korea,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist at Hyundai Economic Research
Institute. “Government reactions are getting faster because
there is a learning impact.”  The won strengthened 0.5 percent, while the Kospi added 1.1
percent on April 13 when a long-range rocket launched by North
Korea failed. The authorities can undertake “smoothing
operations” to curb volatile currency movements, Ryoo Sang Dai,
director-general of the international department at  Bank of
Korea , said yesterday, the Korea Economic Daily reported. The
Dollar Index halted a two-day decline before the outcome of the
Fed’s policy meeting.  ‘Smoothing Operations’  The Fed will announce today $45 billion in monthly Treasury
buying that will push its balance sheet to almost $4 trillion,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Optimism prevails about the outcome of the Fed meeting,
and with the dollar staying weak there is risk appetite in the
market,” said Jude Noh, a Seoul-based chief currency dealer at
Suhyup Bank. “While there is speculation that Korean monetary
authorities are carrying out smoothing operations almost every
day, it is to slow the pace of appreciation, not reverse the
trend.”  South Korea’s unemployment rate was unchanged at 3 percent
in November, matching the October level that was the lowest
since February 2008, official figures showed today. The Bank of
Korea will hold its  benchmark interest rate  at 2.75 percent
tomorrow, according to 14 of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. One forecast a cut to 2.5 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 was little changed at 2.96 percent, Korea Exchange prices
show. The one-year  interest-rate  swap was 2.785 percent, down
from 2.79 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  