-- Kuwait Reappoints Former Finance Minister Targeted by Opposition
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/kuwait-reappoints-former-finance-minister-targeted-by-opposition.html
Kuwait reappointed Mustafa Al- Shimali as finance minister, almost seven months after he
resigned following questioning by the dissolved opposition-
dominated parliament.  Oil Minister Hani Hussein was also reappointed in the new
government line-up announced late yesterday. It is the fourth
cabinet to be formed by Prime Minister Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah since he was appointed in November 2011.  Two women, Rola Dashti and Thikra Al-Rasheedi, were named
state minister for planning and development, and minister of
social affairs and labor, respectively. Al-Rasheedi was one of
three women elected in Dec. 1 parliamentary polls. Kuwaiti
cabinets must include at least one elected lawmaker. The key
posts of defense, interior and foreign affairs were retained by
members of the ruling Al-Sabah family, who have five portfolios
in the new cabinet.  Al-Shimali, who was also named as a deputy prime minister,
resigned on May 24 after being interrogated for 11 hours by
opposition lawmakers who alleged financial irregularities in
institutions under his authority. Al-Shimali, first appointed
finance minister in October 2007, denied all the accusations.  Kuwaiti Shiites secured 17 seats in the new 50-member
National Assembly elected Dec. 1. The polls were boycotted by
the opposition, a broad-based movement led by former lawmakers
and a mix of Sunni Islamists, liberals, tribal members and youth
groups. The opposition has led street protests in the country
during the past year and is demanding political reform and more
power sharing with elected politicians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  