-- Next Media Discloses Buyers of Its Media Assets in Taiwan
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   L u l u   C h e n
-- 2012-12-13T04:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/next-media-discloses-taiwan-asset-buyers-resumes-trading-today.html
Next Media Ltd. (282) , controlled by Hong
Kong mogul Jimmy Lai, announced the sale of its  Taiwan  print and
television units to two groups of four buyers for NT$17.5
billion ($602 million).  Next Media will sell its Taiwan print assets to four
companies, represented by Want Want Chinatimes Group President
Tsai Shao-Chung, William Wong of the  Formosa Plastics Group (1301) ,
Chinatrust Charity Foundation Chairman Jeffrey Koo Jr. and  Lung
Yen Life Service Corp. (5530)  Chairman Li Shih-tsung, according to a
filing late yesterday to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  Lai, known for criticizing  China ’s government, is exiting
most of his Taiwan businesses after battling regulators for
licenses and distribution rights. The investment by Tsai, son of
 Want Want China Holdings Ltd. (151)  Chairman Tsai Eng-meng, may raise
regulatory concerns because Lai’s  Apple Daily  and the Tsais’
China Times will have a combined newspaper market share
exceeding 45 percent.  People are concerned that “someone with so much market
share will affect the diversity of Taiwan’s media landscape,”
said Lo Shih-hung, associate professor at Taiwan’s National
Chung Cheng University’s Department of Communication.  Next Media said yesterday it expects to book a HK$2.28
billion ($295 million) gain on the disposals, and plans to
distribute some of the proceeds as dividends. The shares were
unchanged at HK$1.59 as of 10:41 a.m.  TV Buyers  “Jimmy Lai might have sold his Taiwan print unit to ditch
the burden of a business that has been losing money and to boost
his company’s share price,” said Lo.  Next will dispose of the print business for NT$16 billion,
with Wong’s company taking a 34 percent stake, Tsai’s 32
percent, Koo’s 20 percent and a company controlled by Li Shih-
tsung 14 percent.  Neither Tsai, nor the previously disclosed chairman of
 Taiwan Fire & Marine Insurance Co. (2832) , Lee Tai-hung, were
identified as members of the group that will buy Next Media’s
television business in Taiwan for NT$1.5 billion.  Instead, a company represented by William Wong will take a
34 percent stake; Taiwan-incorporated Yong Sin Development Co.
represented by Li Jiang-Cheng will take 32 percent; Koo’s
company 20 percent; and a company controlled by Li Shih-tsung 14
percent.  Next Media booked two annual losses due in part to its
Taiwan television and multimedia unit. It said on Nov. 30 that
losses for the six months ended Sept. 30 widened to HK$933.2
million from HK$324.3 million a year earlier.  Next Media’s Taiwan operations accounted for 42 percent of
its sales for the year ended March 2012, making the island its
second-biggest market after  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ; and
Lulu Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  