-- Nissan’s U.S. Battery Plant Begins Leaf Pack Production
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-12T23:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/nissan-s-u-s-battery-plant-begins-leaf-pack-production.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the world’s
largest seller of electric vehicles, said its  Tennessee  battery
plant began producing lithium-ion packs for the rechargeable
Leaf, two years after the hatchback went on sale.  The first batch of batteries produced at the Smyrna,
Tennessee, plant, funded by a low-interest federal loan worth as
much as $1.4 billion, have completed an aging process and are
ready for use, Nissan said yesterday in a statement. More than
300 workers have been hired at the battery factory and adjacent
auto-assembly plant, where Leaf production starts in early 2013.  “The opening of this facility in Tennessee supports our
goal of making zero-emissions mobility a reality through
American jobs and American manufacturing,”  Carlos Ghosn ,
Nissan’s chief executive officer and chairman, said in the
statement. As many as 1,000 more jobs may be added at the
Tennessee site, Nissan said.  Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, has fallen short Ghosn’s
goal of selling at least 20,000 Leafs in the U.S. this year,
more than double 2011’s volume of 9,674. Through November the
company sold 8,330 of the electric cars. A modified version
arrives early next year and the company has said sales will rise
with the addition of U.S. production. The battery plant is
designed to produce as many as 200,000 packs annually.  Globally, Nissan has delivered more than 46,000 Leafs in
the past two years, it said.  Nissan, along with  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and
Fisker Automotive Inc., received federal loans from the Obama
administration aimed at jump-starting a U.S. market for battery-
only cars and plug-in hybrids. Sales of such vehicles, so far,
have fallen short of the administration’s goal of getting 1
million rechargeable cars on U.S. roads by 2015.  Nissan’s North American operations are based in Franklin,
Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  