-- Nokia Jumps After Tele2 Says It Sold Out of Lumia Handsets
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-12-12T18:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/nokia-jumps-after-tele2-says-it-sold-out-of-lumia-and-wants-more.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish handset maker
relying on its Lumia smartphones to reverse market share losses,
jumped in Helsinki trading after a Swedish carrier said it sold
out of the models two weeks before Christmas.  “We sold out of the Lumia and hope to get more before
Christmas,” Thomas Ekman, head of  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) ’s Swedish
operations, said in an interview in  Stockholm  today. Ekman said
the company received 2,000 to 3,000 Lumia handsets initially.  Shares of Espoo, Finland-based Nokia jumped about 2.4
percent to as much as 2.99 euros from their intraday level after
Ekman’s comments. They closed at 2.93 euros, or 0.3 percent
lower, on the Helsinki exchange.  Nokia, which switched to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software
as the platform for its smartphones, is looking to win back lost
market share from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system. The iPhone 5 can’t connect to the
fastest networks of most European carriers, creating a potential
opening for Nokia.  Nokia’s Lumia 920 and Lumia 820 allow users to access the
about two dozen LTE mobile networks in western Europe, according
to  Strategy Analytics . The iPhone 5 only works on the LTE
network of two carriers -- Deutsche  Telekom  AG in Germany and
EE, a U.K. venture of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   Last week, Nokia won an agreement with  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  to
carry the Lumia 920T, the first Lumia based on Windows Phone 8
software for the Chinese market and compatible with the
country’s homegrown TD-SCDMA wireless technology.  In a separate interview, Tele2 Chief Executive Officer Mats Granryd said the company plans to stay in the Russia and doesn’t
“feel forced” to change its strategy in that market.  Tele2 failed to win a fourth-generation license in Russia
in July to offer faster data services. OAO Mobile TeleSystems,
OAO MegaFon and OAO Rostelecom have said they could potentially
be interested in Tele2’s Russian business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  