-- Nomura Picks Builders as Morgan Stanley Retreats: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-12-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/nomura-picks-builders-as-morgan-stanley-retreats-china-credit.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  is recommending
dollar-denominated bonds of five Chinese developers for 2013 as
a recovery in sales boosts cash flow, contrasting with Morgan
Stanley that has twice cut its outlook on the debt since August.  Japan ’s largest brokerage favors notes issued by  Agile
Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) ,  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) ,  Yanlord
Land Group Ltd. (YLLG) ,  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  and  China SCE Property Holdings
Ltd. (1966)  after  home  sales rose last month by the most in 2012. Signs
of a rebound in Asia’s biggest economy are also reassuring
holders of the debt at Nikko Asset Management Ltd. and Baring
Asset Management, which together oversee some $205 billion.  Chinese notes, dominated by high-yield homebuilders, are
poised for their best annual gain since 2009 with a  24 percent 
return this year, while Indian debt rose 19 percent, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. U.S. high-yield debt climbed 15
percent, also the most in three years. Potential upgrades in
rating outlook and fund inflows into  emerging markets  will spur
further gains, Nomura said.  “Pre-sales will still be quite strong going into 2013 and
the liquidity profile of developers will improve,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Nomura. “We are
positive on the China property sector” as stronger cash and
debt positions will also underpin the rating outlook, she said
in a Dec. 11 phone interview.  Sales Pickup  Property  sales  increased from a year earlier in each of the
last four months and totaled 5.35 trillion yuan ($856 billion)
for the January-November period, within 10 percent of the annual
record in 2011, official figures show. Revenue may climb 5
percent in 2013 as growth picks up in the world’s second-largest
economy, said Liu  Yuan , a researcher in Shanghai at Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., China’s biggest real-estate brokerage.  Reports in the past week showed industrial output and
retail sales in November recorded their biggest gains since
March, adding to evidence expansion is gathering pace after a
seven-quarter slowdown. Gross domestic product is forecast to
increase 7.7 percent this quarter, following a 7.4 percent gain
in the July-September period, and quicken through the first half
of 2013, based on the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Less Worry’  Nomura’s five picks are Yanlord’s bond maturing in May
2017, Shimao’s March 2018 debt, Gemdale’s November 2017 note,
China SCE paper due January 2016 and November 2017, as well as
Agile securities maturing in 2017. The broker predicted yields
on its recommendations would decline by 50 to 80 basis points
when it published the buy-list on Nov. 28, without setting a
timeframe. Yields on Yanlord and Shimao more than halved this
year to 7.19 percent and 7.52 percent, respectively, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m more optimistic on  China ’s economic outlook than six
months ago,” said Leong Wai Hoong, Singapore-based manager of
the Nikko’s $589 million Asia High Yield Bond Fund. “For
dedicated high-yield investors in Asia, the property sector is
where you will have less worry about the fundamentals.”  Chinese developers are still preferred investments because
their business model is easier to grasp, Leong said. Industrial
companies such as cement makers and steel producers may benefit
later from an economic recovery because they feed off a
construction and building boom, he said.  Lending Slowdown  Morgan Stanley, which turned bullish on Chinese high-yield
bonds in December 2011, has started retreating from the market.
Its recommendation was cut in September to “accumulate” from
“buy,” and then downgraded to “neutral” on Dec. 4 because of
concerns about a rising stock of unsold homes and a slowdown in
bank lending. New yuan  loans  amounted to 522.9 billion yuan in
November and 505.2 billion yuan in October, the lowest monthly
totals since September 2011, according to data released Dec. 11.  The U.S. bank is ready to switch out of property to
industrial companies when developers start ramping up spending
and will turn “outright cautious” on a sharper pullback in
loan growth, Hong Kong-based credit analysts led by  Viktor Hjort 
wrote in a Dec. 4 report. Morgan Stanley doesn’t have a list of
its recommendations for Chinese property bonds, Hjort said in a
Dec. 12 e-mail.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Chinese dollar
bonds has narrowed every month since March to 386 basis points
over Treasuries on Dec. 11. A 50-basis point drop in 2013, while
likely to happen, will push the market into the pre-crisis low
seen in January 2008, a level associated with reckless risk-
taking and a credit bubble, Morgan Stanley said.  Default Swaps  “The rally in Chinese property names has made it even
harder to invest in them,” said Azhar Hussain, head of global
high yield at Royal London Asset Management. His company manages
about $78 billion including $1 billion in speculative-grade
debt. “The consensus is for single-digit returns, which is why
some people are reaching for yields in riskier jurisdictions,
and which is why Chinese names are getting more focus.”  Confidence in China’s creditworthiness is rising, cutting
the cost of insuring its sovereign debt against non-payment.  Credit-default swaps for five years fell to 56 basis points
on Nov. 30, the least in more than two years, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
cost was 59 basis points on Dec. 11, compared with 121 at the
end of June and 147 at the end of 2011.  Contracts on bonds of Zhongshan, Guangdong-based Agile cost
652 basis points on Dec. 11, down from 1,281 on May 17 that was
the highest level since April 2009, CMA data show. It costs 773
basis points to insure the debt of Hong Kong-based Shimao, a
drop of 596 basis points over the same period.  ‘Selectively Bullish’  The  yield  on China’s 10-year government bonds rose three
basis points this month to 3.57 percent in  Shanghai  as of Dec.
11, Chinabond data show. The yuan weakened 0.3 percent through
yesterday to 6.2518 per dollar, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  China’s stable economic growth outlook means there’s still
room for property bonds to deliver returns in 2013, according to
Sean Chang, head of Asian debt in Hong Kong at Baring, which
manages $45 billion of assets. Targeted curbs on bank lending
and buying restrictions are designed to damp speculation in the
high-end market and preserve growth in mass housing, meaning
there will be winners and losers, he said.  “We are selectively bullish on the Chinese property
market,” Chang said in a phone interview yesterday. “Slower
but healthy growth at 7 percent a year is not too bad and we
still see strong demand for housing urbanization and a higher
quality of life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  