-- To Cut Health-Care Costs, Pay Doctors Less
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   F l a v e l l e
-- 2012-12-12T23:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/to-cut-health-care-costs-pay-doctors-less.html
As Democrats and Republicans argue
about how to spread the pain of health-care spending cuts, one
group has been curiously excluded from the discussion: doctors.
There’s good reason to change that.  Everybody likes doctors. They deliver our babies, treat our
ailments and often save our lives. In surveys of public trust,
they rate higher than college teachers, police, even clergy, and
vastly higher than journalists or politicians. Norman Rockwell
painted doctors as kind, patient and wise. You probably hope
your child marries one.  That public adulation is one reason why the 2010 health-
care law, which imposed immediate and heavy cuts on hospitals,
drugmakers and insurers, left doctors relatively untouched. A
1997 law that reduces doctors’ Medicare payments is consistently
overridden by Congress. And none of the proposals for
entitlement reform now circulating around  Washington  calls for
significant sacrifices from physicians.  It’s worth asking whether doctors, who account for almost
one-fifth of health spending, really need the special treatment.  After practicing for six years, the average U.S. family-
medicine doctor  makes  $200,000; the average general surgeon,
$350,000; and the average urologist, $400,000. (Spinal surgeons
make $625,000.) Office- and clinic-based doctors are the most
likely of any job category -- except for securities and
investment lawyers -- to be in the top 1 percent of earners.  Median Pay  No other developed country pays doctors this much. In 2004,
general practitioners in the U.S. were  estimated  to earn double
-- measured by purchasing power -- the median for 21 nations in
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; for
specialists, the difference was almost threefold.  Those earnings reflect higher payments per service. Last
year, a routine visit to a U.S. doctor cost commercial insurers
$89 on average, compared with $64 in  Switzerland , $40 in  Germany 
and $23 in  France . For a normal birth in the U.S., doctors were
paid an average of $3,390; in France they got $449. For a hip
replacement, American doctors’ average fee was $2,966, while in
 Spain  it was $1,123.  What explains the higher pay in the U.S.? Muscular lobbying
may help. Over the past 15 years, the  American Medical
Association  has spent $278 million lobbying the federal
government --  more than any other  group save the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and General Electric Co. That puts doctors ahead of the
largest oil and defense companies in spending to influence
policy makers.  Certainly, nobody should begrudge doctors a generous
financial reward: They train for years, and we ask a lot of
them. Even so, the arguments in support of maintaining their
current levels of pay aren’t as convincing as they might seem.  One such argument is the cost of their education. Of the
medical students who graduated this year, 86 percent had loans,
 averaging $167,000 . But 30 percent of those graduates said they
planned to enter loan forgiveness or repayment programs. And for
those who don’t, a  recent study  in the Journal of the
Association of American Medical Colleges found that even a
primary-care physician with a starting salary of $145,000 can
afford to pay off a $150,000 loan in 10 years.  Another argument is the cost of medical-malpractice
insurance. Premiums vary by region and specialty: A doctor of
internal medicine can pay anywhere from $6,000 a year in
 Arkansas  to $46,000 in Miami, according to the Medical Liability
Monitor, a trade publication. Specialists in higher-risk areas,
such as obstetrics, pay more.  Malpractice Costs  But average malpractice premiums have fallen for each of
the past five years, and were flat the two years before that,
driven by what the Medical Liability Monitor calls a
“historically low” number of claims. And some states have begun
capping malpractice awards.  A third argument is that the nation faces a doctor
shortage, as older physicians retire,  baby boomers  require more
care and the health-care law provides coverage to more
Americans.  But that shortage is driven by a funding dispute between
hospitals and the federal government, over whether Congress
should increase subsidies, paid through the Medicare program,
for medical residencies. It has nothing to do with people’s
desire to become doctors: The number of medical-school
applicants this year exceeded 45,000, about 35 percent more than
a decade ago.  So what’s the answer? One option is to cut Medicare rates
for specialists, using part of the savings to fund current rates
or even gradual increases for primary-care physicians. That
would ease some of the pressure on the broader economy, because
Medicare rates affect payments by private insurers. It would
also change the incentives that drive so many medical students
away from family medicine toward more lucrative specialties.  Another option is to replace the current law on Medicare
payment rates, which Congress consistently overrides, with
legislation that would reduce payments by a smaller amount for
all doctors and link them to the rate of economic growth.
Congress has failed to stick to this approach before, but if
lawmakers believe their own rhetoric about the dangers of rising
Medicare costs, this is one way to act on it.  The government could also make an end run around doctors by
allowing nurses and physicians’ assistants to do more of the
work. That possibility alone, which would reduce the role of
doctors, and therefore their leverage, should give them an
incentive to compromise.  The solutions aren’t easy. But the question isn’t whether
doctors deserve to be paid less. It’s whether they deserve a
level of protection that’s unlikely to be afforded hospitals,
nursing homes or Medicare beneficiaries.  Excluding doctors from spending cuts means greater
sacrifice from the rest of the health-care world -- including
their own patients. That’s not a picture  Norman Rockwell  ever
painted.  (Christopher Flavelle is a health-care policy analyst for
Bloomberg Government. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Christopher Flavelle at  cflavelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  