-- Syria Rebels Pledge Armed Unity as Opposition Recognized
-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-12T12:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/obama-says-u-s-will-recognize-syrian-opposition-coalition-1-.html
Syrian rebels agreed a unified
military command and called for the withdrawal of Iranian forces
from the country, after the U.S. officially recognized the
coalition seeking to oust President Bashar al-Assad.  “We ask Iran to listen to the plight of the Syrian
people,” Mouaz al-Khatib, head of the National Coalition of
Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, said in Marrakesh,
 Morocco , where officials from nations including the U.S, France
and Saudi Arabia met today. The opposition leader also said the
unified forces would form the core of the new Syrian army after
Assad’s overthrow and pledged his opposition to extremism.  President  Barack Obama  announced the U.S. policy shift in
an interview with ABC News yesterday, calling it “a big step.”
The U.K., France and the European Union already recognize the
coalition as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people.  More than 41,000 Syrians have been killed since the anti-
Assad uprising began in March last year and another 1.2 million
have been forced from their homes, according to opposition and
United Nations estimates.  Iran  is training a militia force drawn
from the minority Shiite and Alawite communities to bolster
Assad’s government, U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in
August. Iran denies it has a military presence in Syria.  ‘Inclusive Enough’  “The Syrian opposition coalition is now inclusive enough,
is reflective and representative enough of the Syrian population
that we consider them the legitimate representative of the
Syrian people,” Obama said.  Russia was surprised by the U.S. decision, which violates a
plan for a Syrian transitional government negotiated and signed
in Geneva, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said, according to the
Interfax agency.  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State William Burns, British
Foreign Secretary William Hague, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince
Saud al-Faisal and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius were
among officials from more than 124 countries and organizations
represented in Marrakesh.  The transition is coming to  Syria  one way or the other,’’
Burns said, as he invited al-Khatib, formerly a cleric at
Damascus’ main mosque.  The rebels’ pledge on a more unified military structure
came after appeals from supporters including Fabius for the
coalition to “reinforce its civil and military cohesion.”  Among the pledges of additional support made at the
meeting, Saudi Arabia promised $100 million, the U.S. pledged a
further $14 million in medical aid and  Germany  offered 22
million euros ($29 million).  No Armaments  The U.S. is “trying to make a virtue out of necessity,”
said Aaron David Miller of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, a Washington policy group. “The question
now is how far are we prepared to take this. I’d be stunned if
we are prepared quickly to take lethal action.”  France  said it was too early to supply arms to the rebels,
Fabius told reporters. “We have decided not to move on this,”
Fabius said, adding “we shall see in the coming months.”  The U.S. recognition doesn’t include armaments either,
though it does carry responsibilities, Obama said.  The U.S. wants “to make sure they organize themselves
effectively, that they are representative of all the parties,
that they commit themselves to a political transition that
respects women’s rights and minority rights,” he said.  Dennis Ross, a former Obama adviser and now a counselor
with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said the
administration is seeking greater influence with the Syrian
opposition -- a sign the Assad government is unraveling.  “What happens among the opposition is going to shape the
future of Syria” and it is in U.S. interests to foster a more
secular government over one of radical Islamists, Ross said in
an interview before Obama’s announcement.  The U.S. won’t support factions in the coalition with
extremist ties, Obama said. He singled out the Jabhat al-Nusra
group, which the U.S. has designated as a terrorist group
affiliated with al-Qaeda in  Iraq .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aida Alami in Cairo at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  