-- Mobius Says Emerging Stocks to Rise as Fed Spurs Hunt for Return
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-12-12T15:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/mobius-says-emerging-stocks-to-rise-as-fed-spurs-hunt-for-return.html
Developing-nation  stocks  will climb
in 2013, extending this year’s rally, as central banks worldwide
add money to the financial system and spur investors to seek
higher returns,  Mark Mobius  said.  Policy makers from the U.S. to Brazil and Japan have
stepped up efforts to boost their economies with  interest-rate 
cuts, bond purchases and weaker currencies, Mobius, who oversees
more than $40 billion at Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said
in a phone interview from Nairobi today. Low yields on U.S.
Treasuries are sending pension funds and other large investors
on an “incredible hunt” for returns, including in so-called
frontier markets such as Kenya, he said.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has climbed for six days,
its longest winning streak in three months, amid speculation the
U.S. Federal Reserve will announce an expansion of its bond-
buying program today, capping a 13.5 percent rally in 2012 after
last year’s decline. The mix of low debt levels, high foreign-
exchange reserves and economic growth that may average about 5
percent in 2013 makes the outlook for equities in developing
nations “very positive,” Mobius said.  “The more money you have going into the global economic
system, the more opportunity there is for a rise in the stock
market, and that’s what we’re going to be witnessing this coming
year,” said Mobius, whose  Templeton Frontier Markets Fund (TFMAX)  has
outperformed 90 percent of peers in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “With interest rates at these levels,
equities become very, very attractive.”  Fed Announcement  Ten-day volatility for the MSCI emerging market gauge fell
to the lowest level since 2005 today. The index climbed 0.6
percent to 1,040.71 by 10:44 a.m. in  New York . The index will
probably rise to 1,125 on improving data from developing
economies, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts  Robin Brooks  and
Julian Richers wrote in a client note dated Dec. 10. The index
fell 20 percent in 2011.  Emerging markets will lag behind developed nations in 2013,
John-Paul Smith, a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
wrote in a e-mailed report dated Dec. 10.  The gauge’s value is equivalent to 13 times reported
earnings, with a dividend yield of 2.7 percent, compared with a
yield of about 1.7 percent for 10-year Treasuries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI Frontier Markets Index (MXFM)  has
increased 3.1 percent this year.  The Fed may announce $45 billion in monthly Treasury buying
that will push its balance sheet almost to $4 trillion,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Forty-eight of 49 economists predict that the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will purchase Treasuries to bolster an existing
program to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month. The Fed
is expected to release its policy statement today.  Brazilian Rates  Brazil’s central bank has cut its benchmark  interest rate 
by 3.75 percentage points this year to a record-low 7.25 percent
and policy makers have taken steps to weaken the real. Shinzo Abe, whose  Liberal Democratic Party  is leading in opinion polls
ahead of Japan’s Dec. 16 elections, has called for more fiscal
stimulus and “unlimited” monetary easing.  The real has weakened about 10 percent against the dollar
this year, while the yen has depreciated 7.2 percent.  “We have a situation where countries don’t want their
currencies to be too strong, so they print money,” Mobius said.
“Everybody is watching everybody else to ensure they’re not
going to be left out of the export opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  