-- Modi Holograms Sweep Gujarat as Poll Marks Bid to Lead India
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-12-13T05:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/modi-holograms-sweep-gujarat-as-poll-kicks-off-bid-to-lead-india.html
Twenty-six holograms of Gujarat
Chief Minister  Narendra Modi  strode onto stages across the
Indian state last month as he sought re-election, a sample of
the savvy that makes him a contender for national leader.  A computer-generated image of Modi at a Nov. 29 rally in
Dholka was met with a forest of hands making victory signs and
thunderous chants for him to become  prime minister . With his
gray hair slicked back and dressed in a knee-length shirt and
saffron scarf, he fired off digs at the Congress party, which
leads the federal government, and extolled his own  record .  “I’m delivering this speech in 3D to show you that  India 
is not being left behind, that we are world leaders in
technology,” Modi said, using a technique similar to that
employed in digitally resurrecting the late rapper Tupac Shakur.
“I’m again setting a trend that the rest of India will
follow.”  A bigger share of the vote this month in the state the 62-
year-old has ruled for 11 years would help counter concern in
his  Bharatiya Janata Party  he’s too polarizing to maintain
allies in the national campaign due by 2014. Modi’s terms in
office span some of the worst religious rioting in India’s
history, and the championing of a business-friendly approach
that has helped drive the fastest growing state economy, outside
of two smaller ones abutting  Nepal .  ’Divisive’ Tag  “As Modi marches on Delhi, he’s moving into the center,”
said G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, managing director of New Delhi-based
Development and Research Services, who advises the BJP on
election policy. “The biggest threat to his chances of leading
India is that he’s seen as too divisive and too authoritarian.”  Opinion polls signal a Modi romp in Gujarat. The BJP will
secure 124 seats in the 182-member assembly in the vote that
began today, an increase of seven, according to a Nov. 24 survey
by  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  and ABP News. Congress may win 51 seats,
the poll of 16,384 voters in 91 constituencies found. It gave no
margin of error. Results from the two-stage vote, and another in
Himachal Pradesh state, will be counted Dec. 20.  Ballots will be cast at more than 21,000 polling stations
in 87 constituencies today amid tight security, the  Press Trust
of India  said. The second round of voting is on Dec. 17.  “Hologram technology has never been used before in
India,” said  Satish Misra , an analyst at the Observer Research
Foundation in New Delhi who has been following the South Asian
nation’s politics for three decades. “It improves your reach
and attracts the curious, but it costs a lot of money.”  Growth Outpacing  Modi is a politician who arouses strong reaction in the
nation of 1.2 billion people, and lots of interest. To
followers, he’s a cult figure who dragged Gujarat from the ashes
of the 2002 rioting, wooing businesses and cutting red tape and
corruption. Modi’s office didn’t reply to requests for an
interview.  Gujarat’s economy has grown an  annual  10.2 percent on
average over the last decade, against 7.8 percent for the
national economy. Under Modi, Gujarat has raised power
generation capacity more than five-fold and claims to be the
only state in India to have a surplus of electricity.  Colleagues whose seniority makes them prospective
candidates for the nation’s top office praise Modi.  Sushma Swaraj , BJP leader in the lower house of the federal parliament
and former chief minister of Delhi, and Lal Krishna Advani, a
former deputy prime minister, have extolled the qualities they
say make Modi fit to be premier.  The BJP last led the national government from 1998 to 2004.
H.D. Deve Gowda is the only serving regional leader to have
become India’s prime minister, in 1996-97. Four other premiers
ran states earlier in their careers.  Religious Riots  Claims that Modi failed to stop rampaging Hindu mobs as
they burned their way through neighborhoods in 2002 still
threaten his emergence as a national leader. The  violence  left
more than 1,000 people dead, most of them Muslims. Many were set
on fire, and women were raped, India’s National Human Rights
Commission and  Human Rights Watch  found.  The carnage, which left Modi barred from the U.S. and some
European nations, followed the killing of Hindu activists in a
train fire, a blaze for which Muslims were later found guilty.  A Supreme Court-appointed panel investigating one
documented incident found no evidence that Modi took decisions
to prevent assistance from reaching those being attacked. Maya
Kodnani, a former Modi aide, was jailed in August for her role
in the murder of 97 people in a suburb of Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s
capital.  Boycott Ends  Modi’s administration said it did its best to maintain law
and order during the rioting. Modi hasn’t apologized for the
riots, saying “one only has to ask for forgiveness if one is
guilty of a crime,” in an  interview  with the Wall Street
Journal this year, according to the paper.  The U.K. in October ended a boycott of Modi, saying it
wanted to discuss business and justice for British citizens
killed in the riots. “Better late than never,” Modi said on
Twitter.  While the BJP and its parent organization, the pro-Hindu
Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, have defended Modi, the allies they
need in India’s splintered federal system may assess him as too
great a risk.  “Unless Modi comes back with a huge majority, it may be
easier to look at someone else,” said Prem Shankar Jha, an
independent political analyst in  New Delhi . “If he was
appointed, it would be very hard for the BJP to keep its flock
together. It would be an incredible gamble.”  The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, has signaled
he’ll quit the BJP-led opposition bloc if Modi becomes its face.  Shifting Tack  Modi has sought to play down the association with Hindu
nationalism -- the political force that propelled the BJP to
power in the late 1990s. While earlier campaigns were laced with
communal barbs and delivered votes, Modi has fought this one on
his economic record.  Standing on a newly built Ahmedabad riverfront, where
locals take boat rides and stroll on dates, Satish Nadar, 27, a
call-center worker said he’s switching his vote to the BJP.  “The most important thing is Modi is taking Gujarat in the
right direction and under him my job prospects are better,”
said Nadar, who works for a unit of  Vodafone Plc. (VOD)  “I remember
the impact of the riots but we have to move on.”  With Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration
struggling to reassert its reform credentials, and beset by
economic growth at a three-year low, Modi has been hailed by
Tata Group Chairman  Ratan Tata , and  Mukesh Ambani , chairman of
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , both of which have investments in
Gujarat.  Corporate Praise  “What makes Gujarat such a unique place to invest in India
is the excellent infrastructure,” said Parimal Nathwani,
president for corporate affairs at Reliance. “This shows the
advantage of a strong government that can follow through on its
promises.”  Modi built on the gains of earlier administrations in the
historically entrepreneurial state, simplifying investment
approval processes, guaranteeing electricity and constructing
roads and ports, developments that set Gujarat apart, according
to a 2011 study by the  Asian Development Bank .  Gujarat’s achievements in improving basic services have
been less impressive, according to an  India Today  survey last
month. It ranks 12th out of the largest 20 provinces in
improvements to its education system and 9th in health care.  Even so, with about 5 percent of India’s population,
Gujarat generates 22 percent of its exports and 11.5 percent of
the country’s manufacturing, state government  data  show.  On election posters around the state, Modi’s is the only
face. At the rally in Dholka, Modi through his hologram
dismissed his critics.  “Don’t listen to the lies, it is a sign of their
desperation,” Modi said to applause. “Give me a chance and we
can reap the rewards together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  