-- Bonus Cuts as Jobs Decline for Oil-to-Metal Traders: Commodities
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-12-13T19:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/oil-to-metals-bank-staff-retreating-for-second-year-commodities.html
Investment banks are cutting
commodity staff for a second year and pay will probably drop for
a third time as revenue declines, bonuses shrink and new
regulations limit how much money traders can risk.  Employees in commodity trading, sales and research at 10
top banks from Barclays Plc to  UBS AG (UBSN)  declined to 2,386 by
September, from 2,612 at the end of 2011 and 2,777 a year before
that, according to Coalition, a London-based analytics company.
Average compensation will retreat everywhere except  Asia , said
Tyler Jackson, the Singapore-based executive director of Options
Group, which has recruited more than 10,000 financial-services
workers over two decades.  Financial firms announced more than 300,000 job cuts since
the start of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Almost 20 percent of Wall Street banks’ employees are unlikely
to get year-end bonuses, Options Group estimated last month.
Commodity revenue at the banks tracked by Coalition dropped 19
percent to a combined $5.2 billion in the first nine months amid
the  smallest  price swings since at least 2002.  “The super returns are gone for a while, maybe forever,”
said Oral Dawe, the former chief executive officer of the Asia-
Pacific commodity business at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who runs his
own private equity and investment advisory businesses in
 Singapore . “But don’t count banks out. They will never get out
of commodities unless forced by regulation because the asset
class is now an integral part of global financial management,”
said Dawe, who spent a decade at  Goldman (GS)  Sachs Group Inc.  Floor Trading  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest  bank , plans to stop trading oil,
base metals and agriculture, though it will still handle
precious metals and index-investor products, a person with
direct knowledge of the decision said Oct. 31. The person asked
not to be identified because the details were private.  Barclays, the second-largest U.K. lender by assets, stopped
floor trading on the  London  Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest
 metals  bourse, last month. The bank will continue to handle
contracts electronically and by phone. The company also expanded
into precious-metals storage, opening one of  Europe ’s largest
vaults near London.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s largest lender, is cutting
power and gas trading jobs in the U.S., and David Silbert, the
global head of commodities, is leaving, a person briefed on the
matter said Dec. 11. The changes don’t affect the rest of the
Frankfurt-based bank’s raw-materials business, which includes
metals, coal and steel, the person said.  Commodity Business  The 9 percent decline this year in commodity staff compares
with a 7 percent drop in the fixed income, currencies and
commodities group, said Coalition. The firm tracks banks from
Goldman and Morgan Stanley to Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Bank officials declined to comment.
Average pay will fall less than 10 percent, according to Options
Group data that include base salary, cash and non-cash bonuses.  Employment and pay are declining after the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities fell 1.8 percent since the
end of December, the worst year since 2008. The MSCI All-Country
World index of  stocks  rose 12 percent, and a Bank of America
Corp. index shows Treasuries returned 2.3 percent.  Traders are making less money as price swings diminish with
the 100-day measure of  volatility  in the S&P GSCI declining to
14.1 in May, the lowest in at least a decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Goldman’s commodities business was hurt by low
volatility and volumes in the third quarter, Harvey M. Schwartz,
who will become chief financial officer early next year, said on
a call with analysts on Oct. 16.  Gold, Soybeans  The super-cycle that drove an almost fourfold gain in
commodity prices since the end of 2001 is over as  China ’s growth
slows and supply expands,  Edward Morse , Citigroup’s head of
commodities research, wrote in a report Nov. 19.  Jeffrey Currie ,
his counterpart at Goldman, predicts a 7 percent gain in raw
materials over the next 12 months and  Hussein Allidina  at Morgan
Stanley sees more increases in gold, silver and corn.  Raw-material prices almost doubled from the end of 2008
through June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt.
Global growth will accelerate to 3.6 percent in 2013, from 3.3
percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund  predicts.  Commodity assets under management rose to $429 billion in
October from $395 billion at the start of the year, according to
Barclays, which tracks index-linked funds, exchange-traded
products and medium-term notes. Contracts outstanding across the
members of the S&P GSCI expanded about 12 percent this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Coal, Copper  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, which seeks to boost transparency
after the global financial crisis, is imposing stricter limits
on bank capital, proprietary trading and rules for swap dealers.
New standards from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
known as Basel III, would more than triple the core capital
lenders must hold to absorb losses.  While banks’ commodity business is slowing, they are still
expanding in Asia as they boost sales to China, the biggest
consumer of everything from coal to cotton and copper. Traders
in the region will probably get a pay increase this year as
companies seek to keep key staff, said Options Group’s Jackson.  Standard Chartered Plc expanded its commodity team by 25
percent this year, taking staff in trading and sales to about
100, said Singapore-based Arun Murthy, the head of the global
commodity unit. The bank, which got 60 percent of its revenue
from Asia Pacific in 2011, may add as many as 20 people in the
next six months in places including  Shanghai  and Dubai.  Citigroup, Mercuria  Citigroup is expanding in commodities by hiring Jose Cogolludo in a newly created position of global head of
corporate sales for commodities, it said Nov. 14. Ron Ruffini
was hired as head of sales in  Latin America  and head of mid- and
downstream oil sales for the Americas, and Fasil Nasim will join
the bank as head of corporate energy sales for Europe, the
 Middle East  and  Africa , it said.  Banks are also losing staff to the lure of more cash
compensation from trading companies. Mercuria Energy Group Ltd.
added people in Beijing, Shanghai and Singapore this year as the
Geneva-based company expanded into metals and agriculture.
Closely held Mercuria hired Roger Jones from Barclays as global
head of non-oil trading and set up an  iron ore , steel and coal
trading team for Asia headed by Marcus Lyu from Noble Resources
Ltd. The firm also named Andrew Perkins from Morgan Stanley as
its global head of agriculture, based in Singapore.  Trading Firms  Trafigura Group, the third-largest independent oil trader,
moved 30 people to Singapore in the past year to trade metals
and bulk commodities, it said in April. Chief Financial Officer
Pierre Lorinet relocated from Geneva in September. More than
10,000 jobs in Singapore were linked to offshore trade in
commodities and energy in 2010, 40 percent more than 2006,
government data show.  “Some banks will extend deferral and vesting periods from
two to three years out to five years,” giving employees an
incentive to leave, said Options’s Jackson. “This is one of the
reasons why professionals at banks are more interested in
switching to a physical trading firm or  hedge funds .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  