-- Oil at $60 or $120 Doesn’t Prevent U.S. Supplanting Saudis
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r ,   A n t h o n y   D i p a o l a   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-13T21:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/oil-at-60-or-120-doesn-t-prevent-u-s-supplanting-saudi-arabia.html
Whether crude costs $60 a barrel or
twice that amount, the U.S. is almost free of depending on
imported energy and positioned to supplant  Saudi Arabia  as the
world’s No. 1 producer of oil.  Even if U.S. benchmark West  Texas  Intermediate oil drops 30
percent from the current $86 a barrel,  oil companies  will boost
production as new technologies allow them to extract crude from
shale formations, said  Ed Morse , the global head of commodities
research at Citigroup Inc. The nation, which was last self-
sufficient when Harry S. Truman was president in 1952, met 83
percent of its energy needs in the first eight months of this
year, according to the Energy Department in Washington.  Saudi Arabia can’t afford a decline of that magnitude after
the government pledged an unprecedented $630 billion on social
welfare and building projects. The kingdom, which uses  Brent
crude  to help set export rates, couldn’t meet those commitments
if prices fell 25 percent from the current $108 a barrel,
according to  Samuel Ciszuk , an oil consultant at KBC Energy
Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England .  “U.S. shale oil producers can’t lose,”  Leo Drollas , the
chief economist at the London-based Centre for Global Energy
Studies, which was founded by Saudi Arabia’s former oil
minister, said in a Dec. 10 telephone interview. “The Saudis
really need to balance their budget at about $95. For the U.S.
producers, that is more than ample.”  New Deposits  U.S. average daily  output  will climb 14 percent this year,
the most in six decades, according to the Energy Department, as
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Chesapeake Energy Corp. exploit new
deposits from North Dakota to Texas. Even though America’s 6.8
million barrels a day in November was 30 percent less than Saudi
Arabia’s 9.7 million, the  International Energy Agency  says the
U.S. will be bigger by 2020.  West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, will rise about 15 percent
through 2015, to $100 a barrel, according to the median of 13
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Brent, the benchmark
for Arab Light and Arab Medium grades, may gain less than 1
percent, to $110, the forecasts show.  WTI slipped 88 cents, or 1 percent, to settle at $85.89 a
barrel today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Brent for
January settlement on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange fell $1.59, or 1.5 percent, to $107.91 a barrel. The
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries yesterday kept
its official production ceiling at 30 million barrels a day.  Abdullah’s Pledge  While Morse says U.S. producers break even with prices of
about $72 to $75 a barrel, and will keep drilling new shale
wells at $60 because they’ve already hedged future output, Saudi
Arabia faces different challenges.  Last year, as popular uprisings toppled leaders in Tunisia,
Libya and Egypt and sparked a civil war in Syria, Saudi  King Abdullah  promised to spend $130 billion on extra subsidies for
housing and benefits as well as $500 billion for previously
announced infrastructure projects.  The kingdom’s population of 28.4 million is growing 2.9
percent a year, according to the Central Department of
Statistics and Information. At current rates, it will need all
its own oil by 2032, leaving nothing to export, Citigroup said
in a Sept. 4 report. The country uses about 25 percent of its
fuel production domestically, more per capita than any other
industrialized nation, the report said.  Fuel Misuse  Waste and misuse of fossil fuels threaten to double
consumption by 2030, Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said in a
Nov. 24 speech in  Riyadh . The kingdom consumes an average of 2.5
barrels of oil and oil equivalents to produce $1,000 of national
income, twice the global average, he said.  “The Saudis are trying to do two things: they want to keep
prices from going too high to hurt economic activity and at the
same time not let oil go below $100 a barrel,” Ciszuk, the KBC
Energy consultant said in a telephone interview Dec. 5. “I
would struggle to see the Saudis willing or able to take  oil
prices  low enough to cut off U.S. shale developments since even
they need oil in the $80s to balance the government budget
through 2013 and 2014.”  For all the growth in U.S. production, Al-Naimi told
reporters at yesterday’s OPEC meeting he isn’t concerned by the
burgeoning output from shale deposits, while United Arab
Emirates Oil Minister Mohammed Al-Hamli said producers are
“very concerned” and will protect their interests.  Global Sway  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest member, can still sway global
markets more than other nations. It has spare capacity to pump
as much as 12.5 million barrels a day, or 29 percent more than
last month’s levels, which were the lowest in 13 months,
according to an OPEC report this week. The country supplies more
than 10 percent of the world’s oil.  “The U.S. will never be the new Saudi Arabia,” said  Mike Wittner ,  Societe Generale ’s New York-based head of oil market
research for the Americas. “The Saudis are able to increase
production when they want to and are willing to cut when they
need to, and the U.S. will never do either of those things.”  U.S.  stockpiles  have grown 13 percent in 2012 as production
climbed to nearly a 19-year high, according to the Energy
Department. The rise in reserves is one reason why the average
regular unleaded gasoline price has tumbled from this year’s
high of $3.936 a gallon, according to data compiled by AAA. The
current price of $3.315 is 1.1 percent higher than the start of
the year.  Shrinking Spread  Analysts estimate WTI will rise more than Brent in coming
years partly because of the way oil pipelines flow in the U.S.,
bringing crude to the nation’s storage hub and delivery point
for Nymex futures contracts in Cushing, Oklahoma. The American
grade has traded at an average discount of about $17 a barrel
this year, compared with a premium of about 95 cents in the 10
years through 2010.  Brent has also been buoyed by U.S. and European sanctions
on  Iran , which choked off about 1 million barrels a day, or 1.1
percent of the global total, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Buzzard field in the North Sea, which pumps
200,000 barrels a day, was shut for two months for maintenance.  The price gap will narrow to as little as $4.50 next year,
as the glut in Cushing eases, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. The Seaway pipeline, operated by Enbridge Inc. and
Enterprise Products Partners LP, will be able to send 400,000
barrels a day from Cushing to the Houston area starting Jan. 1,
compared with 150,000 a day now, Enterprise Chief Executive
Officer Mike Creel said on Nov. 13.  Big Short  The last time the U.S. rivaled Saudi Arabia proved a
disaster for America’s oil industry and for the kingdom. U.S.
production expanded 10 percent from 1976 to 1985, reaching the
highest level since the Arab embargo in 1973.  By late 1985, the Saudis were pumping more crude to defend
their market dominance. WTI plunged to $10 a barrel in March
1986. U.S. output declined for 21 of the next 22 years and
didn’t start growing again until 2009.  Now, the U.S. may be producing too much oil and WTI may
drop as low as $50 a barrel within the next two years unless
policy makers scrap a law limiting exports,  Francisco Blanch ,
the head of commodities research for Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  New York , said in an interview.  “WTI is our big short for next year,” Blanch said. Should
futures fall to between $50 and $65 a barrel, production gains
will slow, he said.  If the U.S. natural gas market is any guide, declining
prices don’t guarantee reduced supply. Gas dropped to a 10-year-
low of $1.902 per million British thermal units in April. New
production technology helped drive  inventories  to a record last
month even though the number of gas rigs operating in the
country fell to a 13-year low on Nov. 9, according to Houston-
based Baker Hughes Inc.  “What’s going on with U.S. oil is the biggest development
over the last 40 years,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a telephone
interview. “U.S. shale, rather than anything, is the game
changer. OPEC nations are concerned, all of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  