-- Oil Fluctuates as U.S. Stockpiles Climb Before OPEC Meets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-12-12T07:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/oil-fluctuates-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-climb-before-opec-meets.html
Oil fluctuated after a industry
report showed stockpiles rising in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude consumer, and as OPEC delegates gathered in Vienna to
decide the group’s production quota.  Futures were little changed after gaining for the first
time in six days yesterday. Crude inventories increased by  4.27
million barrels  last week, the most since August, data from the
 American Petroleum Institute  showed. An Energy Department report
today may show supplies shrank by 2.5 million barrels, according
to a Bloomberg News survey. Most members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries have signaled they’ll keep the
output target unchanged at 30 million barrels a day.  “The ceiling for this meeting we think won’t change,”
 David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “We do see that supply
and demand probably at this particular point in time are pretty
equally balanced.”  Crude for January delivery was at $85.90 a barrel, up 11
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:12 p.m. Singapore time. The contract gained 23 cents to
$85.79 yesterday, the highest close since Dec. 7. Prices are
down 13 percent this year.  Brent for January settlement rose 35 cents to $108.36 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange and was
at a premium of $22.46 to West Texas Intermediate. The European
benchmark contract is heading for its highest-ever average
annual price, at $111.77 a barrel so far this year.  OPEC Output  Oil in  New York  has technical support along an upward-
sloping trend line on the daily chart, around $85.73 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A sustained drop
below this line, which connects the intraday lows of June and
November, will signal a so-called downside breakout, when losses
tend to accelerate.  While OPEC’s own forecasts show that it’s pumping more than
consumers need,  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq ,  Iran , the  United Arab
Emirates ,  Angola  and  Ecuador  have indicated that supply and
demand are approximately in balance. The group, which provides
about 40 percent of the world’s crude, is expected to maintain
its output quota, according to a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts
published last week.  Total production from all 12 OPEC nations slid to an 11-
month low of 30.78 million barrels a day last month, according
to a monthly report from the group yesterday that cited
secondary sources for its data. That’s still above the official
cap and about 1.03 million barrels a day more than the projected
average demand for OPEC crude next year, the report said.  “The ceiling is more for optics,” said Jeremy Friesen, a
commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong , who
forecasts  Brent crude  will trade in a range around $100 a barrel
in the medium term. “There’s no reason to send a signal,” on
prices right now, he said.  U.S. Inventories  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S. increased by 2.76 million
barrels last week, the API data showed. They are forecast to
rise by  2 million  in the government report, according to the
median estimate of 11 analysts in the Bloomberg News survey.
Distillate inventories, a category that includes diesel and
heating oil, rose by 2.24 million barrels compared with an
estimate for the Energy Department data of 1.1 million.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  