-- Oil Rises on Fed Move as IEA Boosts Demand Forecast
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2012-12-12T21:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/oil-rises-on-fed-move-as-iea-boosts-demand-forecast.html
Crude gained the most in almost two
weeks after the  Federal Reserve  unveiled a new round of measures
to bolster the  U.S. economy  and as the  International Energy
Agency  increased its demand forecast.  Futures rose for a second day after the Fed said it will
buy $45 billion a month in  Treasury securities  to help boost
economic growth. The IEA raised fourth quarter and 2013
consumption estimates on signs of a demand rebound in  China , the
second-biggest oil user after the U.S.  “The Fed statement is having a bullish effect and it
suggests that asset prices will be inflated for some time,”
said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic
Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The IEA’s demand
revision is clearly a very bullish move, and it suggests maybe
the economy is better than people thought, especially China.”  Crude for January delivery rose 98 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to settle at $86.77 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices are down 12 percent this year. They are heading
for the first annual decrease since 2008.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained $1.49, or 1.4 percent, to end the
session at $109.50 a barrel.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  for the first time linked
the outlook for its main interest rate to unemployment and
inflation.  Fed Outlook  It said  interest rates  will stay low “at least as long”
as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation “between one and two years ahead” is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent.  “The Fed is going to be around for a long time to come in
terms of keeping money easy and pumping money into the
economy,” said Tom Pawlicki, director of market research at
Chicago-based commodities trading firm EOXLive. “It rekindles
this whole trade where we see the dollar fall and commodities
rise as investors move to hard assets.”  The dollar slipped as much as 0.7 percent against the euro.
A weaker dollar and stronger euro increase dollar-denominated
oil’s value as an investment alternative.  Global oil consumption in the final three months of 2012
will average 90.5 million barrels a day, about 435,000 barrels,
or 0.5 percent, more than previously forecast, the Paris-based
IEA said in a monthly report today. Demand will expand by
865,000 barrels a day in 2013 to 90.5 million, adding 110,000
barrels to a previous outlook.  Chinese Economy  “Markets have grown somewhat more optimistic about the
Chinese economy as confidence indicators recently turned
expansionary after a long period in the doldrums,” the IEA said
in the report.  Futures rebounded after declining for five days through
Dec. 10, the longest streak of losses since Oct. 24. Prices
breached a technical resistance level at $86.70, an indicator
that they may increase further, said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief
market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in  Chicago .  “Oil is on the bottom part of the range and buyers are
coming back to the market,” he said. “The IEA boosts its
demand forecast, and it’s supportive for prices.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
pumps about 40 percent of the world’s oil, kept its production
limit at 30 million barrels a day at a meeting in Vienna, a
level it now exceeds, according to estimates from the group and
from Bloomberg.  OPEC Output  “Everything will stay as it is,”  Ali al-Naimi ,  Saudi
Arabia ’s oil minister, said after the meeting in Vienna. “We
respond to customer demand. Whatever the customers want, we will
give them.”  Production from all 12 OPEC nations slid to an 11-month low
of 30.78 million barrels a day last month, OPEC’s monthly
report, which cited secondary sources for the data, showed
yesterday. That’s still above the official cap and about 1.03
million barrels a day more than the projected average demand for
OPEC crude next year, according to the report.  OPEC pumped 31.5 million barrels a day in November,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Crude reduced gains earlier after the Energy Department
said  supplies  rose 843,000 to 372.6 million in the week ended
Dec. 7. Inventories were forecast to decrease 2.5 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Stockpiles of gasoline grew 5 million barrels to 217.1
million, the most since April 6. They were forecast to increase
2 million barrels, according to the survey.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 656,360
contracts as of 4:43 p.m. Volume totaled 487,360 contracts
yesterday, 6.1 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.54 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 