-- Holiday Art Books: Van Gogh in the Asylum, Ireland’s Masterwork
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-12-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/holiday-art-books-van-gogh-in-the-asylum-ireland-s-masterwork.html
“The Book of Kells” is without
much question the greatest Irish work of visual art. It’s
fitting that the culture that produced  James Joyce ’s “ Ulysses ’’
should also boast a masterpiece consisting largely of luxuriant,
sometimes irrelevant, decoration of a text, in this case the
four Gospels of the New Testament.  The original “Book of Kells” is housed at Trinity College
Dublin. A new volume simply called “ The Book of Kells ” by
Bernard Meehan (Thames & Hudson, $95, 60 pounds) is a fine
introduction to this extraordinarily beautiful work.  Its pages may appear strange to a modern eye. The
ornamentation is often abstract, in the manner of an Islamic
carpet, but also full of words unexpectedly metamorphosed into
animal form. Thus, in one passage the word “et’’ -- meaning
“and’’ in Latin -- sprouts a lion’s head. In another, describing
St. Peter’s denial of Christ, the same two letters are
transformed into the body of a timorous hare.  The sumptuously illustrated “ Caspar David Friedrich ’’ by
Johannes Grave (Prestel, $120, 80 pounds) is a good guide to one
of the major artists of the Romantic era.  Friedrich (1774-1840) was born in Greifswald on the Baltic
coast of  Germany , a contemporary of the British painters Turner
and Constable. Like them, he tried to make landscape a way of
expressing feelings.  In Friedrich’s case, the typical mood is of solitude: A
lonely figure or little group confronts the infinite expanse of
mountain, sea and sky with just a hint that there may be a
transcendent, divine presence in the universe.  ‘Art Book’  Like almost everyone with a place in the history of art,
Friedrich rates one page -- no more, no less -- in “ The Art
Book ’’ (Phaidon, $59.95, 39.95 pounds). This newly revised,
expanded version of one of the most popular introductions to the
subject contains more women, more 21st-century movers-and-shakers
and more non-Europeans.  Thus, in the first few pages we encounter new entries on the
performance artist  Marina Abramovic , the abstract painter Tomma
Abts and the Chinese art superstar and dissident Ai Weiwei. If
you want a concise description and a characteristic image by any
of these -- or hundreds of others from A to Z -- this is an
accessible, user-friendly way to get it.  But the format has its limitations. To qualify for an entry,
what you need is a name with an initial letter: No anonymity
tolerated, which excludes a large part of the world’s art (“The
Book of Kells,” for instance).  ‘English Graphic’  The late, much-lamented Tom Lubbock was among the most
thoughtful and engaging writers on art. “ English Graphic ’’
(Frances Lincoln, $29.95, 20 pounds) is mainly selected from his
weekly column in the Independent newspaper and takes us on an
extremely unexpected trajectory through what might seem a
familiar subject: British art.  Alongside well-known works by famous artists, Lubbock
discusses such unexpected but fascinating images as Robert
Hooke’s depiction of “A Flea’’ (1665), George Stubbs’s
illustrations for a treatise on midwifery (1751) and “Stowage
of the British Slave Ship Brookes’’ (1789), produced by the
Committee for the Abolition of the Slave Trade.  Another unexpected angle is opened up by “ The Healing
Presence of Art: A History of Western Art in Hospitals ’’ by
Richard Cork (Yale, $90, 50 pounds). You might think the
combination of art and medicine would make for a small, slightly
depressing subject.  Not at all, as Cork demonstrates in this erudite and ground-
breaking book. Perhaps more Western art has been connected with
hospitals than any other institutions apart from palaces and
churches: 15th-century frescoes, pictures of anatomy lectures,
altarpieces and even  Van Gogh ’s wonderful paintings done in the
asylum at St. Remy. This is one of those subjects that get
bigger the more you explore.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 