-- London’s Dominance in Shipping Seen Threatened by EU Regulation
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-12-12T08:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/london-s-dominance-in-shipping-seen-threatened-by-eu-regulation.html
The Baltic Exchange, the London-
based bourse whose data are used to set freight rates for about
75 percent of seaborne trade, said European moves to tighten
controls over financial benchmarks may drive business abroad.  The European Commission  is reviewing  mandatory reporting of
trade data to set benchmarks, following an almost three-month
consultation prompted by the investigation into the manipulation
of the London interbank offered rate. Some maritime companies
would leave for Asia if that included shipping, the 268-year-old
Baltic Exchange said in a submission last month, a copy of which
was received by Bloomberg.  Regulators are investigating claims that more than a dozen
banks and financial firms altered submissions used to set
benchmarks including Libor to profit from trades on interest-
rate derivatives. UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG are among the
banks that have been probed. The Baltic Exchange’s assessments
for the physical cost of shipping are self-regulated.  “Any attempt to impose a regulated responsibility for
contributions risks either driving businesses out of the
jurisdiction or reducing the quality of contribution,” the
Baltic Exchange said in its submission. “Government
intervention in the production or distribution processes (which
are not subject to any consistent complaint) would be
potentially devastating, with unpredictable consequences.”  Regulatory Tsunami  The Baltic Exchange publishes prices for 61 routes based on
the estimates of more than 50 shipbrokers worldwide. Forcing
brokers to contribute prices would cause fewer of them to do so
and the cost of complying would also rise, it said in the
submission. Rival assessments were started last month by the
Shanghai Shipping Exchange, the submission said.  The  Baltic Exchange  faces a “tsunami of regulation” into
how its indexes are compiled, Philippe van den Abeele, the
chairman of a group of users of the benchmarks, said in
September. Van den Abeele is managing director of Castalia Fund
Management (UK) Ltd., a London-based adviser to a shipping hedge
fund.  Possbile criminal sanctions for providing a misleading
contribution to benchmarks, even by mistake, would deter many
 shipbrokers  from contributing to the Baltic indexes, damaging
its commercial model, according to the submission.  Mandatory reporting of data used to calculate indexes isn’t
needed for shipping, an industry that didn’t seek greater
transparency and is happy with the benchmarks the Baltic
provides, according to the submission.  Half of Tanker Bookings  About 200 ship broking companies are based in London and
account for about 50 percent of all ships booked to carry crude
and oil products and as much as 40 percent of other vessels
carrying commodities such as ore, coal and grains, according to
a 2011 report by TheCityUK a London-based group representing
financial services in the U.K.  The Baltic Exchange is at the heart of the maritime service
sector that employed 12,000 in 2010 and generated GDP of 1.5
billion pounds ($2.4 billion), according to TheCityUK.  The Brussels-based European Commission, the 27-nation
European Union’s regulatory arm, will publish an overview of the
responses to its consultation early next year, to be followed
later in 2013 by draft legislation, Stefaan De Rynck, spokesman
for Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said in
an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  