-- Honduras Ousts Supreme Court Justices as Lobo Warns of ’09 Coup
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-12T22:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/honduras-ousts-supreme-court-justices-as-lobo-warns-of-09-coup.html
The Honduran Congress voted to
remove four of the Central American country’s 15 Supreme Court
justices after they rejected President Porfirio Lobo’s bid to
require that police undergo lie detector tests.  Ninety-seven of the 128 lawmakers present voted to oust the
justices today in a legislative session that ended around 4
a.m., Elvin Mendoza, a spokesman for Congress, said in a phone
interview from Tegucigalpa. The vote took place while members of
the military stood outside the congressional building throughout
the night, Mendoza said.  The move highlighted the struggles between the central
government, judiciary and armed forces three years after then-
President Manuel Zelaya was rounded up during the night and put
on a military plane out of the country. The chief of the armed
forces, Rene Osorio Canales, pledged today that he would
“maintain permanent loyalty to the three branches of the
government,” according to a statement from the presidency.  “It is being called a judicial coup,” said Adrienne Pine,
an assistant professor at American University in  Washington  who
has studied Honduras for 15 years, in a phone interview.  Lobo said the Supreme Court’s Nov. 27 ruling to reject the
police polygraph testing was “illegal.”  ‘Something Unjust’  “There is something unjust here,” Lobo said in a Dec. 10
statement. “A decision of the four members of the
constitutional chamber of the Supreme Court should be able to
guarantee something as important for the country as a
purification of the police.”  A series of tests for police officers, including polygraph
and drug examinations, was approved by the Honduran Congress in
May in an effort to reduce corruption among national security
forces. Lobo said Congress’s approval of the measures was “hope
for a restoration of the faith of the Honduran people in the
national police.”  Three replacement judges were appointed to the
constitutional chamber this morning by Congress and the fourth
will be added soon, said a spokesman for the Supreme Court who
asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to
discuss the issue publicly. Due to the lack of a unanimous vote
in the constitutional chamber’s Nov. 27 ruling, the
constitutionality of the lie-detector measures will be voted on
by all of the court’s 15 magistrates Dec. 14, he said.  2009 Coup  Zelaya was ousted by soldiers at gunpoint in 2009 after he
defied a Supreme Court order to stop his push for a non-binding
referendum on a constitutional rewrite. Lobo, whose election
several Latin American governments refused to recognize, has
warned of a repeat of the 2009 coup in recent days, saying that
the court’s vote to deny police testing and biased media
coverage could result in instability.  “This collusion is a threat to institutionalism and is
very delicate,” Lobo said Dec. 8. “It is an indication that
some people want to return to a situation similar to that of
2009.”  Lobo added that if efforts to destabilize continued, “we
are going to have problems” that will require “the people of
 Honduras  to defend its rights.”  “I don’t think it was entirely clear which camp had the
military on their side but it is now crystal clear that they are
with President Lobo,” Pine said. “The side that has the
military ultimately has the power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  