-- One57 Crane Mishap to Delay Completion of Manhattan Tower
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-12-12T18:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/one57-crane-mishap-to-delay-completion-of-manhattan-tower.html
The crane collapse at One57,
 Manhattan ’s tallest residential tower, will delay completion of
the luxury-condominium development and the move-in of its first
residents by as much as 60 days.  “We were hoping to start delivering in June, July,” Gary Barnett, president of Extell Development Co., the developer of
the 90-story building at 157 West 57th St., said in an
interview. “Now it pushes back delivery one to two months.”  One57, which has set price records and lured buyers from
around the world, attracted national attention during superstorm
Sandy as the crane’s partial collapse left the boom hovering
like a dagger over 57th Street and prompted a weeklong shutdown
of nearby buildings. While the crane was secured on Nov. 4, the
Department of Buildings has issued a partial stop work order at
the site, essentially halting most construction on the tower’s
highest floors, which have yet to be enclosed in its signature
blue glass exterior.  Removal and replacement of the damaged boom will take until
at least the end of the first quarter, according to Barnett.
Parts of a new crane and the derrick that will be required to
hoist it up are being “engineered and designed,” he said.  “We think there’s going to be a delay in terms of being
able to take the crane off the building,” Barnett said. A new
crane will be needed on site for construction through the second
or early third quarter of next year, he said, instead of coming
down in the first three months of the year as initially planned.  August Move  Buyers of the lower floors, which have already been
enclosed in glass, should be able to move in by August, he said.
Work there such as electrical wiring and laying down sheetrock
is continuing.  Sales at the tower reached $1 billion in May, the company
said in a statement at the time. Extell had an asking price of
$115 million for the building’s two duplexes, and both sold for
more than $90 million each, setting Manhattan price records.
Buyers have been putting in deposits based on floor plans, a
model apartment in the 6,000-square-foot (557-square-meter)
offsite sales office and sample apartment views photographed by
a camera mounted on a drone helicopter that snapped pictures at
different elevations.  As apartments sold briskly, Extell has twice increased
prices, according to documents filed in September with the  New
York  State Attorney General’s office, which presides over the
details of condominium sales. A 6,200-square-foot full-floor
apartment on the 88th floor, the highest unit available for sale
as of September, was listed at $67 million, a 28 percent mark-up
from its initial offering price in June 2011.  The 87th-floor unit was increased to $64.5 million, or 36
percent more than in June 2011, the documents show.  86th Floor  The top floors are only reachable now by an external
construction elevator. A ride in early October to the still
open-air 86th floor took about five minutes in the rattling
metal cage, which creaked upward like a roller coaster grating
over a metal track. The view reveals itself in the stages of
ascent: office tower rooftops, then a backward view of the red
neon sign of the Essex House hotel. Once on the 86th floor, the
scene is the unobstructed expanse of Central Park, high enough
that its rectangular edges look like a moss-colored doormat at
the foot of where someone’s living room will be.  City Views  On a clear October day, the full-floor unit on the 86th
story -- a four-bedroom, four-bathroom apartment of about 6,200
square feet -- had views of Statue of Liberty and the spire of
One World Trade Center to the south, the George Washington
Bridge and a sliver of Westchester to the north, and to east,
the circling planes above La Guardia airport. The unit was
listed at $62 million in September, according to attorney
general documents.  The apartment will have features such as a bathroom
medicine cabinet that will be suspended from the ceiling,
against a wall that will be all glass, said Jeff Dvorett, vice
president of development for Extell.  “You can stand up there and shave and put your make-up on
and while you’re looking out to the city, you see yourself in
the mirror at the same time,” he said.  One57’s 92 apartments were 60 percent sold in mid-October,
before Sandy hit, Barnett said at the time. More apartments have
sold since the storm, including one of the full-floor units,
which start above the 76th floor, according to Barnett.  Two-bedroom units, which start on the 39th floor, have
completely sold out through the 56th floor, Dan Tubb, director
of sales, said in October. Those units are all priced below $10
million and have a partial view of the southwestern corner of
Central Park, according to a scale model in the sales office and
data from the attorney general.  Not Perfect  “The only thing that hasn’t sold rapidly has been the in
between, the say 15-to-20 million-dollar range,” Barnett said
in an October interview. “They’re not perfect views,” because
they are on mid-level floors, where views of Central Park have
other buildings in the line of sight.  Extell is focusing on that sliver of sales in its next
marketing push, he said. It plans to build a model apartment on
one of those floors in the first quarter.  “People realize it’s a very attractive buy in terms of
getting into the building,” Barnett said last week. “In terms
of selling out, I don’t think we’ll sell it out without getting
people in the building.”  One57 broke ground in 2009, in the depth of the Manhattan
real estate collapse, when other developers shut down sites.  Nothing Comparable  “We knew that we had the market to ourselves,” Barnett
said in the October interview. “There’s no comparable product
getting completed for at least three years.”  Three blocks away on 57th Street, the developers  Harry Macklowe  and  CIM Group  are working to supplant One57 as the
tallest residential building in the city. They have begun work
on a 1,397-foot tower, 393 feet taller than Extell’s, on the
site of the former Drake Hotel on Park Avenue.  “Drake hasn’t gone vertical yet and we know how long it
takes to complete a tower that’s 1,300 feet tall,” Barnett
said. “It’s not getting done faster than we’ve done ours.  ‘‘I expect them to do fine,” he said.  “But their sales
will accelerate after we sell out.”  After Sandy, Extell also is contending with the prospect of
lawsuits tied to the crane’s collapse. The developer, as well as
the construction manager for the site, Sydney-based Lend Lease
Corp., are being sued in federal court by a dental firm on West
59th Street and two dentists, who accuse them of negligence for
failing to secure the crane and say the street shutdown caused a
substantial loss of income.  Sue Anybody  Michael Hurwitz, a lawyer who lived in his office while
displaced for a week from his 58th Street home, has filed notice
that he intends to seek damages.  Iwona Polski, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Lend Lease,
referred comment to Mary Costello, the New York-based senior
vice president for corporate affairs, who didn’t return a phone
call yesterday.  Barnett said the lawsuits wouldn’t hinder the progress of
construction.  “You can sue anybody for anything in New York City,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  