-- Hong Kong Watchdog Repeats Call for Banks IPO Liability
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-12-12T10:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/hong-kong-watchdog-repeats-call-for-banks-ipo-liability.html
Hong Kong’s securities regulator
proposed to make banks criminally liable for false statements in
initial public offering documents, seeking to strengthen
investor protection after a series of accounting scandals.  The Securities and Futures Commission said Hong Kong should
change its laws to make an IPO sponsor’s criminal and civil
liability unambiguous. The proposal, first raised in May, was
repeated today after the regulator considered responses to the
plan, according to a statement.  The SFC said a stricter regime is needed to protect
investors, after a string of accounting scandals involving
publicly traded  Chinese companies  hurt investor confidence.
Critics have said the regulator already has powers to hold
underwriters accountable for improper disclosure, and the new
requirements will increase the cost of underwriting IPOs.  “Having someone on the hook for the quality of the
information that’s provided, at face value, appears to be a
positive step,” said  Mark Konyn , chief executive officer of
Cathay Conning Asset Management Ltd. “Whether or not the market
can bear that level of liability is a question for the
sponsors.”  Banks should be held criminally liable if they “knowingly
or recklessly approved a prospectus containing an untrue
statement (including an omission) which was materially adverse
from an investor’s perspective,” the regulator said. Starting
next October, the SFC will require companies to publish early
drafts of IPO prospectuses, to be filed together with a listing
application to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  ‘Chilling Effect’  Firms that act as IPO sponsors should be paid regardless of
whether the deal gets completed, the SFC said.  Banks expressed concerns that the some of the changes may
have a “chilling effect” on Hong Kong as an IPO market,
according to a response to the proposals from a group of 23
banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   “An early filing process will have professional cost
implications for the listing applicant before there is any deal
certainty,” according to the statement, which was posted on the
SFC’s  website .  “The changes, along with a streamlined regulatory process,
will incentivise sponsors to raise standards, pick the right
deals and manage them well, which should in turn reduce risks
for investors and all those involved in IPOs,” SFC Chief
Executive Officer Ashley Alder said in today’s statement.  Falling Fees  At a press conference today, Alder said he hopes that
clarification of Hong Kong’s laws will be complete by October.
The current criminal fine is HK$700,000 ($90,321) and will be
looked at in a separate review, he said.  Some lawyers including Christopher Betts, a Hong Kong
partner at New York-based Skadden, Arps, Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP, said the new rules won’t change Hong Kong’s position as a
natural choice for Chinese companies looking to raise capital.  “The only issuers who should have anything to fear from
all this are those that probably shouldn’t be going public in
the first place,” Betts said.  The proposal come with Hong Kong on track for its worst
year for IPOs since 2003, with proceeds falling 68 percent from
last year to $6.6 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
may add to pressure on banks already stung by falling fees.  In 2007, the SFC introduced a system where one or several
investment banks arranging an IPO would act as a so-called
sponsor and be responsible for due diligence. The sponsors on a
deal are typically identified on the front page of the
prospectus.  Due Diligence  Regulators started reviewing the sponsor regime after
first-time sales raised a record $58 billion in Hong Kong in
2010, making the city the world’s biggest IPO center. Deals that
year had inadequate due diligence at times, with some sponsors
failing to keep proper records of their checks on listing
applicants, according to an SFC report last year.  The 182 companies that began trading on the main board of
Hong Kong’s exchange since the start of 2010 have fallen an
average 12 percent from their IPO prices, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 118 Chinese companies among them are
down on average 15 percent, the data show. Over the same period,
the benchmark Hang Seng Index has gained 3 percent.  Boshiwa Investigation  Boshiwa International Holding Ltd., a Chinese maker of
children’s apparel and licensee of the Harry Potter brand, said
in March that Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu resigned as its auditor
because of a lack of financial information. The company, which
is investigating the matters raised by Deloitte, has been
suspended from trading in Hong Kong for nine months.  Boshiwa raised $321 million in an initial public offering
in September 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Before they
were suspended, Boshiwa’s shares fell 66 percent from the IPO
price. UBS, Credit Suisse AG and BOCOM International Securities
Ltd. were joint sponsors for the share sale, according to a
prospectus published on Sept. 16, 2010.  “The proposals are a much-needed response to the
deterioration of sponsor behavior in recent years,” the Asian
Corporate Governance Association said in response to the SFC’s
proposal, in a July 6 submission which didn’t refer to any
specific IPOs.  Officials at UBS and Credit Suisse declined to comment on
the Boshiwa IPO. A spokesman for BOCOM couldn’t be reached.  The new rules will require some investment banks to review
their internal procedures, which may prove difficult initially
due to limitation of resources with the downsizing of teams at
banks in recent months, according to Conrad Chan, a partner in
the Hong Kong office of law firm King & Wood Mallesons.  Falling Fees  Underwriters have already been stung by by falling fees,
earning about $250 million from first-time share sales this
year, down from an average of $775 million annually since 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The SFC is already able to bring criminal and civil charges
under existing laws, according to Shearman & Sterling, a law
firm.  “There are existing provisions in the Securities and
Futures Ordinance which impose civil and criminal liability,”
according to the newsletter from the New York-based firm dated
August 2012. “Moreover, the SFC seems to have sufficient powers
to reprimand sponsors without relying on statutory provisions.”  The regulator in April fined Mega Capital (Asia) Co. a
record HK$42 million for failing to highlight misleading
information in the share sale prospectus of Hontex International
Holdings Co. Mega Capital, the sole sponsor on the deal, was
also stripped of its corporate finance license -- an
unprecedented penalty.  Hontex, which raised $141 million in a December 2009 IPO,
in June agreed to pay shareholders $133 million to end a
lawsuit. The settlement was the first time the SFC negotiated a
share repurchase by a listed company to compensate initial
public offering investors.  Hontex, which has been suspended since just three months
after the IPO, this month said Hong Kong’s stock exchange has
decided to cancel its listing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  