-- Longest Bonds Lose Appeal After Best Year: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/longest-bonds-lose-appeal-after-best-year-muni-credit.html
The longest-dated municipal bonds
have generated the best returns in the $3.7 trillion local
market in 2012. Yet they’ve become too expensive for firms such
as AllianceBernstein LP and BlackRock Inc., which are turning to
shorter maturities for gains in the year ahead.  Investors at five managers who help oversee at least $155
billion of munis combined aren’t alone in shunning debt due in
decades.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said investors should avoid
longer-term Treasuries because of steps to boost the economy.
The lengthier the maturity, the more vulnerable bonds are to
quicker inflation and rising interest rates.  Longer bonds “have much more downside than upside, and we
recommend people trim that part of the curve and come more into
that 10- to 15-year maturity range,” said Guy Davidson, who
manages $31 billion as director of munis at AllianceBernstein in
 New York .  Muni yields at  47-year lows  have driven buyers to take more
risk. City and state bonds due in more than 22 years have earned
13.8 percent in 2012, beating all maturities, including a 9
percent gain for bonds due in 10 to 15 years, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. The longer bonds are on course for the
first consecutive years of double-digit gains since 1989.  Fed Factor  The gains have been spurred in part by Federal Reserve
purchases of Treasuries, a program that that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will extend at least through the first quarter of 2014,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Fed officials meet today to review policy.  Yet with the U.S. jobless rate falling to a four-year low
last month, 2013 is set to bring higher yields, according to the
median forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey. Yields on 30-
year Treasuries will rise to about 3.3 percent in a year, from
about 2.84 percent in New York yesterday, the survey indicates.  “We’re probably a bit more cautious on the market given
the recent run that we’ve had,” said  Peter Hayes , head of muni
debt at New York-based BlackRock, which oversees about $105
billion of the bonds. “So we’ve come back down on the curve.”  Spread Collapse  The outsized performance on munis maturing in decades has
collapsed the extra yield on the securities to the smallest in
four years.  Thirty-year benchmark munis yielded as little as  1.08
percentage points  more than 10-year maturities this month, the
smallest gap since October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Benchmark local debt due in 2042 yielded 2.51 percent
yesterday, close to the lowest level for a Bloomberg index that
started in January 2009.  Bonds maturing beyond 20 years are “extremely expensive
and you’re not getting enough incremental yield pickup for the
risk,” Dan Heckman, senior fixed-income strategist at U.S. Bank
Wealth Management in Prairie Village,  Kansas , said in an
interview.  Yields on 20-year general-obligation bonds were 3.27
percent last week, the lowest since 1965, according to a Bond
Buyer index.  The trend in yields for federal debt has been the opposite.
The yield spread on 30-year Treasuries over 10-year maturities
has increased this year to  1.18 percentage points , from about
1.03 percentage points in early January, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Following are pending municipal sales:  REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, which provides mass-
transit in the Denver area and neighboring counties, plans to
issue $466 million of debt as soon as today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bonds are backed by sales-tax revenue,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. (Added Dec. 12)  TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE AND TUNNEL AUTHORITY, part of New York’s
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , is set to sell $904
million of tax-exempt revenue debt as soon as tomorrow, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. (Updated Dec. 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  