-- Monti Defends Policy; Germany Fears Bunga-Bunga Backslide
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-12T14:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/monti-defends-policy-germany-fears-bunga-bunga-backslide.html
Prime Minister Mario Monti warned of
the dangers of dismantling his economic reforms after Silvio Berlusconi said the government’s “German-centric” policies
have left  Italy  in worse shape than when he ceded power.  “Reforms need time for their effects to unfold while the
costs are felt immediately,” Monti said today in a speech in
Rome, a day after Berlusconi’s remarks. “Interrupting the
reforms is worse than not doing them at all.”  Berlusconi is stepping up his criticism of Monti and
German-led austerity after withdrawing his support for the
government he backed for more than a year. Apart from blaming
Germany for Italy and  Europe ’s economic woes, he called the
focus on the  gap  between German and Italian borrowing costs “a
scam” that wasn’t important.  “There is the danger of a backslide to bunga bunga; Italy
needs more reforms,”  Rainer Bruederle , parliamentary leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Free Democratic Party coalition
partner, told reporters in Berlin today.  Bruederle was referring to the parties Berlusconi threw
with young woman that are at the center of criminal charges
against him for engaging a minor in prostitution.  Monti raised taxes and cut spending in a bid to bring the
budget deficit within the European Union limit this year and
stop the increase in the euro region’s second-biggest debt. He
also overhauled pension and labor rules, prompting a popular
backlash. While his policies left Italy with one of the lowest
deficits in the region, they deepened the country’s fourth
recession since 2001.  Meeting Merkel  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 5 basis points to 4.67
percent, taking back some of the 29-point advance on Dec. 10,
the first day of trading after Monti announced he planned to
step down when Berlusconi’s forces deserted.  Berlusconi may have the chance to defend his remarks to
Merkel tomorrow; he may attend a meeting of the European
People’s Party in Brussels, newspaper Libero reported. An EPP
spokeswoman wasn’t sure whether Berlusconi would attend.  Berlusconi’s arrival in Brussels would cast a shadow over
Monti’s participation in what will probably be his last summit
of EU leaders, which also begins tomorrow.  Monti intends to resign as soon as next week when
Parliament passes his 2013 budget plan. He announced he would
step aside after Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party withdrew
its support when the former three-time premier said he would run
again. Once Monti resigns, Parliament will be dissolved, with
elections held as soon as February.  Rome Event  Berlusconi, 76, will probably reveal more of his plans for
his sixth bid for the premiership when he speaks at a book
presentation in Rome today at 5:45 p.m.  His decision to run, which came less than a month after he
said he was stepping back from politics, upended his party,
known as the PDL in Italian, and forced it to cancel a primary
campaign that was under way to choose its candidate for the
election. His return has not only riled Monti backers and
 Germany ; he’s also strained relations with his own allies.  Several PDL lawmakers, including former Foreign Minister
Franco Frattini, backed the current government in a Dec. 6
confidence vote, defying the party leaders who called for
abstaining after announcing their break with Monti.  Berlusconi has also run into resistance in his efforts to
rebuild ties with his former coalition ally the Northern League,
without which he stands little chance of being competitive in
the election.  Northern League leader Roberto Maroni told Berlusconi
yesterday that the party wouldn’t back him if he went ahead with
plans to run again, a person familiar with the conversation said
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Davis in Brussels at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  