-- Top Seller Helps Maruti Buck Falling Deliveries: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-12-13T05:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/top-seller-helps-maruti-buck-falling-deliveries-corporate-india.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, forecasts deliveries will rebound
from the first drop in eight years, led by surging demand for
the latest version of its best-selling car.  Sales at the unit of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  may rise as much as
6 percent in the year ending March 31 after dropping 11 percent
in the same period a year earlier, said Mayank Pareek, the
managing executive officer for sales. The  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers  forecasts car deliveries will expand as
little as 1 percent this year.  Maruti has orders for 52,000 units of the new version of
the Alto, which it started selling in October. That’s almost
equivalent to the sales of  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in  Asia ’s third-
largest automobile market this year. Cheap parts and easy
availability of service stations in the world’s seventh-largest
landmass has kept customers “loyal” to Maruti amid four
shutdowns due to labor strife, said Umesh Karne, an analyst with
Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  “The value proposition that Maruti offers is something the
competition can’t match, which is why Maruti has waiting lists
on its models, while rivals are offering discounts,” said Kapil Singh, a Mumbai-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., who
 recommends  investors buy the stock. “Maruti will certainly
outperform the market.”  Maruti’s  shares  have risen 60 percent this year,  India ’s
 second-best performing  auto stock. They fell 0.1 percent to
1,474.75 rupees as of 10:48 a.m. in Mumbai trading.  Labor Agitation  Maruti, faced with a labor agitation in July that left one
person dead and caused it to close one of its factories for
about a month, has seen sales rise for three straight months.
Deliveries at Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  have
dropped in the same period. The company also increased
deliveries of diesel-run vehicles in a country where the price
of the fuel is capped by the government.  “A coming together of many factors has helped us increase
sales,” Pareek said in an interview. “Our new models have
gained a lot of traction in the market and we have also had an
increased supply of  diesel engines .”  Sales of diesel-powered models including the Swift, DZire
and Ertiga rose to 45 percent of total dispatches this year,
compared with about 35 percent last year, Pareek said.  The industry association slashed its forecast for
deliveries for a second time this year on Oct. 10. That may
prompt Maruti and its rivals to offer discounts to attract
buyers, said  Deepesh Rathore , the New Delhi-based managing
director of IHS Automotive in India.  Earnings Margin  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , India’s second-largest carmaker, said on
Dec. 1 its Indian sales last month dropped 0.7 percent, while
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the maker of the Nano car, reported a 19
percent drop in domestic passenger vehicle dispatches in
November.  Maruti’s earnings margin before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization may narrow for a third straight
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
reported a margin of 7.8 percent in the year ended March 31.  “The overall car market is weakening and Maruti will be
affected,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune
Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai. “They have a serious
underutilization of their petrol engine capacity while their
diesel engine capacity is overburdened.”  Another strike at the company’s main plant in Manesar near
 New Delhi  may also sour customer loyalty should deliveries be
delayed again. A general manager was killed and dozens of
executives injured when the riot erupted in July, its most
violent labor strife, prompting Maruti to announce a lockout.  Services Terminated  The automaker terminated services of 500 regular workers at
the Manesar plant, where a total of 3,300 workers were employed.
Police arrested workers, including union leaders, following the
riot, provoking protests as recently as Dec. 9.  Maruti, named after the son of the wind god in Hindu
mythology, has seen its market share dwindle to about 40 percent
from as high as 87 percent in 1998. Closest rival Hyundai
commands 19 percent, 15 years after starting production in the
southern city of  Chennai .  Maruti first started selling the Alto in September 2000,
priced at 300,000 rupees to compete against Hyundai’s Santro
model and defunct Daewoo Motor Co.’s Matiz hatchback. The new
version, introduced on Oct. 16, is 19 percent cheaper at 244,000
rupees in New Delhi, making it the company’s least expensive
hatchback after the Maruti 800, which it has been producing
since 1983.  Kilometer Per Liter  The company says the Alto runs 22.7 kilometers (14.1 miles)
on a liter of gasoline in a nation where the fuel is 40 percent
costlier than diesel, making it attractive for buyers, Brics’
Karne said. Huyndai’s Eon model offers 21.1 kilometers for every
liter, while GM’s Chevrolet Spark goes 18 kilometers.  Maruti’s nearly 3,000 service centers, compared with 800
for Hyundai and 241 sales and service centers for Ford, also
help lure customers.  “The satisfaction with the brand is why Maruti continues
to dominate the market,” said Rathore. “Maruti’s sales and
service network is a kind of machine that it has set up and it
works very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  