-- More CEOs Plan Capital-Spending Cuts as U.S. Nears Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-12-12T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/more-ceos-plan-capital-spending-cuts-as-u-s-nears-fiscal-cliff.html
The number of U.S. chief executive
officers planning to trim  capital expenditures  has risen amid
the political standoff over more than $600 billion in federal
tax increases and spending cuts, the  Business Roundtable  said.  A survey conducted by the Washington-based  CEO group  from
Nov. 12 to Nov. 30 found that 23 percent expect their companies
to reduce  capital spending  during the next six months, according
to a statement today. That increased from 19 percent in a survey
completed in September.  “The uncertainty about the fiscal and monetary environment
and the budget environment that we find ourselves in is putting
a damper on investment,” Jim McNerney, chairman of the Business
Roundtable and CEO of aircraft manufacturer  Boeing Co. (BA) , told
reporters today on a conference call.  The standoff between President  Barack Obama ’s
administration and congressional Republicans over the fiscal
cliff is causing concern at companies ranging from  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  Failure to
reach an agreement would trigger higher taxes and reduced
government spending beginning in January.  Ford, the second-biggest U.S. automaker, reiterated on
Dec. 3 that it was making contingency plans in the event that
the talks falter. Wal-Mart CEO  Mike Duke  said in an interview
yesterday that 15 percent of customers at the world’s largest
retailer “are telling us this discussion about the fiscal cliff
will affect what they spend on Christmas.”  ‘Significant Frustration’  The results of the Business Roundtable’s survey, which
included responses from 143 chief executives, reflect
“significant frustration over Washington’s inability to achieve
a market-credible solution,” McNerney said. They show that CEOs
“anticipate continued slow overall economic growth,” he said.  Not all outlooks for business investment are as
pessimistic. Manufacturers project they will invest more next
year than this year, according to the Institute for Supply
Management’s semiannual survey released yesterday. Orders for
capital equipment excluding defense and aircraft rose 2.9
percent in October, the biggest increase since February,
Commerce Department data showed Nov. 27.  Obama, insisting America’s wealthiest pay more in taxes,
reduced his demand for tax increases to $1.4 trillion from
$1.6 trillion as he and House Speaker John Boehner today traded
another round of offers to end the standoff.  Obama got a firsthand look at CEOs’ frustrations on Dec. 5
when he, along with about 105 of the corporate leaders, attended
a meeting of the group in Washington.  ‘Enormous’ Consequences  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ’s  Fred Smith  said almost all of the chiefs
raised their hands when  John Engler , the group’s president,
asked whether they would reduce capital spending if the federal
talks fail.  “You have the largest employers in the country raising a
hand,” Smith said at a Dec. 6 conference in Washington. “The
consequences of going over this fiscal cliff are enormous.”  A failure of negotiations may push the U.S. back into
negative growth and roil markets, AT&T Inc. CEO  Randall Stephenson  said in a Nov. 30 statement.  Jamie Dimon ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief, said the  U.S.
economy  is set to thrive in 2013 if lawmakers reach an accord.  “You might have a booming economy in a couple of months”
with growth accelerating to 4 percent rather than 2 percent,
Dimon said today at an event in New York hosted by the New York
Times’s Dealbook. With unemployment falling and housing on the
rebound, “the table is set very well right now.”  In Stages  A resolution may come in stages after Jan. 1, the trigger
date for spending cuts and tax increases, forcing companies to
grapple with uncertainty for several months, said Stanley Nabi,
vice chairman of Silvercrest Asset Management Group in New York.  “Any resolution of the fiscal cliff is not going to be
tied up neatly with a bow,” said  Frederic Dickson , who helps
manage $32 billion as chief investment strategist at D.A.
Davidson & Co. in Lake Oswego, Oregon.  Dickson put at 80 percent the probability that some topics
such as tax rates won’t be resolved by the end of the year.
There’s a 50-50 chance that tax rates on dividends and  capital
gains  will expire, leading to higher rates, he said.  Ford wants “to be able to adjust our production
appropriately and make sure we have the right amount of
liquidity” should the political standoff not be resolved,  Mark Fields , the automaker’s chief operating officer, told reporters
at the Los Angeles Auto Show on Nov. 28.  Cautious Advertisers  For Pandora, the Internet radio company, the uncertainty
has made advertisers cautious and may lead them to delay
spending by a quarter or two even if the fiscal cliff is
averted, CEO  Joe Kennedy  said in a Dec. 4 interview.  Advertisers are concerned “about the effect the fiscal
cliff will have on growth, and it’s reduced our visibility,” he
said. “When our clients are cautious, we have to be cautious.”  Spending already shows signs of slowing. Business
investment in equipment and software dropped at a 2.7 percent
annual rate in the third quarter, the worst performance since
the three months ended in June 2009, when the recession ended,
according to  Commerce Department data .  “The fourth quarter will continue to be slow and there
could possibly be a spillover into the first quarter,” as
companies curb capital until tax rates are set, Dickson said.  The possibility of higher income taxes is a concern for
small business owners who pay taxes on their business profits on
their individual returns.  “Many of my franchisees are holding back off any expansion
because they don’t know what taxes they’re going to pay,” said
Catherine Monson, CEO of closely held Fastsigns International
Inc., a franchisor of 470 signs and graphics stores in the U.S.  “They are sitting on the sidelines, not adding new
positions and not buying new equipment workers, because of this
horrible uncertainty,” Monson said in an interview Dec. 10.
“Hiring new workers and buying new equipment are economic
drivers. What we right now are jobs, jobs, jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  