-- How Partisan Rivalry Can Lead to More Efficient Elections
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-12T23:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/how-partisan-rivalry-can-lead-to-more-efficient-elections.html
It has been five weeks since
Americans cast their ballots for president and other elective
offices. It shouldn’t be long now before we know the final vote
tally. That’s right -- votes are still being counted.  In fact,  Ohio , that most precious of swing states, added
almost 60,000 votes to President  Barack Obama ’s column last
week, when the state finally  certified  its election results.
It’s precisely this kind of speed and efficiency that all but
guarantee an election fiasco sometime very soon.  The last major voting disaster, the 2000 recount in
Florida, almost ripped the country apart. The long voting lines,
machine breakdowns and glacial count of votes in 2012 suggest
we’ve learned little from our previous ordeal via  butterfly
ballots  and the “ Brooks Brothers riot .”  At a  speech  this week at the John F. Kennedy Presidential
Library in  Boston , Attorney General Eric Holder said, “Election
officials, wherever they are found, should also always be
striving to administer elections more efficiently and more
fairly.” Holder’s anodyne pronouncement will find few critics.
Unfortunately, the statement -- or at least the democratic
principles behind it -- appears to have even fewer true
champions.  Democratic Senator Chris Coons of  Delaware  has proposed the
Fair, Accurate, Secure and Timely Voting Act of 2012 in response
to “tens of thousands of Americans finding it far too difficult
to exercise their fundamental right” to vote. The proposal is a
successor to the Help America Vote Act, Congress’s tepid
response to the 2000 election. HAVA, passed in 2002, set minimum
standards for the states and established a federal  Election
Assistance Commission .  If you want to know how well HAVA has worked, just ask the
people who waited in line for four hours or more to vote in
Florida or  Virginia . Or ask the members of the election
commission created by the law. Actually, don’t bother -- all
four commission seats are vacant. There’s no executive director,
either.  With HAVA a shambles, Coons wants to establish a grant
program similar to Obama’s Race to the Top. Instead of competing
for education funds, states would compete for money to modernize
polling places, starting with the worst.  There’s a drawback to the Coons legislation and other such
proposals, including Holder’s call for national voting standards
to guarantee access to the ballot. They have no Republican
support. Easing congestion at the polls -- especially in poor
neighborhoods, where it tends to be worst -- hasn’t seemed to be
high on the party’s agenda.  Consequently, any systemic effort to make voting easier and
more reliable is pretty much a nonstarter at the federal level.
Action will probably have to take place in the states, and most
likely in those where Democratic majorities are willing to enact
-- and pay for -- upgraded systems and voting reforms.  Because most elections are funded locally, poor locales
generally have less to spend on new machines or training for
poll workers. It should come as no surprise, then, that in
presidential years, when infrequent voters turn out in higher
numbers, lines grow long, systems are stressed, and the chances
of error and casual disenfranchisement escalate.  States can provide the funds needed to correct that, but
democracy isn’t cheap.  Maryland , for example, has fewer than 6
million people, yet the state spent more than $100 million on
its election systems over the past decade. According to a 2010
 report  commissioned by the Maryland General Assembly, the state
must spend millions more if it wants to supplant already-aging
machines with an optical scanning system that increases
efficiency while producing a paper trail to safeguard against
malfunctions and help resolve potential disputes.  However, more efficient systems can also save money over
the long term. Voter registration can be automated so that when
voters engage with government agencies, changes of address are
automatically registered on voting rolls. Early voting should be
expanded to reduce logjams on Election Day. Voting machines
should be properly stored and maintained to reduce breakdowns.  Because Democratic electoral prospects rise with turnout in
the sort of poor, densely populated precincts where voting
troubles often accumulate, Democrats have the greatest incentive
to fix shabby voting systems. They should make it their goal to
turn states in which Democrats dominate state government, such
as California, Illinois and Maryland, into models of election
efficiency. The perhaps giddy hope is that smooth elections with
swift, reliable counts would offer a powerful contrast to long
lines and even longer vote counting in states such as  Florida 
and Ohio, spurring calls for modernization and reform in those
states and others.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 