-- Barry Callebaut Buys Petra Foods’ Cocoa Unit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-12-12T12:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/petra-foods-sells-cocoa-unit-to-barry-callebaut-for-950-million.html
Barry Callebaut  AG, the largest
maker of bulk chocolate, agreed to buy Singapore-based  Petra
Foods Ltd. (PETRA) ’s cocoa-ingredients unit for $950 million to expand
processing capacity and boost sales in Asia.  The deal will make Barry Callebaut the world’s biggest
cocoa processor as it gains seven factories in countries
including Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand, with combined annual
grinding capacity of 405,000 metric tons, the Zurich-based
company said today in a statement. The purchase is expected to
be completed in mid-2013.  Buying the unit, which already supplies Barry Callebaut,
will boost sales in Asia and  Latin America  by 65 percent,
according to the company, as demand for chocolate grows. The
acquisition would be the Swiss company’s biggest, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, and follows plans announced this
year to build a $16 million chocolate factory in  Turkey  and
expand chocolate molding capacity in  North America .  “Barry Callebaut is securing a No. 1 position in the fast-
growing  emerging markets , however at a high price,” Jean- Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank Vontobel, wrote in a
research note. The “key challenge will be to restore Petra’s
profitability.”  Petra Jumps  Petra  jumped  20 percent to close at S$3.31 in  Singapore .
The shares have surged 79 percent this year, valuing the food
manufacturer at S$2.02 billion ($1.7 billion). Barry Callebaut
 declined  as much as 2.9 percent to 914 Swiss francs and was
trading down 2.4 percent at 1:03 p.m. in Zurich.  The enterprise value of the deal is 14.4 times the
business’s earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and
amortization, according to Vontobel’s Bertschy.  The purchase will be funded initially through bank loans
that will be replaced by a combination of equity and debt sales
within 12 months, Barry Callebaut said. Executives at the
company said on a conference call today that Barry Callebaut
will become the largest buyer of  cocoa beans  with the takeover.  “This significant transaction will allow us to continue
our expansion strategy in all regions and capture additional
opportunities through outsourcing and partnership agreements,”
Chairman Andreas Jacobs said in the statement.  Credit Suisse Group AG is advising Barry Callebaut on the
transaction and Lazard Asia Ltd. is financial adviser to Petra
Foods, the companies said in separate statements.  New Focus  Petra Foods “will focus on strengthening and expanding its
branded consumer business in the fast-growing regional
economies” after it sells the division, which supplies  Nestle
SA (NESN)  and Mars Inc., the Singapore company said today.  The proceeds will be used to reduce debt, with the balance
of about $300 million available for investment it its consumer
business and possible distribution to shareholders, it said.  The business generated 75 percent of Petra Foods sales and
51 percent of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company will enter into an agreement with Barry Callebaut to
buy cocoa ingredients after the sale, it said. The unit had a
book value of $784 million as of Sept. 30, according to the
Swiss company.  Cocoa demand will exceed production by 101,000 metric tons
this season, Macquarie Group Ltd. estimated in September.
Rabobank International predicts a 122,000-ton shortfall. Global
output will drop 2.9 percent to 3.85 million tons, led by
smaller harvests in Ivory Coast,  Ghana ,  Indonesia  and  Nigeria ,
Macquarie said. The four nations produce 74 percent of the
world’s beans.  Cocoa Prices  Cocoa processing will rise by 3.4 percent in 2012-13 as
demand outstrips supply by 83,000 metric tons, according to
Rabobank. Prices will average 1,650 pounds ($2,659) a ton in
London in the first quarter next year and 1,625 pounds a ton in
the following three months, the bank estimates.  Cocoa has climbed 13 percent on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York this year, partly on speculation dry weather in West
Africa, which accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s
supplies, would damage crops in 2012-13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  