-- Pfizer’s Chantix Produced More Heart Concerns, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-12T20:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/pfizer-s-chantix-produced-more-heart-concerns-fda-says.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s anti-smoking drug
Chantix produced a higher rate of heart attacks or strokes in
patients using the treatment than those who didn’t take the
product, according to an analysis of clinical trials.  The number of cardiovascular issues in patients on Chantix
and those who took a placebo was uncommon, the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  said today in a safety notice on its
website. While the increased risk wasn’t statistically
significant for those on Chantix, it seems “more likely that it
is related to the drug and not purely a chance finding,” the
agency said.  Chantix carries a warning that it raises the risks of
suicide and may be tied to higher heart danger in patients with
cardiovascular disease. The warning label had been changed last
year after regulators cited the heart concerns and asked New
York-based Pfizer to further evaluate the risks with a large
analysis of existing studies of the drug. The agency’s
announcement today followed that analysis.  Of 4,190 Chantix users, 13 were found to have experienced a
major cardiovascular event such as heart attack or stroke
compared with six of 2,812 who took a placebo in 15 Pfizer-
sponsored clinical trials, the FDA said.  The benefits of Chantix outweigh the risks, MacKay Jimeson,
a spokesman for Pfizer, said in an e-mail.  “The benefits of quitting smoking are immediate and
substantial,” Jimeson said. “Chantix has been demonstrated to
increase the likelihood of abstinence from smoking for as long
as one year compared to treatment with placebo.”  Smoking is a major risk factor for  heart disease , the FDA
said.  Chantix Sales  Patients taking Chantix should contact their doctor if they
experience new or worsening symptoms of cardiovascular disease,
such as chest pain, shortness of breath, calf pain or sudden
onset of weakness, numbness or difficulty speaking.  Chantix generated $720 million in  sales  last year for
Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The FDA notice said that about 2.3
million Chantix prescriptions were dispensed in the year ended
in September.  Pfizer faces a January trial in federal court in Florence,
 Alabama , in a lawsuit claiming the anti-smoking drug caused
psychiatric disorders that led a man to be placed in a mental
hospital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  