-- Philippines Peso Gaining as Overseas Workers Top Mexicans: Jobs
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-12-12T21:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/philippines-peso-gaining-as-overseas-workers-top-mexicans-jobs.html
Raffy Vital Gimeno started sending
part of his pay to his family in the  Philippines  after getting a
job in Qatar in 2008. Now his wife and sister are also working
in the Middle East state and they’re all remitting money home.  “Working here has allowed me to become more financially
stable,” said Gimeno, 27, who wires about 25,000 pesos ($610) a
month to his retired father in Manila, almost three times the
minimum wage in the capital. “Opportunities here are
everywhere.”  Government projects in the Middle East, spurred by the Arab
Spring and the global financial crisis, are drawing Filipino
engineers, nannies and office workers. The rise may propel the
Southeast Asian nation ahead of Mexico this year to become the
world’s No. 3 in remittances, behind India and  China . The
funds account for about 10 percent of the Philippine economy.  “Consumption has been driven by remittances for years and
with investment picking up, the Philippines is set to become one
of Asia’s gems,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Philippine assets will
remain attractive, with a strong upside to the currency. Within
Southeast Asia, the peso would be our top pick.”  Funds sent home from Filipinos working overseas will rise
5.5 percent to $24.3 billion in 2012, while Mexico’s receipts
will drop 0.3 percent to $23.5 billion, the World Bank’s
 Migration and Remittances Unit  forecast in a Nov. 20 report. The
rising inflows prompted the Philippine central bank to cut  rates 
to damp gains in the peso, the second-best performer against the
U.S. dollar among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies this year.  Labor Trail  The number of Filipinos who left to work abroad climbed 15
percent in 2011 to almost 1.7 million, according to the
 Philippine Overseas Employment Administration . Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates and Qatar accounted for about 40 percent of
the total.  Persian Gulf states were at the forefront in the Middle
East in implementing “greater government spending in light of
the Arab Spring and the global crisis,” Hans Leo Cacdac, head
of the POEA, said in an interview in  Manila . “They opened up
basic services programs, built new infrastructure, hospitals,
housing units,” to try to calm public dissatisfaction and boost
the economy.  Those programs created new opportunities in the traditional
job market for Philippine migrant workers, such as in
construction, tourism and services, Cacdac said.  Asia Rising  While Asian migrant workers are benefiting from increased
spending in the Middle East and Asia, those from Latin America
and the Caribbean are feeling the effects of the global economic
slowdown and cutbacks in the U.S., their main destination.
Growth in remittances to countries in South and East Asia will
outpace the rate to Latin America and the Caribbean in 2012 and
2013, the World Bank report said.  For many Filipinos, such as Riza Lapatha in Manila,
remittances mean education for their children.  “If my husband wasn’t working overseas, we wouldn’t have
enough to send our kids to school,” said Lapatha, 42, who has
two children in college, one in high school and a 4-year-old.
She and the children live with her mother-in-law while her
husband, Rex, works as a mechanic at an aviation company in Abu
Dhabi. He earns twice what he could in the Philippines.  Still, while overseas jobs may offer higher pay, the
reality for many is a cycle of debt and harsh living conditions,
according to a  report  led by Professor Sevil Sonmez at the
University of North Carolina at Greensboro.  Hot Work  The 2011 report in the Health and Human Rights journal
cited cases of construction workers suffering heatstroke during
12-hour shifts, in temperatures reaching 131 degrees Fahrenheit
(55 Celsius), and female domestic staff working 100 hours a week
with no rest days.  The influx of overseas earnings has helped advance the
Philippine peso by about 7 percent this year, touching a four-
year high last month. The central bank in October cut its
benchmark interest rate for a fourth time this year, to a
record-low 3.5 percent. All economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predict the central bank will hold that rate at its meeting
today.  Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said the reduction will
help address the capital inflows. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas in
July lowered the rates for its so-called special deposit
accounts and banned foreign funds from investing in them to help
curb the influx of money.  Foreign Investment  Rising remittances aren't the only boost to the
Philippines’ $225 billion economy. The country’s young workforce
is attracting companies from  Japan , China and South Korea
looking for cheaper, skilled workers. The nation of 7,107
islands lured $6 billion last year in pledged foreign investment,
according to the government.  The Southeast Asian nation is forecast to be among the 10
fastest-growing economies in 2013 and 2014, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  That’s boosting demand for  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI)  homes and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  cars. Growth accelerated to 7.1 percent last quarter,
the fastest pace since 2010 and the most in Asia after China.
The nation’s  benchmark stock exchange index  has risen more than
33 percent this year, touching a record this week.  Still, with a workforce forecast to expand more than 30
percent this decade, many Filipinos will continue to have to
find options abroad. The nation’s labor force will increase by
almost 18 million, to 75 million, in the years to 2020, Bank of
America Corp. projected in April.  From Pakistan  “The thing with the Philippines is that it has a big
working-age population and there are not enough jobs,” said
Gareth Leather, a London-based economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. “Whether the government will be able to provide these jobs
in the foreseeable future is quite doubtful. You need many years
of 7-plus percent growth to be able to do that.”  The majority of low-paid overseas construction jobs go to
workers from  India ,  Pakistan  and  Bangladesh . Many Filipinos are
finding better-paid work in areas such as retail and hospitality.  John Randy Franco, 29, has been working as a cook for four
years in a Lebanese restaurant in  Jeddah , Saudi Arabia, where
almost all the 50 or so employees are migrants. Two-thirds are
from his home country.  “It feels just like you’re in the Philippines,” he said
in a phone interview. He took the job because his previous
position in the fast-food restaurant  Tokyo  Tokyo in Manila
didn’t pay him enough to build a home for his wife and two sons.
“Now we’re building it,” said Franco, who sends 12,000 pesos a
month home out of a salary equivalent to 20,000 pesos.  Mexican Remittances  Philippine remittances rose 5.9 percent in September to a
record $1.84 billion, according to the central bank. In contrast,
funds to  Mexico  declined for a fourth straight month in October.
More than 95 percent of Mexico’s sent-home wages come from the
U.S. historically, according to the Washington-based Inter-
American Development Bank.  Other Asian nations are also benefiting from jobs in the
Middle East. Remittances to India will probably rise 11 percent
to $69.8 billion in 2012, according to the  World Bank report .
Money sent home to Sri Lanka is estimated to grow 22 percent
this year, while funds to Pakistan may gain 14 percent.  In the Philippines, four decades of sending what the
government called “modern heroes” to work overseas means more
than 9.4 million Filipinos, or about 10 percent of the
population, now reside abroad. Gimeno has an uncle working in
San Diego and another in Tokyo, both of whom have
brought over their families.  “It was difficult to decide to leave because I felt like I
was doing OK in the Philippines,” said Gimeno, who now works as
a corporate communications officer in  Commercial Bank of Qatar
QSC . “But what convinced me really to work in Qatar is that
they tripled my salary, plus there’s no tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  