-- Philippine Peso Falls to 2-Week Low After N. Korea Rocket Launch
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-12T08:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/philippine-peso-falls-to-2-week-low-after-n-korea-rocket-launch.html
The Philippine peso fell to a two-
week low after  North Korea  launched a long-range rocket in
defiance of international sanctions. Four-year bonds declined.  The  Philippines  “strongly condemns” the launch and the
communist nation must stop its “acts of provocation,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the Department of
 Foreign Affairs . The central bank is looking at measures to help
deal with rising inflows, which may include new limits on
currency forwards, Governor  Amando Tetangco  said last week.  “We’re seeing some knee-jerk reaction caused by this
geopolitical risk,” said Joric Nazario, treasurer at Philippine
Veterans Bank in  Manila . “The market is also a bit cautious on
signals from policy makers that they may take measures to curb
volatility.”  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 41.020 per dollar at the close
in Manila, declining for a third day, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. It earlier touched 41.037, the lowest level since
Nov. 23. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, was unchanged at 4.40
percent.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its benchmark
 overnight borrowing  rate at 3.5 percent tomorrow, according to
all 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank cut
the rate by a total of 1 percentage point this year to a record
low. “It looks like there is less need to stimulate the economy
from the monetary policy perspective,” Tetangco said on Dec. 3.  The yield on the 6.25 percent debt due November 2016 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.16 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  