-- Planned Parenthood Sues Texas Again Over Funding Cutoff
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-12T00:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/planned-parenthood-sues-texas-again-over-funding-cutoff.html
Planned Parenthood  of Greater Texas
filed two more lawsuits over the state’s exclusion of its
clinics from taxpayer-funded health programs for low-income
women.  The organization filed complaints in state and federal
courts today challenging Texas’s ban on including the clinics in
the state-funded program Republican Governor  Rick Perry  created
to replace a federally funded program Texas rejected this year
because it forced the state to provide money to Planned
Parenthood.  The new program bars participating health providers from
performing or promoting abortions or being affiliated with
providers that perform abortions. The rules also contain what
Planned Parenthood said is a “poison pill” killing the program
if its provisions are found by a court to be unconstitutional or
the state is blocked from enforcing it, according to the
complaint filed in federal court in Austin, the state capital.  The  Texas  Legislature rejected an identical amendment to
the program last year, according to the complaint. The federal
lawsuit claims that Planned Parenthood received $13 million from
the state’s womens’ health program last year, and without those
funds it will be forced to reduce services, close clinics and
lay off workers, leaving its 48,000 patients to find other
providers or forgo care.  The federal complaint seeks a court order declaring that
the program violates the organization’s constitutional rights.  Public Policy  While the state’s 49 Planned Parenthood clinics don’t
provide abortions, Texas officials said their close affiliation
with a national pro-choice group such as Planned Parenthood
undermined the state’s pro-life public policy.  The new womens’ health program provides yearly exams, family
planning and birth-control options for low-income women,
according to the state’s Health and Human Services Commission.
Stephanie Goodman, a spokeswoman for the agency, said attorneys
hadn’t yet been served with the complaints.  “It doesn’t change anything, because we are going to
continue to make sure women have access to these services and we
are going to continue to work to fully enforce state law, which
bans affiliates of abortion providers from getting this money,”
Goodman said in a telephone interview.
Planned Parenthood first sued over state funding cuts in April.
A federal judge blocked the cuts and an appeals court overturned
the ruling in August.  The new program became effective Nov. 1, although the state
hasn’t begun implementing it yet, Planned Parenthood said in the
complaint.  The federal case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas v.
Janek, 12-1132, U.S District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin). The state lawsuit is Planned Parenthood v. Janek, D-1-
GN-12-003887, District Court of Travis County (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  