-- Poland Can’t Let Inflation Slow Below 1.5%, Hausner Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-12-13T14:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/poland-can-t-let-inflation-slow-below-1-5-hausner-says.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
cut rates for a third month in January as a “deep” economic
slowdown threatens to push the inflation rate below the bank’s
tolerance limit, policy maker Jerzy Hausner said.  “We have sent a clear signal that the December cut wasn’t
the last one and, based on the discussion at the meeting, the
next cut in January can’t be ruled out,” Hausner said in an
interview in Warsaw yesterday. “If we were to pause the easing
cycle, we would have signaled that.”  The central bank, which cut borrowing costs for a second
month in December, was the only one in the European Union to
raise rates this year as  inflation  exceeded its target of 2.5
percent for two years. Since May, economic growth slowed to a
three-year low, while inflation returned to within the bank’s
tolerance range of between 1.5 percent and 3.5 percent.  Price growth will slow “quite significantly and in a
sustainable way” to the target, “pointing to the probability
of further reductions” in rates, Governor Marek Belka said on
Dec. 11. Another central banker, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, said
the same day on TVN CNBC that the main rate should be cut by
another half a percentage point from 4.25 percent before a pause
to assess the situation.  Key Forecasts  The zloty traded at 4.0937 per euro at 3:15 p.m. in Warsaw,
down 0.1 percent from yesterday. The zloty has gained 9 percent
this year, the second-best performance among major emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on two-year
zloty-denominated government bonds rose five basis points to 3.3
percent.  Hausner, who refused to comment on the scope for monetary
easing, said the bank’s next inflation and  growth  forecast in
March will be key. “It will show the impact of current monetary
easing on consumer-price growth in the next two years,” he
said.  Consumer prices rose an annual 2.8 percent in November, the
Central Statistical Office reported in Warsaw. That was below
the 2.9 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 32
economists. Inflation was at 3.4 percent in October, when it
slowed below the upper end of the central bank’s tolerance range
for the first time in almost two years.  “Inflation will stay on a downward trend, slowing to the
target at the start of 2013,” Piotr Lysienia, an economist at
Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw, said by e-mail. “A further slowdown in
consumer prices, especially in view of a weakening economy and a
difficult situation on the labor market, will increase the
chances for continuing monetary easing also after January.”  Latest Forecasts  The central bank’s last projections in November, when it
cut the benchmark for the first time since 2009, showed the
expansion will ease to 1.5 percent next year, the least since
2002 and down from 4.3 percent in 2011. In mid-2014 inflation
will slow below 1 percent, the lowest since the start of 2006,
according to the forecast.  “The economic slowdown is so deep that inflation in 2014
is likely to slow below the lower end of our target range and we
have to counteract that,” Hausner said. “I’m afraid our
economy won’t return to fast growth and it will drift instead.”  Hausner, who was among eight Monetary Policy Council
members to back the May rate increase, reiterated that the
central bank’s top concern is price stability. During a
slowdown, the economy “shouldn’t be stimulated with a monetary
impulse only, as that would lead to unsustainable economic
growth and expose it to more external disturbances,” he said.  Cautious Policy  Even during the easing cycle, Hausner said policy will
remain “moderate, cautious and keep a reasonable disparity
between rates in Poland and western  Europe  as well as keeping
positive real interest rates.”  “Mistakes” in monetary policy contributed to economic
growth slowing in the third quarter to 1.4 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since April-June in 2009, Finance
Minister Jacek Rostowski said on Dec. 11. Because the central
bank “corrected” its error, Rostowski said he expects more
rate cuts to boost the recovery in the second half of 2013.  “The finance minister shouldn’t publicly dictate decisions
to policy makers,” Hausner said, adding that it takes as many
as eight quarters for rate reductions to have an effect on the
economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  