-- Police Arrest Serbia’s Richest Man as Fraud Suspect
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-12-12T10:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/police-arrest-serbia-s-richest-man-as-fraud-suspect.html
Serbian police arrested Miroslav Miskovic, the country’s richest man, and his son on suspicion
they illegally earned more than 30 million euros ($39 million)
on the sale of state road companies.  Eight other people suspected of being involved in “abuse
of office, assets and properties of privatized road companies”
were also arrested, RTS, the Belgrade-based state broadcaster,
reported today.  Miskovic and Milo Djuraskovic, one of the 10 people
arrested today, were “co-owners in privatized road companies
between 2005 and 2010” and they “usurped money and property of
those companies worth about 2.87 billion dinars at the time,”
Serbian Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime said in a
televised statement, adding that the partnership between the two
began in 2005 when Miskovic’s Cyprus-based company Hemslade
Trading Ltd. bought a road company in Belgrade for 23 million
euros.  Miskovic, 67, the owner of closely-held Delta Holding, was
twice questioned by police and the Prosecutor’s Office for
Organized Crime before the arrest. His Delta Holding interests
in real estate and retail and its annual sales are equivalent to
about 9 percent of  Serbia ’s economic output in 2010.  Delta Holding’s press office, when reached by phone today,
confirmed Miskovic’s arrest, saying it will issue a statement on
the matter later in the day.  Miskovic will be detained for 48 hours during which
prosecutors can decide on holding him for as many as 30 days,
RTS said. The broadcaster also said police have stepped up
security for Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, who is also
defense minister and chief coordinator in the fight against
corruption.  Serbia needs to step up its fight against corruption and
organized crime as part of its effort to convince the European
Union that it is fit for membership talks. The government is
reviewing the sale of 24 companies after criticism from the
European Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  