-- Primaris REIT Calls KingSett-Led Takeover Bid Inadequate
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-12-12T16:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/primaris-reit-calls-kingsett-led-takeover-bid-inadequate.html
Primaris Retail Real Estate
Investment Trust (PMZ-U) , a Canadian shopping mall owner that received a
takeover bid last week, said the unsolicited offer undervalues
the company.  An investor group led by KingSett Capital Inc. offered C$26
per unit of Primaris, 13 percent more than the previous day’s
closing share price, Toronto-based KingSett said on Dec. 5.
Including debt, the proposed deal values Primaris at C$4.4
billion ($4.5 billion), according to KingSett.  “The board’s preliminary view is that the unsolicited
offer is wholly inadequate and undervalues Primaris, including
its current pipeline of property development opportunities and
acquisitions,” Toronto-based Primaris said today in a
statement. “By commencing an offer that runs through the
holiday season, KingSett Capital is reducing the amount of time
available to the board to consider the offer and for unitholders
to make an informed decision.”  Primaris said its board has formed a special committee to
evaluate the deal and consider alternatives. The proposed
takeover would be the largest ever for a Canadian REIT,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Primaris owns 33
properties in 26 markets, including the Burlington Mall,
Oakville Place and Place d’Orleans in Ontario, the company’s
website shows.  The 13 percent premium offered is “small,” given that
Primaris’s 52-week high before the deal was announced was
C$24.93 in August, the landlord said in the statement. Primaris
rose 12 percent this year through Dec. 4, compared with 1.5
percent for the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite  Index. (SPTSX)   Canadian REITs have been involved in 166 announced and
completed deals this year valued at about $28 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium paid or
offered in those transactions was 29 percent.  Primaris rose 0.2 percent to C$26.62 at 11:08 a.m. in
Toronto trading, indicating that investors except a higher bid.  The company hired Canaccord Genuity Corp. and Evercore
Partners to provide it with financial advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  