-- Raising Revenue the Libertarian Way
-- B y   A n t h o n y   R a n d a z z o   a n d   M a r c   J o f f e
-- 2012-12-12T23:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/raising-revenue-the-libertarian-way.html
Reality-check time. By returning the
same political alignment to  Washington  in the last election, the
American people in effect decided that solving the country’s
budget problems will involve increasing revenue.  As Republicans in Congress negotiate with the White House
to forge a long-term budget deal, we would like to suggest a
bargain that will allow for more revenue while also ensuring
that the new money actually -- for once -- goes toward deficit
reduction.  In our perfect world, the budget would be balanced by
drastically cutting excessive spending. That looks unlikely in
this political atmosphere. But a major reason to oppose new
federal revenue is the government’s well-established history of
spending any money it can get its hands on now, and then
borrowing or printing more when it runs out, leaving the bill to
future generations.  That’s why any agreement that adds revenue should include
some kind of restraint on spending.  Of course, such restraints haven’t had much success in the
past. The line-item veto was declared unconstitutional in 1998.
Sequestrations enacted by statute have proved malleable and thus
ineffective. A balanced-budget amendment wouldn’t be politically
achievable, and whether it would be good policy remains heavily
contested in academic circles.  PAYGO Amendment  There is an alternative plan that could restrain spending
and be palatable to both Democrats and Republicans: a “Pay As You
Go” constitutional amendment.  A Pay As You Go (or PAYGO) mechanism is intended to prevent
Congress from passing legislation that isn’t paid for. It
requires that any revenue increases coming from tax reform or as
part of a congressionally approved budget would have to go
toward  deficit  and debt reduction -- and couldn’t be spent on
future legislative projects. A PAYGO amendment wouldn’t address
the need to drastically reduce spending, but it would at least
ensure deficit-reducing measures do what they’re intended to do
while providing a restraint on future spending.  PAYGO was initially put in place by a divided government in
1990. It remained on the books until 2002, and is often
associated with the elimination of deficits in the late 1990s.
In 2010, PAYGO was reintroduced as part of a deal to increase
the nation’s  debt limit . Unfortunately, the new PAYGO rule is
riddled with exceptions. For instance, it doesn’t apply to the
U.S. Postal Service or Medicare provider reimbursements, and
Congress can exempt any deficit-increasing bill from the
restrictions by designating the legislation as a response to an
emergency. Further, PAYGO is enforced by the Congressional
Budget Office and the White House Office of Management and
Budget, which in turn are responsible to the two branches of
government that spend taxpayer money.  A PAYGO constitutional amendment, however, couldn’t be
altered or abolished on a political whim, would never sunset,
and couldn’t be evaded through statutory exemptions. Moreover,
any violations of a PAYGO amendment would be addressable by the
judicial branch, providing a check on the free-spending
branches. A PAYGO amendment could thus serve as a powerful break
on political tendencies to shift costs onto future generations.  The language of such an amendment would be the subject of
negotiation, and this opens a can of worms. Given the ways
Congress manipulates legislative wording, the amendment could be
rendered ineffective. With this in mind, we propose the language
be simple, straightforward and free of political exceptions.  Compromise Approach  The amendment should establish a special court with budget
experts to handle cases of potential PAYGO violations. Leaving
enforcement only with the CBO could expose its analysts to
political pressure, because their estimates would have the
potential to kill legislation. We imagine the special court
might be petitioned to score legislation in advance of a bill’s
passage to keep the system from getting clogged up. And we
imagine that the amendment would enable nonprofit good-
governance groups to serve as watchdogs, filing complaints to
the court as necessary.  A strong PAYGO amendment would require that all new
legislation be deficit neutral (or negative) over periods of two
and 10 years, as scored by the CBO and approved by the special
court’s budget office.  This compromise approach would allow for short-term
stimulus measures (a nod to Keynesians) but they would have to
be offset the next year (a nod to deficit hawks). Congress could
renew stimulus spending annually if members thought the money
was still needed, but they would be forced to analyze the
effectiveness of the spending and defend its necessity each
time. Automatic stabilizers already in legislation, such as
 unemployment insurance , wouldn’t have to be offset, so federal
revenue and expenditures could remain countercyclical.  Finally, a strong amendment wouldn’t provide for any
exempted spending, though there would surely be plenty of debate
over whether wars should be left out of PAYGO. (Personally, we
see value in a PAYGO amendment forcing Congress to carefully
consider whether Americans are willing to pay for getting
entangled in foreign conflicts.)  “Cut, Cap and Balance” -- the agenda advanced by
Republicans last year to limit federal spending -- is no longer
politically possible, and  revenue increases  have become
inevitable. Until the conversation can be refocused on budget
reductions, Republicans should insist on institutional reform to
prevent future unfunded spending.  With the nation on a path to a sovereign-debt crisis, a
constitutional PAYGO is a politically feasible way of achieving
the structural change we need.  (Anthony Randazzo is the director of economic research at
the Reason Foundation. Marc Joffe is the principal consultant of
Public Sector Credit Solutions and formerly a senior director at
Moody’s Analytics. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Marc Joffe at  marc@publicsectorcredit.org 
Anthony Randazzo at  anthony.randazzo@reason.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  