-- Rajat Gupta Should Pay Maximum Civil Penalty, SEC Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-12T02:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/rajat-gupta-should-pay-maximum-civil-penalty-sec-says.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director found guilty at an insider-trading
trial, should be required to pay the maximum civil penalty, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a court filing.  Gupta was motivated by personal gain and can afford the $15
million fine the SEC is seeking because he still has tens of
millions of dollars for an “enviable retirement,” Kevin
McGrath, an SEC attorney, said in today’s filing in federal
court in  Manhattan . The former Goldman executive is worth about
$85 million, evidence at his trial showed, McGrath said.  Imposing the maximum penalty is needed to send a deterrent
message, McGrath said.  “Given the enormous profits to be reaped by hedge fund
traders and other industry and corporate professionals,
incentives to violate the law are greater than ever,” he said
in the filing.  Gupta, who is appealing his conviction, should also be
barred from being an officer or director of a company because he
has yet to acknowledge he did anything wrong and there’s a risk
that he could violate securities laws again “given the network
of well-placed corporate insiders who remain loyal to him,” the
SEC said in the filing.  The SEC also seeks a court order barring Gupta from
violating securities laws. Gupta objected, saying the commission
hasn’t shown that there’s a likelihood of that happening.  Gupta’s Incentives  “Gupta’s continuing network of friends and associates at
the highest levels of the corporate community give Gupta
potential access to inside information in the future,” McGrath
said. “Gupta’s incentives for financial gain will only increase
in the future, as his earning potential and business status
undoubtedly has been diminished.”  Gupta was convicted by a jury in June of one count of
conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . He was accused
of passing illegal information about New York-based Goldman
Sachs to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, his friend
and business partner. The jury convicted Gupta of twice passing
information about Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, once on Sept. 23,
2008, and again on Oct. 23, 2008.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Gupta, 11-07566, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  