-- U.S. 30-Year Yields Reach One-Month High Before Fed Ends Meeting
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-12-12T15:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/treasury-10-year-yields-are-near-two-week-high-before-auction.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields touched
the  highest level  in more than a month before the  Federal
Reserve  concludes a two-day policy meeting at which it’s
forecast to decide to buy more Treasuries to spur the economy.  Ten-year yields reached a two-week high before the U.S.
sells $21 billion of the securities today amid optimism
lawmakers are inching closer to a budget agreement. President
 Barack Obama  reduced his demand for tax increases as he and
House Speaker  John Boehner  traded offers yesterday to try to
avoid more than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts.  “There’s a lot of 10-year supply, and I assume people want
to push it down more before the auction,” said  Michael Franzese , senior vice president of fixed-income trading at ED&F
Man Capital Markets in New York. “The Fed is going to do
something because they feel it’s necessary.”  The 30-year  yield  increased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.86 percent, the highest since Nov. 7, at
10:34 a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The price of the 2.75 percent bond due in November 2042
declined 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 97 26/32.  The benchmark 10-year note yield advanced one basis point
to 1.67 percent, the highest since Nov. 27.  The Fed’s Operation Twist program, in which it sells
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings and buys longer-
dated sovereign debt, is set to expire at the end of this month.
The central bank also is purchasing $40 billion in mortgage
bonds each month to spur the economy.  Today’s Auction  The notes to be sold today yielded 1.675 percent in pre-
auction trading, matching the yield at the previous sale on Nov.
7. The record auction low, 1.459 percent, was reached at the
July offering. The Treasury is due to announce today’s results
at about 11:30 a.m. Washington time.  Investors bid for 2.59 times the amount of available debt
at last month’s 10-year note sale, down from 3.26 on Oct. 10.
 Indirect bidders , a category that includes foreign central
banks, bought 39.7 percent of the securities at the November
offering, versus 41.4 percent the month before.  The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year notes yesterday at
a record-low yield of 0.327 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing the number of bids to the
amount of securities sold, fell to 3.36 from 3.41 in November.
The government is scheduled to auction $13 billion of 30-year
bonds tomorrow.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will announce today that
the central bank will begin buying $45 billion in Treasuries
each month that will increase its balance sheet to almost $4
trillion, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  All but one of 49 economists forecast the FOMC will
purchase the securities to bolster the existing program to buy
mortgage bonds. Policy makers pledged in October to continue
that plan until the labor market improves “substantially.”  As Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  considers whether to worry
about inflation before adding to his record monetary stimulus
today, he has the  bond market  on his side.  Debt traders are anticipating prices will accelerate at the
Fed’s target rate of about 2 percent during the next five years.
The break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities -- the yield difference between the inflation-linked
debt and Treasuries -- was 2.07 percentage points yesterday.
That’s a measure of the outlook for consumer prices over the
life of the securities.  Obama, Boehner  The Fed ends its policy meeting a day after Obama reduced
his demand for tax increases to $1.4 trillion from $1.6 trillion
in the budget negotiations. A failure to reach an accord will
push the economy over the fiscal cliff of automatic spending
cuts and tax boosts.  The two sides remain hundreds of billions of dollars apart
on taxes and spending, and they continue to disagree on whether
a year-end deal should include an increase in the debt limit and
fresh programs to boost the economy.  Obama and Boehner spoke by telephone yesterday, according
to a Republican congressional aide and an administration
official.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings of U.S. government securities based on options,
fell to 51.6 basis points yesterday. It dropped to 51 on Dec. 3,
the lowest on record going back to April 1988. Volatility
climbed to 264.6 basis points in October 2008 as the global
financial crisis intensified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net  