-- Treasuries Slide as Fed Bond-Purchase Boost Fuels Inflation Bets
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-12-12T23:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/treasuries-drop-as-fed-bond-purchase-boost-spurs-inflation-bets.html
Treasuries fell after the  Federal
Reserve  announced plans to buy $45 billion of  U.S. government
debt  a month and took the unprecedented step of linking stimulus
measures to unemployment and inflation.  Thirty-year yields reached a one-month high after the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said  interest rates  will stay low
“at least as long” as the jobless rate stays above 6.5 percent
and if inflation “between one and two years ahead” is no more
than 2.5 percent.  Break-even rates  on 30-year inflation-index
bonds, a measure of expectations for consumer prices over the
life of the securities, climbed to the highest since September.  “The Fed is losing some of its credibility as an inflation
fighter,” said Gary Pollack, who helps manage $12 billion as
head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private
Wealth Management unit in  New York . “They will allow inflation
to go above the long-term target. That’s disappointing for the
market.”  Thirty-year bond  yields  rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.89 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It reached 2.9
percent, the highest level since Nov. 7. The price of the 2.75
percent security due in November 2042 dropped 30/32, or $9.38
per $1,000 face amount, to 97 7/32.  The break-even rate on the 30-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Security rose as high as 2.58 percent.  The benchmark  10-year yield  increased four basis points to
1.7 percent and touched 1.71 percent, the highest since Nov. 7.  Operation Twist  Treasury trading  volume  rose today to the highest in more
than a month. It climbed to $338 billion, the highest since Nov.
7, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of
U.S. government debt. It was $139 billion on Dec. 10, a two-week
low. Daily volume has averaged $240 billion in 2012.  The latest move to buy more securities will follow the
expiration at year-end of Operation Twist, a $667 billion
program in which the central bank has swapped each month about
$45 billion in short-term Treasuries in its holdings for an
equal amount of long-term debt. The program kept the total size
of the balance sheet unchanged, while the new purchases will
expand it.  “The Fed is going to be as accommodative as they can until
growth comes,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $2 billion
of bonds at Wells Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “They are
shoving people into taking riskier bets on the investment side,
and they have been successful at it. How much they have affected
the real economy is always a question.”  The Fed has held its benchmark  interest rate  in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to support economic
growth. It dropped its September pledge to hold the rate at
virtually zero “at least through mid-2015” as it adopted the
inflation and unemployment-rate thresholds today.  ‘Greater Clarity’  “This greater clarity will help markets better predict how
bond yields will behave,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at
a news conference in  Washington  after the policy meeting.  A majority of FOMC officials don’t expect to raise the main
interest rate until 2015, when they estimate the jobless rate,
now 7.7 percent, will fall to between 6 percent and 6.6 percent.
Unemployment probably will average 7.4 percent to 7.7 percent in
the final three months of next year, officials forecast today,
versus a 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent estimate made in September.  The Fed has pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial
system since its first round of QE in 2008 without unhinging
inflation as measured by its preferred gauge, the personal-
consumption expenditures index.  Inflation Gauge  The PCE index rose 1.7 percent in October from a year
earlier, less than the central bank’s long-run goal of 2
percent, giving policy makers latitude to further debase the
currency and U.S. assets. The broader  consumer price index 
gained 2.2 percent, the Labor Department said Nov. 15.  “The ambiguity around the inflation target and the way it
is worded gives the Fed a lot of latitude in setting policy
relative to what inflation actually is,” said Scott Minerd,
chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners LLC, who
oversees more than $125 billion from  Santa Monica ,  California .  Treasury yields have fallen since the Nov. 6 presidential
election amid a looming budget-deficit showdown that could push
the economy into recession. If lawmakers can’t reach an
agreement, $607 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases will start Jan. 1. Going over the fiscal cliff would
cause the world’s biggest economy to contract 0.5 percent next
year, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Bonds pared losses earlier today after the U.S. sold $21
billion in 10-year notes to strong demand. The securities
 yielded  1.652 percent, the least since the July sale’s 1.459
percent, the lowest yield on record at a sale of the debt.  Indirect bidders , bought 24.2 percent of the notes, while
 direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 42.7 percent, the
most since 45.4 percent at the July sale, a record.  The U.S. will sell $13 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  