-- Rebekah Brooks Got $17.6 Million Payout After Leaving News Corp.
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-12-12T16:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/rebekah-brooks-got-17-6-million-payout-after-leaving-news-corp-.html
 Rebekah Brooks, the former chief of
News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit accused of phone hacking and
bribery, received a payout worth 10.9 million pounds ($17.6
million) after stepping down from the post.  The package given to Brooks, who left the role in July
2011, included legal fees and costs for  office space , according
to regulatory filings. The amount is higher than the 7 million
pounds Brooks was initially reported to have received. A
spokeswoman for News Corp.’s London-based International division
declined to comment.  Brooks is among executives charged with either conspiring
to intercept the voice mail of celebrities, lawmakers and crime
victims, or conspiring to cover up the practice as a police
probe into phone-hacking intensified last year. Brooks, who
faces a criminal trial next year, became head of News
International, which also publishes the Sun, the Times and the
Sunday Times, in 2009 after serving as editor of the Sun for 6
1/2 years.  Beginning her career as a feature writer for the News of
the World tabloid in 1989, Brooks rose through the ranks and was
editor of that newspaper from 2000 to 2003.  News Corp. (NWSA)  shut down
the News of the World tabloid, where the phone-hacking scandal
started.  News Corp. has spent more than $315 million on civil
settlements, legal fees and other costs related to the scandal.
More than 80 people have been arrested for intercepting voice
mail and bribing public employees. Results from a press-ethics
probe recommended Britain set up an independent media regulator
in response to wrongdoing by journalists.  Restructuring Costs  The regulatory filing from Britain’s Companies House states
that News Group Newspapers Ltd. incurred 43.3 million pounds in
“exceptional” restructuring costs in relation to shuttering
the News of the World tabloid last year, where the phone-hacking
scandal started.  Amid the scandal, the U.K. newspaper unit this month named
its third chief executive officer in less than 18 months.  Mike Darcey, currently chief operating officer at pay-TV
operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , will replace CEO
 Tom Mockridge , who plans to step down by the end of the year.
Mockridge last year took over from Brooks.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., bowing to pressure from
shareholders, agreed in June to break off the publishing assets,
which are growing more slowly than its Fox entertainment
businesses. The company on Dec. 3 named Wall Street Journal
editor Robert Thomson to lead the publishing spinoff. News
International said today  James Harding , who in 2007 took over
from Thomson as the editor of The Times of London, will leave
his post at the end of this month.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  