-- Redbox Instant Signs Film Accords as Netflix Battle Looms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-12T21:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/redbox-instant-signs-film-accords-as-netflix-battle-looms.html
Redbox Instant by Verizon , the
digital movie venture preparing to start service, gained rights
to stream films from Paramount Pictures, Lions Gate and Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer, a step toward competing with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Owned by  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
Redbox Instant will stream newer films such as “The Hunger
Games” and offer four DVD rentals from Redbox dispensers for $8
or $9 a month. Streaming-only is $6 a month, Chief Executive
Officer Shawn Strickland said in an interview.  The service, 65 percent owned by Verizon, is banking on
price and convenience to gain a foothold in the budding online
video market. In addition to offering subscription streaming and
DVDs for half the price of Netflix, Redbox Instant will sell and
rent new releases from most major studios. Strickland is
targeting Redbox customers who watch 58 million DVDs a month and
isn’t trying to match the TV library of its larger rival.  “We really think we have a unique value proposition,”
Strickland said. “We are very focused on the movie-lover
segment. We’re not trying to be all content to everybody.”  Redbox Instant is being tested by about 2,000 employees of
New York-based Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company.
It will expand to as many as 100,000 customers in a limited
public test before year end, Strickland said. A full commercial
rollout is anticipated for the first quarter of 2013, he said.  Shares Rise  Shares of Coinstar and Netflix rose, a sign investors see
room for both. Redbox Instant will pay studios based on use
rather than a fixed cost, Strickland said. Analysts  Eric Wold  at
B. Riley & Co. and Michael Pachter at Wedbush Securities said
they expect Redbox Instant to limit its spending.  “By and large we are partnering,” Strickland said.
“We’re not entering this business with a model that involves
making big investments in content.”  Coinstar, based in Bellevue,  Washington , rose 2.3 percent
to $51.96 at the close in New York. The shares have advanced 14
percent this year. Verizon climbed 0.8 percent to $44.79 and has
gone up 12 percent in 2012.  Netflix added 5.4 percent to $90.73 after  Scott Devitt , an
analyst with Morgan Stanley, raised his price target to $105
from $80. The shares have risen 31 percent this year.  The Redbox Instant streaming accord is with Epix, the
premium pay-TV channel owned by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount studio,
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and  MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB)   Newer Movies  Redbox Instant will have new Epix releases on the same
basis as Netflix, or 90 days after they premiere on the pay-TV
channel, along with catalog titles. In all, the service will
offer about 5,500 older titles for streaming, including from
Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros.  Films from Lions Gate, Paramount, Warner Bros., Comcast
Corp.’s Universal Pictures,  Sony Corp. (SNE)  and Relativity Media LLC
will be available for purchase and on-demand rental.  “We’re focused on movies that really matter to the
marketplace and the consumer,” Strickland said.  Netflix had 27.5 million U.S. streaming and mail-order DVD
subscribers as of Sept. 30. Last week, the Los Gatos,
California-based company signed an agreement for exclusive
access to Walt Disney Co. films in a time period usually
reserved for premium cable networks like Starz. Netflix has
agreements for popular TV shows like “Mad Men” and is also
producing exclusive content.  Netflix, the largest video-subscription service,  charges 
$7.99 a month for unlimited streaming. DVDs by mail cost an
additional $7.99. The company is spending about $2 billion a
year to acquire online and produce original programming, CEO
Reed Hastings said in October.  Redbox Instant is taking a deliberate approach to work out
any kinks in the service before it is opened to the general
public, Strickland said.  “We want to make absolutely sure all of the assumptions we
made as we built it will play out in the marketplace,”
Strickland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  