-- Reed Urges Republicans to Back Tax Breaks for Charity
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/reed-urges-republicans-to-back-tax-breaks-for-charity.html
Ralph Reed , who helped build the
Christian Coalition, said  House Republicans  should fight to
retain charitable tax deductions and child tax credits as they
negotiate with President  Barack Obama  on avoiding automatic
spending cuts and tax increases set to start in January.  “You’d better start figuring out a way to be for middle-
class families with children instead of looking like all you
care about is a guy’s capital gains tax,” Reed said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg Government.  He said he’d conveyed that message to House Republican
leaders, who in the talks with Obama have resisted his push for
generating more  tax revenue  from wealthier Americans.  Reed also said that so-called social conservatives who tend
to focus on issues such as opposing abortion rights “shouldn’t
be trapped into this stained glass ghetto of, ‘We’re the people
that you talk to about abortion and same-sex marriage, but we
don’t know the first thing about economic policy or fiscal
policy.’”  Reed, 51, served as the Christian Coalition’s executive
director and helped it become influential within Republican
circles. He left the group in 1997 and three years ago started
the Faith and Freedom Coalition, a nonprofit organization that
identifies and reaches out to Evangelical Christian voters. He
said the Georgia-based group raised more than $10 million this
year and spent most of it on voter registration and issue
advocacy efforts.  Abramoff Case  Between his work with the coalitions Reed served as a
political consultant for  George W. Bush ’s two presidential
campaigns and unsuccessfully ran for lieutenant governor of
Georgia. His work on behalf of  Indian tribes  with casino
interests linked him to the scandal that led to the imprisonment
of lobbyist  Jack Abramoff . Reed, who received more than $4
million from Abramoff clients, faced no charges in the case.  Negotiations on the so-called fiscal cliff -- the more than
$600 billion in scheduled tax increases and government spending
cuts -- are centered too much on tax rates for the wealthy, Reed
said in the Bloomberg interview.  “It would probably be a lot more effective if more
Republican elected officials and members of the Senate and the
House were jumping on grenades to save the  child tax credit ,”
he said, “to strengthen it, index it to inflation and increase
it, and save deductions for charitable giving because it helps
the poor and the needy than they are trying to save the top 2
percent.”  Tax Dispute  Obama, in the fiscal-cliff talks, wants to maintain
existing tax cuts for an estimated 98 percent of Americans set
to expire in 2013 while letting tax rates rise for individuals
with an annual income of more than $200,000 and couples with
incomes exceeding $250,000. Republicans, led by U.S. House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , want an across-the-board tax-cut
extension.  Lawmakers in both political parties have called for
limiting or capping tax breaks, which could include the child
credit and deductions for charitable giving.  Reed also is chairman and chief executive officer of
Century Strategies LLC, an Atlanta-based public-relations firm
he founded in 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  