-- Regiment Hedge-Fund Founder Tim Peterson to Step Down
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-12-12T15:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/regiment-hedge-fund-founder-tim-peterson-to-step-down-in-2014.html
Tim Peterson, who founded the $7
billion Regiment Capital Advisors LLC in 1999 after a decade at
Harvard University’s endowment, plans to step down from day-to-
day management of the  hedge fund  in mid-2014.  Peterson, 51, will take on a mentoring role at the firm
after he stops managing money, said Diana Pisciotta, a
spokeswoman for the Boston-based credit fund. Regiment partners
Mark Brostowski and Bill Heffron will continue to run the
portfolios, while Thomas Sorbo and Chris Kaster will head the
non-investment parts of the business.  The decision by the former Harvard high-yield bond trader
to turn over the reins follows similar moves by hedge-fund
founders including Thomas Steyer and Ray Dalio. Steyer, the
founder of Farallon Capital Management LLC, said in October he
would leave the San Francisco-based firm to focus on public
service. Dalio, founder of Bridgewater Associates LP, last year
relinquished his role as chief executive officer for that of
“mentor,” though he continues to be the co-chief investment
officer at the Westport, Connecticut-based firm.  Last week, Regiment said it would sell its $2 billion
Special Situations Funds unit to TCW Group Inc., the Los
Angeles-based money manager that is being acquired by  Carlyle
Group LP. (CG)  Rick Miller and six other investment professionals who
currently oversee the funds will join TCW.  Investor Vote  The money raised by the sale will help Peterson in
redistributing equity to other members of the firm, Pisciotta
said.  The sale of these funds, which provide direct loans to
companies, needs to be approved by a majority of investors in
the Special Situations Fund V, which has yet to be fully
invested, said Pisciotta. The fund has about $1.7 billion in
committed capital, according to a filing earlier this year with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Regiment has been contacting investors, which include
foundations, endowments and pension funds, to explain the
details of the sale, Pisciotta said, adding that Regiment is
confident that clients will back the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  