-- Rihanna’s Raunch, Alicia’s Glamor Outdone by Fagen: CDs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-12-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/rihanna-s-raunch-alicia-s-glamor-outdone-by-fagen-cds.html
Rihanna’s best-selling album is
called “Unapologetic.” It might as well be called
“Autopilot.”  This is the fourth straight year that the Barbadian singer
has released an album before Christmas. Each one shouts a little
louder her claim to be the new Queen of Pop. As the sales rack
up, I wonder whether she needs to yell as much.  It’s true that the 24-year-old shines as bright as Beyonce
at times, such as on the single “Diamonds.” There’s sexy
raunch with attitude everywhere. Still, there’s nothing on her
latest CD as headline-grabbing as her offstage antics.  On the song “Nobody’s Business,” she insists her personal
life is hers alone. This plea for privacy from a publicity
seeker looks absurd.  The track, after all, is a duet with Rihanna’s on-off
boyfriend  Chris Brown , who in 2009 pleaded guilty to assaulting
her. Now they are singing “you’ll always be mine, sing it to
the world.” Nobody’s business except it’s on every  front page .
Rating: **  Alicia Keys’s latest CD is also mistitled.  “Girl on Fire” has piano-led lukewarm ballads which
rarely get hot. Even in its “Inferno Version,” the glamorous
title track is never exactly inflammatory.  Keys reflects on marriage and motherhood with a classy
collection of R&B, all too frequently lapsing into cliche on
numbers such as “Brand New Me.” Rating: **  The Bruno Mars album “Unorthodox Jukebox” is an uneven
piece of work with a fun single in “Locked Out of Heaven.” I’m
both hoping and fearing he will turn into  Michael Jackson  in a
few years’ time. For the moment, he has more potential than good
material. Rating: *  Donald Fagen’s “Sunken Condos” is as excellent as his
work with the band Steely Dan. Fagen remains a perfectionist who
certainly doesn’t rush recording -- he’s made just four solo
albums since 1981. This one matches 2006’s “Morph the Cat.”
The jazzy rock is lush and sophisticated, with the first title,
“Slinky Thing,” pointing the way. Rating: *****  Amadou & Mariam, Ali Farka Toure, Geoffrey Gurrumul
Yunupingu, Staff Benda Bilili, Tinariwen. No, this isn’t some
top-secret code or magical spell from “The Hobbit.”  It’s a list of some of the best names in world music.
Tinariwen fashions the most amazing harmonies in the Algerian
desert for its latest, the likeable “Tassili.” Rating: ***  The Enid  is a veteran U.K. band for whom the word “cult”
might have been invented. I first saw them more than 20 years
ago and the new CD “Invicta” is a late-blooming beauty worth
investigating. The disc mixes churchy chorals with sweeping prog
rock. Rating: ****  Rock’s favorite brainbox is back.  Brian Eno ’s CD “Lux” is
a return to his trademark ambient music. It’s not as good as the
outstanding “Thursday Afternoon,” though on par with the
minimalist “Neroli” and “Music for Airports.” Rating: ***.  Rock’s second-favorite intellectual, Eno’s friend  David Byrne , isn’t content with a cerebral new book, the fine “How
Music Works.” He also has a CD with  St. Vincent , “Love This
Giant,” a quirky piece of songwriting as baffling as it is
beguiling. Rating: **  Blur’s “ParkLive” is now out, capturing the band’s
concert in Hyde Park for the end of the  London  Olympics. There
are soaring versions of hits such as “This is a Low” and “The
Universal.” I saw fans weeping at the prospect of this being
Blur’s last show. For those who were there, and for the rest,
this is a fine record of a great performance. Rating: ****  Rihanna is on Island, Keys on RCA, Mars on Atlantic, Fagen
on Reprise, Tinariwen on Anti, Eno on Warp, Byrne on 4AD and
Blur on Virgin. The Enid is on import from Seraphim Records.
The CDs are priced from $9.99 and download prices vary across
services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining and Frederik Balfour on Hong Kong tapas restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 