-- Sweden Sees Heightened Risks to Banks as Buffers Raised
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-13T11:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/riksbank-adds-15-billion-to-reserves-to-safeguard-bank-system.html
Risks threatening the stability of
 Sweden ’s banking system have grown as the global economy
deteriorates, said Mattias Persson, head of the financial
stability department at the central bank.  There is an “uncertain situation in the world around us,
which has led to an increased risk for the Swedish financial
system and the commitments of the Riksbank,” Persson said in a
phone interview out of Stockholm yesterday. “We need to make
sure that we have the preparedness to handle the situations that
may arise.”  The central bank will add 100 billion kronor ($15 billion)
to its foreign reserves to protect the nation’s banks from a
deterioration in global markets, it said yesterday. Policy
makers including Governor Stefan Ingves, who is also the
chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , have
urged Sweden’s banks to rely less on short-term foreign
borrowing after they needed emergency liquidity peaking at $30
billion in 2008 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Today, the Riksbank’s main concern is an escalation of the
turmoil in  Europe ’s single currency bloc, Persson said.  Crisis Threat  “The euro crisis and the problems in the euro area are the
biggest threats to the Swedish financial system right now,” he
said. “The uncertain situation abroad entails increased risks
to the Swedish financial system.”  The turmoil in the euro zone is hurting demand for  exports 
from Sweden, which sends about 70 percent of its goods sold
abroad to Europe. Swedish  unemployment  hit a two-year high in
November, reaching a seasonally-adjusted 8.1 percent,  Statistics
Sweden  said today.  The lack of demand has also undermined price growth, with
headline consumer prices sinking 0.1 percent in November from a
year earlier, the office said today. That’s adding to the
likelihood the central bank will cut its  main lending rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point to 1 percent next week, said
Michael Grahn, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S. It would be the
fourth time over the past year that the bank eases policy.  Growth in the $500 billion economy will slow to 0.5 percent
this year from 3.9 percent in,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  forecast
today. The rate of expansion will pick up to 1.3 percent next
year, it said.  Protecting Taxpayers  Sweden’s financial industry, which is dominated by  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , Svenska Handelsbanken AB, SEB AB and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,
comprises assets that are more than four times the size of the
$500 billion economy.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg , who is pushing through
stricter  capital requirements  in Sweden than those set
elsewhere, said Nov. 27 the government may limit bank borrowing
in foreign currencies to protect taxpayers from the risk of
losses. The threat followed warnings from Sweden’s Financial
Supervisory Authority that banks are overly reliant on short-
term funds in foreign currencies.  Of the total securities issued by Swedish banks as of the
end of October, including certificates and bonds, 78 percent
were in foreign currencies, according to Statistics Sweden.
About 80 percent of liquidity buffers held by Sweden’s banks are
in foreign currencies, the central bank said in June.  Foreign Borrowing  Sweden’s banks had 2.06 trillion kronor outstanding of
securities at the end of that month. Of securities with
maturities of one year or less, 93 percent were in foreign
currencies while 64 percent of securities with maturities of
more than 2 years were in foreign currencies, the data showed.  The central bank said yesterday it “needs a sufficiently
large foreign exchange reserve to be prepared, if necessary, to
provide the banks with liquidity in foreign currencies.”  The krona sank as much as 0.8 percent against the euro
yesterday, and added to the losses today to trade 0.5 percent
lower at 8.7379 as of 7:21 a.m. in  Stockholm , its weakest since
July 4. That left it the worst performing major currency tracked
by Bloomberg against the euro, the dollar and the yen.  The Riksbank’s decision brings total foreign reserves to
310 billion kronor, including 45 billion kronor worth of gold,
based on figures from Aug. 31, according to the Riksbank’s
website. Of the total, 265 billion kronor are in bonds, of which
49 percent are in U.S. dollars and 36 percent in euros.  Reservations  Riksbank Deputy Governors Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson entered  reservation s against the other four board
members’ decision to boost reserves, the bank said.  “We consider a better alternative would be to enter into
an agreement with the  Swedish National Debt Office  that the
foreign exchange reserves will be restored within 10 banking
days after a decision has been made to use the reserves for
liquidity assistance,” they said in a statement. “Such an
agreement would have the advantage that the taxpayers would not
need to pay for the banks’ risky borrowing in foreign
currencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  