-- Robinsons Rises to Record on Casino Venture Report: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-12-12T08:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/robinsons-rises-to-record-on-casino-venture-report-manila-mover.html
Robinsons Land  Corp. rose to a
record in Manila trading after the Philippine Daily Inquirer
said the developer is close to reaching an agreement with
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada on a casino venture in Manila.  Robinsons Land advanced 4.1 percent to close at 21.50
pesos, the highest level based on prices going back to January
1990. About 9.34 million shares were traded, more than double
the average daily volume in the past six months. Robinsons Land
President Frederick Go and Vice Chairman Lance Gokongwei didn’t
immediately respond to mobile-phone messages seeking comment.  A deal is imminent and an initial agreement may be signed
in a few days between Okada and a group led by John Gokongwei,
whose family owns Robinsons Land, Philippine Daily reported
today, citing a person it didn’t identify. Robinsons Land may
conclude discussions with Okada, who holds one of four casino
licenses awarded by the Philippine government, in the “next few
months,” Lance Gokongwei, son of John Gokongwei, said Oct. 16.  “This diversification into casinos is a good step and
value enhancing for Robinsons Land,”  James Lago , an analyst at
PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. in Manila, said in a phone
interview. “A casino is a high-risk, high-margin business with
a steady  cash flow .”  Discussions are ongoing with Robinsons Land on the new
Manila casino resort, Nobuyuki Horiuchi, a spokesman at Tokyo-
based  Universal Entertainment (6425)  Corp., controlled by Okada, said
by telephone.  Universal Entertainment rose 4.5 percent to close at 1,323
yen in Tokyo trading, its sharpest gain since July 13.  JG Summit
Holdings Inc. (JGS) , parent of Manila-based Robinsons Land, climbed
2.9 percent to 38.90 pesos, the highest closing level based on
prices going back to August 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  