-- Russian Mobile Operator MTS Won’t Offer Apple’s IPhone 5
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-12-12T11:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/russian-mobile-operator-mts-won-t-offer-apple-s-iphone-5.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,  Russia ’s
biggest mobile-phone operator, won’t offer the newest version of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone for the first time since the handset went on
sale in the country in 2008.  “We don’t have a contract with Apple currently,” said
Valeria Kuzmenko, a spokeswoman for MTS, one of the two main
iPhone distributors in Russia. The previous contract expired in
October and the company won’t offer Apple’s iPhone 5 when the
device goes on sale in Russia on Dec. 14. Kuzmenko declined to
elaborate, citing a confidentiality agreement. Apple spokeswoman
Irina Efremova said she couldn’t comment immediately.  MTS is another example of an emerging-market mobile-phone
company that decided against selling the iPhone 5.  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest mobile-phone company by users, this
month said it wouldn’t add the iPhone without a deal that’s
favorable for the Chinese company.  “Apple is seeking to pass on to operators not only the
advertising costs in the country, but also logistics and repair
costs,” said Denis Kuskov, head of St. Petersburg-based
researcher Telecomdaily. “As a result, the operators either
have to overprice the handsets or carry losses on these sales.”  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
hasn’t been selling Apple devices since 2010, according to the
company’s press office. The contract between Apple and  VimpelCom
Ltd., (VIP)  Russia’s No. 3 operator, expires in March.  Local Laws  MTS will still sell its remaining iPhone 4 devices from the
previous contract. Its MTS Retail unit is retaining a contract
to sell Apple’s iPad tablet computers.  Kuskov said it’s more difficult for Russian operators to
sell some popular handsets with a profit as local laws ban them
from subsidizing the gadget’s price by linking it to a
subscribtion deal. As a result, retailers such as  Euroset  and
 Svyaznoy  may become the largest sellers of the iPhone 5 in
Russia, he said.  The device is still popular with the country’s customers.
Since September, when Apple started selling the iPhone 5 in the
U.S. and Western Europe, more than 100,000 of the handset have
been brought to Russia, according to estimates by Telecomdaily.  The price for the 16-gigabyte model on the “grey market”
in Russia has declined to less than $1,000 from as much as
$3,700 in September, according to  Eldar Murtazin , an analyst at
Moscow-based Mobile Research Group. The official price may be
higher than in the grey market, making it less attractive for
operators to offer the device, he said.  Benefit Sharing   China Mobile Chief Executive Officer Li Yue told a
developer conference in Guangzhou this month that technical
issues related to the carrier’s homegrown third-generation
network standard aren’t the only obstacles to reaching an iPhone
deal with Apple.  “Besides the technical issues, the business model and
benefit sharing still need further discussion,” Li told the
gathering according to a transcript from the company.  China Mobile this month agreed to carry Nokia’s flagship
smartphone Lumia 920T, giving the Finnish mobile-phone maker a
boost as it’s trying to win back customers of Apple’s iPhone and
devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform.  “The Apple’s star is falling,” Murtazin said. “The
company used to dictate sales terms to partners, but with
growing competition in smartphones, this is not possible
anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  