-- Russian Railways Says Stake Sale Could Hamper Olympics Upgrade
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-12-12T15:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/russian-railways-says-stake-sale-could-hamper-olympics-upgrade.html
OAO  Russian Railways  said plans to
sell a minority stake to an outside investor could complicate
government plans for a capital injection aimed at funding
infrastructure upgrades prior to the 2014 Winter Olympics.  A state equity increase would dilute the 5 percent holding
Russian Railways plans to auction in advance of a wider
privatization, and legislation may be needed to solve the issue,
Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin  said in an interview.  “Any change of the ownership capital should occur after
very serious changes in the Russian law,” Yakunin, who opposes
plans for a sale as early as next year, said in Paris. Under
current legislation a minority investor could decline to boost
its holding in tandem with the government, eliminating share
capital as an option for funding Olympics-related work, he said.  The 2014 Games are to be held in Sochi on the  Black Sea ,
with alpine events staged in Krasnaya Polyana in the western
Caucasus Mountains. Related infrastructure projects include a
high-speed link from Moscow to Adler, where the local airport is
located, and a metro line between Sochi, Adler and the ski area.  Russian Railways has also ordered 38 trains worth 410
million euros ($535 million) from  Siemens AG (SIE)  for use during the
Olympics, plus options for 16 more to be partly built in  Russia .  Possible investors in Russian Railways would include
private buyers and possibly overseas participants, the CEO said.
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov had said on Nov. 30 that a
domestic pension fund was the most likely buyer for the pilot
stake, which the government plans to make available in 2013
prior to selling off a 25 percent holding by the year’s end.  “I don’t know whether it will be a pension fund,” Yakunin
said. “It can be a private businessman or foreign participant.”  The CEO last month called for a delay of four to five years
in any sale of a stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  