-- Schindler Billionaire Elevates Court Spat With Korea Partner
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-12-13T10:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/schindler-billionaire-elevates-court-spat-with-korean-affiliate.html
Billionaire  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) 
Chairman Alfred Schindler blasted  Hyundai Elevator Co. (017800)  for
denying him access to its books, as he wages a legal battle to
protect his 35 percent investment in the Korean company.  The Swiss elevator-maker is trying to overturn a ban on
access to Hyundai Elevator’s accounts, after a Korean court
blocked a review on the grounds that Schindler is a competitor
with ulterior motives. Schindler is also attempting to end the
Ichon, South Korea-based  company ’s use of derivatives linked to
an unprofitable shipping affiliate,  Hyundai Merchant Marine (011200)  Co.  “We believe the behavior of Hyundai Elevator as measured
by international standards of corporate governance is plainly
unacceptable,” Alfred Schindler said in an interview, a rare
public appearance since he stepped down as chief executive
officer of the Hergiswil, Switzerland-based company last year.  The billionaire is intervening to personally resolve the
spat and will hold a press conference in  Korea  next year about
Schindler’s investment. The elevator heir, 63, started building
a stake in the Korean firm in 2006 to participate in  Asia ’s
construction boom.  Schindler is contending with  Hyundai Group , which controls
47 percent of Hyundai Elevator, according to the Korean
company’s third-quarter results. Schindler doesn’t have any
directors on Hyundai Elevator’s  board .  The Korean elevator-maker is also a key part of a web of
cross-shareholdings linking Hyundai Group’s various different
businesses.  South Korea ’s so-called chaebols often control units
through interlocking stakes.  Wary Koreans  Hyundai Group said it’s wary of Schindler’s request for
more information. The legal disputes have led to speculation
that Schindler wants control of Hyundai Elevator, which is
Korea’s dominant company in the industry. Hyundai Elevator has
jumped 33 percent in  Seoul  trading since Nov. 30, when it
announced the second Schindler lawsuit. In that case, the Swiss
company is seeking to block investments that Hyundai Elevator
uses to help keep control of Hyundai Merchant. The ship operator
is Hyundai Group’s biggest business.  “We are suspicious whether the lawsuits come from their
underlying interest in management,” the group said in reply to
Bloomberg News questions.  Hyundai Group, headed by Chairwoman Hyun Jeong Eun, is
separate from  Hyundai Motor Group (107560) , which is run by the brother
of Hyun’s late husband.  Takeover Speculation  “The second lawsuit has triggered speculation that
Schindler may be interested in taking part in management,” said
Go Hyun Soo, a Seoul-based analyst at Korea Investors Service
Co., which has an investment grade credit rating on the Korean
elevator-maker. “Still, Schindler may be trying to protect its
investment in Hyundai Elevator by stopping management from using
assets to maintain control of Hyundai Group units.”  Chairman Schindler said “we are just holding it, that’s
all,” when asked whether his company planned to raise its stake
in Hyundai Elevator or to seek control. He declined to comment
on whether he wanted the Korean company to sell its direct stake
in Hyundai Merchant. The elevator-maker owned 24 percent of the
Seoul-based ship operator as Oct. 16, according to a Hyundai
Merchant filing.  “The minority shareholder of the smaller entity pays for
this ownership-risk,” Alfred Schindler said.  Hyundai Elevator fell 2.4 percent today to close at 101,000
won in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index advanced 1.4
percent. The stock has dropped 21 percent this year.  Stained Record  Failure to make good on Hyundai would be a stain on
Schindler’s expansion that has helped lift the share price more
than tenfold since 1989 and made Alfred Schindler one of
 Switzerland ’s richest executives.  Schindler forged ahead with acquisitions throughout the
1990s from Russia to Brazil, dominating markets to prevent his
family-firm from being taken over like rival Otis Elevator Corp.
which was swallowed by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The Schindler and Bonnard families, along with related
parties, hold 70 percent of the  voting rights  in Schindler
Holding, which is worth 15.5 billion Swiss francs ($16.6
billion).  While Hyundai Elevator has increased sales every year since
the original Schindler deal, it has made losses in two of the
last three years. That’s partly because of derivative contracts
that help Hyundai Group control Hyundai Merchant by supporting
allied shareholders.  Under the derivatives, Hyundai Elevator pays out when
Hyundai Merchant’s stock value falls, Alfred Schindler said. Any
profits from a price rise are shared, he said. The shipping
company has plunged 37 percent since the end of 2010 amid a
collapse in freight rates. Hyundai Elevator has rolled over some
of the derivatives, it said in filings yesterday.  Schindler’s request for access “goes beyond simple
accounting,” the chairman said, adding that he expects to have
further information about the case in mid-January.  “Right now we have no say at all,” he said. “We have no
influence whatsoever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  