-- SEC Chief’s Exit May Stall Dodd-Frank Rules Including Volcker
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/sec-chief-s-exit-may-stall-dodd-frank-rules-including-volcker.html
When  Mary Schapiro  steps down as
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission this
week, she’ll leave behind a commission composed of two Democrats
and two Republicans -- an even split that could drag an already
sluggish agency to a standstill.  Dozens of rules could run aground, including the so-called
Volcker rule to limit risky trading by deposit-holding banks,
restrictions on executive pay, a ban on conflicts of interest in
asset-backed securities and swaps-market regulations.  “The issues that they’re dealing with are divisive issues
that haven’t lent themselves to consensus,” said  Barbara Roper ,
director of investor protection for the Washington-based
 Consumer Federation of America . “It becomes all but impossible
on a commission divided 2-2.”  President  Barack Obama  promoted Democrat Elisse Walter to
succeed Schapiro as chairman when she steps down on Dec. 14.
Until he wins confirmation for a fifth commissioner, Walter and
fellow Democrat  Luis Aguilar  must find common ground with
Republicans  Troy Paredes  and Daniel Gallagher for rules to move
forward.  In an interview, Aguilar described his relationship to
other commissioners as “collegial” and said it will be up to
Walter to set the agenda.  “We certainly have different thoughts about how certain
things should move forward, but we are in communication,”
Aguilar said.  It’s not just the commission that may find itself at sea.
Three of Schapiro’s top lieutenants are leaving as well --
Meredith Cross of the public disclosures unit,  Robert Cook  of
the markets division, and General Counsel Mark Cahn -- leaving
those key rulemaking offices with uncertain leadership.  Volcker Rule  Among the most prominent financial-industry rules still
under construction is the Volcker rule to restrict banks from
trading with their own money, potentially endangering
depositors. The SEC is writing this Dodd-Frank Act rule along
with four other regulators.  “I can’t imagine the Volcker rule that could get through
the 2-2 split commission that would satisfy the requirements of
the law,” Roper said. “That one seems particularly tough.”  Schapiro told reporters in October that the regulators have
“some differences of opinion about how to approach some
particular issues.” Gallagher and Paredes both called for
Volcker to be put back on the drawing board.  Even if those differences end soon and regulators agree on
a rule, the SEC may need several months to examine the costs and
benefits before a final vote. The process to weigh each rule’s
impacts has become more intensive after the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  tossed out an SEC rule last year, saying the agency
failed to conduct a proper assessment.  JOBS Act  More recent is this year’s Republican-backed Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act, which passed Congress with support from
both parties but now faces resistance from Democrats calling for
more investor protections.  One provision throws out the ban against hedge funds
advertising for investors. Schapiro first intended to put the
rule on a fast track, according to internal e-mails published
last week by the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee. She was swayed by protests from consumer groups and
said she didn’t “want to be tagged with an Anti-Investor
legacy.” Gallagher said in an e-mail he was “furious”
Schapiro changed her mind.  When the rule was eventually proposed in August, Aguilar
voted no, but the rest of the commission voted yes. Walter said
at the time that she had some objections to the proposal and
favored tougher disclosures to make the rule safer for
investors. The process will now be hers to direct.  Slow-Walking  Tom Quaadman, vice president of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said his
group is eager to see provisions of the JOBS Act finished.  “It may be that some of this stuff is intentionally being
slow-walked,” Quaadman said.  A slower approach is fine for other rules, he added,
including those regulating the SEC’s share of the $639 trillion
global swaps market. The CFTC oversees the bulk of the market
and has outpaced the SEC in writing regulations. The SEC still
has several rules to finish for its oversight of security-based
swaps, which includes some of the kind of credit-default swaps
that helped fuel the 2008 financial crisis.  “It may be in everyone’s interest that it takes a little
longer to get something done,” Quaadman said.  Pace Slowed  Law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP has been tracking Dodd-
Frank progress, and its latest  report  last week shows the SEC
has finalized just 32 of the 95 rules the 2010 law required. In
the first year after the law was enacted, the agency averaged
nine votes a month to propose or adopt rules. The pace slowed by
about half after the federal-court rejection of a rule for
insufficient cost-benefit analysis.  Now vulnerable to similar challenges, the SEC redoubled
efforts to study cost-benefit effects. In the last 12 months,
the agency has proposed nine rules and finalized 22, including
routine administrative actions. It’s been more than three months
since the SEC adopted a Dodd-Frank rule.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on how
leadership changes could affect specific rulemaking efforts.  “The commission and staff are working hard, as we’ve
stated before, to write effective rules as quickly as possible -
- with the emphasis on effective,” he said.  Ira Hammerman , general counsel for the Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association, is optimistic that rules such
as swaps regulation and Volcker -- those already under lengthy
discussion and legally mandated -- can be finished by the
commissioners.  ‘Rise Above’  “They will rise above and find a way to regulate in the
areas that are already on the table,” he said in an interview.  Roper said the  Republican Party  has made it clear it aims
to counter the 2010 financial overhaul through inaction.  “On Dodd-Frank, they can just say no, and that works for
them,” she said. “Clearly, the broader Republican agenda since
the 2010 election has been to prevent the effective
implementation of Dodd-Frank.”  The agency has yet to propose some Dodd-Frank rules on
executive pay -- one for clawing back bonus money from
executives when their companies have to restate earnings and one
that reports the ratio between the pay of each public company’s
chief executive and its median employee. The regulator has
likewise failed to propose a new standard for brokers dealing
with retail clients -- a fiduciary duty parallel to one for
investment advisers.  2008 Crisis  Some of the SEC’s delayed rules strike at the root of the
2008 crisis, including one banning firms from designing asset-
backed securities deals that put their interests in conflict
with investors. The SEC didn’t propose the rule until September
2011, five months after the law said it should be adopted. The
comment period was extended twice, and the commission hasn’t yet
scheduled a final vote.  “Mary Schapiro’s leaving with a lot of the hard rules
still to be written,” Quaadman said. “Unfortunately, I think
the dynamics are shaping up that things are going to move at a
snail’s pace.”  One contentious effort that Schapiro sought as a legacy --
overhauling money market mutual funds -- failed during her
tenure but may move forward after she’s gone.  Money Funds  The SEC released a study this week on the effects of 2010
changes to industry regulations, research conducted at the
request of Aguilar and the two Republican commissioners that
could lay the groundwork for a new proposal. The study found
that while funds are “more resilient now to both portfolio
losses and investor redemptions than they were in 2008,” the
rule changes wouldn’t have prevented the 2008 collapse of the
Reserve Primary Fund that led to an industry run.  “The study indicates that the 2010 amendments weren’t
enough,” Aguilar said. He said it “may be appropriate to
consider the various proposals through the prism of the new
information.”  In retrospect, Schapiro  told  Bloomberg Businessweek she
“hadn’t anticipated all the hurdles to moving quickly” when
she took the job.  “We got a lot done in Dodd-Frank,” she said, “but many
of the time frames that were built into the law were
unrealistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 