-- Singapore Caps Year of Lust With Parliamentary Affair
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-12T16:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/singapore-caps-year-of-lust-with-parliamentary-affair.html
The resignation of Singapore Speaker
of Parliament Michael Palmer yesterday over an extramarital
affair came two days after readers of the island’s largest
Chinese newspaper called 2012 a year of lust.  Palmer, 44, said he had a relationship with a member of a
government agency who worked in a district he used to represent.
He’s the second person this year to leave Parliament for private
indiscretions.  “Human failings and affairs are common,” said  Bridget Welsh , a political science professor at the  Singapore Management
University . “What is new is the open discussion of these issues,
expansion of public sphere and the difficult political
navigation of these issues.”  The former heads of the anti-drug agency and the Civil
Defence Force were prosecuted earlier this year for obtaining
sexual favors in exchange for contracts. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, whose government has cultivated an image of being
clean, ethical and efficient, said yesterday that lawmakers in
the ruling  People’s Action Party  must maintain the “highest
standards of personal conduct.”  Palmer, who is married with one child, was the eighth
speaker of Parliament. He was elected in October 2011 and
presided over the sittings by lawmakers, according to the
Parliament’s  website .  ‘Grave Mistake’  “I have resigned to take full responsibility for a grave
mistake that I have committed,” Palmer said in a statement.
“My conduct was improper and it was a serious error of judgment.
I have resigned in order to avoid further embarrassment to the
PAP and to Parliament.”  Earlier this year, more than 50 men, including a former
bank executive and a school principal, were charged for having
sex with an underage prostitute. The former Central Narcotics
Bureau chief faces four counts of obtaining oral sex last year
from a 36-year-old executive in exchange for assisting her
companies Hitachi Data Systems Pte and later Oracle Corp. to win
contracts with the agency.  Lee has promised that no wrongdoing will be covered up even
if it embarrasses the city, which is rated the least corrupt
Asian country by  Transparency International .  The Lianhe Zaobao newspaper said this week that its readers
chose the Chinese character for lust to describe 2012 over nine
other words that included change and integrate.  No Porn  Singapore, where Playboy magazine is banned and the
distribution of pornography is an offence, was ranked last month
as the least emotional country in the world, according to U.S.
pollster Gallup.  The readers’ choice “highlights the many newsmakers who
have fallen prey to lust, and that too many events have been
tainted by it,” said Goh Sin Teck, Lianhe Zaobao’s editor. “Is
this purely a string of coincidences or is this a revelation of
how our society has evolved?”  The island’s population has jumped by more than 1.1 million
to 5.3 million since mid-2004, driving up property prices and
stoking social tensions as the government used immigration to
counter a fertility rate that has been below replacement levels
for decades.  Other sex scandals in Singapore this year included a
university professor who was charged with corruption for
allegedly trading better grades for sex with his student. A
female teacher was sentenced to a year in jail in October for
sleeping with a male student who was a minor, according to the
 Straits Times .  CIA Scandal  In January 2008,  Malaysia ’s then-Health Minister Chua Soi Lek stepped down after he was secretly filmed having sex with a
woman in a hotel room. An Indonesian lawmaker who helped pass an
anti-pornography law resigned in April 2011 after he was caught
watching sex videos during a parliamentary debate, according to
the  Associated Press .  U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director David H. Petraeus
resigned last month following the revelation of an extramarital
affair with his biographer. U.S. governors who have stepped down
after indiscretions include  New York ’s Eliot Spitzer and Mark Sanford of  South Carolina . Former International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  left the lender after
his arrest on sexual-assault charges.  “Singapore is no different from any modern society,” said
Terence Lee, who teaches politics at  National University  of
Singapore. “You see it in Malaysia,  Indonesia , the  Philippines ,
the U.S., the U.K. These things happen, it’s part and parcel of
life and people just have to deal with it.”  By-Elections  Yaw Shin Leong, a member of Parliament from the opposition,
was expelled from his party in February for “indiscretions in
his private life.” The  Workers’ Party  retained the seat in
Hougang district in a by-election to replace Yaw.  The Workers’ Party, the only elected opposition in
parliament, said yesterday it’s ready to “offer a choice” to
voters as it urged Lee to call for a by-election as soon as
possible. Its candidate for  Punggol East  won 41 percent of votes
in the 2011 polls, while Palmer won 54.5 percent of valid
ballots cast.  A by-election won’t change the balance of power in
government, even after Lee’s party won last year’s polls with
the smallest margin of victory since independence in 1965. The
PAP has 81 of 87 seats.  In the past year, Lee has cut ministerial pay, accelerated
construction of public housing and made permanent a program to
provide cash, utility rebates and medical funds for the elderly
and low-income households. Still, the country has the highest
inflation rate among the developed world’s biggest economies
while  gross domestic product  is forecast to expand at the
slowest pace in three years in 2012.  “What is interesting is the continued tests the PAP is
facing with another by-election,” said Welsh. “The cases this
year highlight the need to remove politicians and civil servants
from pedestals and tighten standards for those in positions of
power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  