-- Singapore Speaker of Parliament Palmer Resigns After Affair
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-12T09:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/singapore-s-speaker-of-parliament-palmer-resigns-after-affair.html
Singapore ’s Speaker of Parliament
Michael Palmer has resigned and will leave the ruling People’s
Action Party today after admitting to an extramarital affair.  Palmer, 44, said he made a “grave mistake” of improper
conduct after being involved in a relationship with a member of
a government agency who worked in a district he used to
represent. His resignation was accepted by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who said that lawmakers must uphold the “highest
standards of personal conduct.”  The exit leaves a Parliament seat vacant and will trigger a
by-election that may be a test of support for Lee’s government
as it contends with the developed world’s second-highest
inflation, voter discontent with immigration policies and a
slowing economy. The affair is the latest high-profile scandal
in the city following the prosecution of former heads of the
anti-drug agency and Civil Defence Force for allegedly accepting
sexual favors in return for contracts.  “I have resigned to take full responsibility for a grave
mistake that I have committed,” Palmer said in a statement.
“My conduct was improper and it was a serious error of
judgment. I have resigned in order to avoid further
embarrassment to the  PAP  and to Parliament.”  Parliament Speaker  The speaker of Parliament presides over the sittings by
lawmakers. Palmer was the eighth speaker of Parliament when he
was elected in October 2011 for the position, according to the
Parliament’s  website .  Palmer is married with one child, according to his profile
page in the  Parliament website . He became a member of Parliament
or MP in 2006 and is a partner in Singapore law firm Harry Elias
Partnership LLP. There is no change in his role and position at
the company, said Philip Fong, managing partner at Harry Elias.  “It is necessary that all PAP MPs and advisors to
grassroots organizations uphold the highest standards of
personal conduct, especially in dealings with constituents,
grassroots activists and staff, and that the party be seen to
hold its MPs and advisors to these standards,” the prime
minister said in a letter to Palmer accepting the resignation,
and posted on Lee’s  Facebook page .  Politicians in Singapore compete in single-seat wards or
multiple-seat districts called Group Representation
Constituencies. The party that gets the most number of votes in
a district sends all its members in the group to Parliament.  Private Life  As Palmer represented a single-seat constituency, Lee must
call for a by-election. He won the Punggol East district with
54.5 percent of valid votes cast in last year’s election.  Singaporeans in the Hougang district voted in a by-election
in May this year after a member of Parliament from the
opposition was expelled from his party for “indiscretions in
his private life.” The  Workers’ Party  retained the seat.  The Workers’ Party, the only elected opposition in
Parliament, said today it’s ready to “offer a choice” to
voters as it urged Lee to call for a by-election as soon as
possible. Its candidate for  Punggol East  garnered 41 percent of
votes in the 2011 poll.  Any by-election won’t change the balance of power in the
government. Before Palmer’s resignation, Lee’s party, which has
governed Singapore since 1959, has 81 of the 87 seats.  A majority of residents in  Hougang  surveyed by the Today
newspaper in the run up to the May by-election said they were
looking at national policies, including the cost of living and
the influx of foreigners even as candidates campaigned on local
issues such as public housing.  Mini Referendum  The next by-election “could be a mini referendum on things
that have happened in Singapore over the past few months in
respect to rising prices, transportation breakdowns,” said
Terence Lee, who teaches politics at the  National University  of
Singapore.  The island experienced its  first strike  in 26 years last
month when dozens of Chinese bus drivers refused to go to work
over a pay dispute, resulting in disruptions to public
transportation services.  The  economy  is forecast by the government to grow at the
slowest pace in three years in 2012. Prime Minister Lee has
raised foreign-worker levies and salary thresholds to cool the
inflow of non-Singaporeans after the island’s population jumped
by more than 1.1 million since mid-2004, driving up property
prices and stoking social tensions.  The PAP was returned to power in May last year with the
smallest margin of victory since independence in 1965 and record
opposition gains, prompting the prime minister to pledge his
party will change the way it governs. In the past year, he has
cut ministerial pay, accelerated construction of public housing
and made permanent a program to provide cash, utility rebates
and medical funds for the elderly and low-income households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  