-- Skinny Apple IMac Is a Beautiful Beast: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-12-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/skinny-apple-imac-is-a-beautiful-beast-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Desktop computers aren’t the sexiest
of product categories these days, but the all-in-one iMac
largely defies the trend.  Apple (AAPL)  has continued to refine it
inside and out, with a beautiful new slimmed-down design and a
few new technological tricks as well.  The iMac comes in two configurations, one with a 21.5-inch
screen starting at $1,299, the other a 27-inch for $1,799. More
than size and price set them apart.  While both come with eight gigabytes of memory, the larger
one allows you to expand it to as much as 32 GB. The smaller
model, in a throwback to the earliest days of Mac computing
almost 30 years ago, isn’t user-expandable. If you want more
memory (up to 16 GB), Apple has to do it for you.  From the front, the new iMacs look a lot like the models
they’re replacing. But the story changes when you look at them
sideways.  Where the previous models were about an inch thick,
including a slot for the DVD drive, the new one has a bowed back
that tapers at the edges to a mere one-fifth of an inch.  Farewell, DVD  And don’t bother hunting for the DVD drive. As on the most
recent MacBook Pro models, Apple has done away with it, arguing
that the rise of streaming media and downloadable applications
and content have rendered it obsolete. For those who disagree,
it’s $79 extra for Apple’s external SuperDrive.  Unlike the latest MacBooks, the iMac lacks Apple’s ultra-
high-resolution Retina display. Still, it has pleasures of its
own.  The biggest one is that, despite the screen’s glossy
finish, it is noticeably less reflective than its predecessor --
a 75 percent reduction, according to the company.  That’s largely a product of the same manufacturing changes
that allow it to be so thin. Apple says it has shrunk the gap
between glass and display, resulting in less glare without
sacrificing the quality of the image.  More Luggable  All the redesigning has an indirect benefit as well: While
no one would call either iMac portable, they are eight and 9.5
pounds lighter than the models they replace.  Both iMacs come with a generous one terabyte of hard-disk
storage standard, with three terabytes available as an option.
And if you’re willing to spend from $250 to $400 more, things
get interesting.  With these models, Apple is introducing an option called
Fusion Drive, which is a conventional hard disk seamlessly
combined with 128 gigabytes of flash storage.  Other computers have used lesser quantities of flash --
which is both much faster and much more expensive than hard-disk
space -- to speed boot-up and temporarily store files while
they’re in use. Apple, though, is using the greater amount of
available flash to permanently store often-used programs and
files.  The result is performance that is much zippier, even though
the hard disk it’s married to in the 21.5-inch model spins at
5400 revolutions per minute, not the 7200 RPM more often found
in premium desktops and laptops.  Fast and Furious  Equipped with a Fusion Drive, the 27-inch iMac booted in
under 15 seconds while a 2.3-gigabyte file loaded in less than
five. Apple says that imports and file-copying are up to 3.5
times faster than a 7200 RPM conventional drive.  Both iMacs are powered by  Intel (INTC) ’s latest “Ivy Bridge”
generation of quad-core processors -- the i5 is standard, while
an i7 is available as another extra-cost upgrade -- and graphics
chips from  Nvidia. (NVDA)  Both also include four USB 3.0 ports, two
high-speed Thunderbolt ports and a slot for an SD card.  You have a choice of pointing devices, either Apple’s Magic
Mouse or Magic Trackpad. Since the arrival of the Lion version
of the Mac operating system last year, I’ve preferred the
trackpad.  With the rise of laptops, tablets and smartphones, the
desktop computer is, let’s face it, something of a dinosaur. And
at a price that with a few options can easily exceed $2,500, the
iMac should by rights be dead on arrival.  But it isn’t: Once again, Apple writes its own rules in the
marketplace.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 