-- Skype Founder’s FreedomPop to Offer Free Web Access for Homes
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-12-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/skype-founder-s-freedompop-to-offer-free-web-access-for-homes.html
FreedomPop Inc., backed by Skype co-
founder  Niklas Zennstrom , is starting a free wireless Internet
service for the home that will compete with Web connections from
telephone and cable companies.  The Los Angeles-based startup said today it began taking
orders for an $89 modem that will provide online access to as
many as 10 Wi-Fi-enabled devices in a home at speeds faster than
digital subscriber lines. The device will start shipping in
January, with 1 gigabyte of data per month for free. Consumers
may purchase additional bandwidth by signing up for plans
starting at $8.99 a month for 10 gigabytes.  The service is the second from FreedomPop, which in October
began offering free Internet for iPhones and iPods equipped with
a special sleeve. That lets users tap into Clearwire Corp.’s
fourth-generation wireless network and use up to 500 megabytes
of data for free. More than 20 percent of users have bought
extra capacity, helping speed the introduction of home service,
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Stokols said in an interview.  “We see this as a huge opportunity for us,” Stokols said.
“You’ve got this opportunity to cut 80 percent of your cable
bill. The carriers are going to hate us. We are going to be
stealing their share and their customers. We think this is going
to be more disruptive.”  More of the company’s revenue next year will be generated
by online access for homes than smartphones, Stokols said.  ‘Disruptive Force’  The new service “is in line with what FreedomPop is trying
to do to be a disruptive force for broadband pricing,”  Rich
Karpinski , a senior analyst at research firm  Yankee Group , said
in an interview. “There’s absolutely an opportunity there.”  FreedomPop, founded in 2011, has raised $7.5 million in
 venture capital  and expects to attract another $15 million to
$20 million by early next year, Stokols said.  “We are pretty far along with some major investors,” he
said.  Zennstrom co-founded Web-calling provider Skype with Janus Friis and sold the company in 2005 to online auction site EBay
Inc. for $3.1 billion. Later, a consortium that included
Zennstrom bought Skype back and sold it to Microsoft Corp. in
2011 for $8.5 billion in cash. Zennstrom also co-founded
startups including Kazaa BV, Joltid Ltd. and Joost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  