-- SNB’s Franc Respite Fades as Inflow Threat Seen in 2013
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-12T11:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/snb-s-franc-respite-fades-as-inflow-threat-seen-in-2013.html
The Swiss franc’s rebound from a
three-month low against the euro shows that even bank charges
for deposits and a lull in  Europe ’s debt crisis can’t deter
demand for the currency.  The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  will keep its franc
ceiling at 1.20 per euro tomorrow, according to all 14 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey. While the currency weakened after
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said on Dec. 3 it would set negative
rates for franc cash balances, it pared almost all those losses
in a three-day run of gains. A similar move by  UBS AG (UBSN)  yesterday
failed to push it beyond last week’s low of 1.2168 per euro.  Switzerland ’s central bank amassed record foreign currency
holdings that reached 429 billion francs ($461 billion) in
September as it defended the ceiling imposed a year earlier.
While pressure from investors seeking a haven eased since a
European Central Bank pledge to purchase  government bonds , SNB
President Thomas Jordan has said it’s too early to discuss
abandoning the measure.  “The resilience of the franc is a testament to the fear
lingering in markets,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-
exchange strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “There are
concerns that the problems of the European crisis are far from
over. The SNB still has work to do.”  Near Parity  The franc traded at 1.2119 per euro and 93.02 centimes per
dollar as of 6:17 a.m.  New York  time today. It depreciated as
much as 0.4 percent versus its 17-nation peer yesterday after
UBS said it would set charges on deposits for financial
institutional clients. The currency slid to the weakest level
since Sept. 17 on Dec. 5, before rebounding to 1.2075 per euro
at the close on Dec. 7.  SNB policy makers introduced the cap after the franc
strengthened to near parity with the euro in August 2011,
hurting exporters such as  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the largest Swiss
watchmaker, and increasing the threat the economy would slip
into deflation. Jordan has said it will defend the measure with
the “utmost determination” by buying “unlimited quantities”
of euros.  The central bank, which holds a press conference at 10 a.m.
in Bern tomorrow following a meeting of its three-member
governing board, will leave the benchmark  interest rate  at zero,
according to all 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Demand for francs depends significantly on the risk
appetite of investors,” Jordan said on Nov. 28 in Bern. “Their
mood for some time has not -- as usual -- been influenced by
economic and corporate news, but by progress and setbacks in
tackling the  European debt crisis .”  ‘Market Disruption’  While the euro has rallied about 0.9 percent against the
franc since the ECB said it was working on a bond-buying plan to
tame borrowing costs on Aug. 2, Europe’s turmoil remains
unresolved. No country has formally requested sovereign aid, a
condition of the central-bank debt purchases, while Italy faces
an election next year that risks opening a new front in the
crisis fight.  “The uncertainty surrounding that general market
disruption is going to mean more safe-haven flows into
Switzerland,” said  Jennifer McKeown , a senior economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The SNB will continue to
intervene quite heavily, but it has already built up these
massive foreign currency reserves so they might struggle.”  The  reserves  were at 424.8 billion francs at the end of
November, or about 72 percent of Swiss gross domestic product.  Currency Management  The accumulation saw Switzerland overtake  China  as the
world’s leader of foreign exchange-rate management this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Switzerland added $152
billion to its foreign-exchange reserves during the 12 months
through June 30. In the same period China, the world leader in
2010 and 2011, added $43 billion.  UBS said in a notice two days ago it would communicate the
charges on deposits to clients within days.  “Negative rates are another vehicle to try to dissuade
markets from buying into the franc,” said Ken Dickson, an
Edinburgh-based investment director of currencies at Standard
Life Investments, which manages about $264 billion. “In the eye
of the storm, when markets are very concerned about the
immediate prospect of a major event, they are not that concerned
about a negative  interest rate .”  Ceiling Breach  Fixed-income investors are already willing to pay for the
safest assets. Swiss government bonds with maturities of up to
four years have negative yields, while rates on German,
Austrian, Dutch and Finnish two-year notes have also dropped
below zero this year. A negative yield means investors who hold
the notes to maturity will receive less than they paid.  As the euro region’s fiscal crisis worsened over the past
year, pushing Spain and Cyprus to seek external aid, the SNB
upheld its defense. The Swiss currency breached the ceiling just
once in that period.  The franc is seen trading at 1.22 per euro at the end of
June next year, according to the median of 42 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is the only
participant predicting a breach of the cap.  Capital Economics ,
which isn’t included, sees the parity with the euro by the end
of next year.  “The franc’s safe-haven status will slowly diminish over
time,” said Standard Life’s Dickson. “It is going to be easier
for the SNB” over the next few months, he said.  Economic Forecast  The franc has weakened 1 percent in the past six months,
the third worst performer, based on Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market currencies.
The dollar declined 4.4 percent and the yen has dropped 8.7
percent.  The SNB will also release its latest economic projections
tomorrow. In September, it forecast an expansion of 1 percent in
2012, with consumer prices decreasing 0.6 percent this year,
before increasing 0.2 percent and 0.4 percent in the two
following years.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey estimate the economy
will expand 0.9 percent this year and 1.1 percent in 2013. By
contrast, the euro-area, Switzerland’s largest export market, is
seen shrinking 0.5 percent this year, before expanding 0.1
percent in 2013.  “We’ve already seen the  euro zone  fall into recession,”
Capital Economics’s McKeown said. “Once Germany and  France  fall
back in, which I think they’re going to in the coming months,
there’s going to be a lot of upward pressure for the franc.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  