-- SolarCity Said to Delay Initial Public Offering to Tomorrow
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-12-12T02:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/solarcity-said-to-delay-initial-public-offering-to-tomorrow-1-.html
SolarCity Corp. (SCTY)  delayed the pricing
of its initial public offering until tomorrow, said two people
with knowledge of the situation.  The people asked not to be identified because the process
is private. The San Mateo, California-based solar-power provider
led by billionaire Elon Musk is offering 10.1 million shares for
$13 to $15 apiece, according to regulatory  filings .  The IPO had been scheduled to price today. The midpoint of
the offering range would value the company at about $1 billion,
or about 8 times sales in the 12 months through September. That
compared with an average price-to-sales multiple as of yesterday
of about 0.4 for publicly traded companies such as  Real Goods
Solar Inc. (RSOL)  and First Solar Inc.  While Musk may be aiming to replicate the performance of
his  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which has more than doubled since its
2010 IPO, SolarCity is contending with a market that has
pummeled public solar stocks and a pending U.S. government
inquiry into its accounting practices that may raise costs.  SolarCity, which booked a $95 million net loss in the 12
months through September, is one of a handful of companies that
lease solar panels to customers, install them on their property,
and charge them below-market rates for the electricity they
generate.  The company, co-founded by Musk’s cousins Lyndon and Peter Rive, is also backed by venture-capital firm Draper Fisher
Jurvetson, which will hold a 21 percent stake after the IPO,
filings show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank
of America Corp. are leading SolarCity’s IPO. The stock will be
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol SCTY.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  