-- Solar Surges on Reports China Increasing Subsidy Support
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-12T21:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/solar-surges-on-reports-china-advances-rescue-with-subsidies.html
Chinese solar manufacturers
including  Yingli Green Energy Holdings Co. (YGE)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
jumped after three separate reports indicated the government is
adding financial support for an industry struggling with falling
prices.  China  allocated 13 billion  yuan  ($2 billion) in subsidies
for domestic solar companies this year, the Xinhua  News Agency 
reported. The Shanghai Securities News said officials may double
their target for solar installations. The Ministry of Science
and Technology confirmed subsidies for more than 100 developers
including Trina and Yingli.  The moves throw a lifeline to the biggest solar-panel
manufacturers and their suppliers after a glut of capacity
depressed prices and profits worldwide. In recent weeks, the
government also extended loans to the industry through China
Development Bank Corp. and allowed local authorities to extend
support.  Yingli rose 18 percent to $2.14 at the close in New York,
the most since Feb. 9. Trina increased 10 percent, and
JinkoSolar Holding Co. climbed 19 percent.  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800) , which makes polysilicon that’s the main raw
material for solar panels, gained 11 percent in  Hong Kong .  “The government is providing subsidies to save the
industry,” Wang Xiaoting, an industry analyst for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in Beijing, said in an interview today.  Oversold Stocks  Even with the government support, falling prices are
driving down margins and manufacturers aren’t making profits,
said Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York.  “The stocks are generally oversold and given up for dead.
When you get positive news like this they rip,” Chew said in an
interview today.  Subsidies may help boost shipment volumes as the
manufacturers struggle in an “extremely price-competitive”
market, said Ben Schuman, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
LLC in  Portland .  “We think it is extremely unlikely that anyone can come
close to making money at that level,” Schuman said in an
interview. “I don’t see this as evidence that the government
has ‘picked winners’ or that the industry is rationalizing,” he
said.  Subsidy Recipients  China, the world’s biggest maker of solar modules, chose
developers with a combined 2.8 gigawatts of capacity to receive
subsidies, according to a  statement  from the Ministry of Science
today.  The payouts, under the Golden Sun program, are the second
round announced this year. Generators in Jiangsu, a coastal
province, will gain the most from the aid as 374 megawatts of
capacity, including developments by China’s biggest module maker
by market value  Hareon Solar Technology Co. (600401) , will be located
there.  The government may pay at least 15.4 billion yuan for the
projects if they are completed by the end of June, Wang said.  China began offering financial assistance for projects
under Golden Sun for utility-scale projects in 2009.  The total capacity chosen in 2012, including 1.7 gigawatts
selected in the first round, is seven times more than previous
years, said Lian Rui, a Beijing-based analyst at research
company NPD Solarbuzz.  “China uses the program to offer cash sooner to
developers, rather than preferential power prices, to boost
installations,” Lian said.  Domestic Solar  Separately, Xinhua said China allocated a total of 13
billion yuan this year from central government funds for
domestic solar installations.  The funds will be spent on solar power demonstration
projects with 5.2 gigawatts of capacity, Xinhua said, citing an
unidentified official from the  Ministry of Finance . China will
provide an incentive of 5.5 yuan a watt for projects whose
developers will consume the power for their own use.  The subsidies will be raised to 18 yuan a watt for
residential systems and 25 yuan a watt for independent
photovoltaic  power plants , the government-owned news agency
said.  China started offering the subsidies since 2009 to bolster
the use of solar power. The nation chose 4.5 gigawatts of solar
projects eligible for subsidies under the Golden Sun program
this year.  The government will focus on selecting large-scale projects
and big companies for demonstration projects, Xinhua reported.
Two phone calls to the ministry’s Beijing-based press office
went unanswered.  Yesterday, the Shanghai Securities News reported the
government may boost its target for expanding solar capacity to
40 gigawatts between 2011 and 2015 from 21 gigawatts previously.
It cited unidentified industry officials.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  