-- Solar Surge Drives Rally to 5-Week High: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-12T21:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/solar-surge-drives-rally-to-5-week-high-china-overnight.html
Solar stocks soared in  New York ,
driving the  benchmark index  of Chinese U.S.-traded shares to a
five-week high, as the government offered a second round of
subsidies for more than 100 new energy projects.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.4 percent to 95.26
yesterday, rising for a sixth day in the longest stretch of
gains since October.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest
maker of solar wafers, and panel maker  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  both surged at least 15 percent.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  extended
the previous day’s gains after BOCOM International Securities
Ltd. said its partnership with AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. is
beneficial.  China ’s Science and Technology Ministry confirmed a second
round of subsidies to more than 100 developers of solar projects
with total capacity of 2.8 gigawatts yesterday, as the
government seeks to bolster an industry dogged by overcapacity
and depressed global prices. LDK Solar, which has more than $3.1
billion of debt, is the  biggest decliner  on the China-US gauge
in 2012, slumping 71 percent. Yingli,  Trina Solar Co. (TSL)  and
 Suntech (STP)  Power Holdings Co.  are also among the bottom 10.  The subsidies are a way to spur “orderly consolidation”
of China’s solar industry, Mahesh Sanganeria, a technology
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco  who rates Trina
and Yingli the equivalent of hold, said by phone yesterday.
“You beef up some people and let others die. That way you make
the industry viable eventually.”  Trina Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.5 percent to a nine-
month high of $39. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little
changed at 1,428.48 after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank can’t offset the full effect of
the fiscal cliff, damping optimism about the Fed’s plan to
expand its stimulus by buying more Treasuries.  Trina Solar Co., China’s third-largest maker of solar
panels, surged 10 percent to $3.76, the highest level in a month
for the Guangzhou-based company. Yingli, based in Baoding in
China’s Hebei province, jumped 18 percent to $2.14, the biggest
rally since Feb. 9. Both Trina and Yingli are among the
manufacturers chosen to receive aid.  Jiangsu, China-based Suntech, the world’s largest solar-
panel maker, climbed 11 percent to 99.5 cents, the highest close
since Nov. 2.  Softbank Project  The company’s unit Suntech Power Japan Corp. will become
one of the suppliers for a project of  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s
third-largest mobile-phone carrier. Softbank plans to install
solar panels on rooftops of 1,000 homes across Japan to take
advantage of the country’s incentive program for clean energy,
according to the company’s statement yesterday.  LDK, the world’s second-largest maker of wafers, jumped 15
percent to $1.2, the strongest level since Sept. 27. The
company, based in Xinyu of Jiangxi province in China, hired
Citigroup Inc. to help renegotiate its liabilities, according to
its statement yesterday.  LDK, which cut this month its full-year forecast for sales
and shipments on waning demand, may be seeking access to
government support, Edwin Mok, an analyst at Needham & Co. in
San Francisco, said yesterday in an interview.  “In China, there’s some opportunity for these challenged
solar companies to find ways to get financing or liquidity, and
Citi will help them figure out the best way to do that,” Mok
said. “The company has a very challenging balance sheet.”  Sina Gains  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , China’s third-biggest online games
operator, advanced 4.9 percent, leading a rally in Internet
companies on the Bloomberg China-US gauge. Shanghai-based Shanda
rose to $2.98, the steepest gain since Nov. 6.  Sina, which owns the Twitter-like Weibo service in China,
climbed 3.9 percent to a one-week high of $44.86.  Shanghai-based Sina said it teamed up with AutoNavi
Holdings Ltd., a digital map content provider, to share their
services on Weibo, according to their joint statement Dec. 11.  The partnership will “enlarge the user base” and increase
the users’ reliance on both sets of applications, BOCOM analysts
led by Ma  Yuan  wrote in a report yesterday.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , operator of China’s fifth-most-visited
website, climbed 3 percent to a one-month high of $40.45.  Sohu’s video unit won exclusive online rights for a Chinese
version of television show The Voice, the company  said  on its
Weibo account on Dec. 11. Sohu spent more than 100 million yuan
on the rights of the show, the Beijing Morning Post said in a
 report  yesterday.  SouFun Declines  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of China’s biggest real-estate
information website, retreated 1.2 percent to $22.91, dropping
the most among 14 companies that fell on the Bloomberg China-US
gauge.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 1.5 percent
to 11,161.56 yesterday, the highest level since March 16, while
the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares added 0.4
percent to 2,082.73. The Shanghai gauge jumped 4.1 percent last
week, the most since October 2011, after sinking to an almost
four-year low on Dec. 3.  The number of funded stock accounts dropped by about 49,000
to 55.55 million in the week to Dec. 7, the lowest level since
the week to Nov. 26, 2010, regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg
showed yesterday.  Thirty-day volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge was
little changed at 19.17 yesterday, compared with this year’s
average of 22.38. The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) ,
which tracks a basket of companies that gained U.S. listings
after buying firms that already trade, climbed 0.5 percent to a
six-day high of 74.41.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  