-- Soros Fund Management’s Zuaiter to Retire at End of Year
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-12-12T18:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/soros-fund-management-s-zuaiter-to-retire-at-end-of-year.html
Abbas “Eddy” Zuaiter is retiring
as chief operating officer of  George Soros ’s $23 billion family
office at the end of the year, according to a memo sent to
employees and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The executive, 45, will also leave his spot as member of
the firm’s management committee, according to the memo, signed
by Robert Soros, deputy chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC.
Gavin Murphy, tax director at the New York-based firm, will
serve as acting COO.  Zuaiter, a former partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
has been at Soros for a decade. He joined the hedge fund two
years after Soros’s two main managers,  Stanley Druckenmiller  and
Nicholas Roditi, left and Soros said he would stop accepting
outside capital and making big, leveraged bets on stocks, bonds
and currencies. Zuaiter will still act as an adviser to the
family office, according to the memo.  Soros, 82, returned client capital of less than $1 billion
last year, citing changes in regulations that would make it
necessary for the firm to register with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission if it were to continue to manage money for
outsiders. By going private, the firm, which averaged annual
gains of 30 percent in its first 30 years, escaped requirements
of the Dodd-Frank law to provide information about customers,
employees and assets.  Scott Bessent, who managed Soros’s European investments for
eight years, returned to the firm late last year to become chief
investment officer of the family office.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for  Soros Fund Management ,
declined to comment on the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  