-- Southern Europe’s Debt Nightmare Denmark’s Dream as Rates Fall
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-12-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/southern-europe-s-debt-nightmare-denmark-s-dream-as-rates-fall.html
Danish government bond auctions this
year resulted in the lowest borrowing rates on record as
 Europe ’s crisis spawns a two-tier  bond market  that’s prompting
the debt office in Copenhagen to test longer maturities.  “With the present level of rates, we have tended to issue
more in the longer end as it reduces our refinancing risk and
our interest rate sensitivity,” Ove Sten Jensen, head of the
government debt management department at the Danish central
bank, said by phone. “We have been very dependent on the
development in the euro area debt crisis.”  Denmark’s AAA credit rating and a government debt load
that’s less than half the euro zone’s average have attracted
investors seeking refuge from markets tainted by the crisis. The
yield on Denmark’s 1.5 percent bond due 2023 fell to 1.3 percent
in a Dec. 11 auction, the lowest since the debt department began
selling the bond this year.  Denmark ’s 10-year bonds yield about 28 basis points less
than similar-maturity German bunds, while investors pay the
Nordic country to hold its two-year debt. The debt office sold
4.5 percent bonds maturing in 2039 at a yield of 2 percent this
week, versus 2.13 percent in October, it said Dec. 11.  “There has been a flight to quality, at certain times, a
very big flight to quality,” Jensen said. “The average rates
from the auctions are historically low.”  Funding Strategy  The debt office expects to release its funding strategy for
2013 today, when the government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt is due to publish its latest economic
estimates.  Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said this week the
government will proceed with budget cuts even as the central
bank predicts the economy will contract, to avoid breaching
European Union budget restrictions.  The debt office probably will announce plans to sell bonds
for 50 billion kroner ($8.8 billion) to 75 billion kroner in
2013, less than this year’s issuance of just over 100 billion
kroner, after taking advantage of low rates to prefund the
government’s financing needs, Jan Stoerup Nielsen, senior
analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in a phone interview.  The office may even cut that estimate next year as the
government begins collecting additional  tax revenue  after
lowering the rate on capital pensions that are cashed in during
2013, Nielsen said.  ‘Broad Demand’  “The government has promised that this extra money will go
only to bringing down the debt,” he said.  The market value of outstanding Danish central  government
securities  has climbed 12 percent since hitting a 2012 low in
March, as Europe’s efforts to resolve the debt crisis looked set
to unravel. The value rose to 850.3 billion kroner in October
from 755.9 billion kroner in March, according to central bank
data.  “We’ve had very broad demand, and that’s been the case for
most of the year,” Jensen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  