-- St. Jude Medical Sued Over Durata Wire Quality Assurances
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/st-jude-medical-sued-over-durata-wire-quality-assurances.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)  and three top
officers were sued by a public employee pension plan over claims
they increased share value by making misleading statements about
the quality of Durata cardio-defibrillator wires.  “Defendants made false and misleading statements, and
concealed material information relating to the safety,
durability, and manufacturing processes” of the Durata leads,
according to the complaint filed Dec. 10 by the Canton,
Massachusetts-based Norfolk County Retirement System.  The lawsuit, seeking group status for anyone who acquired
stock in the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company from Oct. 19,
2011, to Nov. 20, 2012, and unspecified money damages, was filed
in federal court in Minneapolis.  Named as co-defendants in the complaint are Chief Executive
Officer Daniel J. Starks, Executive Vice President John C. Heinmiller and Chief Financial Officer Donald J. Zurbay.  On Nov. 21, St. Jude shares fell $4.34, or 12 percent,
after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  publicly criticized
the company’s method of testing the Durata wires.  The Durata leads had been brought to market to replace the
company’s Riata-branded wires, which were recalled in 2010 after
research showed they could breach their insulating casing,
potentially leading to excessive shocks or failing to work when
needed.  Durata’s Optim insulation was later found to fray when it
rubbed against another object.  ‘Design Flaws’  “As early as October 19, 2011, defendants made positive
statements about the safety and efficacy of Durata Leads despite
being aware that they suffered similar design flaws and
presented similar risks to Riata,” according to the complaint.  Still, in earnings calls and regulatory filings, the
individual defendants, including Implantable Electronic Systems
Division President Eric Fain, allegedly gave false assurances
and withheld damaging information, according to the complaint.  St. Jude officials “believe the lawsuit is without merit”
and will fight the allegations, Amy Jo Meyer, a company
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Norfolk County Retirement System v. St. Jude
Medical Inc., 12-cv-3087, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota ( Minneapolis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  