-- STX Discusses Selling Stake in Pan Ocean Ship Unit to Pare Debts
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-12-12T07:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/stx-discusses-selling-stake-in-pan-ocean-ship-unit-to-pare-debts.html
STX Group  is in talks about selling
its controlling stake in STX Pan Ocean Co.,  South Korea ’s
largest dry-bulk ship operator, as it tries to raise 2.5
trillion won ($2.3 billion) from asset sales to pare debts.  Talks are under way with domestic and international
investors, the South Korean group said in an e-mailed statement
today. It didn’t elaborate on the potential buyers for the 36
percent stake, which is worth about $250 million at market
prices based on  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Pan Ocean surged by the 15 percent daily limit in  Seoul 
trading. STX is selling assets and working with creditor  Korea
Development Bank  on ways to improve its finances after a slump
in dry-bulk freight rates and a collapse in demand for new
vessels hit earnings at Seoul-based Pan Ocean and the group’s
shipbuilding businesses.  STX also said it’s in the final stage of talks to sell its
51 percent stake in  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH) , the world’s biggest
maker of oil-rig support vessels. Italian shipbuilder
Fincantieri SpA is among final bidders, people with knowledge of
the matter said in April.  The group plans to focus on shipbuilding, energy and
construction by selling Pan Ocean, it said. Pan Ocean operates a
fleet of about 400 owned and chartered ships, including dry-bulk
vessels, container ships and tankers.  “We have decided that it will be difficult for the group
to continue stable management of the shipbuilding and shipping
businesses,” STX said. “We will try to regain market
confidence by restructuring.”  Rates Slump  Pan Ocean has posted four straight quarterly  losses  as
excess capacity in the global fleet and an economic slowdown in
China damps shipping rates. The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a global gauge
of dry-bulk freight costs, has fallen 48 percent this year.  The shipping company rose to 3,740 won at the close of
trading in Seoul. It’s also listed in Singapore. The company has
a market value of about $700 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  STX’s three main companies, Pan Ocean,  STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. (067250)  and STX Corp. have 1.46 trillion won in bonds
and loans maturing next year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The group’s companies are interlinked through cross-
shareholdings.  The group in October raised 360 billion won by agreeing to
sell a 43 percent stake in unit STX Energy Co. to  Orix Corp. (8591)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  