-- Sudan’s Indiscriminate Bombing Leaves Civilian Toll, Groups Say
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-12-12T08:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/sudan-s-indiscriminate-bombing-leaves-civilian-toll-groups-say.html
Sudanese government forces have
carried out indiscriminate bombing and arbitrary detentions and
blocked aid to civilians in their battle against rebels in two
states, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International said.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said government soldiers
have also assaulted and raped women and girls. Both sides in the
conflict in the oil-rich Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states
are guilty of abuses, the two rights groups said yesterday.
 Sudan ’s army spokesman, al-Sawarmi Khalid, didn’t answer two
calls seeking comment. Sudanese officials have repeatedly denied
targeting non-combatants.  “Along with the fighting come serious violations of
international humanitarian and human-rights laws by both sides,
but predominantly by the government of Sudan,” Jehanne Henry, a
Human Rights Watch researcher, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Sudan’s persistent indiscriminate bombing has been
killing, wounding and maiming women, men and children, and
damaging their homes, farms, schools, clinics and other civilian
structures.”  Fighting between government forces and rebels broke out in
June 2011 in Southern Kordofan and spread to neighboring Blue
Nile three months later. Insurgents loyal to the Sudan People’s
Liberation Front-North were formerly part of the army that
fought a two-decade civil war that led to the south’s
independence last year, before they were left on the Sudanese
side of the border after secession.  War Refugees  The United Nations refugee agency says at least 180,000
civilians have fled to camps in South Sudan, and about 30,000
more are in  Ethiopia .  Both rights groups said the insurgents shelled Kadugli, the
Southern Kordofan capital. Amnesty said in a statement that the
rebels fired heavy weaponry “inappropriate for use in an urban
environment when civilians are present.” The bombardments
killed 18 civilians in October and November, Human Rights Watch
said in its report.  Human Rights Watch urged the UN, the African Union, the
Arab League and the European Union to put pressure on Sudan to
end indiscriminate bombing and the blocking of aid and called
for an independent commission to investigate violations by both
sides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  