-- Swiss Hedge Funds Consider Relocating to Liechtenstein, PwC Says
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-12-12T13:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/swiss-hedge-funds-consider-relocating-to-liechtenstein-pwc-says.html
Swiss hedge fund managers are
considering relocating to neighboring Liechtenstein to sidestep
tougher regulations being introduced in  Switzerland  and gain
access to the European Union, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  About 47 percent of the 92 firms surveyed, including
managers of  hedge funds , private equity and real estate, would
pick EU member Liechtenstein over being supervised by the Bern-
based  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority , PwC said.
The move would allow them earlier access to EU markets under a
new regulatory regime for alternative investment managers.  “Until now, Switzerland offered one of the most lenient
private investment regimes in  Europe , if not the world,” said
Guenther Dobrauz, head of asset management regulatory and
compliance services at PricewaterhouseCoopers AG in Zurich.
“This is about to change.”  Switzerland has amended legislation to mirror the EU’s
 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive , tightening risk,
compliance and auditing standards and increasing fund
transparency. Managers from countries that don’t pass equivalent
laws won’t be able to market to EU investors.  While the EU directive comes into force next year, more
than 400 Swiss alternative investment firms may have to wait
until at least 2015 before obtaining a “passport” to
participate in the EU market. Firms with managers in Switzerland
or offshore jurisdictions will get quicker access to the EU if
they relocate them to  Liechtenstein  rather than operate from
Switzerland, according to the report.  Almost three-quarters of firms surveyed said they selected
Switzerland for proximity to family and friends, while only 39
percent cited corporate taxes as an advantage. In future,
regulatory conditions and the practices of the supervisory
authority will be the most important criteria, PwC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  