-- Swiss Property Boom Is Biggest Risk for the Economy, UBS Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-12T11:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/swiss-property-boom-is-biggest-risk-for-the-economy-ubs-says.html
Switzerland’s residential-property
boom is the biggest risk facing the country’s economy, according
to Daniel Kalt,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s chief Swiss economist  UBS’s Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index entered the “risk
zone” for the first time in more than two decades in the third
quarter as investors were attracted to one of  Europe ’s most
stable and prosperous countries during the sovereign debt
crisis.  “The real estate price situation in Switzerland,
especially in Geneva, Zurich and Zug, is dramatic,” Kalt said
at a briefing in Zurich today. “This poses the biggest macro
risk for the Swiss economy.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last month that Switzerland should toughen measures aimed
at curbing mortgage lending. In July, the Swiss government
introduced measures to reduce mortgage-related risks, such as
rules giving it the option to raise capital requirements for
banks.  Home values in the alpine resort of Davos gained 7.6
percent in the six months through September, the most of any
Swiss region, according to the UBS index. Prices in Zug rose 5.1
percent, while those in Zurich increased 3.8 percent.  “The situation will go on like this for another one to
three years,” Kalt said. “Then it will depend on interest
rates and we’ll have to see whether the real-estate market will
stabilize or not. If it were to go on like this, we’d see a
doubling of real-estate prices every eight years.”  The Swiss National Bank has held interest rates at zero
since August 2011 and imposed a ceiling on the franc last year
as demand for the currency surged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 