-- Swiss Bankers Fight Against Risks Posed by White-Money Strategy
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-12-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/swiss-bankers-fight-against-risks-posed-by-white-money-strategy.html
Swiss wealth managers are fighting
against government proposals they say will scare off millionaire
clients by forcing them to make declarations on the tax status
of assets held in private bank accounts.  Switzerland  plans to revise its so-called white-money
strategy later this month after  proposing  in March that banks
reject deposits from clients who don’t disclose the origin of
their funds and attest they’re tax compliant. That policy should
be dropped as it threatens jobs, said Yves Mirabaud, senior
partner at Geneva-based wealth manager Mirabaud & Cie.  “What Switzerland is doing now could be extremely
dangerous for the Swiss financial place,” said Mirabaud.
“Being the only financial center to impose such a self-
declaration on our clients will put us in a very difficult
competitive situation.”  Switzerland is trying to shed its image as a tax haven as
the U.S. probes whether the country’s biggest banks, including
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , helped
Americans evade taxes. Adopting tougher disclosure standards
before other countries may push more clients to withdraw funds
from the world’s biggest center for cross-border wealth.  Mario Tuor, a spokesman at Switzerland’s State Secretariat
for International Financial Matters in Bern, declined to provide
details of the strategy update or whether the proposal on self-
declaration will be shelved.  Primary Concern  Swiss banks have about three years until new international
standards treat serious tax crimes as money laundering offenses.
To avoid being complicit, the banks will be forced to ask
clients to confirm whether their assets have been declared, said
Philippe Kenel, a lawyer with Python & Peter in Lausanne.  “If they demand declarations now, they may scare off older
clients and risk losing three years of making profits from
them,” said Kenel.  Switzerland attracted $2.1 trillion to cross-border
accounts during an era of undeclared money that started to
crumble when the  U.S. Department of Justice  sued  UBS AG (UBSN)  for
helping Americans dodge taxes three years ago. The Swiss
government is still in talks with the U.S. to end a DoJ
investigation of at least 11 other private banks.  Hurting Relationships  Swiss wealth managers already scrutinize the origin of
customer assets in line with international anti-money laundering
requirements and inquiring about tax compliance will undermine
client relationships, Gregoire Bordier, president of the Geneva
Private Bankers Group, said on Oct 11.  “This is not a question you ask your client: hello sir,
are you declared or undeclared?” said Bordier, who is also
managing partner at Bordier & Cie.  Bordier said in an October report that requiring self-
declarations would be a “petty diligence rule.”  “If a client is capable of hiding a number of elements
from tax authorities, he would hardly hold back from lying to
his banker,” Bordier said.  Swiss bankers are also concerned that some clients come
from countries where tax authorities lack the capacity or
willingness to ensure an accurate self-declaration.  “While banks shouldn’t abuse banking secrecy to help their
clients avoid tax, that doesn’t mean they should become the
agent of foreign fiscal authorities,” said Fabien Aepli, a
lawyer with Eversheds in Geneva.  Terminating Relationships  The 350 members of the  Swiss Bankers Association , including
UBS and Credit Suisse, can be fined as much as 10 million francs
($10.7 million) if they use misleading documents to assist
clients in deceiving Swiss or foreign tax authorities, according
to SBA’s due diligence code from 2008.  The SBA is developing a new code of conduct under which
banks may terminate their relationship with a client who meets
criteria that raise suspicions of  tax evasion , an official at
the Basel, Switzerland-based association said yesterday, while
declining to provide further details. The self-declarations
proposed by the Swiss government won’t become an international
standard, the official said.  Switzerland’s Socialist Party has demanded that the white-
money strategy include mandatory self-declarations in return for
its support over international negotiations with the U.S. this
year.  The Swiss government is reacting to domestic political
pressures, Jacques de Saussure, senior partner at  Pictet & Cie .,
Geneva’s biggest private bank, said on Nov. 27 in  London .
Clients often come to Switzerland for its political, financial
and legal stability and because keeping their financial affairs
confidential can help protect them, he said.  Personal Risk  “They come for security against corrupt and authoritarian
governments and administrations,” said de Saussure.
“Therefore, whatever information is transmitted can risk their
personal security and that of their family.”  Imposing mandatory declarations will boost regulatory and
compliance costs and make Switzerland uncompetitive, Nicolas Pictet said in a  speech  in June in his capacity as president of
the Swiss Private Bankers Association. As many as 30 percent of
Geneva’s banking jobs may be eliminated amid an “avalanche” of
new laws and regulations, he said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  