-- Syria Rebels Vow Military Union as Opposition Recognized
-- B y   A i d a   A l a m i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-12T19:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/syria-rebels-vow-military-union-as-opposition-recognized.html
Syrian rebels agreed to a unified
military command and called for Iranian forces to leave the
country, as the U.S. and other nations formally recognized the
coalition fighting to oust President Bashar al-Assad.  “We ask  Iran  to listen to the plight of the Syrian
people,” Mouaz al-Khatib, head of the National Coalition of
Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, said in Marrakesh,
 Morocco , where officials from 124 nations and organizations
including the U.S, France and  Saudi Arabia  met today. The
opposition leader also said the unified forces would form the
core of the new Syrian army after Assad’s overthrow and pledged
his opposition to extremism.  “We all recognize the coalition,” Turkish Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told reporters a day after President
 Barack Obama  signaled official U.S. backing.  The allies reiterated a call for Assad to step aside and
warned the regime not to use chemical or biological weapons,
saying such action would be met with “a serious response.” The
 New York  Times, citing unnamed U.S. officials, reported today
that Syrian government forces have fired Scud missiles at
insurgents in recent days.  The Syrian regime has recently escalated to “more vicious
weapons” such as missiles and anti-personnel “barrel bombs,”
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said today in
 Washington . There have been reports posted on Google Inc.’s
YouTube video service from inside Syria since September
documenting the dropping of so-called barrel bombs -- oil drums
packed with explosive material and scrap metal over rebel areas.  Scud Missiles  The Assad regime appears to be starting to use its arsenal
of Scud ballistic missiles in a desperate effort to intimidate
its opponents and sap the morale of rebel forces, a Defense
Department official said today.  Scuds are inaccurate and largely ineffective military
weapons that are useful mostly to attack urban areas where
precision doesn’t matter, said the official, who follows Mideast
developments closely. Because the 1950s-vintage missiles arrive
with no warning and can kill or injure large numbers of
civilians, they are a terror weapon, said the official, who
likened  Syria ’s use of them against its own cities to Nazi
 Germany ’s V-2 missile attacks against the U.K. during World War
II, which were terrifying though ineffective.  Death Toll  More than 41,000 Syrians have been killed since the anti-
Assad uprising began in March last year and another 1.2 million
have been forced from their homes, according to opposition and
United Nations estimates.  Outside attempts to bolster the opposition come as the
fighting increasingly splits Syria along sectarian lines.  The Sunni Muslim-led opposition is confronting a government
whose top officials, including Assad, are drawn from the
minority Alawite sect, affiliated to Shiite Islam. Iran is
training a pro-regime militia force drawn from the Shiite and
Alawite communities, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in
August. Iran denies it has a military presence in Syria.  Late yesterday, Obama said in an interview with ABC
television that the U.S. officially recognized the rebel
coalition. He called the policy shift “a big step.”  “The Syrian opposition coalition is now inclusive enough,
is reflective and representative enough of the Syrian population
that we consider them the legitimate representative of the
Syrian people,” Obama said. The U.S. has no plans to sell the
rebels arms, Obama said.  Russian Surprise  Russia was surprised by the U.S. recognition which violates
a plan for a Syrian transitional government negotiated and
signed in Geneva, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  was quoted as
saying by the Interfax agency.  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns , Saudi Foreign
Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal, British Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  and French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius were
also among those attending in Marrakesh.  “Transition is coming to Syria one way or the other,”
Burns said, as he invited al-Khatib, formerly a cleric at
Damascus’ main mosque, to Washington.  The rebels’ pledge on a more unified military structure
came after appeals from supporters including Fabius for the
coalition to “reinforce its civil and military cohesion.”  Among the pledges of additional support to a relief fund
made at the meeting, Saudi Arabia promised $100 million, the
U.S. pledged a further $14 million, and Germany offered 22
million euros ($29 million). Burns said the U.S. contribution
will be used for nutrition support for children, emergency
medical needs and winterization supplies to families in need
inside Syria. The new aid brings the U.S. total to $210 million
in humanitarian assistance.  France , one of the first countries to recognize the
opposition, said it was too early to supply arms to the rebels,
Fabius told reporters. “We have decided not to move on this,”
he said, adding “we shall see in the coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aida Alami in Cairo at 
 aalami2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  