-- U.K. Sets Smart Meter Rules to Protect Customer Privacy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-12T14:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/u-k-sets-smart-meter-rules-to-protect-customer-privacy.html
The U.K. government published a set
of rules for its smart-metering program aimed at protecting the
privacy of customers as it prepares to install the devices in 30
million homes and businesses by 2019.  Under the new rules, consumers will be able to say how
often their energy supplier can access data about their
consumption of gas and electricity, the Department of Energy and
Climate Change said today in an e-mailed  statement . Suppliers
won’t be able to use consumption data for marketing unless given
explicit consent, the department said.  “The consumer comes first,” Energy and Climate Change
Minister Sandip Verma said in the statement. “That’s why we are
tackling issues such as privacy, security, consumer protection
and communications now, working with industry and consumer
groups to make sure we get this right.”  The government plans a mass  rollout  of 53 million
electricity and gas smart meters in 30 million homes and
businesses from 2014 through 2019. The aim is to cut energy
consumption and carbon emissions by using devices that can tell
householders how much energy different appliances are using, and
how much it’s costing at any given time.  Under the rules published today, suppliers will also have
to give customers regular reminders about how they can change
the choices they have already made. The government will also
request annual reports from the biggest suppliers about their
progress in rolling out smart meters across the nation.  The installation and running costs of the smart meters will
be paid for by consumers through their utility bills, largely
with the “Big Six” utilities: Electricite de France SA, EON,  SSE
Plc (SSE) , Centrica,  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Npower unit and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish
Power division. The government estimates the program
will end up paying for itself, with the 11.7 billion pounds
($18.9 billion) of investment resulting in 18.7 billion pounds
of energy savings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  