-- U.S. Probe of SAC Trading Said to Be Linked to 2010 Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-12-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/u-s-probe-of-sac-trading-said-to-be-linked-to-2010-case.html
A U.S. investigation of possible
 insider trading  at SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14 billion
hedge fund run by  Steven A. Cohen , is linked to a 2010
regulatory lawsuit over allegedly illegal trades in  InterMune
Inc. (ITMN) , according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s probe of trades that SAC Capital made in
the Brisbane, California-based biopharmaceutical company is tied
to a December 2010 SEC lawsuit against an investor, said the 
person, who asked not to be named because the matter isn’t 
public. The investor bought InterMune options before a 
European Union regulatory panel urged approval of the company’s 
drug Esbriet to treat a fatal  lung disease , the person said, 
declining to elaborate.  News of the probe into SAC Capital’s trading in stocks
including InterMune and  Weight Watchers International Inc. (WTW)  came
after Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at the hedge
fund, was charged Nov. 20 with insider trading in two other
stocks. SAC Capital told clients Nov. 28 that it had received a
so-called Wells notice from the SEC saying investigators may
pursue an enforcement action against the firm for fraud and
liability related to the unit that employed Martoma, another
person familiar with the matter said.  The probe of InterMune trading at Cohen’s firm focuses on
the first half of 2010, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last week. InterMune’s stock  soared  early that March after
the drugmaker’s experimental medicine was reviewed more
favorably by U.S. regulators than analysts had expected.  SAC, including positions held by affiliates CR Intrinsic
and Sigma Capital Management, bought more than 4 million shares
of InterMune in the first quarter of 2010 to increase its
holding to almost 4.5 million from none in the prior two
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  InterMune’s Plunge  Two months after InterMune’s jump, the stock slumped after
the company’s application for the potential $1 billion-a-year
lung treatment was rejected by regulators. By the end of the
second quarter, SAC held 10,983 shares, according to the data.  Some of the InterMune transactions were handled by Nikej Shah, the second person said. Shah, a former SAC portfolio
manager who hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing, declined to
comment on the probe.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC Capital, has said the firm wasn’t aware of any
investigation involving trades of InterMune or Weight Watchers.
He previously declined to comment on whether the Wells notice 
cited the two companies. He declined to comment yesterday.  Unknown Investors  The SEC brought the earlier case on Dec. 23, 2010, against
then-unknown investors of InterMune stock options. Six days
earlier, InterMune stock more than doubled and its options rose
by five times after a European Union regulatory committee urged
approval of Esbriet.  The SEC’s lawsuit focused on two transactions: one for the
purchase of 400 InterMune call options, or bets that the shares
would rise, and one for 237 of the contracts. After filing its
suit, the agency immediately won an order freezing assets held
in U.S. brokerage accounts.  Months later, Swiss citizen Michael Sarkesian and a British
Virgin Islands-based investment vehicle he managed filed court
papers indicating they traded the 400 options and denied doing
so on inside information. The SEC claimed Sarkesian had been
tipped on Dec. 5, 2010, to the news about the forthcoming
positive opinion for Esbriet by a “source” who stood to gain
some “personal benefit.”  Neither the source nor the benefit was specified in the
SEC’s complaint.  SEC Settlement  On March 29, Sarkesian and the investment vehicle he
managed, Quorne Ltd., agreed to settle the case without
admitting wrongdoing. They agreed to forfeit $616,000 in profits
and pay a $93,806 fine.  The SEC had earlier dropped allegations over the separate
purchase of 237 options after the purchaser cooperated with the
agency’s enforcement staff, according to records in federal
court in  Manhattan .  Michael Dailey, a lawyer for Sarkesian and Quorne, didn’t
return a call yesterday seeking comment on the case. He
previously declined to comment on the lawsuit.  In a separate case, a U.K. man, Taiyyib Ali Munir, pleaded
guilty in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York , on Oct. 15 to
conspiring in an insider-trading scheme involving InterMune,
Global Industries Ltd. and  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  Munir, who
lives in  London  and worked in the financial industry, admitted
that he agreed to obtain and sell confidential earnings reports
of public companies from December 2011 to July 2012.  Munir, who has yet to be sentenced, had told a government
informant that illegal tips he got could be traced by to an ex-
New York Stock Exchange director, according to court papers.  The case is SEC v. One or More Unknown Purchasers of
Options of InterMune, 10-cv-9560, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  