-- U.S. November Import and Export Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-12-12T13:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/u-s-november-import-and-export-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
import and export prices report for November from the Commerce
Department:  U.S. import prices decreased 0.9 percent in November, the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today, following
increases in each of the three previous months. The decline was
primarily led by lower fuel prices. The  price index  for U.S.
exports also fell in November, decreasing 0.7 percent after
remaining unchanged in October.  Imports
All Imports:  Import prices fell for the first time since July after
rising 2.5 percent over the previous three months. A 3.0 percent
decline in fuel prices mainly drove the November decrease in
import prices, although nonfuel prices also decreased for the
month. The price index for overall imports fell 1.6 percent over
the past 12 months, a contrast to the previous 12-month period
ended in November 2011 when import prices rose 10.1 percent.  Fuel Imports:  Import fuel prices fell 3.0 percent in November after
edging down 0.1 percent the previous month. The November decline
was the largest downturn since an 8.5 percent drop in June. A
3.6 percent decline in petroleum prices in November more than
offset an 18.2 percent advance in natural  gas prices . Fuel
prices decreased 7.0 percent for the year ended in November
following a 32.4 percent rise for the November 2010-11 period.
Falling prices for both petroleum and natural gas over the past
year, down 7.0 percent and 7.4 percent, respectively, each
contributed to the 12-month drop in overall fuel prices.  All Imports Excluding Fuel:  The price index for nonfuel imports fell 0.2 percent in
November after rising 0.4 percent in October and 0.2 percent in
September. In November, most of the major finished goods
categories contributed to the decline as prices for capital
goods; foods, feeds, and beverages; nonfuel industrial supplies
and materials; and consumer goods all fell. Despite the November
decrease, prices for nonfuel imports rose 0.2 percent over the
past year as higher finished goods prices more than offset lower
prices for nonfuel industrial supplies and materials and foods,
feeds, and beverages.  Exports
All Exports:  Prices for overall exports decreased 0.7 percent in
November after recording no change in October. The decline was
driven by lower nonagricultural prices which more than offset a
0.1 percent uptick in agricultural prices. Despite the November
decline, the price index for overall exports rose 0.7 percent
over the past year.  Agricultural Exports:  Agricultural prices advanced 0.1 percent in November, led
by a 5.9 percent increase in fruit prices and a 2.4 percent rise
in wheat prices. In contrast, prices for fish, corn, and
soybeans all declined for the month. Prices for agricultural
exports increased 10.0 percent over the past 12 months. That
advance was driven by a 30.2 percent rise in soybeans prices, a
14.5 percent increase in corn prices, and a 19.8 percent advance
in wheat prices.  All Exports Excluding Agriculture:  The price index for nonagricultural exports declined 0.7
percent in November following increases over the three previous
months. The November drop was led by lower prices for
nonagricultural industrial supplies and materials and  consumer
goods . The decrease in November helped drive nonagricultural
prices down 0.4 percent over the past 12 months.  SELECTED NOVEMBER HIGHLIGHTS  Import Prices
Imports by Locality of Origin:  Prices for imports from  China  fell for the third
consecutive month in November, edging down 0.1 percent following
0.2 percent declines in October and September. Import prices
from China have not recorded a monthly advance since a 0.1
percent rise in February and decreased 0.7 percent over the past
year. The index had previously increased 4.0 percent between
November 2010 and November 2011. The price index for imports
from  Mexico  also decreased in November falling 1.3 percent. In
contrast, the price for imports from  Canada  ticked up 0.1
percent. Import prices from the European Union and  Japan  were
unchanged in November.  Nonfuel Industrial Supplies and Materials:  The price index for nonfuel industrial supplies and
materials declined 0.4 percent in November after rising 1.2
percent the previous month. Both the November decrease and
October advance were led by unfinished metals prices which fell
0.7 percent in November following a 4.5 percent increase the
previous month.  Finished Goods:  Finished goods prices were mostly down in November as
capital goods prices decreased 0.3 percent and consumer goods
edged down 0.1 percent. Prices for automotive vehicles were
unchanged. The November drop in capital goods prices was driven
by a 0.6 percent decline in the price index for computers,
peripherals, and semiconductors.  Foods, Feeds, and Beverages:  Prices for import foods, feeds, and beverages decreased 1.3
percent in November following a 0.2 percent rise in October. The
November decline was driven by a 14.5 percent drop in coffee
prices and a 5.9 percent decrease in vegetable prices.  Transportation Services:  Import air passenger fares fell 0.9 percent in November
after rising 2.0 percent the previous month. Lower Asian fares
more than offset increasing European and Latin
American/Caribbean fares. Despite the decline, import air
passenger fares rose 2.9 percent for the year ended in November.
Prices for import air freight advanced 0.5 percent in November
but decreased 0.5 percent over the past 12 months.  Export Prices  Nonagricultural Industrial Supplies and Materials:  Nonagricultural industrial supplies and materials prices
fell 2.0 percent in November following a 0.5 percent increase in
October. The November drop was driven by a 6.0 percent decrease
in export fuel prices.  Finished Goods:  Finished goods prices were mixed in November; capital goods
prices rose 0.2 percent, consumer goods prices fell 0.2 percent,
and the price index for automotive vehicles remained unchanged.
The increase in capital goods prices was led by a 3.3 percent
advance in the price index for computer peripherals.  Transportation Services:  Export air passenger fares rose 0.4 percent in November,
led by higher Latin American/Caribbean and European fares. The
index for export air passenger fares advanced 0.9 percent for
the November 2011-12 period. Export air freight prices declined
0.3 percent in November.  Import and Export Price Index data for December 2012 are
scheduled for release on Friday, January 11, 2013 at 8:30 a.m.
(EST). 