-- UN Telecom Talks Deadlocked as U.S., Europe Fight Control
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-12-13T09:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/u-s-will-block-un-summit-s-spam-proposals-to-protect-speech.html
Negotiations to update a quarter-
century old telecommunications  rulebook  reached a deadlock as
the U.S. and  Europe  failed to resolve disagreements with China
and the  Middle East  on measures that would increase government
control over the Internet.  At the World Conference on International Telecommunications
in Dubai, discussions on whether the Internet and Web spam
should be included in the new rules gave way to elaborate debate
on phrasing because of concern that governments might overstep
boundaries in Internet control.  The sessions have been running since Dec. 3 and last
night’s debate lasted until 1:30 a.m. local time. While the
 International Telecommunication Union , the United Nations
telecoms agency, has forbidden any discussion of content control
or decisions that would increase its authority to cover the
Internet, the U.S. argues that some of the proposals would be
subject to abuse. The U.S. also said it will block initiatives
that would give states the ability to stop spammers on concern
that such power would lead to censorship.  “The Internet does well with a multi-stakeholder
governance model where you have dedicated organizations that
have technical expertise,” Terry Kramer, the leader of the U.S.
delegation, said in an interview today. “They include industry,
they include governments, they include civil society, to address
issues affecting the Internet.”  Before Google  The last time the ITU drafted a treaty on world regulation
in communications was in 1988, only a few years after the debut
of the  first mobile phone , which weighed the equivalent of seven
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5, and long before  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was founded.
The original treaty set principles on topics such as
international telecommunications services, emergency calls and
trans-border charges.  Twenty-four years on, coming up with a consensus over
Internet issues has so far given way to heated debates and
backpedaling among some nations.  A proposal that would potentially give countries
sovereignty over Internet addresses, for example, was
resubmitted by a coalition including China and  Russia , a day
after the original plan was scrapped.  The U.S., home to the world’s biggest Web companies such as
Google and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , is resisting any attempt to put
regulation of the Internet under the rules of the ITU, Kramer
said today. These types of proposals would endanger free speech
on the Web and stymie the efforts of independent groups, he
said, adding that once governments begin approving or rejecting
e-mail, they may decide to prohibit certain kinds of speech,
such as political messages.  China, Russia  In the same vein, the U.S. is also blocking attempts by
 China , Russia and the  United Arab Emirates  to give countries
control over Internet addresses and language that would broaden
the definition of agencies that the ITU’s rules govern, Kramer
said.  The Saudi-Arabian delegation said in a statement during the
plenary that the regulations wouldn’t affect the Internet and
were meant to regulate new networks.  “It’s unacceptable that one party to the conference gets
everything they want and everybody else must make concessions,”
the delegation said.  To address these concerns, which have caused delays in the
finalization of the new rules, WCIT President  Mohammed Nasser
Al-Ghanim  proposed wording that explicitly prevents the
interpretation of any of the amendments to be used to regulate
content.  ‘No Content’  The suggestion delayed the process further as delegates
argued that the term “content” was too broad and questioned
whether it could be separated from a telecom network. Al-Ghanim
ultimately pulled his proposal.  “How can a telecommunications network not deal with
content?” the Sudan delegation said during the plenary.
“Content cannot be avoided in telecommunications networks
because it will always be in transit.”  The conference itself has been subject to debate before it
even started in Dubai. Criticism has come from government
representatives as well as Internet companies, among which
Google has been the most vocal. The world’s biggest search
engine set up a petition against the event, saying some
governments would push for a treaty allowing them to censor the
Internet and limit the access to information.  ‘Bridge Building’  Some industry and company representatives, including from
Google, have attended the conference, though they have spoken up
against not being able to vote. Only countries are asked to vote
on proposals for the treaty, each of them holding one voice.  The Internet Association, whose members include Google,
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , Yahoo! Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and other Web-based
companies, today came out against a non-binding vote during the
conference that was supposed to gauge support for a resolution
to foster growth of the Web.  The survey was intended to “sound the temperature of the
room,” and wasn’t a formal vote, Al-Ghanim, who called for the
poll, said at the session. The Internet Association said it
interpreted the show of hands as a step toward more government
control of the Internet.  The association “is strongly opposed to ITU efforts to
regulate the Internet, and urges  member states  to ensure it is
not included in the final treaty text,” the lobbying group said
in a statement. “We urge the Internet community to join
together to stop this imminent threat to Internet freedom.”  The ITU has said that it would aim for consensus and that
no proposal would be accepted otherwise.  “We’ve been saying this thing in very good faith -- there
was nothing between the lines when we were drafting this
document,” said ITU General Secretary Hamadoun Toure. “We are
trying to build bridges so we work together so the consumers
benefit better. Please, help us to continue to build that
bridge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in Dubai at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  