-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall to Two-Month Low on Stimulus
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-12T21:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-for-third-day-to-two-month-low.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped for a third day, reaching the lowest level in
almost two months after the  Federal Reserve  boosted stimulus and
as budget talks continued in  Washington .  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.4
basis point to a mid-price of 93.3 basis points at 4:31 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
earlier fell to 91.4, the lowest intraday level since Oct. 19,
and was poised for the lowest close since Oct. 18.  The Fed said it will buy $45 billion a month of  Treasury
securities  starting in January, expanding its asset-purchase
program, and it linked the outlook for its main interest rate to
unemployment and inflation targets. Further stimulus measures
may ease investor concern that an economic slowdown will hinder
companies’ ability to repay debt.  “People have been wanting the Fed to insert more hardline
targets, so that probably is good news for some, that they are
tying it more to the economy,” Noel Hebert, who oversees about
$250 million as chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview.  Fed Purchases  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is using his unlimited authority
to buy Treasuries in an unprecedented effort to stoke growth.
The Fed said  interest rates  will stay low “at least as long”
as the  unemployment rate  remains above 6.5 percent and if
inflation “between one and two years ahead” is projected to be
no more than 2.5 percent.  The credit-default swaps gauge pared its drop as Bernanke
said the Fed can’t offset the full effect of the fiscal cliff.
President  Barack Obama  reduced his demand for tax increases as
he and House Speaker  John Boehner  inched toward a budget deal to
prevent more than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from taking effect next year. Boehner told
reporters that the sides have “serious differences” on the
plan.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 1.4 basis points to 469.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  Chesapeake Swaps  Access Midstream Partners LP (ACMP) , the natural gas company
acquiring assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , is planning to
sell $1.4 billion of bonds to help fund the purchase. The
Oklahoma City-based company is offering notes due in 2023, it
said today in a statement. Moody’s Investors Service will grade
the new bonds Ba3, the ratings company said today in a
statement.  Chesapeake, which in May said it was facing a cash crunch
in 2013, has since been plugging a $22 billion shortfall with
asset sales.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
Chesapeake dropped 8.7 basis points to 472.5 basis points as of
3:28 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. That’s the lowest level
since April 5.  Swaps on Bausch & Lomb Inc. plunged 72.5 basis points to 75
basis points as of 3:30 p.m. in  New York , according to CMA.  Warburg Pincus LLC, which bought the eye-care company for
$3.7 billion in September 2007, hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to explore the sale of firm, said to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  