-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Dec. 7 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-12-12T15:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-dec-7-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 15.4 million
barrels per day during the week ending December 7, 62 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 90.4 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging 8.9 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging just under 4.8 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.5 million barrels per day last
week, up by 269 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged about
8.2 million barrels per day, 631 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 585 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 191 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 0.8 million barrels
from the previous week. At 372.6 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are well above the upper limit of the average range
for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
increased by 5.0 million barrels last week and are in the upper
half of the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories
and blending components inventories increased last week.
Distillate fuel inventories increased by 3.0 million barrels
last week but remained well below the lower limit of the average
range for this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories
decreased by 1.3 million barrels last week, but remained well
above the upper limit of the average range. Total commercial
petroleum inventories increased by 5.9 million barrels last
week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.9 million barrels per day, up by 3.2 percent from
the same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor
gasoline product supplied has averaged over 8.5 million barrels
per day, down by 1.3 percent from the same period last year.
Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.8 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by 0.7 percent
from the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 2.6
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  