-- UEFA, FIFA May Lose EU Fight Over Exclusive Soccer TV Rights
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-12-12T11:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/uefa-fifa-may-lose-eu-fight-over-exclusive-soccer-tv-rights.html
Soccer fans should be allowed to
watch World Cup and European Championship games for free, an
adviser to European Union’s top court urged today in a setback
to bids by FIFA and  UEFA  to hold on to exclusive pay-TV deals.  EU nations can include the World and Euro championships in
lists of events that are “of major importance” to society and
can “require that they be broadcast on free-to-air
television,” Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general at the EU
Court of Justice, said in a non-binding opinion today. The
Luxembourg-based court follows such advice in most cases.  FIFA and UEFA, the global and European soccer governing
bodies, are appealing a lower court ruling concerning the U.K.
and Belgium that determined fans with access to a TV should be
able to watch World Cup and European Championship matches,
which involve national teams, for free.  A ruling in FIFA’s favor could end decades of tradition in
the U.K., where the  World Cup , the most-watched sporting event,
must be broadcast on free-to-air television. The February 2011
decision by the  EU General Court  echoed an earlier non-binding
opinion by an adviser to the region’s top court in a case
involving the Premier League and exclusive broadcasting deals.  The advocate general today rejected arguments by FIFA and
UEFA that limits to their exclusive broadcasting rights violate
their property right.  Free TV  Representatives of FIFA and UEFA, based in Zurich and Nyon,
 Switzerland , declined to comment on the opinion.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive agency, in 2007
allowed the U.K. to earmark all World Cup games and the final
tournament of UEFA’s European Football Championship for free-to-
air television broadcast. That and the approval of a similar
decision by  Belgium  to limit World Cup games only to free
television, breach the associations’ property rights, FIFA and
UEFA had argued.  In its 2007  decision  concerning the U.K. list, the
commission said events such as the World Cup and European
Championship Finals “have a special general resonance in the
U.K. in their entirety, as they are particularly popular with
the general public,” not just those who regularly watch.  The court’s adviser said that while they are listed in the
EU law on television broadcasting as events of major importance
“that does not mean that the entirety of those sporting events
may, in all cases, be included” on EU nation’s list
“irrespective of the interest which they arouse” as
tournaments to be broadcast free of charge.  The cases are: C-201/11 P UEFA v. Commission; C-204/11 P
FIFA v. Commission; C-205/11 P FIFA v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  