-- Lula Star Loses Luster as Brazil Corruption Allegations Pile Up
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-12-12T16:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/lula-star-loses-luster-as-brazil-corruption-allegations-pile-up.html
Fresh allegations that former
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  was part of a
cash-for-votes scandal have dealt another blow to the popular
leader, diminishing the odds of him running for office again.  A businessman sentenced to 40 years in prison in the
scandal told prosecutors in September that he transferred funds
twice to Lula aides to pay for the former president’s personal
expenses, newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported yesterday,
citing sealed testimony it obtained. The charge comes weeks
after federal police uncovered an alleged influence-peddling
system coordinated by a woman Lula appointed to run his Sao
Paulo office while he was president.  Lula’s Workers’ Party, or PT, intends for President  Dilma
Rousseff  to run for re-election in 2014, with Lula stepping in
as a “Plan B” candidate if Rousseff suddenly loses popularity
or the opposition mounts a credible threat, said Joao Augusto Castro Neves, analyst at political risk consulting firm Eurasia
Group. Rousseff had more support than Lula in the first Ibope
poll for the 2014 election.  “I don’t think he’s seen as God anymore,” Castro Neves
said in a telephone interview from  Washington .  “Plan B is
still possible, but unlikely if you add up all these scandals
and question marks surrounding Lula’s image.”  Polling firm Ibope said Rousseff was spontaneously  named  by
26 percent of the electorate as their preferred choice for
president in 2014, the most among potential candidates, while
Lula garnered 19 percent. The poll was carried out in 143 towns
from Nov. 8-12 and had a margin of error of two percentage
points.  First Time  This is the first time Lula has been accused of wrongdoing
by any of the dozens of lawmakers, bankers and former aides
convicted in the case, which is known as the “mensalao,” or
big monthly payment, because it involved diverting public money
to pay off legislators to vote with the government.  Brazil ’s
opposition is urging prosecutors to investigate the allegations,
and the chief justice of the  Supreme Court  said yesterday an
inquiry should be opened.  “It’s a lie,” Lula said to reporters in Paris yesterday,
declining to comment further.  The prosecutor’s office won’t comment on an investigation
of Lula until the mensalao proceedings are over, said an
official who declined to be identified because of internal
policy.  Rousseff was applauded by members of her cabinet after
defending Lula and referring to their friendship in the presence
of French President  Francois Hollande  yesterday.  ’Immense Respect’  “I repudiate all attempts -- and this would not be the
first -- to take away the immense respect the Brazilian people
have for him,” Rousseff told reporters in Paris after an event
in the Elysee Palace. “It’s regrettable, these attempts to
damage president Lula’s image.”  Rousseff declined to comment further, saying such questions
are better addressed in Brazil.  Marcos Valerio, an advertising executive who was the main
conduit in the votes-for-cash scheme, sought out prosecutors
after being convicted in September by the Supreme Court of
fraud, corruption and money laundering. The Workers’ Party  used
public funds to bribe lawmakers from 2003 to 2005, the court
found.  Fraudulent Loans  Valerio told prosecutors that Lula approved fraudulent
loans from Banco BMG SA and Banco Rural SA that the high court
said were used to buy votes in Congress, according to O Estado.
Lula also negotiated with Miguel Horta, former chief executive
officer of  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , a 7 million-real ($3.4
million) payment to the PT and himself received a 100,000-real
payment for personal expenses, the newspaper said.  The Social Democracy Party, or PSDB, Brazil’s biggest
opposition party, asked federal prosecutors to open an
investigation into Lula’s involvement in the scandal and want
Valerio to testify in Congress, Bruno Araujo, leader of the PSDB
in the lower house, said yesterday.  As the visible operator of the mensalao apparatus, Valerio
lacks credibility, and his word is unlikely to convince the
Brazilian people, whose incomes leaped due to Lula’s social
policies, said  Alexandre Barros , managing partner of political
risk consulting firm Early Warning.  “As long as things actually improve over the next two,
three years, combined with the incompetence of the opposition,
Lula and Dilma have a good chance, though I don’t think Lula
will run,” Barros said by telephone from Brasilia yesterday.  High Popularity  Rousseff’s  approval  rating stood at 77 percent in September
even as the economy heads for its second-worst  performance  in 13
years, with economists surveyed by the central bank forecasting
growth of 1.03 percent, down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5
percent in 2010.  Still, Unemployment remains at record lows, and Brazil’s
consumer  confidence  level in November reached its highest level
in nearly two years.  At the very least the new allegations tarnish Lula’s image
abroad, Eurasia Group’s Castro Neves said.  “He thought he could win a Nobel Peace Prize for all his
social policies and being one of the people responsible for
reducing poverty,” said Castro Neves. “After these scandals
that’s highly unlikely to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  