-- Hungary Yields Snap Biggest Slide in Two Months; Forint Weakens
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-12-12T13:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/hungary-yields-snap-biggest-slide-in-two-months-forint-weakens.html
Hungary ’s bond yields snapped their
steepest four-day slide in almost two months and the forint
retreated from a week-high as a technical indicator suggested
the decline was overdone.  Yields on 10-year debt rose two basis points or 0.02
percentage points to 6.47 percent. The 43 basis-point plunge in
yields was the most since the four days through Oct. 16, pushing
the notes’ 14-day relative strength index to 23 yesterday, below
the 30 level which some analysts consider as oversold. The RSI
climbed to 25 today. The forint depreciated 0.1 percent to
282.39 per euro by 1:06 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary’s borrowing costs plummeted yesterday as data
showed the inflation rate dropped to an 11-month low and global
demand for riskier assets grew, giving the central bank more
scope to cut  interest rates . Foreign investors held 5 trillion
forint ($23 billion) in local currency debt as of yesterday, 0.1
percent shy of a record reached at the end of last week,
according to  data from the Debt Management Agency .  The jump in foreign ownership of Hungarian debt creates a
risk in case global appetite for higher-yielding assets
decreases, Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based fixed-income
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report
today. Erste sees the 10-year yield rebounding to 6.5 percent
next year, he added.  Hungary’s inflation rate fell to 5.2 percent in November,
the lowest since December 2011 and compared with the central
bank’s 3 percent target, statistical data showed yesterday. The
Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s benchmark interest rate is 6 percent, the
European Union’s highest, after policy makers cut it by a
 cumulative  one percentage point in the past four months citing
improvement in investor sentiment.  Investor confidence in  Germany , Hungary’s biggest export
market, jumped to a seven-month high, data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  