-- Unilever CEO Polman Sees 10-Year Europe Economy Slump
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-12-12T09:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/unilever-ceo-polman-says-europe-faces-10-year-economic-slump.html
Unilever (UNA)  Chief Executive Officer
Paul Polman said  Europe  is facing 10 years of economic
stagnation while the U.S. grapples with the rise of an
“emerging poor” class dependent on government benefits.  “We are in for at least 10 years of slow economic growth
in Europe, and I don’t see that changing,” Polman said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s  New York  office. “If you run
a business like mine and don’t assume that, you are fooling
yourself. I hope for the benefit of Europe I am proven wrong,
but even then we are in a better position by taking that as our
starting point. The key thing is to see reality in the eye.”  Polman said declining  consumer confidence  in the U.S. has
“people worried” and the recovery in the world’s largest
economy will be muted, with 2 percent growth in gross domestic
product “if you’re lucky.” With 46 million people relying on
government benefits to buy food, “people scrape by until the
end of the month,” the executive said.  The maker of Axe body sprays and Hellmann’s mayonnaise
generates about 16 percent of its 50 billion euros ($65 billion)
in annual sales in the U.S. and about 25 percent in Europe,
according to estimates from analysts at Berenberg Bank and RBC
Capital Markets. About 55 percent now comes from  emerging
markets  such as Indonesia, China and  Brazil .  Unilever fell 0.1 percent to 29.43 euros at 10:08 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading. The stock has gained 11 percent this year,
compared with 13 percent for competitor  Nestle SA. (NESN)   Lower-Cost Brands  The London- and Rotterdam-based company has adapted to
deteriorating economic conditions by cutting costs, expanding in
emerging markets and pushing lower-cost brands such as Suave
shampoo, according to Polman.  Unilever in October reported third-quarter revenue growth
that beat analysts’ estimates and industry peers. The
performance was in spite of a “continued high level of
competitive intensity, depressed economies and increasing global
imbalances and uncertainty,” Polman said at the time.  In Europe, sales rose 0.9 percent in the third quarter, an
improvement over the 2.2 percent decline in the second quarter.
Unilever has offered lower-priced products in  Greece  to meet the
needs of cash-strapped consumers, while its business in Spain
has “stabilized,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  