-- Hutchison’s Orange Austria Offer Wins European Union Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-12T21:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/hutchison-s-orange-austria-bid-wins-european-union-approval-1-.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s planned 1.3
billion-euro ($1.7 billion) purchase of wireless carrier Orange
 Austria  won European Union approval after the Hong Kong company
agreed to divest radio spectrum and offer network access to new
rivals.  Hutchison will cede spectrum to a new market entrant and
offer wholesale access to its network for as much as 30 percent
of its capacity for as many as 16 so-called mobile virtual
network operators without their own infrastructure, the European
Commission  said  in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “The risks posed by more concentration in national mobile
telephone markets cannot be ignored,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an e-mailed statement.
Hutchison’s commitments “ensure that competition is preserved
so that Austrian consumers continue to enjoy the benefits of
innovation and fair prices.”  Hutchison, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ,
agreed in February to combine its Three unit with Orange Austria
to create the Alpine country’s third-biggest mobile operator.
Orange is currently owned jointly by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Mid
Europa Partners.  Hutchison can’t complete the Orange deal until it has
struck one access deal, the EU said. The company signed such a
deal with Liberty Global Inc.’s UPC Austria in October.  ‘4G’ Services  Jan Trionow, the chief executive officer of Hutchison’s 3G
Austria unit, said the company will now benefit from larger
scale and efficiencies to roll out long-term evolution, or 4G
wireless communication technology, within two years.  A linked transaction, the proposed sale of Orange’s
discount Yesss! brand to  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  for 390 million
euros is “an integral part” of the Hutchison bid for Orange
Austria, Trionow said. Austria’s cartel court approved the
Yesss! deal last month. Austria’s competition agency has until
Dec. 27 to object to the approval.  Such an appeal would “undermine the entire transaction and
stand in the way of the benefits that will quickly flow from it
in terms of scale, innovation and new network roll-out,
competition by new mobile virtual network operators and the new
market entry that are part of the package approved by the
commission,” Trionow said in an e-mailed statement.  Without the commitments, Hutchison’s takeover of the Orange
unit would have reduced the number of Austrian operators from
four to three with the combined firm facing rivalry from Telekom
Austria AG and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit, the EU said.  T-Mobile Austria said last month that a successful merger
of Three and Orange would -- without the spectrum offer -- leave
T-Mobile, Austria’s second-biggest wireless company, the only
operator without spectrum for faster services using long-term
evolution technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 