-- Wacker Chemie Jumps on Chinese Plans for Solar Subsidies
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-12-12T18:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/wacker-chemie-jumps-on-chinese-plans-for-solar-subsidies.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the second-biggest
maker of solar-grade silicon, rose most in more than three years
after China’s government announced subsidy plans for the
photovoltaic industry.  Wacker was up 12 percent to 48.61 euros at the close in
 Frankfurt , the biggest increase since April 30, 2009, and the
best performance on the  Bloomberg European 500 index  today. The
jump pared the stock’s decline this year to 22 percent, valuing
the manufacturer at 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion).  China allocated 13 billion  yuan  ($2 billion) in subsidies
for domestic solar companies this year, Xinhua News Agency
reported. The Shanghai Securities News said officials may double
their target for solar installations and the Ministry of Science
and Technology confirmed subsidies for more than 100 developers.
The plans throw a lifeline to solar-panel manufacturers and
their suppliers after a glut of manufacturing capacity depressed
global prices.  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest maker of solar panels,
rose as much as 12 percent in Frankfurt.  SMA Solar Technology
AG (S92) , a manufactures solar inverters, rose as much as 7.4 percent.
Shares in Chinese solar companies led by  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800)  and  Trina Solar  Ltd. also jumped.  Wacker’s polysilicon business posted drops of 29 percent in
sales and 56 percent in operating profit in the third quarter
because of high inventory levels in the photovoltaic industry
and the financial difficulties facing manufacturers of solar
cells and modules. Solar-silicon prices fell 40 percent in the
quarter, Munich-based Wacker said Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  