-- Wal-Mart CEO Says Low Prices, Plant Safety Are Compatible
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-12-12T22:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/wal-mart-ceo-says-low-prices-plant-safety-are-compatible.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  said he sees no conflict between paying low
prices to suppliers that source merchandise from overseas and
being able to maintain safe conditions at garment factories.  “We will not buy from an unsafe factory,” Duke said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg LP President and Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Doctoroff  at the New York offices of the
 Council on Foreign Relations . Bloomberg LP is the parent company
of  Bloomberg News .  “This is not a price discussion,” Duke said. “This is
just a case if a factory is not going to operate with high
standards then we will not purchase from that factory, and
there’s no discussion about price,” Duke said.  A fire at a Bangladesh factory that made clothes for Wal-
Mart killed more than 100 people last month, prompting labor-
rights groups to call for the world’s largest retailer and other
Western companies to do more to make garment factories safer.
Wal-Mart said the factory was not authorized to make its clothes
and fired a supplier that was using it.  In a wide-ranging conversation that covered everything from
wages paid to workers in U.S. stores to questions about the
retailer’s e-commerce, Duke said his company faces high
expectations from the public because of its size. Duke also took
questions from the audience at the event.  Latest Challenge  The Bangladesh fire was just the latest challenge faced by
Wal-Mart overseas. Earlier this year, the U.S. Justice
Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission began
investigating possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act at Wal-Mart’s Mexico unit. Meanwhile, at home,
union-backed protesters demanding better pay and benefits have
picketed the company’s U.S. stores.  On the Mexico probes, Duke said the company “will take
appropriate action upon the conclusion of this investigation.”
“We use every experience like this to try to be a better
company,” Duke said.  In response, Wal-Mart has spent $30 million revamping its
corporate structure. It’s also investigating its operations in
 Brazil ,  China  and  India  for possible violations.  The retailer has seen its  stock  surpass $70 this year for
the first time ever after sales improved in the U.S., its
largest market. Duke and  Bill Simon , head of Wal-Mart U.S., have
changed course by returning thousands of items to stores that
had been removed and invested in cutting prices to reinforce its
slogan of “Save Money. Live Better.”  E-Commerce Regrets  Duke has been reducing prices to lure U.S. shoppers who are
still suffering amid sluggish economic growth and high
unemployment. Discount chains such as  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and
 Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR)  have attracted some of those customers with
smaller-format stores that allow for quicker trips and by adding
food items.  Duke said since the presidential election, Wal-Mart
customers have become increasingly aware of negotiations between
President  Barack Obama  and Congress to avert automatic tax hikes
and spending cuts in January and that 15 percent of Wal-Mart
customers “are telling us this discussion about the fiscal
cliff will affect what they spend on Christmas.”  Asked about his regrets, Duke said he wished Wal-Mart had
been more aggressive with e-commerce, where it has faced
increasing competition from online retailers such as Amazon.com
Inc.  “We should’ve moved faster,” said Duke, who has been in
the job for almost four years.  Wal-Mart fell 2.8 percent to $68.94 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop in almost four weeks. The shares have
gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  