-- Wind-Energy Group Backs Six-Year Phaseout for U.S. Break
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-12-13T16:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/wind-energy-group-backs-six-year-phase-out-for-u-s-break.html
The wind-energy industry asked
Congress to extend a tax break for six years, a time frame it
said was long enough to cut costs and short enough to ease fears
the credit will become a permanent part of the  tax code .  The  American Wind Energy Association , whose members include
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and the U.S. unit of  Siemens AG (SIE) , offered
the proposal yesterday in a letter to Senator  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, and
other members on the tax-writing panel.  Wind-energy companies have urged Congress for months to
extend the so-called production tax credit, which is set to
expire this month. The break shaves as much as a third of the
costs to generate wind power, and industry advocates contend its
loss could cost thousands of jobs. Under the proposal, the
credit’s value would fall gradually over the six years.  The credit’s “continued availability for a reasonable
period of time will allow the industry to invest in the cost-
saving technologies required to finish the job,” the
Washington-based trade group said in the letter.  The group’s plan would keep 100 percent of the current 2.2
cents a kilowatt-hour for projects started in 2013. The credit
would fall to 90 percent for projects completed in 2014, 80
percent in 2015, 70 percent in 2016 and 60 percent in both 2017
and 2018, the credit’s final year.  Republican Critic  Senator  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican and a
longtime critic of the wind industry, said at a news conference
today that Congress should allow the credit, which was first
adopted in 1992, to lapse.  “We can’t afford it,” Alexander said.  Tom Pyle, president of the American Energy Alliance, a
Washington-based group that says it opposes energy subsidies,
said the six-year phaseout could cost an additional $50
billion.  The credit is a “government giveaway that has run its
course,” he said at the Washington event. Officials from 11
other small government groups, including the tea party-backed
Americans for Prosperity, spoke at the news conference to urge
Congress to reject extending the credit.  Earlier, a group of religious organizations defended the
credit, saying wind power reduces air pollution that threatens
public health.  Religious Support  “Renewable energy, including wind, is essential to
protecting the health of future generations,” said Alexei
Laushkin, a spokesman for the Evangelical Environmental Network,
based in New Freedom,  Pennsylvania .  Separately, a group of Democrats and Republicans yesterday
urged President  Barack Obama  to support changes in the tax code
to let renewable energy companies get the benefits that some
fossil fuel projects now receive.  The changes include letting wind and solar companies form
master limited partnerships. While owners could sell shares
under these structures, the companies would be taxed at a lower
rate than corporations.  “Small tweaks to the tax code could attract billions of
dollars in private sector investment to renewable energy
deployment, reduce the cost of renewable electricity by as much
as a third and dramatically broaden the base of eligible
investors,” Senators  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat, and
Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, and 27 other lawmakers wrote
in a letter to Obama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  