-- Twinkie Gotterdammerung Ends Year: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/twinkie-gotterdammerung-ends-year-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
The demise of Hostess affected me
deeply. I am glad my mutti wasn’t around for this disaster.  There were plenty of other causes for grief this past year,
of course. For starters,  Greece  did not fall into the
Mediterranean. We will have to live with  Angela Merkel  and the
tax-dodging progeny of Pericles for another year, maybe forever.  That’s not all. The tax nut won over the other one,
depriving us of the dog on top of the station wagon leitmotif
delivered in such imaginative variations by  New York  Times
columnist Gail Collins (though he briefly, magically, reappeared
in a story about a dull, post-election White House lunch).  Thinking of dogs, this was the year I said goodbye to
Mugzie, my beloved beagle, who always travelled on a car seat
cushion in wintry months wearing her Sherlock Holmes outfit.  I would rather strap a human companion onto the roof of the
Volvo. Oh Mugzie! At least she padded over the rainbow bridge
listening to “Winterreise,” a depressing song cycle by Schubert,
but beautifully recorded by Christian Gerhaher.  Great art is a great salve.  Happily, the  Metropolitan Museum  is on my way to work
through  Central Park  and I stop by often as mother used to do.
Just the other day, I saw the Matisse show and remembered -- how
could it be otherwise? -- eating a Hostess Twinkie. I was home
with the flu, maybe 12, and leafing through a small book on
Matisse given to me by my mother.  Chewing thoughtfully, propped up by soft pillows, I slowly
flipped through the hand-glued plates of blue nudes and dazzling
flowers, floating from Tangiers to Collioure in the south of
 France : Such pleasure.  Wonder Bread  Very likely the treat was followed by frankfurters cut
lengthwise and delicately placed between two buttered slices of
Wonder Bread. Hostess was the gateway to happiness for a long
time.  When we arrived in the States in the late 1950s, my mother
luxuriated in Wonder Bread (wirklich wunderbar!) because pure
white bread was so unusual to anyone who lived through the war
with its dark chunks of pumpernickel.  Wonder Bread’s lack of anything nutritional was, if known,
totally uninteresting to my mother, who never took a vitamin
pill in her life and sipped orange juice only with vodka.  Father, too, ate cake whenever possible, lots of eggs,
butter and absolutely no vegetables, and, like his wife, lived
into his nineties.  The news of Hostess disappearing was like a ton of
madeleines dropping on my head.  Skinless Franks  I guess all families are happy in their own way, and our
best moments were probably around wieners and cupcakes. Olga
Christina Alexandrovna had been raised with a cook in  Riga ,
 Latvia , and just couldn’t pick up the habit. I remember an
animated back and forth about the merits (none) of skinless hot
dogs which my father abhorred and why couldn’t his wife remember
that?  Somewhat literal and devoid of irony, if not humor, my
mother thought a perfect hostess served Hostess baked goods and
kept lots in the freezer for guests. We ended up not having many
visitors and my mother probably got a little lonely by the late
afternoon.  As life continued, I could be sure to find gin and tonics
waiting with the Ding Dongs when I got home from high school. I
realize now that I spent a fair amount of my growing years on a
sugar high and that’s why I didn’t get into  Harvard .  But I did get to continue my habits at  NYU’s Institute of
Fine Arts , a wonderful place of learning on East 78th Street in
 Manhattan , smack between the Met and a Hungarian pastry shop,
and pleasantly close to  Bemelmans Bar .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and leisure section. Any opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on  art  and Ryan
Sutton on  dining .  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21A@bloomberg.net  