-- World’s Largest Profit at Gazprom Pays for Putin’s Pipes
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-12-12T12:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/world-s-largest-profit-at-gazprom-pays-for-putin-s-pipes-energy.html
The world’s most profitable energy
company is being punished by investors who are concerned it’s
also the biggest spendthrift.  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) ,  Russia ’s natural-gas export monopoly, will
beat  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to earn $37.9 billion in 2012, according
to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Yet its shares have fallen
18 percent this year as the state-run company uses its cash to
finance the industry’s largest capital expenditure program,
including an export terminal in the Far East and undersea
pipelines to  Europe , where demand is forecast to drop.  “Gazprom has a lot of spare capacity to transport its gas
to Europe as is,” said  Ivan Mazalov , who helps manage $4
billion at Prosperity Capital Management, including Gazprom
shares. “If the project is too uncertain, it is better to
return cash to shareholders instead of plowing it into capital
expenditures. A lot of this expenditure is inefficient.”  Gazprom spent $53 billion on capital projects last year,
more than PetroChina Co.’s $46 billion and $36.8 billion at
Exxon, leaving just 7 percent of earnings to pay as dividends,
the least of the world’s 10 largest energy companies. Investors
are paying the tab for President  Vladimir Putin ’s political
priorities, bypassing estranged Ukraine and developing Russia’s
poorer regions, analysts at IFC Metropol and Sberbank CIB said.  South Stream  The Kremlin has backed a Gazprom-led venture to spend $21
billion building the South Stream pipeline to Europe even as
Russia’s existing connections run at about 70 percent of their
capacity. Europe’s gas consumption will drop 3.5 percent to 550
billion cubic meters in 2015 from 2010 levels before leveling
off, according to International Energy Agency forecasts.  South Stream will benefit Gazprom because it cuts the
amount paid to Ukraine in transit fees, Chief Executive Officer
Alexey Miller said at a ceremony to mark the start of
construction last week. Those fees will now stay with Gazprom,
making the project profitable, he said.  At the other end of Russia, Putin in October blessed a $45
billion project to tap the remote Chayanda gas field in eastern
Siberia. Gazprom will construct a 3,200-kilometer (2,000-mile)
pipeline to the Pacific coast and build an LNG plant in the port
of Vladivostok.  “There are indeed a lot of investments now, but we are
creating new gas production centers and new transport corridors
that will bear fruits in the future,” said Gazprom spokesman
 Sergei Kupriyanov .  Some analysts agreed that investment now makes sense to
ensure market share for Russia gas in the years ahead.  “We think there will be growing support for gas demand
over the long term, and Russia is investing in the right
business model to pursue this,” Renaissance Capital analysts
Brad Way and Artem Kvas said in a research note on Gazprom.  Investment Plan  Still, there’s an acknowledgment in Russia’s government
that spending needs to be reined in. Gazprom, which owns
Russia’s gas pipelines, will revise down investment plans for
next year, deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on Dec.
10. The board will this month consider the 2013 investment plan,
which will total $23 billion, according to a Gazprom official.  While spending may fall this year, Gazprom has a history of
overshooting. Investment at its gas business overran targets by
25 percent this year and 56 percent in 2011 as it pushed ahead
with projects.  Total spending, including the oil and power divisions, may
drop to $35 billion this year, according to a Gazprom
 presentation  to reporters on June 28. Capital expenditure in
2013 will probably remain at the same level as this year, Chief
Financial Officer Andrei Kruglov said on Nov. 8.  Lowest Ratio  The forecasts haven’t reassured investors: Gazprom’s price-
to-earnings ratio is the lowest among the world’s 300 biggest
oil and gas producers by market value, according to Bloomberg
data. The company paid just 7 percent of profit as dividends
last year, based on international accounting standards. That
compares with 23 percent at Exxon and 45 percent at PetroChina.  Gazprom and partners Eni SpA,  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Electricite de
France SA  last week welded the first seam of South Stream, to
mark the ceremonial start of construction near Anapa, southern
Russia. Work on the offshore link, running under the  Black Sea 
to central and southern Europe, won’t begin until 2014, after
environmental permits are granted, Sebastian Sass, spokesman for
the South Stream Transport BV venture, said Nov. 21.  Pipeline Capacity  Russia’s pipeline capacity to Europe totals 223 billion
cubic meters a year, while exports may not exceed 140 billion
cubic meters this year, according to Alexander Burgansky and
Roman Odarich, analysts at Otkritie Capital in Moscow.  While Gazprom expects to fill one-third of South Stream’s
planned capacity with gas for new supply contracts, the rest
will be for European supplies previously delivered via Ukraine.
The link is designed to carry as much as 63 billion cubic meters
a year in 2019.  Eni and the other minority partners reserve the right to
exit South Stream, the Italian company said after signing the
venture’s final investment decision on the project Nov. 14.  Ukraine can transport as much as 140 billion cubic meters a
year of Russian gas to customers in the European Union. The
route faces growing competition from transit shipments across
 Belarus , where Gazprom gained full control of the pipeline last
year, and the  Nord Stream  link under the  Baltic Sea  directly to
 Germany .  Nord Stream, which doubled capacity to 55 billion cubic
meters a year in October, is now operating at about a quarter of
its potential. Gazprom also ships fuel to  Turkey  through the
Blue Stream pipeline, which has never run at full annual
capacity. Putin said on Dec. 3 the link, in which Eni is also a
partner, may be expanded to allow exports to other countries.  Growing Competition  Gazprom is facing growing competition in Europe from U.S.
coal supplies, liquefied natural gas and renewables.  While the outlook for Asian demand is more optimistic,
Gazprom is planning its  Far East  investments without announcing
contracts with customers. More than a decade of talks with  China 
on piped supplies have stalled over prices.  “Our estimates suggest that it could be another black hole
for Gazprom’s minority investors,” Sberbank analysts Oleg Maximov, Alex Fak and Valery Nesterov said in a research note.
“It seems hard to justify a project that would develop a
completely new field in Yakutia -- the middle of nowhere -- ship
it 3,200 kilometers across the Russian hinterland shadowing the
border with China then liquefy it only to sell the bulk of it,
let’s face it, to China.”  State’s Strategy  The state’s strategy has a cost. Gazprom, which holds a
monopoly on gas exports and the world’s largest reserves, trades
at about 3.2 times earnings, compared with 12 for PetroChina and
11.3 for Exxon.  Exxon Mobil surpassed Gazprom by profit in the first half
of this year as the Russian producer gave European customers
price discounts to maintain demand for its fuel, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The joke in my office is that they’re going to build a
pipeline to the moon,” said Michael O’Flynn, managing director
of UFG Asset Management. There’s no telling when Gazprom will
get over the hump on big ticket projects because they never end,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Todd White  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  