-- TMX Fixes Malfunction Affecting Disseminated Index Prices
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-12T19:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/tmx-fixes-malfunction-affecting-disseminated-index-prices-2-.html
TMX Group Ltd. (X) , owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, said it has resolved a technical error that
caused the calculation of its benchmark equity index to be
incorrect.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  didn’t receive
accurate data for stocks with tickers from A through L starting
at 10:42 a.m. in Toronto, Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for the
exchange, said in an interview. The company said the data issue
was resolved at 12:21 p.m.  The S&P/TSX rose 76.55 points to 12,358.91 at 2:57 p.m. in
Toronto. Trading volume was 42 percent higher than the 30-day
average at this time of the day.  “It happens once in a while with the TSX, makes us look
like small potatoes compared with the U.S. as they rarely have
these issues,” said  Barry Schwartz , a  fund manager  with Baskin
Financial Services in Toronto whose firm manages about C$450
million ($457 million).  A feed that provides index data for the S&P/TSX was
incorrect, according to Quick. The malfunction didn’t affect
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the company said in a
statement.  Prior Glitches  The issue was different from a prior glitch that disrupted
trading on Canada’s main stock market four years ago. The
Toronto Stock Exchange suffered a daylong outage on Dec. 17,
2008, after a computer failure prevented quotes from being
disseminated. Five months later, on May 15, 2009, the bourse
faced an hour-long malfunction that disrupted trading.  “Generally the disruptions are not lengthy and there are
backup systems,” Brian Huen, managing partner with Red Sky
Capital Management Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “It
doesn’t make me want to trade on the TSX any less, plus I don’t
really have another option anyway.”  The S&P/TSX is the largest market for mining and oil-and-
gas listings in the world, according to TMX. There is more than
C$2 trillion in total market capitalization among companies
listed in the Toronto Stock Exchange and Venture exchanges,
according to TMX.  TMX, based in Toronto, was acquired by a group of Canadian
banks and pension funds in September in a C$3.73 billion deal
that combined the company with  Canada ’s securities clearinghouse
and its Alpha Exchange competitor.  The transaction ended a 15-month effort by some banks and
pension funds to buy TMX. Maple Group Acquisition Corp. made an
unsolicited bid in May that challenged TMX’s friendly
combination with the London Stock Exchange Group Plc. The LSE
deal collapsed in June 2011 after failing to get enough
shareholder support, leaving Maple as the sole suitor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  