-- Yahoo Retools Flickr as CEO Chases Facebook to Twitter
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-12-12T14:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/yahoo-retools-flickr-as-ceo-chases-facebook-to-twitter.html
Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  is revamping its Flickr
photo application for smartphones as Chief Executive Officer
Marissa Mayer vies with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. for
mobile users.  An upgraded version of Flickr introduced today for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone lets users share images with groups as well as
edit, crop and apply color filters to photos, Brett Wayn, a vice
president and general manager at Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, said in an interview.  As a growing number of consumers use smartphone cameras to
document their daily lives and share events with friends, Mayer
is upgrading Flickr to compete with Twitter, which added photo-
sharing tools to its mobile app this week, and Facebook, which
bought the picture app Instagram earlier this year. Upgrades may
help Flickr, with more than 80 million monthly users worldwide,
that attract more smartphone users in a handset market which
researcher IDC projects will surge 45 percent to 717.5 million
units this year.  Flickr is “a brand and product that’s absolutely
associated with people who love creating and sharing and
discovering photographs,” Wayn said.  Earlier this week, Yahoo upgraded its e-mail service to be
faster and easier to navigate on the Internet, smartphones and
tablets.  Hiring Engineers  Mayer plans to invest in hiring engineers with expertise in
mobile applications, boosting the company’s technology for
buying and serving ads, and building services that are more
personalized for individual users.  Flickr’s new image editing tools were created in
partnership with  Aviary Inc. , a New York-based photo-app
developer that also helped create similar features for Twitter’s
mobile app.  Following Mayer’s appointment to CEO in July, a Flickr user
created a website with the address dearmarissamayer.com. It
contained the message: “Make Flickr Awesome Again.” That’s a
plea that the company has heard, said Wayn.  “We are investing in Flickr to make it more awesome,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  