-- YPF Lures Mom and Pop After Record Debt Deluge: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-12T17:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/ypf-lures-mom-and-pop-after-record-debt-deluge-argentina-credit.html
YPF SA (YPFD)  is using everything from a
telephone hot line to radio ads to lure individuals after
 Argentina ’s biggest oil company inundated the state pension fund
and insurers with a record $1.2 billion of peso debt.  YPF, which was expropriated by the government in April,
wants to tap some of the 344 billion pesos ($71 billion) on
deposit at banks in its bond issue next week after selling most
of its 5.7 billion pesos of debt securities this year to
institutional investors. YPF is offering a 19 percent yield on
the 50 million-peso sale of one-year notes, while banks pay 12.5
percent for 30-day deposits of less than 100,000 pesos.  The oil producer has become the biggest borrower in the
local market as it seeks to finance a $37.2 billion production
plan and is using the sale to test the appetite of individuals,
according to RJ Delta Fund, as their savings are eroded by
inflation that economists estimate is the second highest
globally. Like most Argentine companies, YPF has been shut out
of overseas debt markets with borrowing costs that are more than
 twice  the average 5 percent in  emerging markets .  “The level of publicity that they are giving this bond
sale is unprecedented,” Luis Celasco, who manages $338 million
of Argentine debt at RJ Delta, said in a telephone interview
from Buenos Aires. “YPF is seeing a great deal of liquidity in
private hands and wants part of it.”  Posters, Radio  Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a spokesman for Buenos Aires-based
YPF, didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  Along Avenida Libertador, one of Buenos Aires’s major
thoroughfares, posters read “Put your savings toward production
with the YPF bond,” while Radio Continental and Radio Mitre,
two of the capital’s most popular news stations, broadcast spots
by the company urging individuals to earn money and help the
country at the same time.  A television advertisement says “the YPF bond is a simple
option for someone like you to invest in production.”  When she seized control of YPF from Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP)  on
April 16, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said it was
for the “public good” and would lead to increased energy
output and investment after fuel imports doubled in 2011.  Individuals can buy the securities by telephone, over the
Internet or in person at banks, investing from as little as
1,000 pesos to a maximum 250,000 pesos.  Fixed-Term  The 19 percent annual yield offered by YPF compares with
the benchmark deposit rate, known as the  badlar , of 15.31
percent for 30-day deposits of more than 1 million pesos, and an
average rate of 12.5 percent for deposits of less than 100,000
pesos, according to the central bank.  “The YPF bond competes with fixed-term deposits,
especially for small savers who don’t have access to rates
offered for deposits of more than 1 million pesos,” said  Jorge Todesca , a former deputy economy minister, who now runs Buenos
Aires-based research firm Finsoport. “It’s a good option.”  The bond yield still falls short of annual inflation that
private economists estimate at 25 percent, which would be second
only to Belarus, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  According to the government’s statistics institute, whose
data has been questioned by the International Monetary Fund,
 consumer prices  rose 10.2 percent in the year ended Oct. 31.  Political interference in the company’s operations and
Repsol’s legal actions to obtain compensation will make it
harder for YPF to sell bonds to investors who probably have
never bought corporate debt before, according to Orlando Ferreres, a former deputy Economy Minister who now runs his own
research company.  Bank Account  “It won’t be an easy sale, even with all the ads and
publicity,” Ferreres said in a telephone interview. “This is a
new product for most of those small investors and YPF doesn’t
have a good image, given that it hasn’t paid Repsol yet and is
facing a lawsuit abroad.”  The peso has weakened 12 percent this year, the most in
emerging markets. It fell 0.1 percent to 4.8737 per dollar at
1:12 p.m. Buenos Aires time. Warrants tied to economic growth
dropped 6.17 cent to 6.27 cents ahead of a $3.5 billion coupon
payment on Dec. 15. The  extra yield , or spread, investors demand
to hold Argentine debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed nine basis
points to 1,032 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Banks yesterday started receiving offers for the bond,
which will be priced on Dec. 14. The amount of the sale may be
increased to as much as 150 million pesos. To buy the
securities, investors must have an account at one of the banks
that are arranging the sale.  ‘Great Response’  “There’s been great response from retail investors and
demand should exceed the 50 million pesos comfortably,” Ariel
Bertino, the head economist at the investment department of
 Banco Hipotecario SA (BHIP) , which is co-managing the sale, said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “The general public for
the first time is hearing about bonds and looking beyond time
deposits for options to place their savings.”  The sale’s other managers are Banco de Galicia y Buenos
Aires SA, Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires,  Banco Macro SA (BMA) ,
 Banco Santander Rio SA (BRIO) ,  BBVA Banco Frances SA (BFR) , Nacion Bursatil
Sociedad de Bolsa SA, Nacion Fideicomisos SA and Banco
Credicoop.  YPF has issued almost half of the total 11.2 billion pesos
in debt sold in local markets since it was nationalized. Next
week’s sale will be the smallest by the company, which has
announced plans to raise a further 4.5 billion pesos by Dec. 17.  “The publicity effort is too big to think they just want
50 million from the public,” Todesca said. “If demand is good,
more sales like this will come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  