-- Zambia Seeks Partners to Operate Rail Network, Airline
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-12-12T07:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/zambia-seeks-partners-to-operate-rail-network-airline.html
Companies from  South Korea ,  Europe 
and the U.S. have expressed interest in helping run Zambia’s
rail network, the government of Africa’s biggest copper producer
said.  President  Michael Sata ’s government is still deciding if it 
will bring in a partner to help it operate the railway system, 
Mutaba Mwali, deputy minister for Transport Works, Supply and
Communications, said in an interview yesterday.  “There’s a lot of interest,” he said in Lusaka, the
capital. “There might be a need to look for potential co-
operators.”  The government has committed $120 million to refurbishing
railway infrastructure, which Sata said on Nov. 15 had
“deteriorated beyond description”. He canceled the contract
Railway Systems of Zambia and New Limpopo Bridge Projects
Investment Ltd. had to operate a 1,200 kilometer (746 mile)
stretch  of the network in September. That venture was part
owned by South African companies  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ,  Old Mutual
Plc (OML)  and  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM)   Sata in November appointed Clive Chirwa, then an
engineering professor at Bolton University in the U.K., as chief
executive officer of Zambia Railways Ltd., the state-owned
railway company.  Chirwa plans to refurbish the rail network over three
years, which he said on Nov. 19 would cost $750 million.  ‘Urgent Issue’         The government has also said it may seek companies to
partner it in its efforts to get a national air carrier off the
ground. Zambia Airways, a state-owned company, went bankrupt in
1994.  “Definitely, as a government and a country, we have seen
that without a national airline we are disadvantaged,” Mwali
said. Cabinet will probably make a decision on the re-
introduction of a national airline “in the coming year”, he
said.  “This is an urgent issue,” said Mwali.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  