-- Zambia’s Central Bank Lauds Policy as Sata Pushes Rate Cuts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-12-13T06:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-12/zambia-s-gondwe-lauds-monetary-policy-as-sata-pushes-rate-cuts.html
Zambia’s central bank Governor
Michael Gondwe said monetary policy has been successful since
the benchmark  interest rate  was introduced in March, even as
President  Michael Sata  pushes for borrowing costs to come down.  Inflation in  Africa ’s biggest copper producer may end the
year as high as 7.2 percent this month, just above the Bank of
Zambia’s 2012 target of 7 percent, Gondwe said in an interview
in Lusaka, the capital, yesterday.  “The policy rate has worked, but not at the pace that most
people would feel comfortable with in order to spur” economic
growth and create jobs, Gondwe said.  Sata is pressuring the central bank to help curb commercial
bank lending rates of about 16 percent, which he says are too
high, hindering investment in the southern African nation. The
Bank of Zambia raised the  benchmark rate  once to 9.25 percent
since it was introduced to help control inflation.  “We are employing monetary policy management approaches to
address interest rates, including our policy rate,” Gondwe
said. The benchmark rate is appropriate to ensure inflation
doesn’t “jump beyond our expectations,” he said.  Businesses are also lobbying the government to help reduce
borrowing costs. Commercial interest rates should be about 10
percent to 12 percent, Geoffrey Sakulanda, president of the
Zambia Association of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said in
a Dec. 7 interview. The industry group is seeking talks with the
central bank on interest rates, he said.  Jobless Rate  Gondwe said it would be “inappropriate” for him to
comment on what the level of commercial bank interest rates
should be.  Rising food prices and a weaker currency has fueled
inflation, prompting the Bank of Zambia to raise its key rate by
a quarter of a percentage point in October. The kwacha dropped
2.6 percent against the dollar since the beginning of July and
was trading at 5,289 as of 8:46 a.m. in Lusaka.  Zambia is seeking to boost economic growth to lower a 14
percent jobless rate and cut poverty. The economy may expand 7.3
percent this year, state-owned Zambia National Broadcasting
Corp. reported Dec. 10, citing the  World Bank .  “We cannot continue to play games with matters that affect
the lives of our people,” Sata said on Nov. 27. He gave the
 Finance Ministry  and central bank “very little space and time”
to bring commercial bank rates down.  The central bank’s requirement that lenders increase
capital by the end of the year may help to ease liquidity
constraints, reducing borrowing costs, Gondwe said.  “What is true is the higher the interest rates in the
market, the more discouraging they are to the small and medium
enterprises starting up and those already in business,” he
said. “It retards the growth of jobs.”  Banks including  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and  FirstRand Bank Ltd.  have operations in
Zambia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  