-- ‘Black Swan’ Choreographer Millepied to Head Paris Ballet
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-01-24T17:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/-black-swan-star-millepied-to-head-paris-opera-ballet.html
Dancer Benjamin Millepied, who
choreographed the movie “ Black Swan ” and had a small part in
it, will head the  Paris Opera Ballet  from Oct. 15, 2014.  The 35-year-old will replace Brigitte Lefevre, who has been
the institution’s director of dance since 1995, Paris Opera
Director Nicolas Joel announced today in Paris.  Millepied will fill a position held by one of the greatest
dancers of all time: From 1983 to 1989, Rudolf Nureyev led the
company. The Russian prodigy choreographed ballets that are
still in the company repertoire, and performed each year.  During his tenure, Nureyev spotted talents such as Sylvie Guillem who went on to become international stars. One of his
proteges -- Laurent Hilaire, currently Lefevre’s deputy -- had
been viewed as a potential successor until today’s announcement.  Millepied, born in  Bordeaux , France, is married to actress
 Natalie Portman , who won an Oscar for her role as the tormented
dancer in Darren Aronofsky’s psychological thriller “Black
Swan” (2010). They have a son.  At a Paris news conference, Millepied said he and his
family were moving to Paris, where Portman would work on
European projects.  The choreographer said he approached the job “with great
respect and humility,” AFP reported. He stressed the
“refinement and elegance” of its members, and said, “You can
recognize a Paris Opera dancer in 10 seconds.”  Swan Horror  “Black Swan” irritated much of the ballet world. In a
2011 interview, Royal Ballet Principal Sarah Lamb -- who is
U.S.-born -- termed it “horrific.” She regretted that the
movie was “received as a plausible and semi-realistic tale,”
and that Portman was “applauded for having become a
ballerina.”  Millepied joined the  New York City Ballet  in 1995 and
became a principal dancer in 2002. He performed principal roles
in ballets by  George Balanchine  (“Agon,” “Coppelia”),  Jerome Robbins  (“Dances at a Gathering”), and Angelin Preljocaj.  He left  New York  City Ballet in 2011 to concentrate on
choreography and set up his own company, L.A. Dance Project. So
far, he has some two dozen choreographies to his name.  In 2006, Millepied was commissioned to choreograph a piece
for the Paris Opera Ballet titled “Amovco,” set to extracts
from  Philip Glass ’s “Einstein on the Beach.”  In February 2011, his choreography was a highlight of a set
of American Ballet Theater performances at the Sadler’s Wells
Theatre in London. A parade of men in loose waistcoats and women
in Grecian tunics twitched and tossed in a blend of ballet and
athletics, accompanied by screechy live music.  Information:
 http://www.operadeparis.fr/en/L_Opera/le_Ballet/   Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 