-- ‘Spider-Man’ Producers, Taymor Reach Settlement, Lawyer Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-24T22:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/-spider-man-producers-taymor-reach-settlement-lawyer-says-1-.html
The producers of the Broadway
musical “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” settled a lawsuit
brought by the show’s fired director,  Julie Taymor , two weeks
after a judge set a May trial date, a lawyer for Taymor said.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in New York, who is
presiding over the case, on Jan. 10 restored the case to her
active court calendar, saying that while both sides told her in
August they had agreed to a tentative settlement over royalties
and creative control, they hadn’t completed it. Forrest also
scheduled a May 27 trial date.  “The parties have now reached an agreement on terms to
settle the above litigation and have a fully drafted settlement
agreement that the parties are ready to execute,” Charles
Spada, a lawyer for Taymor, wrote to Forrest in a Jan. 22 letter
made public yesterday. “We anticipate notifying the court
within the next week that a final settlement agreement has been
executed and that the litigation can be dismissed.”  Spada didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left
at his office seeking comment on the settlement.  Dale Cendali , a
lawyer for the show’s producers, 8 Legged Productions, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Changes Made  Taymor was removed from the $75 million show in March 2011,
after critics lambasted it during an extended 182-performance
preview period. She sued the producers in November 2011, saying
they violated her intellectual-property rights by making changes
without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her as a
co-book writer.  In 2003, producers began negotiating with Marvel
Entertainment, a unit of  The Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  that owns the
rights to the character, about staging “Spider-Man” on
Broadway, according to Taymor’s suit.  The original producing team asked Bono and The Edge of the
band U2 to write a score and Taymor to direct. In 2004, she
wrote a three-page treatment for the show and the following year
she registered it with the U.S. Copyright Office, according to
her suit.  In her complaint, Taymor said that as the musical’s co-
author she was owed guaranteed minimum royalties of $2,917.50 a
week. The producers agreed in February to pay her director’s
royalties as part of a settlement with the Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society.  In his letter to the court, Spada said the settlement had
been conditional upon 8 Legged Productions and non-party Marvel
Entertainment entering into a separate agreement to amend 8
Legged’s license to produce the Spider-Man musical.  “It now appears that 8-Legged and Marvel will be executing
a formal amendment to their licensing agreement within days,”
he wrote.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 11-cv-
08002, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  