-- Abe Courts Parliament for BOJ Nominees With Eye on Elections
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-01-25T02:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/abe-courts-divided-diet-for-boj-nominees-with-eye-on-elections.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe takes his
plans to pull the economy out of recession to a divided
parliament next week, seeking to win support for reshaping the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  in favor of aggressive monetary easing.  The Diet opens on Jan. 28 with the Liberal Democratic Party
back in power after last month’s lower house landslide. The BOJ
this week set a 2 percent inflation target without a deadline,
and Abe aims to replace Governor Masaaki Shirakawa in April and
two deputies in March with policy makers who support monetary
stimulus to revive growth.  Japan’s seventh leader in six years is under pressure to
fulfill his pledge to revive the world’s third-largest economy
by defeating deflation, boosting spending and weakening the yen.
Abe’s BOJ nominees must win approval in the opposition-
controlled upper house ahead of July elections for the chamber
that also will be a referendum on his administration.  “He has momentum right now and he doesn’t want to lose it
because  Japan ’s public is very fickle,” said Jun Okumura, a
senior adviser for the Eurasia Group in Tokyo and former trade
ministry official. “The potential obstacle in the Diet is with
the BOJ governor and vice-governors. He has to be careful and
not overplay his hand while pursuing his growth plans.”  The yen is heading for a record 11th straight weekly loss,
after the BOJ’s decision to postpone new measures temporarily
halted its decline. Stocks rose, with the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average advancing 2.1 percent at 11:10 a.m. in Tokyo.  ‘Earliest Possible’  “I want the BOJ to achieve the 2% price target at the
earliest possible date,” Abe said yesterday at a meeting of his
economic policy council in  Tokyo . “I of course leave the
concrete monetary policy measures up to the BOJ, but I expect
bold monetary easing.”  The bank on Jan. 22 agreed to the inflation target and to
start open-ended asset purchases in January 2014. Robert Feldman, head of Japan economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co., said in a research note yesterday that the
direction of central bank policy “will likely become clearer”
as Abe’s nominees face parliamentary questioning.  “We are optimistic that the new BOJ leadership will steer
policy toward exiting deflation faster,” Feldman wrote. “That
said, evidence will be needed at each stage, in order to confirm
progress.”  The Nikkei  index  has gained 11.4 percent and the yen has
fallen 7.6 percent against the dollar since the LDP’s Dec. 16
victory. The yen traded at 90.40 per dollar at 11:12 a.m. in
Tokyo, having hit a postwar record of 75.35 in October 2011.  ‘Right Direction’  Investor reaction to Abe’s policies will be a key factor in
maintaining public support, ruling party lawmaker Yuriko Koike
said in an interview.  “He must make economic revival a certainty,” said Koike,
the LDP’s public relations chief. “One barometer will be share
prices and the lower yen. It’s not about specific levels, but
about maintaining the right direction.”  Abe’s economic revival agenda also includes 10.3 trillion
yen ($115 billion) in economic stimulus, extended tax breaks on
home mortgages and lower car taxes. The LDP yesterday announced
tax policies -- a key part of the package to restore growth
without triggering a surge in government borrowing costs because
of the nation’s existing debt burden.  To raise revenue, the LDP proposed raising the top income
tax rate to 45 percent from 40 and the inheritance tax to 55
percent from 50 percent. It also called for encouraging the
transfer of generational wealth by offering reduced tax rates on
gifts to children and grandchildren.  ‘Symbolic Gesture’  “These measures won’t make a big difference to Japan’s
fiscal situation,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief economist at Japan
Macro Advisors and formerly of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
“Raising the top income tax rate is a symbolic gesture to show
the wealthy are paying their dues.”  The government should present its BOJ nominees in a package
to parliament by the end of next month to allow time for
negotiations, LDP upper house parliamentary affairs chief
Masashi Waki said in a Jan. 21 interview. Abe lacks a majority
in the chamber, so he needs support from the Democratic Party of
Japan that he defeated last month, or several smaller parties.  Horse trading has already begun. Abe met Yoshimi Watanabe,
leader of the Your Party, last weekend to discuss the central
bank posts. Watanabe in a Jan. 17 interview said he would not
back any candidate from the BOJ bureaucracy and that the next
governor should be an economics PhD with fluent English and
management skills. The LDP’s Waki said insistence on such
conditions could force the party to seek alternative backers.  “I don’t think someone who is familiar with the BOJ is
necessarily bad,” Waki said.  DPJ Willingness  The DPJ has indicated willingness to cooperate after its
election defeat last month. DPJ lawmaker Hirofumi Ryu said that
while his party wanted to see the nominations in advance, it
wouldn’t object to a suitable candidate from the bureaucracy.  “We shouldn’t make a fuss about an individual’s
background,” he said. “We need someone who understands the
real economy.”  That attitude and signs of economic recovery could help Abe
avoid damaging parliamentary battles and set the stage for a
successful LDP campaign to win back the upper house it lost in
2007.  “He has to deliver the feel-good factor by June,” said
Jeff Kingston, political science professor at Temple
University’s Tokyo campus. “If people get a sense that things
look to be turning around, I think voters will support the LDP
in the upper house election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  