-- Agrium Rises After Fourth-Quarter Profit Prediction
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-24T15:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/agrium-rises-after-fourth-quarter-profit-prediction.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , operator of the largest
U.S. network of agricultural retail outlets, rose the most in
more than seven months after reporting fourth-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Agrium, which sells seeds, fertilizers and herbicides to
farmers, advanced 3.2 percent to C$114.35 at 10:24 a.m. in
Toronto. Earlier the shares climbed as much as 4.1 percent, the
most intraday since June 12.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding one-time items will be
“slightly above” $2 a share, buoyed by demand for crop
nutrients, Calgary-based Agrium said today in a statement.
Agrium was expected to earn $1.71 a share, the average of 22
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. In November the
company, which also produces potash and nitrogen-based
fertilizer, forecast $1.50 to $1.90 a share.  “The increase in our estimated financial results is due to
a very strong finish to the fall application season in our North
American Retail operations, supported by an extended fall season
in the U.S. and continued strength in grain and oilseed
prices,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilson said in the
statement.  Last summer’s drought in parts of the U.S. raised concerns
that farmers would reduce fertilizer purchases and instead rely
on residual amounts of crop nutrients left over in the ground by
scorched crops, said John Chu, a Toronto-based analyst at
AltaCorp Capital Inc.  “The market likes this news,” Chu said today by
telephone. “It implies it was business as usual for the fall
fertilizer application season in  North America  and that
potentially implies a normal spring season.”  The company plans to release its full fourth-quarter
results on Feb. 22, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  