-- Airbus Stresses Difference Between A350 and 787 After Grounding
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-01-24T15:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/airbus-stresses-difference-between-a350-and-787-after-grounding.html
Airbus SAS said its A350 due for
first flight this year differs from the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 even if
the two wide-body aircraft compete, as the European manufacturer
urges regulators to refrain from blanket restrictions.  While both aircraft rely on lithium ion batteries that are
at the heart of a probe into the 787, the A350’s electrical
architecture differs from Boeing’s jet, Airbus Chief Executive
Officer Fabrice Bregier said today. Regulators are probing
electrical faults on two 787s that caused a 787 to make an
emergency landing before the global fleet was grounded.  “We are expecting from the FAA that the way each one of us
has managed the electrical system is taken into account,” Jean Botti, chief technical officer for Airbus-parent  European
Aerospace, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  said in an interview. “We will
carefully study recommendations that come out of the 787
investigation and evaluate whether they apply to our products.”  Airbus is entering the final months before the first flight
of an aircraft the company is positioning against the 787 and
later with a larger variant against Boeing’s popular 777. While
Airbus has had its own share of technical setbacks on previous
programs, Bregier said Airbus may benefit from Boeing’s woes as
airlines may consider the A330 wide-body as an alternative.  Airbus plans to deliver the first A350 to  Qatar Airways 
before 2015. Bregier said in an interview in Davos that
certifying any new aircraft is “very difficult” because of
“more and more stringent” rules applied by the authorities.  Possible Impact  “If there is any kind of change in how the agencies view
lithium-ion batteries, that could easily impact the A350,” said
 Richard Aboulafia , vice president of the Teal Group, a Fairfax,
Virginia-based forecaster. “If we’re looking at a broader
electrical system issue, or a battery installation issue, or
even just a bad battery batch, Airbus shouldn’t be affected.”  Development of the A350 has already suffered several
delays, leaving Airbus with effectively no margin for additional
setbacks. Any onerous design changes or testing requirements
could further disrupt plans.  Airbus, which gets its batteries from Saft Group SA, based
in Bagnolet,  France  rather than Boeing’s vendor  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) 
of  Tokyo , has designed the A350 to use two batteries in a
section where the Dreamliner has one, reducing by half the power
demand on each,  Tom Williams , Airbus executive vice president
for programs said last week.  Monitoring Batteries  It monitors the health of its batteries by tracking their
power draw and temperature and has provided a system to quickly
vent any gases outside the aircraft to reduce the risk of the
fuel cell rupturing, he said.  Investigators for the 787 have held discussions with GS
Yuasa, maker of the suspect batteries, Meggitt’s Securaplane
Technologies Inc., based in  Arizona ,  Eaton Corp. (ETN) ,  Thales SA (HO)  and
others as they try to isolate the origin of the malfunction and
other glitches. The top two U.S. aviation regulators said
yesterday they don’t yet know what led to battery flaws.  The difficulty in extinguishing lithium-ion batteries once
they have caught fire is driving a search for alternatives.
Three cargo jets have been destroyed in fires since 2006 in
which  lithium batteries  were present as cargo, according to the
U.S. National Transportation Safety Board.  “There are technologies that we are contemplating that
take us to the next level in providing power in a much safer
way,” Botti said. Some technologies, which include the use of
new materials, could mature relatively quickly, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  