-- Airport Rally Seen Extending to Longest in 20 Years: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-01-24T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/airport-rally-seen-extending-to-longest-in-20-years-muni-credit.html
U.S. airport debt is on pace to beat
the $3.7 trillion municipal market for the longest stretch in at
least two decades as carriers’ finances improve and a growing
economy spurs Americans to travel.  Airport bonds earned 8.6 percent in 2012, compared with the
broader market’s 7.3 percent gain, data from Bank of America
Merrill Lynch show. In 2011 the securities earned 14 percent to
the market’s 11 percent. A third year of outsized gains would be
unprecedented, according to the data, which began in 1993.  In a sign of investor confidence in the industry, the
 Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index (BUSAIRL)  rose to a two-year high Jan. 22 as
the segment’s fourth-quarter earnings season started.  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC) , which is pushing for a merger with bankrupt American
Airlines, yesterday reported profit higher than analysts
estimated.  “Airlines have seen competition diminish, and they
continue to have stronger balance sheets to pay revenues that
the airports are highly dependent upon,” said John Loffredo,
co-head of Princeton, New Jersey-based MacKay Municipal
Managers, which oversees $7 billion of local debt.  2013 Prediction  Loffredo predicts the segment will beat the market again in
2013. He said he’s adding airport securities to his funds,
including the flagship  Mainstay Tax Free Bond Fund (MTBIX) , which beat
87 percent of its peers over the past three years, Bloomberg
data show. Dallas-Fort Worth International -- hometown hub for
American Airlines -- and  Chicago  O’Hare International -- hub for
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  -- were among its 25 largest
 holdings  through Nov. 30.  The 18-month recession that started in December 2007 helped
reduce enplanements by 65 million in the two years through 2009,
 data  from the Federal Aviation Administration show. An
enplanement is a revenue-generating passenger departing from or
arriving at an airport. With the economy’s recovery, passengers
have since risen by 28 million.  Airports in travel destinations such as Chicago, Las Vegas,
New York and  Orlando  stand to gain the most as households’
improved net worth drives tourism, Chris Mier, chief muni
strategist at Loop Capital Markets in Chicago, wrote in a report
this month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  reached a five-year
high this week.  Bigger Better  “Many airports are obviously cyclical -- the economy does
better, business travel goes up,” said Ebby Gerry, head of muni
investments in New York at UBS Global Asset Management, which
oversees about $15 billion in local debt. “The bigger the
airport, the better, because the larger airports are really an
essential service.”  Gerry counts Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International and
O’Hare among his largest such holdings. The facilities rank
first and second, respectively, in enplanements, FAA  data  show.  Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall
Airport, which ranked 22nd in enplanements, is among facilities
benefitting from demand for its bonds.  The Maryland Transportation Authority sold about $135
million in securities for the airport Nov. 29, with the portion
maturing in 2022 priced to yield 2.26 percent, or 0.83
percentage point more than AAA munis, Bloomberg data show.  January Performance  That gap was about 20 percent narrower than when the agency
sold 10-year bonds in April for the airport. The debt is rated
A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, sixth-highest.  Airport debt has returned 1.08 percent this month through
Jan. 22, compared with 1.07 percent for the broader market,
according to Bank of America data.  United and Delta, the world’s two largest carriers, filled
82.6 and 83.7 percent of seats last year, respectively,
according to data from the companies. Those are near-record
highs as carriers abstain from adding more capacity, which also
gives them more power to raise fares.  Airport bonds “trade on the perception of the stability of
those revenue streams coming to the airport” from airlines,
Loffredo said. “The perception of the airlines is getting
better, with traffic improving and the economy continuing to get
better.”  In trading yesterday, yields on benchmark munis maturing in
30 years fell from the highest since November, by 0.02
percentage point to 2.83 percent, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE & DAVIDSON COUNTY in
 Tennessee  plans to sell $325 million of general-obligation bonds
as soon as next week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The debt will be used for refunding, according to Moody’s.
(Added Jan. 24)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  