-- Allowing Women in Combat Serves Women, Men and Military
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-24T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/allowing-women-in-combat-serves-women-men-and-military.html
The U.S. Defense Department’s
decision this week to  drop the ban  on women serving in direct
combat positions is being received as a victory for  women’s
rights . It’s also a triumph for men, who shouldn’t have to
shoulder the most dangerous tasks alone. And, not least, it’s a
breakthrough for the military, which will be made only stronger
by this reform.  The U.S. has been easing the rules against women in combat
for 20 years. Yet a prohibition remained against women in
frontline ground combat units, especially in the infantry and
artillery. In modern warfare against irregular forces, however,
the front is often impossible to define. The more than 150
uniformed women who have died in Afghanistan and  Iraq  testify to
that.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ’s decision should now open
up the 7.3 percent of positions in the military previously
closed to women.  This is only fair. Female soldiers and Marines should have
the same opportunities for advancement as their male peers, and
combat experience is a  big plus  for promotion. More important,
women can’t achieve equal standing in American society unless,
as a class, they are prepared to take up all the duties of
citizenship, including the most onerous -- risking one’s life
for one’s country.  Commanders will have until January 2016 to make a case to
the defense secretary for exclusions, but we urge the military
not to exploit this loophole.  Most of the arguments made against having women fight
alongside men -- notably that their presence would disrupt the
male bonding necessary for unit solidarity -- belong to a bygone
era. The same point was made to keep black and gay soldiers out
of the military.  Several studies  have shown that diversity in
the armed forces, including gender diversity, has led to
improved leadership and group cohesion. And the entrance of
significant numbers of women into the military in recent decades
has helped sustain a healthy all-volunteer force, which
commanders much prefer to coping with reluctant conscripts.  The more challenging argument is that women aren’t
physically equipped for the rigors of certain combat roles: the
heavy gear, long marches, fast runs. It’s a biological fact that
women, as a class, are smaller and less muscular than men.  It’s also true that smaller and less muscular men are
smaller and less muscular than bigger, buffer men. And the
Defense Department doesn’t bar small men, as a class, from any
jobs in the military. Surely the issue ought to be whether an
individual woman qualifies for a given job, not whether her
entire sex could perform it as well as men do.  Finally, as women celebrate this victory for equal rights,
they should remember that with rights come responsibilities.
Whether the Defense Department preserves some exclusions may
have repercussions for a potential draft. The  Supreme Court   in
1981  upheld Congress’s decision to exempt women from registering
for the  Selective Service  only because they are excluded from
combat. Thus, removing all gender-based combat exemptions ought
to mean women ages 18 to 25 will have to register.  The odds are slim that the U.S. will resort to a draft. But
signing up to serve just in case is a civic obligation for
anyone who is able.  As the 20,000 American women now deployed demonstrate, that
includes both sexes.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 