-- Apple China Revenue Jumps 67% as Sales Outlets Double
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T04:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/apple-china-revenue-jumps-67-as-sales-outlets-double.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  more than doubled its
iPhone sales points in China, which helped boost revenue 67
percent in the world’s largest market for handsets.  Outlets in China selling the iPhone rose to 17,000 in the
period that ended Dec. 29, from 7,000 a year earlier, Apple
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said on a conference call
yesterday. That helped Apple boost sales in the Greater China
region to $6.83 billion, from $4.08 billion a year earlier, the
company said in statement yesterday that marked the first time
it formally broke out China data in its earnings release.  Cook needs a strong performance in China after Apple last
quarter posted its slowest  profit  growth since 2003 and weakest
sales gain in 14 quarters amid rising costs and accelerating
competition with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Apple expanded its own
China retail stores to 11 from six over the past year, while the
number of premium resellers doubled to more than 400 shops, said
Cook, who visited China this month.  “They are investing in distribution as a way to grow the
market,” said Sandy Shen, a Gartner Inc. analyst in Shanghai.
“They have well penetrated the tier-one and tier-two cities, so
now they are looking to expand to the lower tier cities by
partnering with distributors and retailers.”  Greater China iPhone sales more than doubled last quarter,
Cook said. The  region  is the fastest growing for Apple at a rate
that was more than double any other area, and the third largest
market for Apple after the Americas and Europe.  The region, which includes  Hong Kong  and Taiwan with the
rest of China, accounted for 13 percent of total sales compared
with 8.8 percent a year earlier.  ‘Great Progress’  “This isn’t nearly what we need, and it’s not the final by
any means,” Cook said of the company’s China retail expansion
on the call. “We’re not even close to that. I feel that we’re
making great progress.”  Apple slipped to sixth place in China’s smartphone market
in the third quarter of 2012, from fourth, as it struggled to
lure consumers earning an average of $577 a month.  Samsung leads the China smartphone market in share, and
four domestic suppliers also now outsell the iPhone in the
nation, according to market researcher IDC.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , based in Beijing, took second place in
China’s smartphone market during the third quarter, followed by
three companies located in Shenzhen: China Wireless Technologies
Ltd.,  ZTE Corp. (763)  and Huawei Technologies Co. All four offer
devices at a fraction of the iPhone’s cost, including the
Coolpad 8060 by China Wireless that retails for 619  yuan , or
just under $100.  ‘Significant Contribution’  Apple, which posted total  sales  of $54.5 billion in the
quarter, had previously included China as part of its Asia
Pacific region in earnings statements.  “We have established a new operating segment of Greater
China given the very significant contribution of that region to
our overall business,”  Peter Oppenheimer , Apple’s chief
financial officer, said on the conference call yesterday.  Many of the iPhone sales outlets in China are through the
nation’s second- and third-biggest operators:  China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd. (762)  and  China Telecom Corp. (728)  Apple has yet to adapt the
handset for the 3G network of the nation’s largest carrier,
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  