-- Apple, Urban Outfitters, Foschini: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/apple-urban-outfitters-foschini-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  founder Steve Jobs
suggested the computer maker collude with Palm Inc. to prevent
the companies from hiring employees away from each other,
according to a court filing in an antitrust lawsuit.  In 2007 Jobs called Edward T. Colligan, who was then Palm’s
chief executive officer, to propose the arrangement and during
that call suggested that if Palm didn’t agree, Apple might file
patent-infringement claims against it, according to the filing
Jan. 22 in federal court in San Jose,  California .  The declaration by Colligan was filed in a lawsuit claiming
the iPhone maker and other technology companies violated
antitrust laws by entering into agreements to not recruit each
other’s employees. The other defendants in the case include
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
Pixar animation unit,  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and Lucasfilm Ltd.  Colligan rejected Jobs’s proposal in an Aug. 24, 2007 e-
mail saying his idea is “not only wrong, it is likely
illegal,” and the threat of patent litigation is “just out of
line,” according to the filing.  Jobs, who died in October 2011, responded by saying
Colligan’s response wasn’t “satisfactory” to Apple because
Palm was actively recruiting Apple employees.  “My advice is to take a look at our patent portfolio
before you make a final decision here,” Jobs wrote in an e-
mail, a copy of which was attached to the Jan. 22 filing.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail after
regular business hours Jan. 22 seeking comment on the filing.  Last week,  Tim Cook , Apple Inc.’s chief executive officer,
was ordered to give a deposition in the private lawsuit brought
on behalf of employees. The case mirrors claims the companies
settled with the U.S. Justice Department in 2010 following a
probe, arguing the companies agreed to refrain from placing
“cold calls” to lure workers from competitors.  In the 2010 settlement, the Justice Department said the
companies kept do-not-call lists to avoid competitive
recruiting, and that such agreements restrained competition,
which hurt employees.  Palm was acquired by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2010. Michael
Thacker, a spokesman for that company, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday after regular business hours
seeking comment on the filing.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-2509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose). The previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-1629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Urban Outfitters Loses Bid to Transfer ‘Navajo’ Trademark Case  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the lifestyle specialty retailer
based in Philadelphia, lost its attempt to move a trademark
infringement case from  Albuquerque , New Mexico, to Philadelphia.  The company was sued in March 2012 by the  Navajo Nation ,
which is the  largest Native American tribe  in the U.S.  The suit is related to the retailer’s use of “Navajo”
with products it has sold.  The Navajo Nation sent Urban Outfitters a cease-and-desist
letter objecting to the use of the word “Navajo” on underwear
and the sale of a flask wrapped in what was described as
“Navajo Print Fabric.” The nation complained that the use of
the word on underwear offended the tribe’s spiritual beliefs
about modesty, and calling a flask “Navajo” was insensitive,
given the ban on the sale and consumption of alcohol on the
reservation.  Other items to which the Navajo Nation objected included an
“Unknown Techno Navajo Quilt Oversized Crop Tee” and a “Truly
Madly Deeply Navajo Print Tunic,” according to court papers.  In a Sept 2012 court filing, Urban Outfitters argues that
the New Mexico court is inconvenient for everyone, including the
Navajo Nation, which is headquartered in Window Rock,  Arizona ,
according to the tribe’s  website .  Urban Outfitters argued in its court papers that the
federal court in Philadelphia was “particularly well-versed in
intellectual property matters,” and that the case would be
disposed of more expeditiously in  Pennsylvania .  In a Jan. 16 order, U.S. District Judge C. LeRoy Hansen
said that after considering Urban Outfitters’ arguments, “the
balance of factors weighs against transfer.” Transferring the
case would only shift the inconvenience from the Urban
Outfitters to the Navajo Nation, he said.  He took exception to Urban Outfitters’ argument that the
Philadelphia court had a higher level of competence with respect
to IP issues, saying “all federal courts are presumed to be
equally competent” in federal question cases.  He also noted that Urban Outfitters, with sales of $2.5
billion in the 2012 fiscal year, had the ability to bear the
travel costs of litigation.  The case is Navajo Nation v. Urban Outfitters Inc., 1:12-
cv-00195-LH-WDS, U.S. District Court, District of New Mexico
(Albuquerque).  Foschini Challenge to ‘Due-South’ Trademark Rejected by Court  The Foschini Group Ltd. (TFG)  has lost a trademark challenge it
made to a shop in Franschhoek, South Africa, that specializes in
regional craft items and travel guides, that country’s Business
Day website  reported.   The Cape Town-based company had objected to the souvenir
shop’s use of “ Due-South ” as a trademark, saying it infringed
on the mark it used with its Due South outdoor equipment stores,
according to Business Day.  The Gauteng High Court rejected Foschini’s argument that
customers would be confused by the name similarity, saying
instead that the two entities operated different kinds of
businesses, Business Day reported.  Judge Andre Louw of the court noted that Foschini hadn’t
registered its mark in any of the classes of goods and services
covered by the trademark applications submitted by the arts and
crafts shop, according to Business Day.  Chinese Writer’s Descendants Say Tea Brand Name Insults Him  Descendants of a famous Qing Dynasty writer and government
official have been staging a sit-in at a tea shop in China’s
Fujian Province to protest the use of their ancestor’s name as a
trademark for tea and other goods, China Daily  reported .  Wang Qing acquired the rights to the Li Guangdi trademark
for use with tea in 2006 despite the fact that this was the
personal name of the  seventeenth century philosophical writer ,
according to China Daily.  He told China Daily that others have also used the names of
historic Chinese personages and registered them as trademarks
even if they weren’t descendants of the famous persons.  The writer’s descendants are arguing that he had nothing to
do with tea and that putting his name and likeness on tea
packets that are discarded after use is an insult to their
ancestor, China Daily reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sony Non-Infringement Verdict Affirmed by Federal Appeals Court  A federal appeals court has rejected claims that  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Pictures Television unit infringed the copyright of
a  Boston  photographer.  The case stems from a  photo  Donald A. Harney shot of Clark
Rockefeller and his daughter Reigh. Rockefeller, who was born
 Christian Karl Gerhartsreiter , was convicted of kidnapping his
daughter, and, according to court papers, Harney’s photo was
used by police and the FBI in their search for Rockefeller.  Harney  claimed Sony’s made-for-television movie “Who Is
Clark Rockefeller” used his photo to create the image of the
actors. The image Sony created for the movie “was clearly made
to look like Harney’s photograph,” according to the complaint
filed in 2010 in federal court in Boston. The film was
distributed on A&E Television and is also available on the
website of one of its units, www.mylifetime.com, according to
court papers.  The image was used without authorization or compensation,
Harney said in his complaint. The “use, distribution and
publication” of the film constitutes copyright infringement, he
said in his pleadings.  The trial court sided with Sony, which had argued there was
no way a reasonable jury could find “substantial similarity”
between Harney’s photo and its re-creation in the film.  While the Boston-based appeals court agreed with the trial
court, it said it could “understand the frustration of
photographers such as Harney whose works are afforded a limited
copyright because they are comprised substantially of
unprotected content.”  But such is the “essence of copyright,” the appeals court
said, noting that the primary objective of copyright law isn’t
to reward the labor of those who create content, “but to
promote the progress of science and the useful arts.”  The lower court case is Harney v. Sony Pictures Television
Inc., 1:10-cv-11181-RWZ, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston). The appeal is Harney v. Sony Pictures
Television, 11-1760, U.S. Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Fellowes’s Complaint Triggers Trade Investigation  A complaint by Fellowes Inc., a maker of office equipment,
has trigged an investigation by the U.S. International Trade
Commission of paper shredders made by nine Chinese companies,
according to a Jan. 22  statement  from the commission.  Fellowes, based in Itasca,  Illinois , has alleged that the
companies infringe its patents and that some of its trade
secrets have been misappropriated.  The Washington-based trade commission has the power to bar
the importation of products that infringe U.S. intellectual
property.  One of the nine companies named by the trade commission is
also the target of a patent-infringement suit Fellowes filed in
federal court in  Chicago  Dec. 26. In that suit,  New United
Office Equipments Co.  of Yaoguan, Jiangshu Province, is accused
of infringing two design patents, D583,859 and D598,048.  That suit also alleges that New United hired engineers from
a third company affiliated with Fellowes, and acquired trade
secrets related to the “design, manufacture and testing” of
its paper shredders.  Fellowes claimed that trade secrets were also acquired
illicitly by New United’s obtaining control of a manufacturing
facility that contained “confidential tooling, molds, equipment
and documents” that embodied and contained the Illinois
company’s trade secrets.  New United Office Equipments didn’t respond immediately to
an e-mailed request for comment.  Fellowes asked the court to bar further infringement of its
patents and unauthorized use of its trade secrets, and for
awards of money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is Fellowes Inc., v. New United Office Equipment
Co. Ltd, 1:12-cv-10273, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 