-- Larsen Third-Quarter Net Income Beats Analyst Estimates
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-24T11:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/larsen-third-quarter-net-income-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,  India ’s
biggest builder of power networks and airports, reported profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as it tightened project execution
costs and won new orders. The shares rose.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 13 percent to 11.2 billion
rupees ($208 million), the Mumbai-based company said in a
statement today. That exceeded the 11 billion-rupee median of 33
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Krishnamurthi Venkataramanan is
counting on more orders from utilities and the oil and gas
industry as the government seeks to accelerate major projects.
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Jan. 22 a new
cabinet panel on investment will meet this month as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  seeks to speed up approval of road, rail
and other infrastructure.  “The government’s renewed focus on infrastructure
upgradation will help builders like Larsen,” Jinal Joshi, a
Mumbai-based analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd. who
recommends buying the stock, said before the results were
announced. “It’s no secret we are a power-starved country and
Larsen stands to benefit as and when these orders revive because
they have the execution skills.”  Larsen shares gained 1.5 percent to 1,585 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. The benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index fell
0.5 percent.  Sales Growth  Sales rose 10 percent to 154.3 billion rupees in the three
months ended Dec. 31, the company said in the statement. That
lagged behind the 161 billion-rupee median of 34  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Larsen won contracts worth 195
billion rupees in the quarter, taking the total order book to
1.62 trillion rupees.  Infrastructure, energy and industrial segments are
witnessing a prolonged trough in  capital spending , Chief
Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman told reporters in Mumbai.
Recent policy measures to boost economic expansion are expected
to revive investments in various industries, the company said in
the statement.  “If you take a long-term horizon of over six to seven
months, with all the steps the government is taking, the
infrastructure, mining and coal sectors are going to come back
into action to feed the power sector,” Venkataramanan said
today. “Meanwhile, various aspects of operational excellence
and tightening of manufacturing costs is going to help us.”  Raw material costs in the quarter fell 17 percent to 28.2
billion rupees, Larsen said. Administrative and other expenses
dropped 35 percent to 4.7 billion rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  