-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Rise Versus Yen After China PMI
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-01-24T05:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/australian-dollar-weakens-for-second-day-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
The Australian and New Zealand
currencies rose versus the yen after a survey of companies
showed Chinese manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in two
years, brightening the outlook for commodity exports.  The South Pacific dollars advanced against their Japanese
counterpart after the announcement by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics for the preliminary reading of a Purchasing
Managers’ Index for China beat analysts’ forecasts. The so-
called Aussie weakened versus New Zealand’s dollar as signs of
limited inflation in the larger economy caused traders to add to
bets on the size of interest-rate cuts this year.  “We have seen a bounce back in the Australian and New
Zealand dollars due to the Chinese PMI data,” said  Tim Waterer ,
a senior foreign-exchange dealer at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The
fact that we’ve seen another improvement in Chinese activity
lends itself to support a currency like the Aussie, which is
hypersensitive to all things Chinese.”  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to 93.94 yen as of 4:52
p.m. in Sydney. It fell 0.4 percent to $1.0517 and slid 0.4
percent to NZ$1.2473. New Zealand’s currency gained 0.9 percent
to 75.32 yen and added 0.1 percent to 84.31 U.S. cents.  The preliminary reading of the PMI Index was 51.9 in
January, according to a statement from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today. That compares with the 51.5 final
reading for December and the 51.7 median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China  is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  Inflation Contained  Australia’s dollar fell for a third day against the so-
called kiwi after figures yesterday for consumer prices were
lower than economists projected, increasing prospects for a
central-bank rate reduction on Feb. 5.  Swaps traders are betting the Reserve Bank of Australia
will lower its benchmark rate by 53 basis points over a year, up
from 49 basis points yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG index. There is a 52 percent chance the RBA will lower
borrowing costs next month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s a bit of chatter about next month or the month
after that for the RBA, so that may have hurt the Aussie a
little bit,” said Michael Turner, a fixed-income strategist in
Sydney at Royal Bank of  Canada .  Yields on Australia’s three-year bonds fell as low as 2.68
percent, the lowest least since Dec. 31.  Aussie ‘Overvalued’  The Aussie is “overvalued and we think it’s been driven up
for the wrong reasons,” said Euan Munro, the Edinburgh-based
head of multi-asset investing and fixed income at Standard Life
Investments, which manages more than $250 billion. Chinese
spending will be “less resource intensive” going forward,
denting demand for Australian commodities, he said during an
event in Sydney via videoconference.  Munro said he is betting that Australia’s dollar will fall
versus the Mexican peso as the North American nation benefits
from an increase in Chinese labor costs.  The Australian dollar declined 0.5 percent to 13.33 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  