-- Austrian Bonus, Class Actions,‘Obscene’ Carry: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-24T13:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/austrian-bonuses-class-actions-obscene-carry-compliance.html
Austria , whose banks’ combined bonus
pool is a sixth the size of the figure for  Germany ’s  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , is putting restrictions on bonuses exceeding 30,000
euros ($40,000) from this year.  Bonuses paid to “risk buyers” such as traders or loan
officers that are above this level or equivalent to more than a
quarter of the annual fixed salary must be deferred over a five-
year period, the co-head of the  Finanzmarktaufsicht  regulator,
Helmut Ettl, told journalists in Vienna yesterday. If the bank’s
economic situation worsens during the five-year period, payments
have to be skipped, Ettl said. The  rules  apply for the first
time for bonuses paid this year for fiscal 2012.  Austrian banks, focusing on retail banking at home and in
eastern Europe, have already used modest average compensation
structures. Only 14 employees working for the country’s banks at
home and abroad were paid more than 1 million euros in total
compensation in 2011, according to an FMA survey of 26 lenders
Ettl presented. The banks surveyed had 2,282 employees.  Overall, banks paid 590 million euros in bonuses in 2011.
Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , said it paid 3.6 billion
euros.  The FMA is largely implementing European Union regulations,
while defining the national threshold, Ettl said.     Under the
new rules, just 60 percent of bonuses can be paid out
immediately, with the remaining 40 percent being phased over
five years. For bonuses exceeding 150,000 euros, or 100 percent
of fixed salaries, only 40 percent can be paid at once.  Special Section: Davos  Cameron Pledges Clampdown on Aggressive Tax Avoidance  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron set out his agenda for
the Group of Eight summit in June, including tackling extremism,
tax avoidance and hunger. He also commented on his vision of a
more competitive European Union.  He spoke at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland. WEF founder Klaus Schwab also spoke.  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Monti, Kenny, Rutte Speak in Davos on Euro-Zone Outlook  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, Irish Prime Minister
Enda Kenny, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and Denmark Prime
Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt spoke about the outlook for
euro-zone economies, banking supervision and unemployment.  They spoke at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland. The Financial Times’ Lionel Barber
moderated.  For the video, click here.  Kotak Mahindra Urges Caution on New India Bank Licenses  Uday Kotak, chairman of  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) , talked
about the Indian banking industry, stocks and economic growth.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua and Matthew G. Miller on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” on the sidelines of the
World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland.  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Noonan Says Ireland Set to Exit Bailout by End of 2013  Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan discussed Ireland’s
plans to exit its international bailout and return to bond
markets.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  CoCos Allowed for Danish Banks If Are Triggers Strict  Denmark’s financial watchdog will let banks issue new
hybrid debt instruments to meet tougher capital demands only if
the securities convert into equity early enough to avoid eating
into regulatory buffers.  Danish banks can use contingent convertible bonds as long
as they convert before capital levels breach core Tier 1 equity
thresholds or in the event individual solvency requirements
aren’t met, said Anders Balling, head of the Financial
Supervisory Authority’s banking analysis division in Copenhagen.  The regulator is trying to take a tougher line on  banks  to
avoid another credit-driven property bubble without squashing
Denmark’s economic recovery. Bond investors have demanded a
premium from  Danish banks  since the Nordic country in 2011
became the first in  Europe  to enforce a resolution framework
that pushed losses onto senior creditors.  Denmark is exploring the option of allowing more exotic
funding vehicles to help banks build their capital buffers as
the government commits to its goal of protecting taxpayers from
bailouts.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  IRS Suspends Regulation of Tax-Return Preparers  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service suspended its regulation
of tax-return preparers after a federal court ruling said the
agency lacked authority, removing a tax-compliance tool that was
years in the making and raising concerns from the national
taxpayer advocate.  With the tax-filing season starting Jan. 30, hundreds of
thousands of return preparers won’t have to register with the
federal government, pass a competency test or meet continuing-
education requirements. U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in
 Washington  invalidated the regulations in a decision Jan. 18 and
enjoined the IRS from enforcing them. Boasberg, picked for his
post by President  Barack Obama , wrote that the IRS overstepped
its authority by relying on an 1884 law that allowed it to
regulate people presenting cases before the Treasury Department.  The IRS responded yesterday by suspending the program. The
15-hour annual continuing-education requirement started in 2012
and the testing requirement was taking effect this year. The
agency said it is considering the court’s decision and will
“take further action shortly.”  The rules were designed to impose standards on hundreds of
thousands of return preparers who aren’t certified public
accountants, attorneys or enrolled agents already licensed to
practice before the IRS. The idea, promoted by former
Commissioner  Douglas Shulman , was to require minimum
qualifications and help the agency combat tax fraud.  For more, click here.  Sovereign Debt, Structured Finance Ratings to Face EU Review  The European Union’s top markets regulator said it would
review how credit-ratings companies evaluate sovereign debt and
structured products, following concerns market volatility
increased in the past year.  EU lawmakers voted in favor of rules last week that would
place curbs on how credit-rating firms update markets about the
quality of government debt and give investors the right to sue
if they lose money because of poor quality or deliberately
distorted credit assessments.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Jan. 22 barred
Egan-Jones Ratings Co. from grading government debt and asset-
backed securities for 18 months after settling claims the
company misled the regulator over how long it had been rating
the two asset classes.  The plans approved by EU lawmakers on curbing how credit-
ratings companies update markets about the quality of government
debt are intended to make such updates less likely to roil
markets and to give investors recourse when ratings are off the
mark. European Parliament legislators backed the plans. Final
sign-off by the EU’s 27 governments is needed before the deal
can take effect.  ICAP Says FSA Investigating Firm as Part of Global Libor Probe  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, is being investigated by the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority as part of its probe into Libor rigging.  “One of ICAP’s interdealer broker subsidiaries has been
notified that it is the subject of an FSA investigation,” the
London-based firm said in a statement today.  The regulator is examining whether the company helped
manipulate the London interbank offered rates for the Japanese
yen and possibly U.S. dollar, the Financial Times newspaper
reported earlier, citing a March 2012 FSA memo. The FSA has
assigned seven of the 50 people working on its investigation to
focus on ICAP’s activities, the newspaper said.  ICAP is already being probed by  Canada ’s Competition Bureau
for allegedly facilitating the manipulation of yen Libor by
panel banks, according to papers filed with the Ontario Superior
Court in May.  U.S. Bank Deposits Drop Most Since 9/11 as FDIC Support Ebbs  Clients of the largest U.S. banks withdrew funds this month
at the fastest weekly pace since the Sept. 11 attacks as a
deposit-insurance program ended and customers tapped into their
year-end cash hoards.  Customers may be moving money no longer insured by the
U.S., drawing down year-end balances and investing in advancing
equity markets. A Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. backstop, the
Transaction Account Guarantee program, or TAG, ended last month,
prompting some analysts, investors and trade organizations to
predict it could drive funds from the banking system.  The transaction-account protections were introduced in the
wake of the 2008 credit crisis and had guaranteed about $1.5
trillion in non-interest-bearing accounts above the FDIC’s
general limit of $250,000. The program expired Dec. 31.  Deposits closed the year at about $5.4 trillion, the
highest month-end total in 2012 and more than $500 billion
higher than at the end of 2011, according to Fed data.  Industry groups such as the American Bankers Association
and Independent Community Bankers of America had sought an
extension for TAG to keep accounts from being moved.  Courts  London Whale Case Among Dwindling Securities Class Actions  The number of securities fraud class-action cases filed
last year fell 19 percent as litigation over mergers and
acquisitions and the credit crisis decreased, according to a
report.  The 152 cases filed in 2012 fell from 188 in 2011 and
represented the second-lowest level in 16 years, according to
the report by Stanford Law School and  Cornerstone Research , a
consulting firm.  Last year marked an end to securities fraud class-actions
related to the credit crisis as no new cases were filed compared
to three in 2011, according to the report. Credit crisis cases
peaked in 2008 at 100.  Federal cases related to mergers and acquisitions dropped
to 13 in 2012 compared with 40 in 2010 and 43 in 2011, according
to the report. Those cases are now being pursued almost
exclusively in state courts.  Although there were no class-action credit-crisis cases,
according to the report, Wall Street banks are still contending
with lawsuits and claims over mortgage securities sold during
the housing boom.  Class-action securities filings against financial companies
fell, according to the report. They were defendants in 15
filings, or 10 percent of all filings, compared with 25 filings
in 2011 and 43 in 2010.  Stanford Investors Must Repay Bogus CD Profits, Judge Says  R. Allen Stanford’s defrauded investors must repay any
interest they earned on the bogus certificates of deposit at the
heart of the convicted  Texas  financier’s $7 billion Ponzi
scheme, a  Dallas  judge ruled.  About 800 investors had urged U.S. District Judge David
Godbey to reject lawsuits by Ralph Janvey, Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver, seeking recovery of more than $220 million
in profits they’d taken out of Stanford’s scheme before it was
shut down by U.S. securities regulators in February 2009.  Godbey ruled that while investors have legitimate claims to
recover the money they originally invested in a fraud scheme,
they have no contractual claim to any interest from those funds
because investment contracts with a Ponzi scheme are
unenforceable.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of stealing more than
$2 billion in investor deposits at his Antigua-based bank to
fund a lavish personal lifestyle and bankroll money-losing
private enterprises. He is serving a 110-year sentence in a
Florida federal prison while he appeals that verdict.  The case is Janvey v. Alguire et al, 3:09-cv-0724, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Peregrine’s Wasendorf Stole More Than $215 Million, U.S. Says  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the founder of now-bankrupt
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., stole more than $215 million
from the commodity firm’s customers, U.S. prosecutors said.  Wasendorf, then 64, pleaded guilty in September in federal
court in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa , to mail fraud and two counts of
lying to federal prosecutors. He faces as long as 50 years in
prison at his Jan. 31 sentencing.  Acting Iowa U.S. Attorney Sean Berry said in a sentencing
memorandum filed yesterday in federal court in Cedar Rapids that
while Wasendorf claims the loss is less than $200 million, the
“actual loss in this case can be determined with remarkable
precision.”  Wasendorf’s crimes came to light on July 9.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2021, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  ( Chicago ). The regulatory case is Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Interviews/Speeches  Rangel Sees U.S. Tax Overhaul, Blasts Carried Interest  U.S. Representative Charlie Rangel, a Democrat from New
York, talked about the outlook for an overhaul of the federal
tax code this year and the code provision on carried interest,
which he called “obscene.”  Carried interest is a type of
profit-sharing income earned by private-equity managers.  Rangel spoke with Bloomberg reporters and editors at
Bloomberg’s office in Washington.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  CFTC Whistle-Blower Chief Rejoins SEC Enforcement Unit  Vincente Martinez, who helped start the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission market intelligence office before stepping
down in 2011, is returning to lead the unit responsible for
evaluating tips, complaints and referrals.  Martinez will rejoin the SEC next month from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, where he was the first director of
the agency’s whistle-blower office. In his prior stint at the
SEC, he worked for eight years in the enforcement division and
became an assistant director of the market intelligence office
when it was created as part of a restructuring of the unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 