-- Australia’s Gillard to Establish Office to Combat Cyber Attacks
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-24T01:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/australia-s-gillard-to-establish-office-to-combat-cyber-attacks.html
Australia  will establish a security
center to combat cyber crime after government departments
received more than 400 attacks in the year to June 30, Prime
Minister Julia Gillard said today.  Cyber attacks cost the economy about A$1.65 billion ($1.74
billion) last year, with 5.4 million Australians targeted,
Gillard said in an e-mailed statement. The Australian Cyber
Security Centre will open in Canberra by late 2013, she said.  “Securing and protecting our networks, and ensuring
confidence in the online environment, is pivotal to Australia’s
economy,” Gillard said. “Cyberspace is increasingly a
strategic asset for Australia.”  Gillard made the announcement a day after a report
published by  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  said about one-third of
the world’s cyber-attack traffic was traced back to China. This
week she rolled out a defense strategy with more emphasis on
diplomatic relations in the Asia-Pacific region in a new era
where “some risks and challenges endure and others are evolving
rapidly.”  U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in October that
intelligence agencies in the U.S., a major ally of Australia,
were seeing an increase in cyber threats that could become as
devastating as the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks if they
weren’t stopped.  Gillard’s government last year banned bids from Huawei
Technologies Co., China’s largest maker of telecommunications
equipment, to help build Australia’s national broadband network.
That followed a move by the U.S. Commerce Department in October
2011 to bar Huawei from a contract, citing national security
concerns.  Huawei’s Stance  Huawei has repeatedly run into opposition from U.S.
lawmakers, who have cited concerns about security because of
alleged links to  China ’s military, which the company has denied.
The company’s Australian unit yesterday said industry must be
part of a solution to cyber threats.  “As one of the world’s largest information and
communications technology companies, Huawei is encouraged by the
government’s vision to bolster Australia’s cyber security
defenses,” Huawei Australia Chairman John Lord said in a
statement on its website. “Huawei stands ready and willing to
work with industry and government to make this vision a
reality.”  Australia and the U.S. pledged in September 2011 to jointly
thwart potential threats in cyberspace as they would other
military attacks under their 60-year-old military treaty.  Australia will hold joint military exercises and high-level
military exchanges with China, Gillard said yesterday. Such
exercises may include the U.S., Defense Force chief David Hurley
told the Australian newspaper in an interview published Dec. 27.  About 73 percent of Australians use the Internet more than
once a day, and its use is estimated to be worth A$50 billion to
the economy, Gillard said.  The new center will be responsible for analyzing the nature
and extent of cyber threats, work closely with infrastructure
sectors and industry partners, and give advice and support to
develop preventative strategies to counter cyber threats,
according to her statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  