-- Avolon Aircraft Lessor Waits for Economies to Grow Before Sale
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-01-24T16:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/avolon-aircraft-lessor-waits-for-economies-to-grow-before-sale.html
Avolon Leasing Group , the aircraft
lessor formed in 2010 with private equity from Oak Hill  Capital
Partners , Cinven Ltd. and CVC Capital Partners Ltd., plans to
wait two to three years for economies in  Europe  and the U.S. to
strengthen before any sale.  “People say to us, you guys must be next” after recent
acquisitions in the industry, John Higgins, Avolon’s chief
commercial officer, said in an interview in Dublin, where the
company is based. “It’s too early to bring the business for
sale just as a reaction to other trades,” he said. “When we
started three years ago we said we’re going to build the
business and that’s what we are executing on.”  Avolon, set up by Irish investor Domhnal Slattery in 2010,
will wait for economic expansion in the U.S., Europe and  South
America  to achieve the best price, because aircraft values and
use are directly tied to growth in gross domestic product, said
Higgins.  Avolon and U.S. bank  Wells Fargo & Co . announced last week
that they plan to establish a joint venture in leasing that will
initially invest $500 million to amass a fleet, primarily
through sale and leaseback transactions with airlines on new
aircraft. The venture is not intended as an initial step toward
Wells Fargo moving to acquire Avolon, Higgins said.  “They want to understand what are the equity returns
available in aircraft leasing, and the best way to do that is to
selectively invest in a portfolio of planes,” Higgins said.
“This is not a dance for us to be bought.”  Outstanding Orders  Avolon has raised $5.1 billion in capital including debt
finance and has a fleet of 167 aircraft, it said in a statement
Jan. 22. It delivered 40 planes last year valued at more than $2
billion, placing the company in the top-three lessors globally
for new deliveries in 2012, Avolon said.  Avolon has orders outstanding for 20 Airbus A320 Neo planes
and 20 Boeing 737 Max aircraft.  Avolon founder Slattery previously set up the Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s aircraft-leasing division, which was sold
for about $7.3 billion last year to a group led by Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  Also last year in the leasing industry, Oaktree Capital
Group LLC’s Jackson Square Aviation was sold to Mitsubishi UFJ
Lease & Finance Co. for 100 billion yen ($1.1 billion). Babcock
& Brown Aircraft Management sold a 50 percent stake in December
to  Onex Corp. (OCX) , and now International Lease Finance Corp. is set
to be sold to Chinese investors this year, Higgins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  