-- Baker McKenzie, Patton Boggs, Jones Day: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-24T18:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/baker-mckenzie-patton-boggs-jones-day-business-of-law.html
A founding member of the  Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board  and former general counsel of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Daniel Goelzer, is
rejoining Baker & McKenzie LLP as a partner in Washington.  Goelzer, who co-headed Baker & McKenzie’s North America
banking, finance and major projects practice during his 1990 to
2002 tenure at the firm, will take on a special role now working
across the corporate, securities and banking compliance
practices.  He’ll handle corporate governance and best practice
regulatory compliance matters, represent financial and
accounting firms in rule-making and enforcement actions, as well
as perform other roles, such as financial reporting and asset
management for clients.  John Conroy, former firm chairman and current head of
global strategic initiatives, said in an interview that
Goelzer’s strong regulatory experience will enable him to work
with the firm’s leading lawyers in several practice groups to
advise clients. “The biggest challenge will be how to manage
the competing demands for Dan. What’s the priority? That’s
something that we really can’t say right now but the nice thing
is that they are interrelated.”  Goelzer will work with the firm’s compliance and
enforcement head Paul McNulty, the former U.S. Deputy Attorney
General. The firm’s compliance practice has been expanding with
recent hires that include Kaoruko Suzuki in Tokyo, who worked as
a securities investigator at Japan’s Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission’s Disclosure Statements Inspection
Division. In 2010, Marc Litt, who was the lead prosecutor in the
investigation of  Bernard Madoff  and a former member of the
Southern District of New York’s Securities and Commodities Fraud
Task Force joined the firm.  Goelzer said in an interview that the experience he and
other ex-government offices have had at the SEC and the PCAOB
will be a benefit to his private clients because it allowed
people educated in investor protection to give clients the
government perspective. “We understand what the commission is
trying to accomplish and that’s a tremendous benefit to the
public,” he said.  From 1983 to 1990, Goelzer was general counsel of the SEC
where he advised the Commission on issues including rulemaking,
litigation and enforcement matters, the firm said. He joined
 Baker & McKenzie  after that, where he represented large
financial institutions. He was involved in creating the
Association of Global Custodians, a group of financial
institutions that advocates for and provides securities
safekeeping services and asset-servicing functions to
institutional cross-border investors worldwide, Conroy said.  Goelzer left Baker & McKenzie in 2002 to start at the newly
formed PCAOB. He stepped down in March, when  term limits 
required him to leave the regulatory organization. He was acting
chairman from August 2009 through January 2011. During his
tenure, he helped establish auditing standards for the U.S.
accounting industry following the implementation of The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the firm said.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers in 72 offices
in 45 countries.  Milbank Tweed Executive Compensation Lawyers Moves to Weil  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP hired Paul J. Wessel in New York
as a partner and leader of the executive compensation and
employee benefits practice group. Wessel joins the firm from
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, where he was head of that
firm’s executive compensation and employee benefits group, the
firm said.  “Having a high-quality, global, executive compensation and
employee benefits practice is critical to serving our clients,
and we are delighted that Paul will lead this very important
practice group at Weil,” executive partner Barry M. Wolf said
in a statement. “Paul brings an important mix of M&A, private
equity and bankruptcy experience, and a well-earned reputation
as a top transactions counseling lawyer that will further
enhance our global M&A and private equity transactions
capabilities.”  Wessel has 25 years of experience handling executive
compensation and employee benefits matters. He has experience
advising public companies and their boards of directors on
compensation matters and also counsels clients on the
compensation and benefits aspects of bankruptcy and
restructuring matters.  Weil has approximately 1,200 lawyers in 21 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Former Texas Railroad Commissioner Jones Joins Patton Boggs  Elizabeth Ames Jones, who resigned from the Texas Railroad
Commission last year to pursue a state Senate seat, joined
Patton Boggs LLP’s Public Policy and Energy and Natural
Resources practice groups in Washington.  Jones was appointed to the commission, which regulates oil
and gas drilling, pipeline permitting and other energy issues in
the state, in 2005 by Governor  Rick Perry . She was elected to a
six-year term as one of three members on the commission in 2006,
and resigned 11 months before her term expired to run for a
state Senate seat.  Jones will be splitting her time between the firm’s
Washington and Dallas offices.  Patton Boggs has about 550 attorneys in six offices in the
U.S. and three in the Middle East.  Mayer Brown Hires Tax Lawyer From Greenberg Traurig  Mayer Brown LLP announced that capital markets tax attorney
Mark H. Leeds has joined the firm in New York as a partner in
the tax transactions and consulting practice. Previously, he was
a shareholder in the New York office of Greenberg Traurig LLP.  Leeds focuses his practice on the tax consequences of
capital markets products and strategies, including over-the-
counter derivative transactions, swaps, tax-exempt derivatives
and strategies for efficient utilization of tax attributes, the
firm said.  Prior to his law firm experience, Leeds was a managing
director and senior tax counselor with Deutsche Bank AG in New
York, served as the general counsel of a credit derivative
company and was a partner at Deloitte & Touche, where he led the
capital markets tax practice.  Mayer Brown has about 1,500 lawyers at 20 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Private Equity Partner Sturman Joins Covington & Burling  William L. Sturman joined Covington & Burling LLP’s
corporate practice as a partner in the New York office. He was
previously a private equity partner Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP.  Sturman counsels private equity fund sponsors and investors
on a wide range of fund formation and regulatory issues. He has
extensive experience advising on seeding arrangements for early
generation funds and fund managers and investment professionals’
carried interest arrangements.  Covington & Burling LLP has more than 800 lawyers at 10
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Chadbourne Hires Latin American Banking and Finance Lawyer  Margarita Oliva Sainz de Aja, a banking and finance lawyer,
has joined Chadbourne & Parke LLP as an international partner in
the  Latin America  group. She will divide her time between the
New York, Mexico City and Sao Paulo offices. She was previously
senior counsel at Allen & Overy LLP.  Oliva specializes in advising lenders and borrowers on
corporate finance transactions, including structured financings
and other secured and unsecured U.S. and cross-border financings
and capital markets offerings. She also has experience in
project finance matters.  Chadbourne & Parke has lawyers at 12 U.S. and international
offices.  Firm News  David Wales Named Head of Jones Day’s Antitrust Practice  Jones Day  has announced that David P.  Wales  succeeds
Phillip A. Proger as head of the firm’s global antitrust and
competition law practice. Proger, who has overseen Jones Day’s
antitrust practice since 1994, will continue to represent
clients on antitrust matters as a partner in the Washington
office.  Wales, also based in Washington, spent three years at the
Federal Trade Commission, and from 2008 to 2009 served as Acting
Director of the Bureau of Competition, where he oversaw all of
the agency’s antitrust enforcement, supervising almost 300
lawyers and staff, the firm said. Major matters handled during
his tenure included Whole Foods’ acquisition of Wild Oats and
lawsuits against Cephalon and Solvay Pharmaceuticals for
exclusion payment agreements. From 2001-2003, Wales also served
as counsel to the Assistant Attorney General in the U.S.
Department of Justice’s Antitrust Division, where he was
involved in Microsoft case, the DirecTV/Echostar merger, and
Northrop Grumman’s acquisition of TRW.  The firm’s antitrust and competition law practice has grown
to include more than 150 lawyers in 25 cities in the U.S., Latin
America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 37 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia.  News  London Whale Case Among Dwindling Securities Class Actions  The number of  securities fraud  class-action cases filed
last year fell 19 percent as litigation over mergers and
acquisitions and the credit crisis decreased, according to a
report.  Major securities fraud cases in 2012 included litigation
against  Facebook Inc. (FB)  over its initial public offering, and
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over more than $6 billion in
trading losses at the bank.  The 152 cases filed in 2012 fell from 188 in 2011 and
represented the second-lowest level in 16 years, according to
the report by Stanford Law School and  Cornerstone Research , a
consulting firm.  “The question is if this is the beginning of a long-term
trend or a reflection that there haven’t been any market
disruptions in the past year,”  Mark Holland , a partner at law
firm Goodwin Procter LLP, said in an interview. “I think it’s
an aberration.”  Last year marked an end to securities fraud class-actions
related to the credit crisis as no new cases were filed compared
to three in 2011, according to the report. Credit crisis cases
peaked in 2008 at 100.  Federal cases related to mergers and acquisitions dropped
to 13 in 2012 compared with 40 in 2010 and 43 in 2011, according
to the report. Those cases are now being pursued almost
exclusively in state courts.  “The trends that we saw in the last few years just didn’t
occur this year,” said John Gould, a senior vice president at
Cornerstone, which prepared the report with the  Stanford Law
School Securities Class Action Clearinghouse .  “Even though securities filings are down, it doesn’t mean
securities work is down,” Holland said. “We’re still pretty
busy with the backlog.”  Class-action securities filings against financial companies
fell, according to the report. They were defendants in 15
filings, or 10 percent of all filings, compared with 25 filings
in 2011 and 43 in 2010.  For more, click here.  AIG Saw Starr Lawsuit as Likely to Fail, Damaging to Insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  opted against joining a
lawsuit against the U.S. government over its 2008 bailout
because the case was unlikely to succeed and risked harming a
reputation the insurer is seeking to restore.  The case “threatened to destroy much of the good work that
AIG and its employees had done rebuilding AIG and its name,”
the insurer’s board said in a letter released yesterday from its
lawyers. “This concern was consistent with the media coverage
and statements made by elected officials highly critical of AIG
for even considering the demand.”  The insurer’s board voted unanimously on Jan. 9 to reject
joining the suit, filed by former AIG Chief Executive Officer
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s Starr International Co. Greenberg,
87, says the U.S. violated shareholders’ rights by taking over
New York-based AIG during a bailout that began in 2008 and
swelled to $182.3 billion.  “Starr’s claim had a low likelihood of success on the
merits,” said Paul Curnin, an attorney for AIG’s board at
Simpson Thatcher & Bartlett LLP. He estimated Starr’s chance of
prevailing at about 20 percent, according to the letter, signed
by him and Collins J. Seitz, a lawyer for the board at Seitz
Ross Aronstam & Moritz LLP.  The letter was addressed to  David Boies , who represents
Greenberg’s Starr at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP. It was
included in a filing AIG made today in a court in Washington.  Dawn Schneider, a spokeswoman for Boies, declined to
comment.  Greenberg’s case required AIG to weigh suing the U.S.
because it makes claims on the company’s behalf. News of the
deliberations drew criticism from lawmakers including Senators
 Elizabeth Warren  and  Robert Menendez  and Representative  Elijah Cummings , who said suing the U.S. would be an insult to
taxpayers.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  For more, click here.  Litigation  GE Settles FHFA Suit Over Mortgage Bonds Sold to Freddie Mac  General Electric Co. (GE)  settled a lawsuit filed by the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  over losses on mortgage bonds sold to
 Freddie Mac , the regulator said.  FHFA, which oversees  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, sued GE
and underwriters  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,
saying  mortgage loans  backing about $550 million in securities
didn’t live up to their promised quality.  “This settlement resolves the dispute between FHFA and GE
consistent with FHFA’s responsibilities as conservator of
Freddie Mac,” Alfred M. Pollard, FHFA’s general counsel, said
in a statement. “FHFA is pleased this lawsuit has been resolved
and appreciates the work of Freddie Mac in this matter.”  Pollard didn’t disclose the terms of the settlement. A
spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE couldn’t be
reached for comment.  The case against GE is among a group of lawsuits FHFA filed
against banks over mortgage securities sold to Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac.  The agency said in a court filing yesterday that it was
dropping claims against GE, Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. General
Electric Co., 11-7048, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 