-- Banker Pay, Bonus Curbs Hard for Banks to Implement, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-24T15:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/banker-pay-bonus-curbs-hard-for-banks-to-implement-fsb-says.html
Banks are struggling to gauge
whether staff are taking excessive risks that should lead to
bonus curbs set out in a new wave of international rules, global
regulators said.  Lenders face “practical implementation challenges”
including measuring “poor behavior” that merit bonus cuts or
clawbacks, the Financial Stability Board said in a report on its
website today. Banks also have divergent views “over the legal
enforceability of clawbacks,” the FSB said.  Regulators have sought to rein in banker pay as part of
their response to the financial crisis unleashed by the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The FSB rules, published in
2009, seek to deter banks from offering bonuses that encourage
staff to take excessive risks. Public outrage and shareholder
rebellions have also led some banks to limit payouts.  The FSB report was drawn up following a meeting in
November between representatives of  globally systemic banks  and
regulatory officials.  Banks warned of a “lack of consistency in the rules and
expectations” of national regulators, according to the
document.  The FSB said that the meeting also discussed moves by some
banks to offer staff so-called contingent convertible bonds, or
CoCos, and bail-in debt as part of their remuneration packages.  CoCo bonds are bank debt that automatically turns into
ordinary shares when a bank’s capital level falls below a pre-
defined threshold.  Bail-in debt can be written down or converted into equity
by regulators if a bank is on the point of non-viability.  Some banks “expressed strong skepticism” about using
these securities as a form of remuneration, the FSB said. “They
see these instruments as too complex and difficult to explain to
both staff and shareholders.”  The FSB brings together finance ministry officials,
regulators and central bankers from the Group of 20 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  