-- Banks May Face Limits on Risk Calculations, Basel Chief Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-01-24T11:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/banks-may-face-limits-on-risk-calculations-basel-chief-says.html
Global regulators may impose
restrictions on the way lenders model risk and assign capital
after a review of banks’ trading practices found wide
differences in their number crunching.  A probe of banks’ calculation of the riskiness of their
assets found “material variation” across the industry,  Stefan Ingves , chairman of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
said in a speech in  Cape Town .  Regulators could respond with tougher disclosure rules or
“limitations in the modelling choices for banks,” Ingves said
in the prepared remarks today. “The committee’s work on how
banks calculate risk weighted assets also feeds into a broader
concern that, in pursuit of risk sensitivity, the Basel III
framework has grown too complex.”  U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have said that flexible
implementation of previous rounds of Basel capital rules in the
European Union has allowed European lenders to hold less capital
against some assets than their U.S. counterparts. The U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority is reviewing banks’ so-called risk
weighted assets for a report to be published as early as March.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations, including the U.K., U.S. and  China , to set capital
rules for banks. The requirements it sets are measured as a
percentage of lenders’ risk-weighted assets. The latest round,
known as Basel III, states that banks should have core reserves
equivalent to 7 percent of their RWAs.  Basel Delays  Delays in implementing Basel III capital rules aren’t
“critical” at this stage, Ingves said.  The EU and the U.S. missed the January deadline to start
implementing the new measures, amid calls from some officials
for the so-called Basel III rules to be scrapped in favor of a
simplified form of bank regulation. The 2013 start date was
supposed to be the start of a phase-in process for Basel III
that runs until 2019.  The “lengthy phase-in period” means “that in 2013 the
new requirements should not be particularly burdensome for
banks,” he said. “None of the new deductions from capital are
applied this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 