-- Bank Wind-Down Levies Can’t Be Syphoned Off, EU Lawmakers Say
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-24T10:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/bank-wind-down-levies-can-t-be-syphoned-off-eu-lawmakers-say.html
National bank levies to pay for
winding down failing lenders may not be syphoned off
automatically to other European Union states in a crisis, after
EU lawmakers said countries shouldn’t expect cross-border help.  The European Parliament is set to scrap any requirement for
cross-border lending between so-called bank resolution funds,
Gunnar Hoekmark, the legislator in charge of the assembly’s work
on dossier, said in an interview with Bloomberg News.  “There is broad support for the idea that there should be
no compulsory cross-border lending,” Hoekmark said. “It will
be a voluntary matter.” Mandatory cooperation between national
funds “is not desirable as it would undermine the
responsibility of each member state,” Hoekmark said.  The setting up of resolution funds is part of a broader
legal push by the Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services
chief, to take taxpayers off the hook for rescuing crisis-hit
banks. EU nations have provided as much as  4.6 trillion euros 
($6.1 trillion) of capital injections, guarantees and other
support to lenders since 2008, in a bid to prevent a meltdown of
the financial system following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Under Barnier’s plan, nations would be expected to set up
bank-financed funds that would be tapped to cover the costs of
restructuring or winding down failing lenders. The funds would
have resources equivalent to 1 percent of state-insured bank
deposits in that country.  Domestic Crisis  Barnier proposed that, should a national fund be depleted
in a crisis, it could as a last resort request aid from similar
facilities in other EU nations. The request could only be
refused if it would use up more than half of another national
resolution fund’s resources, or render it unable to cope with a
crisis on its own territory.  Barnier’s draft law would also empower regulators to impose
losses on failing banks’ creditors.  EU leaders in December handed finance ministers and the
European Parliament a June 2013 deadline for reaching a deal on
the law.  Barnier has said that the setting up of bank resolution
funds is a building block toward more ambitious plans by the 17-
nation euro area to create a “single resolution mechanism” for
handling banking crises. He told finance ministers this week
that he hopes to present legal proposals for setting up this
mechanism “before the summer.”  The idea of forcing national funds to lend to each other
has been criticized by some governments, including the U.K.,
Germany and  Sweden . The U.K. is opposed to setting up a pre-
financed bank resolution fund at all.  It is “very likely” that governments “will not agree
that such a fund should be used cross-border,” Wolf Klinz, a
member of the parliament’s Liberal group working on the
proposals, told legislators this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  