-- Banks’ LTRO Repayments to Underline Two-Tier Europe: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-01-24T15:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/banks-ltro-repayments-to-underline-two-tier-europe-euro-credit.html
Lenders repaying cash borrowed from
the  European Central Bank  via its Longer-Term Refinancing
Operations are poised to underline the north-south divide that
characterizes the euro region.  Banks can start paying back this week more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.33 trillion) of three-year money they borrowed in two
portions during 2012. Only banks able to raise funds at less
than the 75 basis points the ECB charges are likely to repay,
and they will probably be from northern  Europe , said  Richard McGuire , a strategist at Rabobank International in London.  “If it turns out the repayments come from the core banks
only, then that’s a negative,” McGuire said. “It shows there’s
still a two-tier euro zone. The tension is still there.”  The ECB’s LTRO programs in December 2011 and February 2012
reduced the risk of a systemic crisis blowing the single
currency apart. Along with ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s July
pledge to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro, the
cash infusions helped stem a rout in Spanish and Italian bonds.  Between 200 billion euros and 250 billion euros are likely
to be repaid “and we aren’t expecting many peripheral banks to
take part,” said Derek Hynes, who helps manage $9.5 billion at
ECM Asset Management Ltd. in London. “They have some  market
access  now, but they’ll need three to six months to gain the
confidence to hand back the money.”  Rates Rise  The prospect of money flowing back to the ECB has driven up
 interest rates  in the futures market. The rate on three-month
euro futures expiring in December 2013 rose as high as 0.54
percent on Jan. 18, the most since July and up from 0.25 percent
at the start of the year. The two-year interest-rate swap cost
has climbed to 55.2 basis points from 38 at the end of November.  The LTROs swelled the  ECB balance sheet  to 2.94 trillion
euros, up from about 2.5 trillion euros on Dec. 16. While a
reversal of that as banks repay is “a major milestone,” it may
produce “stealth” interest rate increases, George Saravelos, a
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a report.  The yield on  two-year German notes  increased to as high as
24 basis points on Jan. 17 from minus 1.5 basis points at the
beginning of the year. The rate is now 17.4 basis points.  Banks can now repay their borrowings at weekly intervals.
The ECB is expected to publish the number of companies repaying
and the amount returned tomorrow, with national central bank
accounts revealing later which countries reimbursed LTRO cash.  Fading Attraction  For stronger banks in northern Europe, the usefulness of
the LTRO cash has largely ended, said  Don Smith , a London-based
economist at ICAP Plc, the biggest broker of transactions
between banks.  “When the LTRO was put in place, it was a phenomenally
good deal for the banks,” he said. “They could get funding at
much cheaper rates than in the market, for longer maturities and
in size. Now, ECB funding is relatively much more expensive than
it was and that argues for repayment.”  Stronger banks can issue three-year senior unsecured bonds
at a cost that’s “broadly similar to borrowing from the ECB,”
said Steve Hussey, a credit analyst at AllianceBernstein Ltd. in
London, which manages $430 billion. “Either they’ll refinance
their borrowing or the growth opportunities aren’t there and
they’ll shrink their balance sheets. Either way, borrowing from
the ECB and leaving it on deposit at zero percent is losing them
money.”  ECB Reliance  A one-year repurchase agreement, or repo, with Italian
 government bonds  as collateral, costs about 22 basis points,
according to Smith at ICAP. A three-month repo using ECB-
eligible collateral rated A costs 10 basis points, he said.  Spanish and Italian banks took about 334 billion euros of
the 532 billion euros of LTRO borrowing disclosed by the banks
and tracked by Bloomberg. Cash was parked in  government
securities , helping to support bond markets as suggested at the
time by  France ’s then-President Nicolas Sarkozy.  “To the extent that the repayments are a sign of
continued, very significant reliance on the ECB, that’s a
negative,” said Smith at ICAP. “In terms of vulnerability to a
re-escalation of the crisis, the Spanish and Italians are very
exposed.”  Italy’s three-year notes  yield about 2.04 percent, down
from a high of 6.32 percent at the beginning of 2012.  Spain ’s
three-year yield is down to 2.83 percent from more than 7.4
percent six months ago.  “When the LTROs started, the peripheral banks took as much
as they could as an insurance policy,” said Andrea Cicione, a
strategist at Lombard Street Research Ltd. in  London . For those
companies, “any alternative to the LTROs is likely to be more
expensive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  