-- Barclays Said to Plan 15% Job Cuts at Asian Investment Bank
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-01-24T07:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/barclays-said-to-plan-cutting-15-of-asian-investment-bank-jobs.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
largest bank, plans to eliminate at least 15 percent of its
 investment banking  positions in  Asia , two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  About 70  jobs will be cut  across the region, including in
 Japan , starting this week, the people said, asking not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
Angie Tang, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the bank, declined
to comment on the cuts.  Barclays follows Morgan Stanley in trimming jobs in Asia as
an economic slowdown pares demand from companies for investment
banking services. Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins , 51, who took charge in August after the firm was fined
for manipulating Libor, is preparing to announce how he will
revamp operations next month.  The cuts in Asia reflect the  lower revenue  being generated
from traditional banking businesses including stock and bond
underwriting and takeover advisory, one of the people said.
Barclays doesn’t plan to exit any markets or product areas in
the region, the person said.  Morgan Stanley is trimming about 55 to 60 investment
banking jobs in the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan, two
people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  European Cuts  Barclays started eliminating some European investment
banking jobs in December, people with knowledge of the matter
said this week. The cuts may be 5 percent to 10 percent of the
division, or about 2,000 employees, they said. The securities
unit employs about 9,000 in the U.K. and about 24,000 globally.  The bank started mergers advisory operations in Asia in
2008 and began offering equity underwriting the next year.  It started offering a full suite of investment banking
services in the Asia-Pacific region in 2010 after hiring Matthew Ginsburg from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  a year earlier. The 14-year veteran
of the New York-based firm subsequently hired former colleagues
including Ed King and Peter Ding, and ex-Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. bankers including Johan Leven and Vanessa Koo.  Ginsburg, the Hong Kong-based head of investment banking
for Asia, said in a 2011 interview that the firm is facing
“very real competition” from Chinese securities firms as they
are driving up hiring costs and spurring tighter competition for
deals.  Barclays was ranked No. 20 in underwriting equity, equity-
linked and rights offers in Asia last year, up from No. 29 in
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Share sales in the region
slumped to a four-year low in 2012, the data show.  Shrinking the investment bank would partly reverse former
CEO  Robert Diamond ’s expansion into equities and mergers
advisory in Asia and  Europe  following the acquisition of the
North American operations of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  