-- Barclays Said to Sell UPP Student Homes Stake to Gingko
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-25T12:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/barclays-said-to-sell-upp-student-housing-stake-to-chinese-firm.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  funds sold their 40
percent stake in UPP Group Holdings Ltd., the U.K.’s second-
largest student-housing operator, to China’s Gingko Tree
Investment Ltd., a person with knowledge of the deal said.  Gingko Tree bought the remaining stake held by funds owned
by Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management, said the person,
who asked not to be identified and didn’t provide terms because
the transaction is confidential.  The funds sold 60 percent of UPP to Dutch pension-fund
manager PGGM NV in September in a deal that valued the company
at about 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion), including debt. UPP
plans to invest an additional 1 billion pounds into developing
universities halls of residence, according to its website.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, Jon
Wakeford, a spokesman for UPP, and  Mike Bryan , a Gingko Tree
investment manager in  London , all declined to comment. Exclusive
talks between the bank and the investment firm had been taking
place since September, two people with knowledge of the
discussions said at the time.  U.K. student property deals surged last year as a rise in
foreign students helped fuel demand for dormitory rooms,
boosting yields. Companies including Mansion Student
Accommodation Fund and operators backed by buyout firms Oaktree
Capital Management LP and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  invested 800 million
pounds on student homes in the first half,  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  estimated.  Dormitory Rooms  UPP managed dormitories for 13 universities in the U.K.
through September, housing 26,406 students and generating annual
rental income of 104 million pounds. It had earnings of 46
million pounds before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in fiscal 2012.  The U.K. student accommodation fund run by  Unite Group Plc (UTG) ,
the country’s largest operator of student housing operator, rose
8.7 percent in 2012, the company said in a Jan. 9 statement.  Fee increases for students enrolling at U.K. universities
and stricter visa regulations will results in fewer student
accommodation deals this year, broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.
predicted last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 