-- Barry Lind, CME Trader Who Reshaped Futures Industry, Dies at 74
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/barry-lind-cme-trader-who-shaped-futures-industry-dies-at-74.html
Barry Lind, who thrived in the open-
outcry trading pits of the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange before
helping transform it into a central market for the electronic
trading of financial instruments, has died. He was 74.  He died yesterday from injuries suffered the previous night
when he was struck by a car in Rancho Mirage,  California ,
according to a police  report . His death was confirmed by Larry
Silver, managing partner and co-founder of  Silver Young Capital
LLC , a Chicago-based private equity firm where Lind was a co-
founder and managing partner. Lind had homes in Winnetka,
 Illinois , and Rancho Mirage.  In 1965, he founded Lind-Waldock & Co., which described
itself as the world’s largest discount futures firm when it was
bought in 2000 by Refco Group. He served in leadership posts at
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as it expanded beyond its roots
as a center for agriculture-related trading.  He “played a critical role in CME’s transformation into a
modern financial futures exchange,” the Futures Industry
Association said in naming Lind to its  Hall of Fame  in 2005.
“Lind was among the strongest proponents of increasing the use
of technology in futures trading, and his firm was among the
earliest to automate its order routing system and to offer
online trading.”  ‘Soul Mate’  Leo Melamed , the former chairman of the CME widely credited
with transforming it into an industry powerhouse, largely
through the creation of financial futures, wrote in his memoir
that Lind was “my primary adviser and soul mate.”  Barry Joel  Lind  was born on Sept. 30, 1938, in Chicago, and
graduated from  Northwestern University  in Evanston, Illinois.  He spent three years as a floor trader at the CME before
starting Chicago-based Lind-Waldock.  A 1976 Newsweek article on the frozen pork-bellies pit of
the CME said Lind -- “a short, 127-pound Woody Allen
lookalike” -- had become a millionaire several times over
through his 14 years of trading.  “I’ve never found anything that gives you a higher high,”
Lind said, according to the article. He also said, “A lot of
people with great ideas go broke here.”  The toll of the job was evident,  Newsweek  reported, in
Lind’s two divorces and his heavy smoking.  “This place makes you old quickly and keeps you young
forever,” he said. “When that opening bell rings, the
adrenaline just starts pumping.”  CME Group Inc., the Chicago-based parent of the market,
said yesterday in a statement: “Barry was a very valued member
of our exchange and our industry. He was instrumental in the
development of the Chicago futures industry for nearly 50 years,
and he will be sincerely missed.”  Lind also owned 2217 Group, a Chicago-based real estate and
venture-capital firm.  Survivors include his third wife, the former Terri Mall; a
daughter, Joanna; a stepson, Scott; and a stepdaughter, Lanie.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  