-- BayernLB Said to Choose Bidders for $3.2 Billion Homes Sale
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-24T15:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/bayerische-lb-said-to-choose-bidders-for-3-2-billion-homes-sale.html
Bayerische Landesbank chose at least
four companies to make second-round bids for 32,000 homes valued
at 2.4 billion euros ($3.2 billion) in what would be  Germany ’s
largest property sale in five years, according to four people
with knowledge of the matter.  The bidders include  Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z) ,  Conwert
Immobilien Invest SE (CWI) ,  Immofinanz AG (IIA)  and Wohnen in Bayern, a
group of municipalities, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. They were given
access to financial data of the BayernLB unit that owns the
homes this month, said two of the people. The company plans to
complete the sale by the end of April, they said.  Spokesmen for Munich-based BayernLB, Patrizia, Conwert,
Immofinanz declined to comment. Wohnen in Bayern didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  The European Union required BayernLB to sell its 92 percent
stake in the GBW unit by the end of 2013 after it took state aid
during the credit crunch in 2008. German home values have gained
in the past few years as investors seek safe places to put their
money amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany’s biggest state-
owned lender, last year agreed to sell its LBBW Immobilien real
estate unit to a group led by Patrizia for 1.4 billion euros
following an EU ruling. BayernLB, the second-biggest state-owned
lender, agreed to sell its DKB Immobilien AG property unit last
year to  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  for 160 million euros.  Asset Value  GBW estimated the value of its homes in  its 2011 annual
report . The company has about 1.4 billion euros in debt, making
its net asset value about 950 million euros, according to the
report.  The sale would be the biggest residential property deal in
Germany since Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bought LEG NRW, which
owns 91,000 homes in North Rhine Westphalia, for about 3.5
billion euros including debt in 2008, according to data compiled
by Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Patrizia and Conwert are bidding on behalf of investor
groups comprised mostly of European pension funds and insurers,
said two of the people.  Patrizia, based in Augsburg, Germany, has about 6.8 billion
euros of commercial and residential property assets under
management, according to its third-quarter report.  Conwert, based in Vienna, is changing to become an asset
manager focused on residential properties in Germany and
 Austria . It closed its purchase of a 60 percent stake in
Germany’s KWG Kommunale Wohnen AG this week.  Immofinanz, also based in Vienna, is considering the sale
of its Buwog residential arm to concentrate on commercial real
estate in Austria and eastern Europe. To company is considering
adding German assets to boost its appeal to investors, Chief
Executive Officer Eduard Zehetner said last year. Buwog owns 2.4
billion euros worth of Austrian homes, about a quarter of
Immofinanz’s total assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos, Switzerland at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  