-- Beiersdorf Sales Increase Most Since 2008 on Emerging Markets
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-24T08:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/beiersdorf-2012-sales-gain-7-2-on-emerging-markets-growth.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea
skin cream, reported the strongest sales growth since 2008 as
increased demand in  Brazil  and other emerging markets helped
offset sluggish  consumer spending  in western  Europe .  Revenue rose 7.2 percent to a record 6.04 billion euros
($8.1 billion), the Hamburg-based company said today in a
statement. That compared with the 6.02 billion-euro average
 estimate  of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales in  Latin America  “developed well,” Beiersdorf said,
while the division covering Africa, Asia and Australia posted
“strong growth.” Chief Executive Officer Stefan Heidenreich,
who joined the company a little over a year ago, is instituting
a program of product innovation, particularly in faster-growing
emerging markets, to keep revenue growing as European consumers
rein in spending amid the region’s debt crisis.  “All the gains in the top line came from  emerging markets 
and none from Germany and western Europe, which are the most
important markets for them,” said Sebastian Frericks, an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt.  Beiersdorf  rose  as much as 1 percent in Frankfurt trading
and was up 0.5 percent at 9:17 a.m. The stock has gained 4.1
percent this year, adding to 2012’s 41 percent advance.  Organic sales, which exclude acquisitions, disposals and
currency shifts, rose 4.7 percent last year, including gains of
4.9 percent at the consumer division and 3.6 percent at the Tesa
adhesives unit. Societe Generale SA had estimated growth of 4.3
percent, while Bankhaus Metzler expected 4.5 percent.  Margin Guidance  Sales of the main Nivea, Eucerin and La Prairie brands
“showed an encouraging performance,” Beiersdorf said. Nivea
sales in  Germany  were at the same level as last year, it added.  The company reiterated its 2012 margin guidance, which
Frericks said was “a bit disappointing.” Earnings before
interest and taxes as a percentage of sales were about 12
percent, Beiersdorf said.  The business is “on the right track” with Heidenreich’s
Blue Agenda plan, the company said. Under the plan, the CEO has
restored Nivea’s familiar round blue logo and changed the
packaging design. Heidenreich has also vowed to focus on
emerging markets and opened a new research & development center
in Wuhan, China, in May. A similar establishment is under
construction in  Mexico , which is due to start operating in 2014.  “We have strengthened our core brand and gained market
share in many countries,” the CEO said in the statement.
“These are important first steps on the road to a successful
economic future for Beiersdorf.”  Earnings Multiple  The increase in revenue last year followed three years of
almost stagnant sales.  “2012 looks fairly good only because 2009 to 2011 was so
bad,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in
a note yesterday. The results “make Beiersdorf only an average
to below-average performer among its major global peers.
Beiersdorf’s current valuation and massive premium to its peers
require exceptional performance.”  Beiersdorf shares  trade at  more than 26 times estimated
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with
21 times for French competitor  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and about 17 times for
Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company. The
high valuation means most analysts are reluctant to recommend
the shares. Using a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being the most
positive, the  consensus recommendation  is 2.57, below L’Oreal’s
3.38 and Unilever’s 3.53, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  