-- Belgian January Business Confidence Drops on Manufacturing
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-01-24T15:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/belgian-january-business-confidence-drops-on-manufacturing-1-.html
Belgian  business confidence 
unexpectedly fell in January for the first time in three months
amid deteriorating sentiment in the manufacturing industry
because of weakening orders.  The confidence index for  Belgium  decreased to minus 13.2
from minus 11.8 in December, the Brussels-based  National Bank of
Belgium  said today in a statement. Economists had predicted an
increase to minus 11, according to the median of 16 forecasts in
a Bloomberg News  survey .  “The level of confidence is now compatible with another
quarter of recession,” said Philippe Ledent, an economist at
ING Groep NV in Brussels, in an e-mailed note. “This could be
the sign of a new deterioration of activity in the  euro zone , as
the Belgian indicator is often considered as a good leading
indicator.”  While business sentiment improved in Belgium’s trade and
business-related services industry, executives in the
manufacturing industry signaled a drop in both domestic and
export orders and also pared their forecasts for future demand
and employment. The capacity utilization rate in Belgium’s
manufacturing industry fell for a fourth straight quarter,
reaching 75.6 percent in January, according to the  central bank .  Largest Steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, said today
that it plans to permanently shut down six finishing lines and a
coke plant in Belgium’s Liege region, eliminating about 1,300
positions, because of a drop in demand for steel in  Europe .
Demand has fallen a further 8 percent to 9 percent since October
2011 and is now 29 percent below pre-crisis levels, the
Luxembourg-based company said.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy and one of Belgium’s
biggest trading partners, business sentiment is forecast to
increase in January for a third straight month. The Ifo
institute’s  business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, probably advanced to 103 from 102.4 in December,
according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The Munich-based Ifo is scheduled to publish the indicator
tomorrow at 10 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  