-- Berezovsky’s Ex-Girlfriend Wins French House Asset Freeze
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/berezovsky-s-ex-girlfriend-wins-french-house-asset-freeze.html
Boris Berezovsky’s ex-girlfriend won
an asset-freezing order against him that covers two luxury
French properties and her share of a lawsuit settlement, after
he failed to keep promises made to her.  Helena Gorbunova, Berezovsky’s long-term girlfriend until
last year, originally won the order in December after she said
she was promised money from the sale of an estate in Surrey,
England, worth 25 million pounds ($39.6 million), according to a
ruling handed down by Judge George Mann on Jan. 18 and made
public yesterday.  “Mr. Berezovsky is a man under financial pressure,” Mann
said in his written ruling. “It is likely that he will feel a
more pressing need to satisfy creditors than satisfy Ms.
Gorbunova.”  A friend of former Russian president Boris Yeltsin,
Berezovsky has been entwined in numerous high profile U.K. court
cases in the last 18 months. In August he lost one of the
largest civil suits ever in U.K. courts to Roman Abramovich, the
owner of Chelsea Football Club. Following the trial he was
ordered to pay 35 million pounds in fees to his former ally by a
London judge who criticized him for being “unimpressive, and
inherently unreliable.”  While the original order froze as much as 200 million
pounds of Berezovsky’s assets, Mann removed that figure in his
ruling after a private hearing. Bound into the order are any
proceeds from the sale of two properties in the south of France
and a share of the settlement Berezovsky won from his litigation
against the estate of his former business partner Badri Patarkatsishvili.  Mark Hastings, a lawyer acting for Berezovsky, declined to
comment. A lawyer for Gorbunova didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail and call requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  