-- Biogen’s Longer-Lasting MS Drug Meets Goals in Late Trial
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-01-24T21:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/biogen-s-longer-lasting-ms-drug-meets-goals-in-late-trial.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s longer-lasting
injectable multiple sclerosis drug, peginterferon beta-1a,
helped reduce the risk of relapse by 36 percent when given every
two weeks, meeting the goals of a late-stage study.  The medicine trimmed patients’ danger of flare-ups by 28
percent when dosed every four weeks compared with placebo, the
Weston, Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement.
Based on the results, Biogen said it plans to apply this year
for regulatory approval in Europe and the U.S.  Peginterferon is in the same class of drugs as Biogen’s
best-seller, Avonex, which is given by injection once a week.
Avonex generated $2.7 billion in 2011 revenue. The longer-
lasting drug would be deemed successful if it cut the risk of
relapse by at least 30 percent,  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets , wrote in a Jan. 16 note. Peginterferon may
provide $600 million in annual  sales  by 2015, the average of
three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Once per month should be approvable based on these
data,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group, wrote in a
note to clients today. “Many patients/physicians will still opt
for the twice monthly given the probably better efficacy on many
endpoints.”  Biogen rose 2 percent to $146.41 at the close of  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 25 percent in the last 12
months.  1,500 Patients  The trial of more than 1,500 patients was part of the third
and final stage of studies generally required for U.S. approval.
The drug was safe and tolerable across different dosing
frequencies, Biogen said. The most common side effects were
redness at the injection site and flu-like symptoms.  Multiple sclerosis is a disease of the central nervous
system that can lead to limb numbness, paralysis and vision
loss. It affects about 2.1 million people worldwide, according
to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society . The most common form
is relapsing-remitting MS, characterized by sporadic flareups
followed by periods of recovery.  In addition to Avonex, Biogen sells Tysabri, a once-monthly
infusion with sales of $1.1 billion in 2011. Tysabri is
associated with a higher risk of contracting a brain infection
called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, and
is generally  recommended  for patients for whom other therapies
haven’t worked as well. Biogen has developed a test to help
determine patients’ risk.  The company is awaiting approval of its first pill for MS,
BG-12. The  Food and Drug Administration  is scheduled to decide
on the medicine by late March.  Both Doses  The trial reported today, dubbed Advance, showed
peginterferon reduced the risk of disability progression by 38
percent at both doses.  “If approved, peginterferon beta-1a will represent an
innovation that offers patients a less-frequent dosing schedule
of no more than 26 doses annually, as well as a significant
reduction in relapses and disability progression,” Gilmore O’Neill, Biogen’s vice president of global neurology late-stage
clinical development, said in today’s statement.  The drug may help Biogen take market share from competitors
and make it more difficult for generic copies of Avonex to enter
the marketplace,  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co.,
wrote in a research note. “Hence the economic returns of PEG-
Avonex to  Biogen Idec  could be significant,” he wrote.  Biogen Chief Executive Officer George Scangos addressed the
benefits of less-frequent dosing in a presentation to investors
earlier this month.  “These are injections,” Scangos said at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s health-care conference in  San Francisco . “And so being
able to inject oneself once every two weeks, once every four
weeks, and get efficacy that’s similar to what you would get
injecting yourself every day seems like a no-brainer to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  