-- Blackstone Said to Seek $450 Million for Hotel Financing
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-01-25T20:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/blackstone-said-to-seek-450-million-for-hotel-financing.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest
U.S. hotel owner, is in talks to borrow about $450 million to
refinance debt on  San Diego ’s historic Hotel del Coronado to
take advantage of lower  interest rates , a person with knowledge
of the plans said.  Blackstone’s real estate unit holds 60 percent of a joint
venture that took ownership of the hotel in a February 2011
recapitalization, for which  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  provided $425
million of debt financing. The owners have the option to repay
that debt after two years, according to the person, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.  Borrowers are benefiting as investor demand for commercial-
property debt surges with the  Federal Reserve  holding its
benchmark lending rate at about zero for more than four years.
The extra yield bondholders demand to own top-ranked securities
linked to everything from skyscrapers to shopping malls rather
than Treasuries has fallen to 106 basis points from 199 basis
points a year ago, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index.  A $225 million portion of the 2011 loan on the Hotel del
Coronado from Deutsche Bank was packaged into bonds alongside
other commercial mortgages and sold to investors as part of a
$609 million commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS,
deal in October 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Revival  The $225 million, interest-only loan matures on March 9,
according to Bloomberg data. It has options for three one-year
extensions.  Issuance of commercial-mortgage bonds is poised to climb 50
percent to $60 billion in 2013, according to Deutsche Bank. The
market is reviving after shutting down when credit markets froze
in 2008. A record $232 billion of such bonds was sold in 2007,
Bloomberg data show.  Blackstone’s partners in the  Hotel del Coronado  are
 Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) , the property’s asset manager,
and KSL Resorts, its operator. Chicago-based Strategic held 34.3
percent after the recapitalization and closely held KSL had 5.7
percent.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone, and
Megan Hakes, a spokeswoman for Strategic Hotels, declined to
comment. KSL, based in La Quinta,  California , also declined to
comment.  Edison, Lindbergh  The 125-year-old Hotel del Coronado has been visited by 11
U.S. presidents, starting with Benjamin Harrison in 1891, as
well as inventor Thomas Edison, writer L. Frank Baum, aviator
 Charles Lindbergh  and baseball legend  Babe Ruth , according to
the hotel’s website. The property served as the backdrop to the
1959 Billy Wilder film “Some Like It Hot,” which starred Tony
Curtis, Jack Lemmon and  Marilyn Monroe .  Last year, Blackstone, Centerbridge Partners LP and Paulson
& Co. refinanced their 2010 purchase of Extended Stay Hotels,
enabling them to recoup about half their equity investment, two
people with knowledge of the transaction said at the time.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank are marketing about
$3 billion in bonds linked to the Extended Stay debt in the
largest CMBS offering since 2007.  Renovated in 2005, the Hotel del Coronado, known locally as
the Hotel Del, was appraised at $586 million in January 2011,
more than twice the $225 million securitized loan, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The debt-service coverage ratio, or  cash flow  available to
meet interest payments, rose to 5.65 in the nine months ended
Sept. 30, from 3.27 when the loan was underwritten, according to
Morningstar. Occupancy at the hotel increased to 70 percent from
67 percent.  ‘Performing Well’  “As the asset is performing well, we do not consider the
loan to be a default risk or value concern,” Frank Innaurato, a
managing director at Morningstar Credit Ratings, said in an e-
mail today. “An extension of the loan is likely.”  Aside from the $225 million securitized loan, there’s a $50
million junior-participation loan and a $150 million mezzanine
loan on the property, according to Morningstar.  Blackstone, the owner of Hilton Worldwide Inc., has been
expanding its hospitality investments, which account for almost
half its real estate assets. The company last year purchased the
Motel 6 brand, and agreed in November to buy Apple REIT Six
Inc., an owner of 66 hotels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  