-- Boeing 787 Design Should Prevent Battery Fires: Hersman
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-01-25T07:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/boeing-787-design-should-prevent-battery-fires-hersman.html
Battery incidents that prompted the
grounding of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Dreamliner are “unprecedented”
safety breaches that should have been prevented by the
aircraft’s design, the U.S. investigation’s leader said.  “The significance of these events cannot be understated,”
National Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman 
said yesterday at a briefing in Washington. “We do not expect
to see fire events on board aircraft. This is a very serious
air-safety concern.”  Investigators found evidence of short circuits and
uncontrollable overheating in a battery that caught fire on a
 Japan  Airlines Co. 787 in  Boston  on Jan. 7. Investigators don’t
yet know whether those were causes of the blaze or the result,
Hersman said.  The NTSB investigation is central to understanding how to
fix the lithium-ion battery packs and get the Dreamliner
airborne again after its Jan. 16 grounding worldwide. Hersman
wouldn’t say how long the safety board’s “methodical” effort
would take, suggesting that the grounding wouldn’t end soon.  “We have not yet ruled anything out,” she said.  The search for answers has dimmed hopes of a rapid fix and
return to flight for the 787, said Richard Aboulafia, vice
president of the Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based
forecaster.  ‘All Hands’  “Psychologically, it’s a blow,” Aboulafia said. “There
was the hope of a speedy fix and fast progress. It looks like
there is a lot of work ahead of them.”  Boeing rose $1.03 yesterday, or 1.4 percent, to $75.32, its
highest closing  price  since Jan. 15, the day before the
grounding.  To be able to use lithium-ion batteries, which hadn’t been
used to that extent on prior commercial airplanes, Boeing was
required to meet conditions for the Dreamliner set by the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration in 2007. They required a design
that would prevent significant damage outside the packs in the
event of a fire.  The fire in Boston charred other components and the jet’s
structure, Hersman said. The battery spewed molten material and
flammable liquid, she said.  “We have all hands on deck,” she said. “We are working
as hard as we can to identify what the failure mode is here and
what corrective actions need to be taken.”  The U.S. agency is leading the investigation of the Boston
fire, while Japan’s safety board is in charge of a probe of
smoke and fumes from a battery in an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) 
Dreamliner on Jan. 16.  Grounding Order  That plane’s crew noticed smoke and fumes while climbing at
about 30,000 feet, Hersman said. The pilots then made an
emergency landing.  The FAA issued its order after the ANA incident, the first
time the U.S. has grounded an entire aircraft model since 1979.  Aviation regulators in other countries where airlines
operate the 787 followed the FAA’s lead, grounding all of the 50
Dreamliners in service. The jet won’t fly again until the FAA
has a better idea what happened and how to fix it, U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said Jan. 23.  Boeing “welcomes the progress being made in the 787
investigation” and is working “tirelessly” to return the
Dreamliner to service, according to an e-mailed statement after
the NTSB briefing.  Parallel Probes  U.S. aviation officials, who pronounced the Dreamliner safe
in a press conference Jan. 11, ordered the grounding because the
ANA incident occurred while the plane was in the air, FAA
Administrator Michael Huerta said Jan. 23. The Japan Airlines
fire was discovered after the flight’s 183 passengers and 11
crew members had left the plane.  The FAA is conducting a parallel investigation and
reviewing how the 787 was certified and manufactured.  The NTSB this week sent investigators to Boeing’s Seattle
facilities and to  Securaplane Technologies Inc. ’s Tucson,
 Arizona , plant, where they tested elements of the battery
charger and attempted to download data,  Kelly Nantel , a
spokeswoman for the safety board, said in an e-mail. Securaplane
is a division of Christchurch, England-based  Meggitt Plc. (MGGT)   Transportation regulators in  France  and Japan also are
investigating the incidents. Boeing’s battery supplier,  GS Yuasa
Corp (6674) , is based in Kyoto and  Thales SA (HO) , based in Neuilly-Sur-
Seine, France, makes the electrical power conversion system that
includes the batteries.  Thermal Runaway  Probe of GS Yuasa will continue for now, Shigeru Takano, a
director for air transportation in the ministry’s Civil Aviation
Bureau, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. The investigation will
continue “for the time being,” he said.  Japan may invite external exports for the battery check,
said Masahiro Kudo, an aircraft accident investigator for the
Japanese ministry’s transport safety board. Japan’s government
is considering sending more inspectors for the battery check.  The safety board will examine how the FAA and Boeing
certified the jet’s  lithium batteries , Hersman said.  “Were those certification standards adhered to and were
they appropriate?” she said. “These events should not happen.
As far as design of the aircraft, there are multiple systems to
protect against a battery event like this. Those systems did not
work as intended. We need to understand why.”  Clues teased from the battery haven’t shown why it caught
fire, Hersman said. She displayed a photo showing a melted metal
connection, indicating it had short circuited.  Finding Fix  The battery cells also entered a condition known as thermal
runaway, she said.  Thermal runaway occurs when the heat generated within a
battery builds up faster than it can dissipate, Dan Doughty,
retired manager of battery research and development at  Sandia 
National Laboratories in  Albuquerque , New Mexico, said in an
interview.  “When a cell goes into thermal runaway, you’ve lost
control,” he said.  It can lead to a fire or explosion in extreme cases,
Doughty said.  The safety board’s press conference was “politically
motivated and premature as there was little to report,” Stephen Levenson, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York, said
in a note. The probe into causes of the battery incidents should
conclude “in the short term,” he wrote.  Jeff Smisek,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s chief
executive officer, expressed confidence yesterday in the
Dreamliner. United, with six 787s, was the only U.S. airline
using the plane before the FAA action.  “The aircraft is a terrific aircraft and customers love
the plane,” Smisek said on a conference call with analysts.
“We too want to get the airplane up and flying safely. I’m
confident that will occur, but I don’t know when it will occur.
They will find a fix.”  Carol Carmody, former vice chairman of the NTSB, said
Hersman’s tone was warranted under the circumstances.  “The potential for fire on an aircraft, especially for one
that is flying overseas, is very, very serious,” Carmody said.
“And the fact that there have been two instances is of
concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  