-- Bovespa-Index Futures Fall After Brazil Cuts Power Rates Further
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-24T11:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/bovespa-index-futures-fall-after-brazil-cuts-power-rates-further.html
Bovespa (IBOV)  stock-index futures fell
after Brazil reduced energy costs more than previously announced
and policy makers said they will keep borrowing costs at a
record low even as inflation exceeds targets.  State-controlled electric utility  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  may be active as President  Dilma Rousseff  said
the cuts will pare power rates by as much as 32 percent compared
with a reduction of 28 percent she announced in September.
University operator  Estacio Participacoes SA (ESTC3)  may move after
raising as much as 768.7 million reais ($377.6 million) in a
share offering.  Bovespa-index  futures  declined less than 0.1 percent to
62,115 at 9:12 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real was little changed at
2.0363 per dollar.  The power rates reduction “means lower expenses for each
of you and for the country’s entire economy,” Rousseff said
late yesterday. “We will reduce costs for the productive
sector, which means more growth, more production, more jobs.”  The central bank board, led by Alexandre Tombini, kept the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 7.25 percent for a second
straight meeting on Jan. 16, matching the forecast of all 56
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Brazil will hold the benchmark
Selic steady for a “sufficiently prolonged” period, the
central bank said in minutes to that meeting released on its
website today.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.88
percent though mid-January, exceeding the 0.82 percent median
forecast of 38 economists, the national statistics agency said
yesterday.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern economic growth might miss
expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its advance to
18 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.5 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 11 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume of stocks in  Sao Paulo  yesterday was 5.9
billion reais, compared with a daily average of 7.25 billion
reais in 2012, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  