-- Bowie Beats Lady Gaga, Strokes, Adam Ant’s Rock Comeback
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-01-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/bowie-beats-lady-gaga-strokes-adam-ant-s-rock-comeback.html
David Bowie ’s dreamy single is the
first of many rock comebacks this spring.  Here’s a look at what’s coming up.  The Yeah Yeah Yeahs are set to have one of the best albums
-- with one of the worst covers. “Mosquito,” due April 16,
sports a picture of a baby gripped by a giant insect.  It’s been four years since the trio led by Karen O
delivered “ It’s Blitz !” -- my top CD of  2009 . The new material
is a mix of Siouxsie Sioux punk and electronic disco.  Fellow  New Yorkers  the Strokes will be back, starting with
a single, “All the Time.” The band has never matched the urgent
economy of its 2001 debut. We can but hope.  Lady Gaga has also lost some of her momentum. The cynics
are sneering that she isn’t a long-term Madonna-size superstar,
just a famous-for-a-few-years phenomenon like Cyndi Lauper.  While the lady herself is forecasting great things for her
“Artpop” CD, sources say it has a lot of work to be done and it
may slip back for some months. Watch this space.  On Feb. 5,  Ron Sexsmith  gives us an exceptional record with
a terrible punning title. “Forever Endeavour” follows the
likeable “Long Player Late Bloomer.” That title was a dry
comment on the Canadian singer-songwriter’s slow build since
1991. Rating: ****.  Johnny Marr has been playing guitar for even longer. After
rumors were shot down of a reunion of his 1980’s act, the
 Smiths , he has got around to making a solo CD.  “The Messenger” is out on Feb. 26. A single, “Upstarts,”
shows he’s trying hard as a front man, if lacking any of
Morrissey’s  charisma . Rating: ***.  Atoms for Peace, a “supergroup” of members of Radiohead and
the Red Hot Chili Peppers, releases “Amok” on Feb. 26 after
several years working together. An edgy taster track, “Default,”
is graced by Thom Yorke’s distinctive whine. The best thing to
say is that it will appeal to fans of Thom Yorke. Rating: **.  No need to wait for the best new thing so far in 2013, from
the British band Everything Everything. “Arc” is an impressive
piece of indie-pop, warning darkly of the dangers of technology
and “something not right” with the world. Rating: ****.  Like Bowie, Adam Ant is another singer we thought we’d
never hear from again. His low point came when he was sent to a
psychiatric hospital in 2002 after an incident involving an
imitation firearm.  He’s back, not exactly madder than ever, and as eccentric
as they come. The title gives some idea: “Adam Ant Is the
Blueblack Hussar in Marrying the Gunner’s Daughter.” Starting
with the demented “Cool Zombie,” the 17 tracks are strewn with
tribal drums and glam-rock fireworks. It’s all too cool for
school and makes no sense at all. Rating: **.  Bowie made some of the best rock of the 1970s. He doesn’t
need to do any more, so it’s good to have him back after years
of speculation of ill health. The downbeat  66th-birthday  single
“Where Are We Now?” (rating ***) got his highest chart placing
since “Absolute Beginners” in 1986.  The warm reaction has more to do with affection for Bowie
than enthusiasm for this song, which has quiet beauty though
it’s hardly a match for “Life on Mars.”  The album “The Next Day,” out on March 12, was two years in
the making. Its producer  Tony Visconti  has been talking it up
and he’s not the sort of guy to do so if it wasn’t good. With a
retrospective at  London ’s V&A, we can expect Bowie mania for
months.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 