-- BOX Exchange Seeks OK for 1,000-Share Options on S&P 500 ETF
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-01-24T21:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/box-exchange-seeks-ok-for-thousand-share-options-on-s-p-500-etf.html
BOX Options Exchange, owned by the
operator of the Toronto stock market and seven brokers, asked
regulators for permission to trade so-called jumbo contracts on
the most active exchange-traded fund.  The Chicago-based exchange plans to trade contracts based
on 1,000 shares of the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , according to its
 request . Most contracts are based on 100 shares. BOX’s offering
would be roughly the same size as Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
 options , which trade exclusively on the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange . The jumbo options could be traded on any venue if the
Securities and Exchange Commission approves the contract.  The initiative comes as exchanges are preparing to trade
mini options on five securities that are more than $100,
including the S&P 500 ETF, Google Inc. and Apple Inc., to cater
to individual investors more likely to speculate or hedge
positions with contracts based on 10 shares. The SEC has
recognized that contracts based on a different number of shares
make sense for different segments of the trading industry,
according to Edward Boyle, senior vice president of strategy for
BOX Options.  “It’s a product for which we’ve had demand from
institutions,” Boyle said in a phone interview. “Institutions
demand a higher notional value per contract than the current SPY
offers,” he said, referring to the ticker symbol for the  S&P
500  ETF. “It will also be price-competitive since it will be
available for multiple listing on all exchanges.”  BOX accounted for 3.6 percent of options volume last year,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based OCC, which clears
and settles all equity derivatives trades. Industry volume fell
12 percent to 4 billion contracts last year, compared with a
record 4.56 billion that changed hands in 2011, OCC  said .  Previous Efforts  Efforts to trade options tied to a larger number of shares
have fizzled in the past. The  American Stock Exchange  offered
contracts based on 1,000 shares of the  SPDR S&P MidCap 400 ETF
Trust (MDY)  in the late 1990s, according to Michael Bickford, who was
senior vice president for options at Amex before  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
bought it in 2008. The so-called grand options weren’t popular
and were de-listed around 2000, he said in a phone interview.
They traded on what is now known as NYSE Amex Options alongside
S&P MidCap 400 ETF contracts based on 100 shares.  Since then the options business has changed. Most options
are now listed on multiple exchanges and can be traded on any
venue. New rules oversee electronic linkages among markets and
dictate how orders must be handled by an exchange.  ‘More Demand’  “In 2013 there’s significantly more demand for options
than in the late 1990s,” said Bickford, a principal at TYJS
Group LLC, a consulting firm in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey .
“There’s more of an audience for options in general and there’s
more institutional demand than there was back then.”  Boyle joined BOX this month after working at Chicago-based
Getco LLC. Before joining the automated trading firm in early
2011 he was head of the U.S. options business at NYSE Euronext.  BOX Chief Executive Officer Anthony McCormick said last
month the exchange planned to introduce products for
institutional investors and would consider starting a second
options market. It may also sell stakes to brokers and financial
firms, he said. In addition to Toronto-based TMX Group Ltd., BOX
Holdings Group LLC’s owners include  Interactive Brokers Group
Inc. (IBKR) , a market maker and brokerage firm.  Institutions often prefer larger-size contracts like S&P
500 Index options that enable them to buy or sell bigger
positions without signaling their intentions and moving the
market. Options for a larger notional size may have wider bid-
ask spreads than similar regular-size contracts.  ‘Large Blocks’  Institutional investors such as mutual and pension funds
“would benefit from the introduction and availability of jumbo
SPY options by making options on large blocks of the SPY ETF
more available,” BOX said in its filing.  The strike prices, or levels at which a contract can
profitably be converted into shares in the underlying ETF, and
the bids and offers will be the same for the jumbo and regular-
size contracts to limit investor confusion, BOX said, and the
larger product would use the symbol SPYJ.  The Philadelphia Stock Exchange, now owned by  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  asked  the SEC for permission to trade jumbo options
on the S&P 500 ETF in 2008. The contracts would have been
European-style options, which meant they could be exercised only
on their date of expiration. Most U.S. options are American-
style and can be exercised at any time before they expire. The
exchange withdrew the request without citing a reason.  NYSE Amex Options  asked  the SEC in 2010 if it could trade
contracts based on 1,000 shares of four ETFs. In addition to the
S&P 500 ETF, it sought to allow jumbo options on the PowerShares
QQQ Trust, which tracks the performance of the Nasdaq 100 Index;
 iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund (IWM) ; and SPDR Dow Jones Industrial
Average ETF Trust.  Position Limits  The exchange also asked the SEC to end limits on the size
of positions traders could amass in those ETFs. Position limits,
introduced to prevent manipulation of the underlying security,
were eliminated for the most-active index options that settle
for cash, such as those on the S&P 500 and  Russell 2000 , in the
2000s. The SEC  ended  position limits for the S&P 500 ETF, which
settles into shares in the underlying ETF, in August.  Wolverine Trading LLC, a Chicago-based broker, supported
NYSE Amex and  asked  the SEC to approve the filing in 2010.  CBOE urged the SEC in a  letter  that year to reject NYSE
Amex’s proposal or require “substantial alteration.” Granting
the request would have allowed some products to avoid so-called
price-protection rules for products on the same ETF with a
different number of underlying shares and would produce investor
confusion, it said. CBOE also said the SEC had rejected a
similar request it had made for a contract based on a different
number of shares for an index option it already traded.  Other Plans  Amex withdrew its proposal in 2011. It doesn’t charge firms
such as mutual funds classified as customers a trading fee when
they buy or sell S&P 500 ETF options, according to an e-mail
from Steve Crutchfield, head of US options at NYSE Euronext.  The  International Securities Exchange , the industry’s first
all-electronic venue, submitted a  proposal  last March to trade
options on what it called the ISE Max SPY Index, designed to be
10 times the value of the underlying benchmark. The request
generated several rounds of positive and negative  letters ,
including six from CBOE objecting to the plan. An Illinois court
said the contract would violate an injunction against ISE
offering a product based on the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)  ISE  withdrew  the
proposal in November.  BOX’s proposed jumbo S&P 500 ETF contract would be a
separate product from the regular-size version and therefore
price-protection rules would not apply across the related
contracts, the exchange told the SEC in its filing. Arbitrage
opportunities between the products would keep their respective
prices in line with each other, it said. The specifications for
the new contracts differ from those Amex suggested in 2010.  Mini Options  While discussion of jumbo options may heat up again, the
industry is preparing for mini options on five products
including the S&P 500 ETF and SPDR Gold Trust, Apple, Google and
Amazon.com Inc. The smaller-size contracts will start trading
across exchanges on  March 18 .  Concerns about a two-tiered market in which the regular-
size and larger options have different prices no longer apply
since the SEC has approved mini contracts that raise similar
issues relative to products overlying 100 shares, Boyle said.  “SPYJ will have a different market on the screen just like
minis likely will have a different market than the regular-size
options,” Boyle said. “The exact same argument about pricing
holds true for minis and the SEC has approved them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 