-- Brain Tumor Gene Finding May Point Way to Precision Drug
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-01-24T16:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/brain-tumor-gene-finding-may-point-way-to-precision-drug.html
Scientists at Harvard Medical School
have spotted DNA mutations linked to a common brain tumor that
more often affects women, in a study that may pave the way for
treating the sometimes fatal disease with drugs targeting genes
that spur its growth.  Using gene sequencing machines to scan the tumors that had
been removed from 65 patients with meningioma, the researchers
found nine with mutations in growth promoting genes that are
targeted by cancer drugs already in testing or on the market.
The findings, published this week in  Nature Genetics , may offer
hope to patients with meningioma tumors found in locations in
the brain that make surgery risky or impossible.  “The wonderful thing about those mutations is that there
are already drugs in the clinic to target cancers with those
mutations,” said  Rameen Beroukhim , an oncologist and cancer
researcher at Boston-based Harvard Medical School and the Dana-
Farber Cancer Institute who was senior author on the study, in a
statement.  Each year about 18,000 Americans get meningioma, a tumor of
the membrane lining of the brain, said Beroukhim, accounting for
one  third  of brain tumors. Meningioma is twice as common in
women, for reasons that aren’t fully clear, researchers said.
While most cases can be cured with surgery, the disease can be
fatal when it recurs or grows in locations where full surgical
removal is impossible, such as near the skull base.  There are no approved drugs for the disease, Beroukhim said
via telephone. “We very badly need new treatments,” for these
patients, he said.  Mutations Identified  In the study, three of the meningioma tumors had mutations
in a growth-driving gene called SMO. Meanwhile, six of the
tumors had mutations another growth promoter called AKT1 or
another related gene called MTOR.  SMO is targeted by the skin cancer drug  Erivedge  from  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , now approved for treating advanced basal cell
carcinoma. Roche currently isn’t testing the basal cell cancer
drug in meningioma but might consider doing so in the future,
said Krysta Pellegrino, a spokeswoman for the company, which is
based in Basel, Switzerland  “The data in the study are very interesting,” said
Pellegrino in an e-mail.  Merck & Co. has an experimental drug for solid tumors
called MK-2206 that blocks AKT in second stage trials. “It is
premature to speculate” whether the company might test the
compound in meningioma, said Caroline Lappetito, a spokeswoman
for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck.  The findings are the first to suggest that drugs already on
laboratory shelves might help people with advanced cases of
meningioma who have one of the newly identified mutations, said
Beroukhim, who is also affiliated with the  Broad Institute of
MIT and Harvard .  “The hope is that patients with the mutations may respond
to these drugs,” he said in a telephone interview. While
patient trials of targeted drugs in meningioma could begin in a
year, it is too early to know which drugs might be used in such
trials, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ; 