-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Inflation Outlook; Real Strengthens
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-24T20:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-inflation-outlook-real-little-changed.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed to a
two-month high after the central bank said the outlook for
inflation is worsening in the “short term,” fueling bets
policy makers will raise borrowing costs to contain prices.  Swap rates due in January 2015 increased 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 7.96 percent, the highest level on
a closing basis since Nov. 23. The real appreciated 0.2 percent
to 2.0310 per dollar.  While minutes of the central bank’s most recent meeting
repeated that the target lending rate will stay at a record low
7.25 percent for a “sufficiently prolonged period,” policy
makers’ decision to highlight inflation shows there is a chance
borrowing costs may be increased, according to Marcelo Fonseca,
an economist at M. Safra & Co. in  Sao Paulo .  “The central bank recognized a deterioration in inflation
expectations, though saying the problem is short-term,” Fonseca
said in a telephone interview. “The bank is saying it will
maintain rates, but if inflation becomes permanent and not just
short-term, perhaps it will have to raise them.”  Investors expectations for annual consumer prices plunged
29 basis points today to 5.45 percent, according to the so-
called breakeven rate for 2015.  Annual inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent in December from
a year earlier after increasing 5.53 percent in the prior
period, the national statistics agency reported Jan. 10.  The IPCA-15  consumer price index  increased 0.88 percent in
the month through mid-January, compared with 0.69 percent in the
prior period, the national statistics agency reported yesterday.
The highest forecast of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a 0.86 percent advance.  Electricity Costs  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  announced in a televised
address last night that the country will lower energy costs this
year more than the government previously announced and make the
cuts effective today as part of an effort to slow inflation.
Reductions were previously planned for next month.  The president said the cuts today will pare consumers’
power costs by 18 percent and those for industry by 32 percent
compared with the reductions of 16.2 percent and 28 percent she
had announced in September.  Even with the deeper electricity cuts, inflation will
quicken by midyear toward 6.5 percent, the ceiling of the
central bank’s target range, Enestor Dos Santos, an economist at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said by e-mail.  Economic Outlook  While  Dos Santos  said weak growth and the use of other
tools to control prices will allow the central bank to hold
rates stable this year, he added that quickening inflation and a
change in policy makers’ tone “practically closed the door to a
rate cut and triggered talks about an upward adjustment.”  The economy expanded an estimated 1 percent last year,
according to central bank estimates, down from 2.7 percent in
2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010.  The central bank board held the benchmark  interest rate  at
7.25 percent on Jan. 16 for a second straight meeting. Slower-
than-expected domestic economic activity is due to “supply
limitations” and can’t be addressed by monetary policy, the
central bank said in its minutes.  “Between the lines of the central bank minutes was a
signal or recognition that imports play an important role in the
supply and demand balance, and there is a need for the real to
appreciate,” Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes Filho, an economist
at Franklin Templeton Investments, said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo.  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The currency has rallied 1.9 percent since Dec. 20, when
Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic
policy, said officials consider an exchange rate of 2.05 as more
“adequate” when creating economic forecasts than 2.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  