-- Brazil Says Monetary Policy Not Best Tool to Lift Growth Now
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-01-24T15:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/brazil-says-monetary-policy-not-best-tool-to-lift-growth-now-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank said
additional  monetary policy  stimulus will fail to boost economic
growth that is recovering more slowly than expected due to
limited supply. Swap rates rose.  Policy makers, in the minutes to their Jan. 15-16 meeting
published today, said the balance of risks for inflation has
worsened and reiterated that the best policy for bringing
consumer price increases to the 4.5 percent target is to keep
rates at a record low for a “sufficiently prolonged period.”  While inflation is slowing in Mexico and  Chile , price
pressures are building in Brazil as demand remains robust amid
record low  interest rates  and unemployment. At the same time, a
contraction in investment and industrial output is offsetting
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to revive the slowest growth
in three years by stimulating consumption.  The central bank “considers that the recovery of domestic
economic activity, which is slower than expected, is essentially
due to supply limitations,” the minutes said. “Given their
nature, these impediments cannot be addressed by monetary
policy, which is by definition an instrument to control
demand.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 7.94 percent at 12:40 p.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.0326 per  U.S. dollar .  Improve Productivity  Brazil should focus on measures that will help boost
output, given demand “continues to grow at very dynamic
rates,” central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in  Davos
yesterday, according to an audiotape circulated by his press
office.  The bank’s board, led by Tombini, voted unanimously in
January to hold the benchmark Selic rate at 7.25 percent for the
second straight meeting. While the bank estimates Brazil’s $2.5
trillion economy grew 1 percent last year, the slowest among
major  emerging markets , policy makers kept borrowing costs
steady as food price shocks and consumer demand caused  inflation 
to accelerate faster than economists’ forecasts for the seventh
straight month through mid-January..  “The minutes reinforce the idea that rates are going
nowhere for the time being,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging
markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd, said in an interview
from  London .  It’s Time  Tombini is saying that the central bank has done what it
could to boost growth and now it’s time for measures to raise
productivity of Brazilian companies, Shearing said from London.  While investments remain fragile due to increased
uncertainty and a slow recovery in confidence, domestic demand
will continue to be fueled by low interest rates, moderate
credit expansion, government social spending and a tight labor
market, the central bank said in today’s minutes.  Rousseff today implemented energy price cuts to consumers
and industry that were deeper and took effect earlier than
expected in a move to increase competitiveness and tame
inflation.  The government has also cut taxes on payrolls and consumer
goods, eased  reserve requirements  for banks that provide credit
for capital goods investment and announced plans to attract
billions of reais in infrastructure investments. So far, the
world’s sixth-largest economy has responded unevenly to the
stimulus measures.  Capital Goods  Retail sales in November increased for the sixth straight
month and grew 8.4 percent over the same period last year, while
industrial production in November fell for the second time in
three months on lower capital goods investments. Analysts
covering Brazil have cut their 2013 growth forecasts in 9 of the
last 10 weeks, to 3.19 percent, according to the latest weekly
central bank survey.  Inflation quickened to 6.02 percent through  mid-January ,
the national statistics agency said yesterday. Annualized
consumer price increases have exceeded the central bank’s target
for the last 29 months.  “Inflation remains under control,” Tombini said yesterday
in Davos. “Inflation is resilient in the short-run. In the
second half of the year, it will begin its convergence” to the
4.5 percent target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  