-- Bright Horizons Surges in Debut After IPO Prices Above Range
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-01-25T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/bright-horizons-raises-222-million-pricing-ipo-above-range.html
Bright Horizons Family Solutions
Inc., the provider of child-care services to clients such as
Pfizer Inc. and Starbucks Corp., surged in its debut after
raising $222 million in an initial public offering.  The shares advanced 29 percent to $28.32 as of 4 p.m. in
 New York . Bright Horizons sold 10.1 million for $22 each,
according to a statement. The Watertown, Massachusetts-based
company earlier offered them for $19 to $21.  Today’s closing price gives Bright Horizons an enterprise
value of $2.49 billion, or about 17 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months
through September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with about 20 times for  WageWorks Inc. (WAGE) , the human-
resources services provider to large corporations that went
public last year, the data show.  Bright Horizons is seeking to harness the increasing need
for companies to provide child-care services to employees as
about 64 percent of mothers with children under the age of 6
participate in the workforce, Chief Executive Officer David Lissy said in an online video of an IPO road show presentation.
With about five times the market share of its next-largest
competitor in a fragmented industry, Bright Horizons plans to
use small acquisitions to help expand, Lissy said.  Bain Capital  Bain Capital  LLC, which took Bright Horizons private in a
2008 leveraged buyout, will own 80 percent of the company’s
common stock after the IPO, a stake worth $1.46 billion at
today’s close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more than double the $640 million equity investment Bain made in
the buyout, which was completed in May 2008. The Boston-based
private-equity firm didn’t plan to offer stock in the IPO.  Ebitda at Bright Horizons in the year through Sept. 30
totaled $149.9 million, regulatory filings and data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sales (BFAM)  in the nine months through September
increased 10 percent from a year earlier to $797.5 million.  WageWorks, the  San Mateo , California-based company that
helps people set aside pretax wages to pay for health-care and
commuting expenses and counts Fortune 100 companies such as Ford
Motor Co. and Morgan Stanley among its clients, had an
enterprise value of $343 million and Ebitda of $17.6 million in
the 12 months through June 30, according to its regulatory
filings. The stock has more than doubled since its May debut.  Child-care companies that Bright Horizons names as
competitors in its filings, such as  Portland , Oregon-based
Knowledge Universe Education LLC and Children’s Choice Learning
Centers Inc. of Richardson,  Texas , aren’t publicly traded.  Bright Horizons is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol BFAM. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Barclays Plc led the offering, in which about 16
percent of the company’s shares were sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  