-- Bristol-Myers Tops Profit Estimates on Tax Benefit
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-24T21:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/bristol-myers-tops-profit-estimates-on-tax-benefit.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s fourth-
quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates after the company took
a tax benefit from a hepatitis C drug that failed last year.  Profit, excluding one-time items, was 47 cents a share, 5
cents more than the average of 15 analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. The earnings included an $83 million tax benefit
the company recorded from Inhibitex Inc., acquired in 2012 for
the hepatitis C drug that later was abandoned after patients
suffered heart ailments in studies. Bristol-Myers lowered its
full-year forecast to match what analysts had been projecting.  “We think 2013 guidance will be viewed as far more
important to investors than the fourth-quarter results,” said
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group Inc. in  New York .
“The ’main event’ for the year is clearly Eliquis sales. If
Eliquis ’beats’ then the stock should do reasonably well in
2013,” he said in a note to clients today.  Eliquis is the potential blockbuster blood thinner New
York-based Bristol-Myers developed with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  U.S.
regulators approved the drug in December, and it’s a key part of
Bristol-Myers’ portfolio to move past last year’s loss of sales
exclusivity for former top medicine Plavix, an anti-stroke
medication that sold $7.09 billion in 2011.  Bristol-Myers rose 2.6 percent to $35.81 at the close in
New York. The  stock  has gained 11 percent during the 12 months.  Transition Year  Chief Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti called 2012 a
transition year for Bristol-Myers as it turns to new products
such as its skin-cancer drug Yervoy. The company has “continued
to build the post-Plavix portfolio and operating structure that
provide a solid foundation for our future growth,” he said in a
statement announcing the financial results.  Sales growth may have to wait past 2013, which the company
projected as another year of declining results. Bristol-Myers
reduced the 2013  forecast  it gave two years ago to $1.78 a share
to $1.88 a share, after promising at least $1.95. The forecast
was in line with Wall Street’s lower estimates.  The company said its 2013  tax rate  would be 16 percent. The
8 percentage point drop compared with the 2012 rate is primarily
for three reasons: a U.S. research and development tax credit of
2.5 percentage points; the decline of Plavix sales in the U.S.,
which are taxed at a higher rate than overseas sales; and a
“legal restructuring,” said Chief Financial Officer Charles Bancroft. After the research and development tax credit expires
next year, Bristol-Myers taxes will rise to about 17 percent or
18 percent, Bancroft said.  Aggressive Effort  Analysts called the rates aggressive. “At the guided
level, the 2013 tax rate is now well below any other drug name
we cover,” said  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. The low tax rate made up for what the company is
projecting will be higher costs, said Schoenebaum. Both analysts
questioned whether the projected rate will be sustainable past
2013.  Bristol-Myers also predicted annual sales of $16.2 billion
to $17 billion, compared with analysts’ estimates of $16.6
billion.  The company has made strides to prepare for life without
Plavix. Eliquis may provide $1 billion in sales next year, to be
split by Bristol-Myers and Pfizer, said  Jeff Jonas , an investor
with Gabelli & Co. in New York who owns shares of Bristol-Myers.  Potential Sales  “As you go out a couple years, $2 billion or $3 billion is
reasonable,” he said in a telephone interview. And the company
has said it may still gain U.S. approval for the diabetes
therapy Forxiga, which was rejected last January.  Net income  rose to $925 million, or 56 cents a share, from
$852 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier, the drugmaker said.
Fourth-quarter  sales  fell 23 percent from a year earlier to
$4.19 billion, higher than the $4.14 billion estimated by
analysts. Sales of Plavix have almost disappeared, falling 97
percent to $49 million.  Bristol-Myers reduced costs. Total expenses fell 4.7
percent, including a 26 percent cut in advertising and product
promotion from no longer actively pushing the anti-stroke drug.  The outlook begins to look better in 2014 for the
drugmaker, said Anderson of Sanford C. Bernstein. “The company
is likely to have growth that finally starts to accelerate from
2013, driven by new product launches and the annualization of
certain big patent losses” including Plavix, Anderson said in a
Jan. 21 note to clients. Much of investors’ focus is on the
company’s experimental treatments and new products, he said.  Future Products  Despite the failure of the Inhibitex drug for hepatitis C,
gained in a $2.5 billion acquisition, Bristol-Myers has a backup
regimen of pills now in clinical trials. Among its top prospects
is an oncology medicine that could be used in lung, kidney and
skin cancers. The drug, called BMS-936558, blocks an immune-
system switch in the cancer cells that would otherwise shield
them from the body’s natural defenses.  The therapy is in the last of three stages of clinical
trials usually needed for U.S. regulatory approval. It could
sell $675 million a year by 2016,  Jami Rubin , an analyst with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a note to clients.  The company plans to present new data on the drug at the
American Society of Clinical Oncologists meeting this summer,
said Chief Science Officer Elliott Sigal. It’s also looking for
bio-markers to better target the drug to the right patient.  Bristol-Myers also will continue to see the growth of
Yervoy, a treatment for malignant melanoma that was approved in
2011. Fourth-quarter sales of the drug increased 47 percent to
$211 million. Abilify, an anti-psychotic that is now Bristol-
Myers’s top drug, saw sales grow 11 percent to $819 million in
the quarter. Sales of Reyataz, used to treat the viral infection
HIV, fell 5 percent to $394 million.  The company had taken a $1.8 billion charge in the third
quarter as a result of ending development of the hepatitis C
drug gained in the Inhibitex acquisition. Bristol-Myers also has
reached a settlement with patients injured during trials of the
medicine, said  Jennifer Mauer , a company spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  