-- Westerners Urged to Leave Benghazi on ‘Imminent’ Threat
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-01-24T19:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/britons-urged-to-leave-benghazi-libya-by-foreign-office.html
The British, German and Dutch
governments urged their citizens to leave the Libyan city of
Benghazi citing a threat to Westerners.  “We are now aware of a specific and imminent threat to
Westerners in Benghazi and urge any British nationals who remain
there” to leave immediately, the Foreign Office said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Germany ’s Foreign Ministry said on its  website  that there
is “an immediate concrete threat for Western nationals in
Benghazi” and “urgently asks all German citizens to leave the
city and the region.” Dutch citizens were also advised “not to
stay in this area,” Thijs van Son, a Hague-based Netherlands
Foreign Ministry spokesman, said by phone today.  The U.S. State Department said continues to advise against
travel to Benghazi, although it is not aware of a specific
threat against Americans there.  “Although there is no specific information pointing to
specific, imminent threats against U.S. citizens, the potential
for violence and kidnappings targeting Westerners in Benghazi is
significant,” according to an “emergency message for U.S.
citizens” posted today on the  website  of the U.S. embassy in
Tripoli.  The Jan. 16 al-Qaeda-linked attack on a gas plant partly
run by  BP Plc (BP/)  in southern  Algeria  resulted in the deaths of at
least 38 foreign hostages. The 32 terrorists were all wearing
Libyan uniforms, Algeria’s privately run Ennahar television said
on its website last week, citing unidentified Algerian
officials.  ‘Fully Prepared’  Libya is reinforcing security at oil and gas installations
following the attack.  “We must be fully prepared for any emergency,” Colonel
Ahmed Al-Kabasha, a senior commander of the Defense Ministry’s
petroleum facility guards, said in a statement carried by
Libya’s state-run LANA news agency yesterday.  Most Western countries have advised citizens not to travel
to Benghazi since September, when U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens
and three colleagues were killed by gunmen during a Sept. 11
attack on the American consulate in the city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  