-- Buffett Reaps Gains as USG to Eagle Build on Housing Rally
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-24T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/buffett-reaps-gains-as-usg-to-eagle-build-on-u-s-housing-rally.html
Building-supply stocks such as  USG
Corp. (USG) , in which  Warren Buffett  holds a 16 percent stake, and
 Eagle Materials Inc. (EXP)  that more than doubled last year are poised
to rise further as the U.S. housing market extends its recovery.  “We’re in the early stages of what we think is a long-
term, multiyear recovery in housing,” said  Philip Orlando ,
chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc. “You
have a tremendous amount of catch-up that’s going to drive the
next five or 10 years.”  USG, the drywall maker with Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. as the biggest shareholder, and Eagle Materials  continue to
climb  after surging in 2012 as homebuilding rebounded on pent-up
demand and low mortgage rates. The December new-home sales rate
may be the highest since April 2010, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a Commerce
Department report tomorrow.  That continuing recovery, along with a remodeling market
growing as  unemployment  drops, rebuilding from superstorm Sandy
and rising prices for construction materials, will propel the
stocks, said  Orlando . His Pittsburgh-based firm owns USG, Eagle
Materials, insulation maker  Owens Corning  and other housing-
related shares such as Miami-based builder  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   Housing starts  reached 780,000 last year, still only about
half the annual average of 1.47 million since 1959, the earliest
year for Commerce Department data, and a fraction of 2005’s 2.1
million. As they keep climbing from 2009’s low of 554,000,
materials makers probably will have to boost production.  ‘Ridiculously Strong’  Housing tipped the U.S. into its deepest  recession  in six
decades at the end of 2007 after a building bubble fueled by
risky mortgages burst. Contrary to what occurred in past
economic recoveries, it has been one of the last industries to
rebound. In 2012, companies such as Chicago-based USG and cement
maker  Texas Industries Inc. (TXI)  began to post operating profits
after years of losses, boosting the shares.  “2012 was almost ridiculously strong, but it really hadn’t
participated in the first 2 1/2 years of a  bull market ,” said
 Michael Shaoul , chairman and chief executive officer of
Marketfield Asset Management LLC in  New York , which owns shares
of USG and Dallas-based Eagle Materials. “The upside leverage
in that sector is significant.”  USG fell 0.8 percent to $29.35 at the close in New York and
has gained 4.6 percent this year, compared with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index’s 4.8 percent increase. Eagle Materials climbed
1.2 percent to $65.19 and has risen 11 percent for the year.  Buffett Stake  The value of Buffett’s USG stake of 17.1 million shares
climbed to $479 million last year as the stock almost tripled to
its highest  year-end close  since 2007.  Buffett predicted a housing recovery in 2011 and has long
invested in housing-related companies. Berkshire has held USG
shares since at least 2000 and is the  biggest investor  in  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender. Berkshire’s Acme
Brick unit in 2011 bought Montgomery, Alabama-based Jenkins
Brick Co.  Makers of wallboard, roofing shingles, insulation and door
trim are cautious about increasing capacity even as signs point
to a sustained recovery in homebuilding, said Mike Wood, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York. That’s because a
predicted industry rebound had been slow to materialize since
the 2009 low in housing starts.  “The pricing story is going to be the main area that helps
drive stocks in 2013,” Wood said. “Even though capacity
utilization is weak, it’s improving and that’s giving some
producers pricing power.”  Higher Prices  USG’s third-quarter average price for wallboard rose 18
percent to $131.97 a thousand square feet from $111.66 a year
earlier, the company said in an Oct. 18 earnings report.
Wallboard producers have sent letters to customers discussing
price increases of 25 percent this year, Robert Denk, a senior
economist at the Washington-based  National Association of Home
Builders , said in a telephone interview.  Makers of plywood, roofing materials and insulation are all
seeking to raise prices, Denk said. The cost of lumber and
plywood climbed 11 percent in 2012 and insulation materials rose
5.1 percent, according to  Associated General Contractors of
America , an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group.  Homebuilders have difficulty resisting the increases
because 80 percent of them produce fewer than 25 houses a year,
while buying materials from a limited number of large makers,
Denk said. Builders will step up their pace gradually to a
sustainable level of 1.4 million starts a year, he said.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “There will be upward pressure on material prices as the
housing market recovery gains momentum,” Denk said.  With  mortgage rates  near a record low, there’s room for
homebuilders to pass along rising material costs to buyers,
Shaoul said. The average rate for a U.S. 30-year fixed mortgage
was 3.47 percent as of Jan. 22, according to Bankrate.com data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 5.59
percent during the housing boom period from 2003 through 2006.  Price increases and higher sales volumes are helping
building-materials companies return to profit. Owens Corning,
based in Toledo,  Ohio , reported a third-quarter profit for its
insulation unit that was the first in four years.  The cement unit of Dallas-based Texas Industries posted
operating earnings of $6.1 million for its quarter ended Nov.
30, compared with a loss of $5.4 million a year earlier. USG had
operating profit of $81 million for the first nine months last
year after a loss of $163 million a year earlier.  Rising employment and low  interest rates  are also
contributing to jump-start home repair and remodeling, which had
been stalled since the recession, said Kathryn Thompson, a
founder of Thompson Research Group in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “Just as it was a multiyear downturn, this is going to be
a multiyear uptick,” she said in a telephone interview.  Building-materials shares such as USG and Eagle Materials
that more than doubled in 2012 won’t repeat those gains this
year, though they “are still going to outperform” the  S&P 500 (SPX) ,
said Orlando, the Federated Investors equity strategist.  “If you can get a stock that’s doing 20, 25 or 30 percent,
you’re crushing it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  