-- California Sued for Allegedly Failing to Regulate Fracking
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-25T00:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/california-sued-for-allegedly-failing-to-regulate-fracking-1-.html
California was sued for allegedly
failing to regulate and supervise hydraulic fracturing by oil
and gas companies under the state’s underground injection
control program.  The Center For Biological Diversity, a Tucson, Arizona-
based environmental group, said in a complaint filed in state
court in Oakland today that the program requires the state to
obtain detailed studies, conduct inspections and supervise
testing before any subsurface injection or disposal project can
begin.  “Despite these statutory and regulatory mandates, and
despite the fact that hydraulic fracturing clearly constitutes
‘injection,’” the oil and gas division of California’s
Department of Conservation “follows a pattern and practice  of
allowing hydraulic fracturing to occur without notice, tracking
or supervision,” according to the complaint.  Hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, involves forcing
millions of gallons of chemically treated water underground to
break up rock and free trapped natural gas. The practice has
sparked environmental concerns and lawsuits across the U.S.  The Center for Biological Diversity has a pending lawsuit
against California, the nation’s third-largest oil-producing
state, seeking to block approval of new oil and gas wells
because regulators have allegedly failed to consider or evaluate
the risks of the practice.  The lawsuit filed today seeks court orders declaring the
conservation department to be in violation of state laws and
prohibiting fracking of oil and gas wells that violate state
underground injection rules.  Draft Regulations  California regulators will require oil and natural gas
companies to disclose plans to use fracking 10 days in advance,
under draft regulations released in December. If the rules are
adopted, the division of oil, gas and geothermal resources will
post public notice of well locations three days before
fracturing begins. The state doesn’t currently require companies
to reveal fracking plans.  Proposing new rules “is the first step to engage the
environmental community, the oil and gas industry, fellow
regulators and the public at large in a discussion of what the
state’s hydraulic fracturing-specific regulations ought to
include,” California Department of Conservation Chief Deputy
Director Jason Marshall said in an e-mail.  The department is aware of the lawsuit, said Marshall,
declining to comment on it.  The case is Center for Biological Diversity v.
California, RG13664534, California Superior Court, Alameda
County (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  