-- Cameron Says Referendum Won’t Hurt U.K. Economy
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-01-24T16:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cameron-says-referendum-uncertainty-won-t-hurt-u-k-economy-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the potential uncertainty surrounding a four-year debate over
the U.K.’s membership of the European Union won’t undermine his
economy’s appeal to global business.  “The arguments for investing in the U.K. are the same,”
Cameron said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Francine Lacqua today at the World Economic Forum annual meeting
in Davos,  Switzerland . “Of course all paths that you take have
risks. But the greatest risk of all is to sit back rather than
engage with this and change  Europe  in a positive way.”  Cameron, 46, pledged yesterday to put the question of the
U.K.’s role in the EU to a popular vote by the end of 2017, if
re-elected in two years and once he negotiates a return of some
powers to the U.K. He repeated today he wants his country to
remain in the EU.  Business leaders meeting in Davos, including  Peter Sands  of
Standard Chartered Plc and  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s Tidjane Thiam, have
urged the U.K. to remain within the 27-nation bloc for the good
of its economy. More than half of British exports went to EU
countries in 2011, the latest annual data available, and the
government says more than 3 million U.K. jobs rely on trade with
fellow members.  ‘Pretty Good’  Describing the response to his strategy as “pretty good,”
Cameron used the interview to highlight the U.K.’s economic
strengths, betting they will be enough to keep luring foreign
investment at a time when  the economy  is facing the threat of a
triple-dip recession. Among them: Its membership of the EU’s
single market, low tax rates and its own currency.  Official data tomorrow will probably show that gross
domestic product dropped 0.1 percent in the final quarter of
2102 from the three months through September, according to the
median of 38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The pound fell today to the weakest level in 11 months
versus the euro and was down 0.9 percent to 84.79 pence per euro
at 4:15 p.m.  London  time. The 10-year gilt yield rose two basis
points to 2.01 percent. U.K. stocks climbed for a second day,
extending the highest level for the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  since May
2008.  “What the business community wants is to know that there
is a plan,” the prime minister said. “A plan to reform the
European Union, to make it more open and flexible, and a plan to
make sure that Britain remains a part of that. That’s the plan
that we’ve set out.”  Cameron refused to say under what circumstances he would
urge the British people to vote to leave the EU.  ‘Positive Engagement’  “I don’t want to say no, I want to say yes,” he said. “I
go into a negotiation positive and optimistic that we can
achieve not just what we want for Britain, but what we want for
Europe. I don’t see this as a process of giving in or giving up.
I see this as a process of positive engagement.”  On taxation, he said he’ll use his chairmanship of the
Group of Eight leading industrial nations this year to push for
international cooperation to stop “aggressive  tax avoidance ”
by large companies.  “Britain is a low-tax country, I’m a low-tax
Conservative,” Cameron said. “But we’ve got to make sure that
when we have low taxes, people pay them. We do need to deal with
 tax evasion , but we also need to deal, not just as a country but
as an international community, with very aggressive tax
avoidance.”  Cameron’s decision to announce a referendum was attacked
again earlier today by his Liberal Democrat coalition partners.  ‘Part Company’  “Where, of course, David Cameron and I part company is I
simply don’t understand the point of spending years and years
and years tying yourself up in knots first, so-called
renegotiating the terms of Britain’s membership in ways that at
the moment at least are completely vague,” Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  said on his weekly phone-in show on London’s
LBC radio. “I think that discourages investment and inhibits
growth and jobs which has to remain our absolute priority.”  A letter to the  Times newspaper  signed by 55 leaders of
industry and London’s financial district welcomed the referendum
proposals as “good for business and good for jobs in Britain.”  The opposition  Labour Party  argued that Cameron’s position
on the EU will make Britain less attractive to foreign
investors.  “We have traditionally said, ‘come to Britain because it
is a favorable climate and you will have access to his huge
market,”’ a former Europe minister, Peter Hain, told BBC Radio
5 today. “Now we are on a road which could lead us out of
Europe and out of that market and that is a decision which is
going to affect investment.”  The premier’s fellow Conservatives were dismissive of
objections.  “It’s a bit much to talk about political uncertainty
introduced into the argument by Britain, when after all the euro
zone itself has been the single major cause of uncertainty and
instability in the global economy for the last few years,”
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  told Bloomberg Television’s  Ryan Chilcote  in an interview in Davos today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  