-- Cameron Says ‘Smell the Coffee’ as He Vows Tax Fight, Trade Push
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-24T11:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cameron-says-smell-the-coffee-as-he-vows-tax-fight-trade-push.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. will use its presidency of the Group of Eight this year
to press for a trade deal between the European Union and the
U.S. and a global crackdown against  tax evasion  and avoidance.  “We’re going to push for more openness on trade,” he told
the World Economic Forum today in Davos,  Switzerland . “The EU
and U.S. together make up nearly a third of all global trade.
Agreeing all the EU deals on the table could increase our GDP by
2 percent and create over 2 million jobs across the EU.”  The U.S. is the EU’s top customer. It bought 261 billion
euros ($348 billion) of European merchandise in 2011, 17 percent
of the total, according to European Commission data. The EU
imported 184 billion euros of goods from the U.S., 11 percent of
total imports. European leaders are also set to press for trade
pacts with  Canada  and  Japan  to invigorate the economy as the
debt crisis recedes, a document prepared for their next summit
shows.  Taking questions after his speech, Cameron said an EU-U.S.
agreement was “the first thing on my wish list” and urged his
business audience to lobby their politicians to support a deal.  On tax, an issue that has seen companies including
Amazon.com Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  summoned before
British lawmakers to explain their use of complex accounting
methods to reduce their tax liabilities in the U.K., Cameron
warned firms to “wake up and smell the coffee because the
public who buy from them have had enough.”  ‘Act Together’  With the  tax rate  on corporate profits set to fall to 21
percent in 2014 from 23 percent this year, companies that do
business in the U.K. are expected to pay their “fair share” of
tax, he said. He said the G-8 will explore whether countries can
“act together” to prevent international firms avoiding tax.  Cameron said  developing countries  were suffering because of
corruption and a lack of information about who owned what.  “So we’re going to push for more transparency on who owns
companies, on who’s buying up land and for what purpose, on how
governments spend their money, on how gas, oil and mining
companies operate, on who is hiding stolen assets and how we
recover and return them,” he said.  Speaking a day after promising British voters a referendum
by late 2017 on whether to stay in the EU on new terms or leave,
Cameron denied his policies risk putting off investors and said
he is pursuing a “resolutely pro-business” agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  