-- Cameron’s Office Defends Statement That U.K. ‘Paying Down’ Debts
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-24T12:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cameron-s-office-defends-statement-that-u-k-paying-down-debts.html
David Cameron ’s spokesman defended
the prime minister’s statement that the government was “paying
down Britain’s debts,” while confirming the burden will
continue to rise until 2016.  Cameron made the statement in a political advertisement
last night. “So though this government has had to make some
difficult decisions, we are making progress,” he said. “We’re
paying down Britain’s debts.”  Rachel Reeves, Treasury spokeswoman for the opposition
 Labour Party , wrote to Andrew Dilnot, chairman of the U.K.
Statistics Authority, which regulates the production and use by
politicians of government data, saying Cameron’s  Conservative
Party  “may be attempting to deliberately mislead the public.”  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, confirmed today
that net government debt isn’t forecast to fall as a share of
gross domestic product until the fiscal year beginning April
2016. “The point the prime minister was making is that it’s the
prime minister’s government that’s taking the difficult
decisions to deal with the economic crisis that the government
inherited, and we’re making progress towards that, with the
deficit down by a quarter,” he told reporters in  London  today.  Gray said that Cameron did know the difference between the
U.K.’s budget deficit, which has fallen from 11 percent of GDP
since the Conservative-led government took office in 2010, and
the total stock of debt, which had climbed to 70.7 percent of
GDP by the end of last year and is forecast by the  Office for
Budget Responsibility  to peak at 79.9 percent in 2015-16. “The
prime minister was being very clear,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  