-- Camp Plan Rewrites Derivatives Taxes With Mark-To-Market
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/camp-expands-mark-to-market-tax-treatment-of-derivatives.html
The top Republican tax writer in
Congress proposed revising rules governing derivatives,
replacing a complex system with a simpler one that quickly drew
objections from the financial industry.  Taxpayers holding derivatives would be required to mark
their holdings to market, under the discussion draft released
yesterday by Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee. They would recognize gains and losses
each year and pay taxes at ordinary income rates, regardless of
whether they dispose of the asset or close out the position.  Camp’s plan would reduce taxpayers’ opportunities to take
advantage of the disparate treatment in today’s tax code of
economically similar derivatives, said Steve Rosenthal, a
visiting fellow at the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in
Washington.  “Most politicians have shied away from tackling financial
products because of their wariness of the complexity” of the
issue, said Rosenthal, a former corporate tax lawyer who
specializes in taxation of financial transactions. “It’s a
pretty bold step and I think this idea is sensible. We’ll just
have to see how it plays out.”  The fate of Camp’s proposal is tied to the rest of his
efforts to overhaul the  tax code . He wants his committee to pass
a revenue-neutral rewrite of the individual and corporate tax
systems this year, and he’ll face the challenge of confronting
interest groups who want to keep their advantages and Democrats
who want code changes to raise more revenue.  ‘Radical’ Proposal  Camp’s draft is the most “radical” proposal in financial
products taxation since the income tax was created, said Viva Hammer of  Brandeis University  in Waltham,  Massachusetts , who was
responsible for financial products tax policy at the Treasury
Department from 2000 to 2006.  “It’s a revolutionary change,” she said in an interview.
“It really uproots the entire labyrinth of financial-products
rules and puts a single rule in its place.”  In a statement, Camp described his proposal as an attempt
to limit abuses and update the tax code to reflect the modern
financial system.  “The lack of consistent and comprehensive tax policy has
also contributed to some corporate scandals and the recent
financial crisis that devastated our economy and threatened our
standing in the global community,” said Camp, 59, of  Michigan .  Exempted Derivatives  The mark-to-market rule wouldn’t apply to derivatives used
in business transactions to hedge against risks related to
price, currency and interest rates. It also wouldn’t apply to
stocks or bonds.  Camp’s proposal also would repeal the current “60/40
rule” that allows some investors to treat 60 percent of their
earnings as long-term  capital gains , which get a preferential
rate. Under the proposal, profits and losses on derivatives
would be taxed as ordinary income.  As part of overhauling the tax code, Camp seeks to lower
rates on ordinary income and corporations. The impact of
repealing the 60/40 rule can’t be fully estimated until he sets
the tax rates. Under current law, the top rate on ordinary
income is 39.6 percent and the top rate on capital gains and
dividends is 23.8 percent.  Liquidity Issue  Mark-to-market taxation has some potential drawbacks, those
involved with the financial industry said, including questions
about how to define the value of the derivatives and liquidity
concerns that people will be taxed on money they don’t have.  “It doesn’t make any sense,” said Allan Zavarro, the
former global head of futures trading for ABN Amro Bank NV.  A trader could have a profit of $100,000 on interest-rate
futures in December that would get caught by the tax, he said.
When that position expires in June the next year, the position
ultimately may have lost money, though the trader paid the tax
as though he earned a return.  “You can be obligated for a tax on positions that aren’t
profitable,” he said.  The change would further complicate estimating the value of
derivatives that are less liquid or traded off of exchanges that
have standard prices, Andrea S. Kramer, a Chicago-based partner
and head of the financial products, trading and derivatives
group at law firm McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said in a
telephone interview.  Valuation Hard  “It’s very hard to determine fair-market value for
derivatives products,” said Kramer, who testified at a joint
hearing of the Ways and Means and Senate Finance committees on
the subject in 2011. “From an enforcement side, it would be a
very big deal to properly enforce. Reasonable people could
differ on the marks, not that people are trying to game the
system.”  The change in tax treatment could push investors to use
exchange-traded funds rather than a futures contract, said
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at  Stanford University , near
 Palo Alto ,  California .  For example,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  offers futures on the  S&P 500
index . The first ETF, the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, was created in
1993 to track the same group of equities.  “Wherever there is no ETF that emulates a popular
derivative, one could be created,” Duffie said.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the Ways and Means
committee’s top Democrat, said he welcomed Camp’s proposal as a
possible way to increase revenue while ending inequities.  “This underlines the need for us to act on a bipartisan
basis to raise revenues and close loopholes as we seek further
 deficit  reduction through a balanced package of spending cuts
and additional revenues,” Levin said in a statement.  No Estimate  Sage Eastman, a spokesman for Camp, said the committee
doesn’t have a revenue estimate for the proposal, and it could
either raise money for the government or cost money, depending
on other tax-law revisions.  The notional size of the over-the-counter  derivatives
market  was $639 trillion as of June 2012, according to the  Bank
for International Settlements , a Basel, Switzerland-based
organization that tracks derivatives.  Brookly McLaughlin of Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
declined to comment. Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for CME
Group, said she hadn’t read the proposal and had no immediate
comment. CME Group, based in  Chicago , is the world’s largest
futures exchange. Atlanta-based Intercontinental owns the
second-largest U.S. futures market.  Bond Holders  The draft also proposes that holders of bonds bought on the
secondary market at a discount must recognize income in the same
way as taxpayers who purchase directly from issuers.  It would also modify the so-called wash-sale rules to
prevent taxpayers from selling financial products at a loss and
then repurchasing them. Taxpayers would no longer be able to
have close relatives or related companies make the second
purchase.  For all securities, including stocks and bonds, the draft
would require the use of average cost basis to calculate gains
as opposed to allowing taxpayers to choose specific shares to
sell or use a first-in, first-out method. Average cost basis
means using the average price paid for a security, even if the
security is purchased in multiple batches.  “Taking away investor choices will simplify things in the
long run,” Rosenthal said.  The draft is the second such discussion proposal from Camp,
who offered changes to the international tax system in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  