-- CFTC Commissioner Jill Sommers Will Resign After First Quarter
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cftc-commissioner-jill-sommers-to-resign-after-first-quarter-1-.html
Jill E.  Sommers , one of two
Republican members of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, plans to resign from the country’s top derivatives
regulator after the first quarter of this year.  “I’ve come to this decision after thinking about it and
internally struggling about it for months,” Sommers, who has
been a CFTC commissioner for five years, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “This has not been an abrupt decision.”  The five-member CFTC has spent more than two years writing
Dodd-Frank Act rules to bolster oversight of the $639 trillion
swaps market and the futures industry after a shortfall in
customer funds at failed brokerage  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  The
agency is preparing to complete rules governing trading
platforms after finishing rules for data reporting and reducing
risk by having trades guaranteed at clearinghouses.  “I feel like we’re kind of at the end of the major
rulemaking for Dodd-Frank,” said Sommers, 44. “My intention is
not to leave until after this last group of rules. It’s not
effective immediately. I suspect I’ll leave sometime after the
first quarter.”  Sommers, who has been a commissioner since August 2007, was
named the senior member overseeing the investigation into MF
Global after CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  recused himself. Gensler
and former MF Global Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine
worked together at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Congressional Testimony  The CFTC, SEC and  Justice Department  have yet to file
criminal or civil charges after MF Global left a $1.6 billion
shortfall in customer funds when it filed for bankruptcy in
October 2011. Sommers has been called to congressional hearings
to testify on the agency’s response to the collapse.  “She has advocated for a balanced approach to regulatory
reform in the U.S. that is reasonable, thoughtful, and not
disruptive to global markets,” U.S. Representative  Frank Lucas ,
the Oklahoma Republican who leads the House Agriculture
Committee, said in a statement yesterday. “I appreciate her
leadership in investigating the failure of MF Global and hope
the commission will continue her efforts when she leaves.”  Bart Chilton, one of three Democrats on the commission and
next in seniority to Sommers, would be expected to take over her
responsibilities overseeing the response to MF Global.  Sommers was a lobbyist for  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the
world’s largest futures exchange, and the International Swaps
and Derivatives Association Inc. before joining the CFTC.  Lacking Coordination  She often expressed concern over the agency’s approach to
completing Dodd-Frank rules, citing a lack of coordination with
the SEC and overseas regulators.  “Jill fought for sensible, clear and coherent regulation
and was precise in executing her enforcement duties,”  Scott O’Malia , the CFTC’s other Republican commissioner, said in a
statement yesterday.  Sommers said last year that the agency hadn’t adequately
considered public comments on proposed rules and lacked analysis
of regulatory costs and benefits.  “I do not believe that these rules have a chance of
withstanding the test of time but instead believe that the
commission will be consumed over the next few years using our
valuable resources to rewrite the rules we knew or should have
known would not work,” she said on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  