-- Chavez Ally’s Once-in-Century Debt Exposes Neglect: Andes Credit
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-01-24T12:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/chavez-ally-s-once-in-century-debt-exposes-neglect-andes-credit.html
Bolivia ’s first international bond
sale in almost a century is turning into a cautionary tale for
fixed-income investors trying to bolster returns with the
riskiest emerging-market debt.  The nation’s dollar notes due in 2022 have returned 1.3
percent since being issued in October, less than half the 4
percent gain for junk-rated sovereign debt in developing
nations. Among countries rated BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , yields
on Bolivia’s notes have fallen 0.11 percentage point, versus a
decline of 1.12 percentage points on Serbian bonds and a 0.5
percentage-point drop for Ukrainian debt.  Two months after persuading investors to lend South
America’s poorest nation a half-billion dollars for 10 years at
4.875 percent, Bolivian President  Evo Morales  seized local units
of Spain’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , at least the 15th takeover since he
assumed power in 2006. While the nationalization risk was
outlined in the prospectus, investors facing record low rates in
the U.S. and Europe demanded more than eight times the amount
offered. Mexico,  Latin America ’s second-largest economy, paid
twice the rate for a 30-year global bond in 1996.  “It’s surprising that a country with such political risk
as Bolivia has, which is the big weakness for our  credit rating ,
can place bonds in international markets below 5 percent,”
Cesar Arias, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said by telephone from
 New York . “Low international interest rates are resulting in
low yields for highly speculative-grade countries.”  ‘Egalitarian’ Rates  Fitch rates the Bolivian government notes BB-, or three
levels below investment grade.  Bolivia’s  Finance Ministry  didn’t respond to telephone or
e-mail messages seeking comment on the country’s bonds.  Investors who bought the Bolivian notes were paid 3.06
percentage points more than comparable U.S. Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar-rated El
Salvador paid a premium of 4.2 percentage points over Treasuries
when it issued $800 million of bonds due in 2025 in December.  Morales, an ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  and a
former union leader who has moved to put the telecommunications,
energy and water industries under state control, ordered army
and police to seize four of Iberdrola’s units on Dec. 29 in a
bid to create what he called “egalitarian electricity rates in
rural and urban areas.”  In June, the government nationalized the Colquiri tin and
zinc mine owned by  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN)   ‘Adverse Effect’  “The pattern of nationalizations since 2006 could have a
material adverse effect on investor confidence in Bolivia and
investments in Bolivia and our ability to make payments on our
outstanding public debt, including the Notes,” the Bolivian
government said in its bond prospectus.  Bolivia should be trading more in line with “less market-
friendly countries” such as Venezuela, Argentina and Ecuador,
according to Joe Kogan, head of emerging-market debt strategy at
Scotia  Capital Markets .  At 4.76 percent yesterday, Bolivia’s debt yielded at least
3.4 percentage points less than similar-maturity bonds from
those three countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “When you nationalize, you are discriminating against
foreign investors,” he said by telephone from New York. “When
you start discriminating in one area, sometimes it spills into
other areas,” he said. “I was surprised at how low Bolivia
issued.”  ‘Sound’ Finances  Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. arranged
Bolivia’s bond sale. Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America
spokeswoman in New York, declined to comment the bond’s
performance. Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally  didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Sarah Glendon, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service,
says Bolivia’s “sound” public finances and high prices for
natural gas, the country’s biggest export, bolster its ability
to service its bonds.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Bolivia’s economy will grow
5.5 percent this year after an estimated 5 percent expansion in
2012. That exceeds the average 3.6 percent projected growth for
Latin America, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bolivia’s gross
domestic product was $23.95 billion as of 2011, according to the
most recent data from the  World Bank .  Bolivia had a budget surplus of about 1.5 percent of GDP in
2012, according to the Finance Ministry. Brazil,  Mexico  and
Argentina all had deficits of at least 2.4 percent of their
economies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Less Known’  “It’s a new issuer so there’s probably a little bit less
known about Bolivia,” Glendon said in a telephone interview
from New York. “If you do pay attention to Bolivia and you do
look at their public finances, you see a country whose public
finances have been sound for the past several years.”  Yields on Bolivia’s bonds were little changed at 4.77
percent today.  While bondholders should have understood the political
hazards of buying Bolivian debt given the country’s track
record, the search for bigger returns is letting countries like
Bolivia issue at lower levels,  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin
America fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview from New York.  “There’s just so much liquidity that you’re not being
adequately compensated for the risk,” Morden said. “You have
to get a return on your investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  