-- Chemring Plans Overhaul as Profit Plunges in Tough Market
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-24T09:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/chemring-plans-overhaul-as-profit-plunges-in-difficult-market.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG) , the defense-
equipment maker that failed to complete takeover talks last year
with  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , said it will restructure units after
profit fell 79 percent last year.  Steps to improve business performance include reducing
costs, integrating similar operations and chasing non-defense
business, the Fareham-based company said in a statement today.
“This program of work is going to take us 24 months to fully
implement,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Papworth said in a
telephone interview.  Papworth took the role in November and is trying to rebuild
a company whose shares have fallen 25 percent in the past 12
months on two profit warnings, the ouster of his predecessor
 David Price , and failed talks to sell the business to  Carlyle
Group . Net income for the year ended Oct. 31 declined to 15.3
million pounds ($24 million) from 73.9 million pounds.  The process of integrating businesses and finding
efficiencies after several years of acquisitions has begun in
order to cut costs and achieve economies of scale, Papworth
said. Those efforts will be expanded across the company, he
said, without specifying how many jobs may be cut.  Chemring shares  rose as much as 4.5 percent and were up 2.7
percent at 290 pence as of 8:57 a.m. in London.  Order Intake  Order intake dropped 17 percent to 660.2 million pounds
last year amid difficulties including defense spending pressures
in the U.S., a delay in the receipt of a Middle East order and
technical problems with a countermeasure product. Delays with
Middle East contracts continue, Papworth said.  It “was a particularly disappointing year for the
business, characterized by uncertainty in our markets and a
number of factors that disrupted our operational performance,”
Chairman Peter Hickson said in today’s statement. “Difficult
market conditions are expected to remain in place in 2013.”  Benefits from the measures to improve efficiency won’t
appear in this year’s results, Chemring said.  “Fiscal 2014 is likely to be the year that the improvement
is more fully seen,” Andrew Gollan, a London-based analyst for
Investec Securities with a buy recommendation on the stock, said
in a note.  Strategic Review  A strategic review to examine “the long-term fit of
businesses within the group” is planned, Papworth said. That
process hasn’t started and the focus is on making operational
improvements, he said.  Papworth said he isn’t seeking a buyer for Chemring and is
concentrating on turning around the company rather than reviving
takeover talks with Washington-based Carlyle.  Continued uncertainty over U.S. defense spending is
expected to slow purchase decisions and the prospects for new
U.K. military business are also weak, Chemring said.  Papworth said sales prospects outside defense include
applying switching technology to cellular networks, valve
products to commercial aircraft programs, and actuators to the
oil and gas industry. “I am not going to suggest they are a
silver bullet, but they are areas of obvious self-help,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  