-- China’s Money Rate Rises Most This Month on Holiday Cash Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T03:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/china-s-money-rate-rises-most-this-month-on-holiday-cash-demand.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
climbed the most this month on speculation cash supply will wane
as banks hoard funds to meet customer withdrawals before the
Lunar New Year holiday that starts Feb. 11.  The People’s Bank of China added 58 billion yuan ($9.3
billion) to the financial system today via seven-day reverse
repurchase contracts at a yield of 3.35 percent, according to a
trader required to bid at the auctions. China’s manufacturing
may have expanded at a faster pace this month, a private survey
of companies showed today.  “The rising overnight rate reflects the holiday effect,”
said Song Qiuhong, a bond analyst at Foshan Shunde Rural
Commercial Bank Co. in Foshan, a city in the southern province
of Guangdong.  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 2.07 percent as of 10:48 a.m. in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That’s the biggest increase since Dec. 31.  The central bank drained a net 49 billion  yuan  from the
markets this week, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The preliminary reading of a manufacturing  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index was 51.9 in January, compared with the 51.5
final reading for December, according to a statement from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today. Fifty is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was
unchanged at 3.21 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 2.95 percent government bonds due
August 2017 rose one basis point to 3.23 percent, according to
the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  