-- China Rongsheng Says Zhang Gives Up Controlling Stake
-- B y   S h a i   O s t e r   a n d   S a n d i   L i u
-- 2013-01-24T18:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/china-rongsheng-says-zhang-zhirong-gives-up-controlling-stake.html
Zhang Zhirong, one of the richest
men in  China , gave up his controlling stake in  China Rongsheng
Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the country’s largest
shipbuilder outside state control, which he co-founded.  The former chairman has reduced his interest to 29.32
percent from almost 48 percent in transactions with his father
and Rongsheng’s new head, according to a company filing to the
Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. He remains the biggest
shareholder, it said.  Zhang stepped down as chairman of China Rongsheng and
 Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845)  in November after a different
company he controlled agreed to pay $14 million to resolve a
U.S. insider-trading claim. His departure was unrelated to that,
his public relations firm said at the time.  “We think that for the chairman to buy from a major
shareholder shows his confidence in the future development of
the company,” Michael Cheng, a China Rongsheng spokesman, said
by phone.  Zhang sold a 7 percent stake to a company owned by Chen
Qiang, Rongsheng’s new chairman, chief executive officer and co-
founder, for HK$820.3 million ($105.8 million), or HK$1.674 a
share, according to the filing. The CEO can’t sell his stake
within a five-year lockup, Rongsheng said.  Zhang also transferred an 11.43 percent stake to his
father, Zhang Dehuang, at no charge, the company said. Zhang
Zhirong will be deemed to be interested in 2.05 billion shares
in the company after the two transfers, Rongsheng said.  Zhang was worth $1.6 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index ,  Bloomberg News  reported on Nov. 27.  The sale comes amid a slump in the shipping industry. In
December, the company forecast its first annual loss in four
years. It had previously posted an annual loss in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company announced the disposal after the Hong Kong
stock market closed yesterday. The stock dropped 2.4 percent to
HK$1.61 yesterday, bringing its 12-month decline to 33 percent.
The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has gained 17 percent over
the same period.  Rongsheng is setting up a new offshore-energy equipment
unit as it seeks contracts for oil rigs and tender barges to
offset slowing ship demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shai Oster in  Hong Kong  at 
 soster@bloomberg.net ;
Sandi Liu in Hong Kong at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  