-- China May Raise Natural Gas Prices This Year, Barclays Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T04:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/china-may-raise-natural-gas-prices-this-year-barclays-says.html
China  may increase natural gas
prices this year as the government takes a more “market-based
approach” to meeting demand for the cleaner-burning fuel,
according to  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   The cost difference between imported liquefied natural gas
and China’s domestic onshore pipeline supplies may gradually
narrow as new pricing models are introduced in more provinces,
Barclays said in an e-mailed report today. Higher-than-expected
inflation and oil prices may cause the government to delay
revisions to next year, it said.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, plans to revise its
government-controlled price mechanisms to encourage more
efficiency, curb pollution and reduce financial losses on
imports. Beijing suffered record air pollution this month.
PetroChina Co. in October cited the cost of imports including
LNG and Central Asian gas for its lowest third-quarter profit in
at least five years.  “Recent environmental concerns, a tight natural gas market
with strong demand growth and the country becoming more
dependent on pipeline and LNG imports point to an acceleration
of natural gas reforms in China this year,” Scott Darling, an
analyst at Barclays in  Hong Kong , said in the report. “As such,
we see natural gas pricing hikes this year.”  Consumers in Guangdong and Guangxi provinces in southern
China pay as much as 2,740  yuan  per 1,000 cubic meters for gas
under a trial program introduced by the National Development and
Reform Commission, the nation’s top economic planner, in
December 2011. The NDRC said the program would be evaluated and
extended nationwide.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  