-- China’s Cotton Policies ‘Misread’ by Global Markets, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T08:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/china-s-cotton-policies-misread-by-global-markets-group-says.html
China , the world’s biggest cotton
grower and consumer, has amassed record reserves by buying local
harvests in the last two years to protect farmers and not to
control global markets, an state-run trade group said.  The stockpiling measure was originally drafted as a
temporary backup plan when supply exceeds demand, the China
Cotton Association said in a  statement  on its website. Because
the global financial crisis reduced demand and prevented a
rebound in prices, the policy continued through the entire
marketing year, it said.  The country has bought local cotton since 2011 to ease a
plunge in prices and boost farmers’ profits. The measure has
distorted global market and may reduce world demand for the
fiber, Joseph Nicosia, executive vice president of Louis Dreyfus
Commodities LLC, said on Nov. 2. Cotton in  New York  has dropped
65 percent from a record in March 2011.  “Some participants in the global cotton industry misread
China’s policies and believed China had certain deeper motives
and connived to manipulate the global market using massive
stockpiles,” the group said. China will adhere to the principle
of not curbing market prices when it sells reserves, it said.  China stockpiled 5.83 million metric tons from last year’s
harvest, about 85 percent of the total output, as of Jan. 22,
the group said. Purchases in 2011 were 3.12 million tons, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement
on its website dated Dec. 28.  Futures on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange dropped 8.4
percent last year, while cotton on ICE Futures U.S. fell 18
percent. World reserves may climb to a record 18 million tons in
2012-2013, with about half held by China, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a report yesterday.  The government will likely continue stockpiling this year
in line with its policies on protecting farmers’ interests, the
group said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  