-- Chinalco Mining Said to Raise About $397 Million in IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-01-24T08:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/chinalco-mining-said-to-raise-about-397-million-in-ipo.html
Chinalco Mining Corporation
International raised about $397 million in an initial public
offering in Hong Kong, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  The unit of  China ’s biggest aluminum producer sold about
1.76 billion shares at HK$1.75 apiece, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the information is private. The
shares were offered at HK$1.52 to HK$1.91 each, according to a
prospectus for the IPO.  Chinalco Mining is raising funds with the Bloomberg World
Mining Index down about  7.4 percent  in the past year amid
expectations of slowing growth in China, the world’s largest
consumer of copper and iron ore. The company sold $240 million
of shares, or more than half the total, to five cornerstone
investors, including  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and Trafigura Beheer BV,
the prospectus shows.  Owned by Beijing-based Aluminum Corp. of China, the company
plans to use the funds for its Toromocho copper project in  Peru ,
and to buy and develop non-ferrous and non-aluminum projects,
the sales document shows. Aluminum Corp., known as Chinalco, is
investing in copper, coal,  iron ore  and rare earths as
overcapacity and rising power costs shrink profit margins from
aluminum smelting.  An external spokeswoman for Chinalco Mining declined to
comment on the IPO price.  BNP Paribas SA and Morgan Stanley are among banks managing
the sale. Chinalco Mining plans to start trading on Jan. 31, the
prospectus shows.  The IPO is the largest first-time share sale by a mining
company in Hong Kong since  Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal Co. (900948) ’s $903
million offering in July 2012. Yitai is up about 3 percent since
its offering.  Cornerstone investors get guaranteed allocation of the IPO
in return for a pledge to hold their stock typically for six
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  