-- China Vanke Enters Hong Kong Market With HK$3.4 Billion Site
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T13:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/china-vanke-enters-hong-kong-market-with-hk-3-4-billion-site.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) ’s Hong Kong unit
jointly won a HK$3.43 billion ($442 million) bid for a site in
the city, marking the entry into the first new market for the
biggest developer listed on Chinese exchanges.  Vanke Property (Hong Kong) Co. and  New World Development Co. (17) 
won the 13,804-square-meter (148,585-square-foot) site by the
Tsuen Wan West railway station in the city’s northwest,
according to a faxed statement from subway operator  MTR Corp. (66)  At
least 894 apartments, with more than half smaller than 50 square
meters, will be built on the site, it said.  The winning bid comes after China Vanke last week announced
a plan to shift trading of its foreign-currency shares from
Shenzhen to  Hong Kong  to access a bigger pool of global
investors. Hong Kong’s home prices have doubled in the past four
years on record low mortgage rates, a lack of new supply and an
influx of mainland Chinese buyers.  “Together with the company’s share conversion plan, the
developer’s land acquisition in Hong Kong is also part of its
bigger plan to expand in international markets,” said Tian Shixin, a Shanghai-based property analyst at BOC International
China Ltd. “They’ll need to build up their Hong Kong unit to
some scale to make financing easier in the future.”  The site will include a sports complex, according to tender
documents. Vanke Property (Overseas) Ltd., owned by Vanke’s Hong
Kong unit, halted trading today ahead of an announcement.  Vanke Property (Overseas) said its parent bid for the site,
contrary to media reports that said it’s buying the land. The
stock will resume trading tomorrow, it said in a statement to
the Hong Kong exchange.  MTR, part owned by the government, sells land to developers
for a cut of profit.  Vanke Rises  China Vanke shares rose 2.2 percent to 11.95 yuan at the
close of trading in Shenzhen, the highest in more than three
years. New World, controlled by the family of billionaire  Cheng
Yu-tung , climbed 2.6 percent to HK$15.04, the highest since
November 2010 at the close in Hong Kong trading.  China Vanke, based in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen,
last year paid HK$1.08 billion for a 74 percent stake in Winsor
Properties Holdings Ltd., which was renamed Vanke Property.  The bid price was much higher than the market expectations
of between HK$2.7 billion and HK$3.1 billion, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts, led by  Tony Tsang , said in a note to clients yesterday.
The possibility for the government to announce more property
curbs is rising after comments from several senior officials, it
said.  Hong Kong’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying has imposed
measures, including additional property-purchase taxes on
foreigners, to deflate a potential asset bubble in the city
since taking over in July. He’s also pledged to boost housing
supply.  Hong Kong Listing  China Vanke plans to convert all of its Shenzhen-listed B
shares to Hong Kong-listed H shares pending approval from
shareholders and the regulators, the company said in a filing to
the Shenzhen stock exchange on Jan. 18.  B-share markets, where foreign institutions and Chinese
individuals are allowed to trade, were set up in 1992 to give
local companies a way to raise funds from global investors,
banned from buying securities denominated in  yuan . Interest in B
shares has waned as the government allowed qualified overseas
investors to access the larger, more liquid A-share market and
eased limits on foreign exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  