-- Chr. Hansen to Consider Adding Culture Factory in Asia
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-01-25T00:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/chr-hansen-to-consider-adding-bacteria-culture-factory-in-asia.html
Chr. Hansen A/S (CHR)  Chief Financial
Officer Klaus Pedersen said the world’s largest maker of
bacteria cultures for dairy products will consider adding a
factory in  Asia  as Chinese demand increases.  The company is increasing the capacity of one of its main
plants in Denmark, adding a floor of fermentation tanks at the
site as the complex is currently running at full capacity. Chr.
Hansen is monitoring the market for potential acquisitions and
later will consider an Asian plant if demand and transportation
costs warrant it, Pedersen said in an interview.  “Once we have been running Copenhagen for a few years,
then we will look to establish ourselves in Asia Pacific,” the
executive said. He added that no decision has been taken yet on
the matter.  With about 45 percent of the dairy-cultures market, the
Danish company is looking to fend off its nearest competitor,
 DuPont Co. (DD) , which spent more than $7 billion on buying local
rival Danisco in 2011. Chr. Hansen is forecasting sales growth
of 8 percent to 10 percent this year as demand rises in  China 
and the Americas, Pedersen said.  Chr. Hansen has culture factories in Denmark, France and
the U.S., with origins dating back more than 100 years. The
company has product-development and sales offices elsewhere.
Asia Pacific and the  Middle East  accounted for 17 percent of
Hansen’s sales last fiscal year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Competitive Market  The dominant bacteria culture makers are being challenged
by smaller companies that have made inroads into the industry by
developing their own enzyme technologies, including  Dyadic
International Inc. (DYAI) , which has an alliance with a unit of Sanofi.  Chr. Hansen, founded in the 1870s by chemist  Christian
Hansen , joins Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB)  in looking
to expand manufacturing worldwide. The country’s emergence as a
leader in developing strains of bacteria and proteins stems from
the nation’s agricultural past, coupled with a prominent
pharmaceutical industry.  Novozymes, the world’s biggest enzyme maker, is considering
an enzyme plant in  Brazil  dedicated to the emerging biofuel
industry there, it said on Jan. 21.  Foundation company Novo A/S, in which Novo Nordisk is a
main shareholder, owns stakes in both Chr. Hansen and Novozymes.
Novo’s managing partner, Soren Carlsen, who holds a master of
science degree in biochemistry and brewing technology, sits on
the boards of Chr. Hansen and Novozymes.  M&A Ambitions  PAI Partners sold a 26 percent stake in Chr. Hansen to Novo
for about $714 million a year ago.  Chr. Hansen’s own ambitions for mergers and acquisitions
are focused on adjacent technologies, and there is no plan to
expand in a different area, Pedersen said.  “There are a number of possibilities under
consideration,” which could include areas such as coffee, crop
protection and  animal health , where cultures can be used to
improve feed uptake, Pedersen said. A developing industry for
the next decade could be advanced probiotics that would assist
in human diseases of the gut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  