-- Cisco Sells Linksys Home Router Unit to Belkin
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-01-24T23:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cisco-sells-linksys-home-router-unit-to-belkin.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
biggest maker of computer-networking equipment, has sold its
Linksys home-router unit to Belkin International Inc., shedding
another consumer business as it focuses on sales to businesses.  “Linksys has long been an important member of the Cisco
family and we are confident that we have found the best buyer in
Belkin,” Hilton Romanski, vice president of business
development for Cisco, wrote in a  blog post.   The deal is expected to close in March and will give Belkin
about 30 percent of the U.S. market for home and small business
networking, Belkin said in a statement on  its website . The
purchase price wasn’t disclosed by either party. The two
companies will pursue a “strategic relationship” focused on
initiatives including retail distribution, and products for the
service provider market, Belkin also said.  Bloomberg News  reported in December that Cisco had hired
Barclays Plc to find a buyer for Linksys, citing people familiar
with the situation. The unit was likely to fetch much less than
the $500 million Cisco paid for it in 2003, because it is in a
mature consumer business with low margins, said the people.
Linksys was a primary component of a Cisco division where sales
have fallen 35 percent over the past two years.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  has eliminated 7,800
jobs over the past two years and closed businesses such as the
Flip video-camera unit, exiting consumer businesses to focus on
higher-margin sales to businesses.  Cisco said yesterday it agreed to buy Intucell Ltd., based
in Ra’anana,  Israel , for about $475 million, gaining technology
that helps wireless carriers manage their networks. In November,
the company said it would pay $1.2 billion for closely held
Meraki Inc., adding technology that helps businesses manage Wi-
Fi networks remotely.  Belkin, which is closely held, is based in Playa Vista,
 California , and has operations and sales in more than 100
countries, according to its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  