-- Citgo to Settle New Hampshire Gas-Additive Lawsuit
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-01-24T21:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/citgo-to-settle-new-hampshire-gas-additive-lawsuit.html
An ExxonMobil Corp. executive
approved the use of an additive to gasoline despite a
colleague’s recommendation against using it because of the risk
of well contamination, a  New Hampshire  jury was told.  Robert Larkins, a former vice president of marketing for
Exxon in the 1980s, testified today in a recorded deposition
played in state court.  “She did not say that you cannot or should not put it in
there,” said Larkins, who is retired, referring to a
colleague’s memo about methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE.
“She said there were some concerns, and she recommended against
it. Many recommendations are not followed in an organization.”  The memo was by Barbara Mickelson, then an Exxon executive
who had been asked by the company to conduct a study of MTBE as
a gasoline additive.  Her 1985 report, an exhibit in the case, said in part,
“The number of well contamination incidents is estimated to
increase three times following the widespread introduction of
MTBE into Exxon gasoline. The closing out of these incidents
would take longer and treatment costs would be higher by a
factor of five.”  ExxonMobil is on trial in Concord in a lawsuit over the
claim that it contaminated New Hampshire groundwater with the
additive. The trial began Jan. 14.  New Hampshire could be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the lawsuit filed in
2003, to clean up the contamination. It’s one of scores of cases
involving MTBE filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel
distributors and chemical makers.  Citgo Talks  Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver last week excused a
second defendant, Citgo Petroleum Corp., the Houston-based unit
of  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the country’s state-owned oil
company, while Citgo and the state try to reach a settlement.  The oil companies say they complied with federal regulations
that preempt state law. MTBE was added to gasoline to make it
burn more thoroughly and thus reduce air pollution, as required
under the 1990  Clean Air Act , according to the companies.  In yesterday’s testimony for the state, Robert Varney, an
ex-New Hampshire  Environmental Services Department  commissioner,
said he was “shocked and stunned” to learn that Exxon was
aware of the risks posed by the additive years before it was
sold in the state.  He said he didn’t know until the 1990s about the 1985
interoffice memo forecasting an increase in well-contamination
incidents with the addition of MTBE.  Cross-Examination  Cross-examining Varney, ExxonMobil lawyer James Quinn said
New Hampshire should have been aware of MTBE’s risks because
memos, letters and data circulated as early as the 1980s and
state employees participated in studies of the chemical.  Graham Fogg, a professor of hydrology at the  University of
California , Davis, testified last week that about 40,000 New
Hampshire wells are contaminated with MTBE and that about 5,590
are contaminated at levels determined to be unfit for drinking.  Lawyers for Irving, Texas-based ExxonMobil challenged Fogg
on his methodology and calculations. They said his own
projections showed that the level of MTBE in groundwater would
naturally decline over time without any cleanup.  The number of contaminated wells is a factor in determining
monetary damages if ExxonMobil is found liable. The state is
also seeking damages from the companies based on their market
share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the period
covered by the lawsuit.  Other Companies  New Hampshire sued six  oil companies  besides ExxonMobil and
Citgo. The others settled before the trial started. New
Hampshire has received more than $100 million in settlements
from defendants, according to court papers.  MTBE leaked into the state’s groundwater from spills at
service stations, vehicle junkyards and storage tanks. The
chemical, which studies have shown to cause cancer in mice and
rats at high levels, is no longer added to gasoline.  MTBE dissolves in water and doesn’t biodegrade, so it can
be carried great distances from the site of a leak or spill,
according to court papers. New Hampshire case filings said MTBE
can render drinking water “foul, putrid and unfit for human
consumption.”  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-
0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 