-- Clegg Won’t Rule Out Sending Sons to Fee-Paying High Schools
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-24T11:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/clegg-won-t-rule-out-sending-sons-to-fee-paying-high-schools.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ,
who says part of his role in government is to make society
fairer, refused to rule out sending his three sons to private,
fee-paying high schools.  Clegg was asked about his plans for his children’s
education after Prime Minister  David Cameron , once a pupil at
Eton, Britain’s most famous fee-paying school for boys, said
Jan. 18 he will send his eldest daughter Nancy to a state-run
high school, citing improvements in  London ’s educational record.  Clegg was also privately educated at London’s Westminster
School, yards from Parliament. His children with his Spanish
wife Miriam Gonzalez Durantez are called Antonio, Alberto and
Miguel. Antonio, the eldest, will start high school this fall.  “My own view is we can, if it works out, we will send him
to a good state school,” Clegg told LBC radio today, refusing
to rule out sending his son to a fee-paying institution. “Like
all parents sending their children for secondary school in
London there is huge competition for places.”  In class-conscious Britain, the decision whether to send
children to a fee-paying school is politically charged. Former
Prime Minister  Tony Blair  was criticized by some lawmakers when
he was in office for sending his three eldest children to a
state-funded school that selected applicants for entry.  Clegg said he doesn’t want to make a political issue out of
the education of his children. “I want the best for my child,”
he said.  Tempering Cuts  During the first of his weekly radio phone-in sessions on
Jan. 10, Clegg emphasized that he entered a coalition with
Cameron to fix Britain’s economy. The Liberal Democrats argue
that they temper Cameron’s Tories’ cuts to public services that
would have hit the poorest the hardest.  “I’m actually immensely proud that facing one of the
biggest economic crises that this government has seen in a
generation, possibly in the post-war period, the  Liberal
Democrats  took a big collective and brave decision to say right,
we’re going to step up to the plate, we’re going to work in a
coalition because no one won the general election and we’re
going to try and fix this mess, and we’re going to try to fix
this mess while also trying to make society fairer,” Clegg said
Jan. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  