-- Clegg and Cameron Clash on Plan for British Referendum on EU
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-24T12:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/clegg-says-cameron-eu-exit-proposal-risks-discouraging-investors.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and his
Liberal Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg , clashed on whether the
possibility of Britain leaving the European Union within five
years risked putting off investors and damaging the economy.  Clegg, who leads the pro-EU Liberal Democrats, distanced
himself from his Conservative coalition partner’s plans to
repatriate powers from the EU. Cameron yesterday promised voters
a referendum by late 2017 on whether to remain in the EU on new
terms or leave the 27-nation bloc, saying he’ll make the case
for staying in.  “Where, of course, David Cameron and I part company is I
simply don’t understand the point of spending years and years
and years tying yourself up in knots first, so-called
renegotiating the terms of Britain’s membership in ways that at
the moment at least are completely vague,” Clegg told London’s
LBC radio station today during his weekly phone-in show.
“And I think that discourages investment and inhibits growth
and jobs which has to remain our absolute priority.”  Cameron defended his position in a question-and-answer
session after his speech today to the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland .  “We’re going to resolve this issue in a way that is
actually going to benefit business because we’ll end up with a
more competitive, more open European Union,” Cameron said.
“They say this is a sensible approach.”  “I would argue the riskiest thing of all would be to do
nothing, would be to sit back, see all the changes taking place
in  Europe  with the euro zone, and just say ‘this is nothing to
do with us,’” he said. “And see all the debate in Britain and
say, ‘I’m going to stay back from it.’”  Business Backing  A letter to the  Times newspaper  signed by 55 leaders of
industry and London’s financial district welcomed the referendum
proposals as “good for business and good for jobs in Britain.”  The opposition  Labour Party  argued that Cameron’s position
on the EU will make Britain less attractive to foreign
investors.  “We have traditionally said, ’come to Britain because it
is a favorable climate and you will have access to his huge
market,’” a former Europe minister, Peter Hain, told BBC Radio
5 today. “Now we are on a road which could lead us out of
Europe and out of that market and that is a decision which is
going to affect investment.”  Clegg indicated that Cameron’s referendum pledge wouldn’t
prevent a renewed coalition after the 2015 general election. If
a “coalition is necessary following the votes of the British
people, then we will play our part,” he said.  Not Afraid  He said he is not afraid of holding a referendum, pointing
to the fact that the Liberal Democrats had already provided for
a vote in the case of more powers being transferred to the EU.  “There should be a referendum when the  United Kingdom  is
asked to give new powers to the European Union, when there’s a
new treaty in the European Union -- that’s what we’ve always
said as a party, it’s what we’ve legislated for, funnily enough
with the Conservatives, just recently,” Clegg said.  “To be honest I think whatever question you put on the
ballot paper, the underlying issue is still the same,” he said.
“It’s ‘do you believe Britain should lead in Europe, or should
we be somehow marginalized from it.’”  Clegg said Cameron had chosen the timing of the speech
because of party management necessities due to the “intense
internal discussions” going on among euroskeptic Tory
lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 