-- Cliffs to Take $1 Billion Writedown on Consolidated Thompson
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-01-24T21:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cliffs-to-take-1-billion-writedown-on-consolidated-thompson.html
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) , the
biggest U.S. iron-ore producer, said it will take a $1 billion
writedown for the fourth quarter related to its 2011 acquisition
of Consolidated Thompson Iron Mines Ltd.  The writedown is primarily due to an anticipated decline in
Consolidated Thompson’s long-term production volumes and an
increase in its capital and operating costs, Cleveland-based
Cliffs said today in a statement.  The company also said it will take charges of as much as
$150 million related to its eastern Canadian iron-ore business
and a $365 million writedown on a Brazilian joint venture.
Cliffs will record $542 million of expenses in the quarter
related to two deferred tax assets.  Cliffs is taking the measures after iron-ore demand and
prices slumped in the fourth quarter. The company announced in
November that it will idle production in Michigan and  Minnesota ,
fire 625 workers and postpone the expansion of its Bloom Lake
project in  Quebec . Cliffs bought Consolidated Thompson for C$4.9
billion ($4.89 billion) to gain mines in Quebec and Newfoundland
and Labrador and add exports to Asia.  Iron ore in  China  averaged $120.58 a dry metric ton in the
quarter, 14 percent lower than a year earlier, data from The
Steel Index show. U.S. steel capacity utilization fell to 72
percent in the period from 74 percent, according to the American
Iron and Steel Institute.  Cliffs said Jan. 3 it agreed to sell its 30 percent stake
in the Amapa joint venture in  Brazil  to Zamin Ferrous Ltd. Anglo
American Plc. also agreed to sell its 70 percent stake in the
venture.  Cliffs fourth-quarter earnings will fall 59 percent to 59
cents a share, according to the average of 19 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company will issue results
on Feb. 13 after the close, Cliffs said today.  The shares  fell  3.2 percent to $36 at the close in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  