-- Clinton’s Exit Highlights Obama’s Weaknesses
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-24T17:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/clinton-s-exit-highlights-obama-s-weaknesses.html
With her old friend Senator  John McCain  attacking her and Senator  Rand Paul  asserting that she
should have been fired,  Hillary Clinton ’s last appearances
before Congress yesterday seemingly made for an ugly stage exit.  We see it differently.  In the hearings, Clinton displayed some of her best
attributes. She was in command of the facts. She focused on what
 could be done better . She rose above ideology. And with flashes
of both anger and sorrow, particularly at the memory of meeting
the families of those killed in the attack on U.S. facilities in
Benghazi,  Libya , she evoked the requisite pathos among her
audience.  In short, the sessions reflected her tenure as secretary of
state -- one defined by hard work, doggedness, precision and
well-honed political instincts.  At the same time, she produced no big peace deals, new
doctrines or major breakthroughs.  The question is whether those things were ever within her
writ. President  Barack Obama  kept policy making within the White
House, with the focus on engaging in drone warfare, winding down
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and pressuring  Iran  to curtail its
nuclear program. He also gave the appearance of being not
particularly interested in developing strong relationships with
foreign leaders. And it’s pretty hard to remake the world when
your own country is mired in debt, recession and political
acrimony.  Quotidian Diplomacy  This left  Clinton to focus  on unglamorous, quotidian
diplomacy: meeting with foreign officials, attending global
forums, explaining America overseas. At that task, she  excelled ,
performing the function Obama identified when first elected as
essential to maintaining America’s position in the world --
nurturing relationships with other countries.  The value of Clinton’s cultivation of official ties was
demonstrated by her role in lining up partners to fight Muammar Qaddafi’s regime in Libya and to support economic sanctions
against Iran. It was essential to signaling the seriousness of
the administration’s focus on  Asia . The value was  on display 
last spring, when Clinton helped persuade Chinese officials to
let the blind dissident  Chen Guangcheng  go to the U.S. and,
despite the crisis, managed to keep on track  high-level economic
and security talks . On the other hand, Clinton’s diplomacy
couldn’t secure Chinese or Russian support for United Nations
sanctions against  Syria .  Perhaps her wider achievement was engaging in the kind of
retail politics that defined her  New York  listening tours when
she ran for the Senate. Instead of venturing to Buffalo, though,
she found herself in  town-hall meetings  in Dushanbe, Tajikistan,
and Sao Paulo. She also pushed the State Department to embrace
social media and promote  Internet freedom .  This approach marked a larger understanding that power has
dispersed beyond political and military leaders to the grass
roots, newly empowered by technology. U.S. Ambassador to Libya
Christopher Stevens, who was killed in Benghazi, was an avid
practitioner of the retail statesmanship Clinton encouraged.  Certainly the U.S. should remain committed to this kind of
diplomacy. It won’t succeed, however, without a clearer
strategic vision and commitment emanating from the White House.  The Arab Spring is a depressing case in point. Lofty
rhetoric such as Obama’s landmark June 2009 Cairo  speech  has
been followed by fitful indifference -- one reason that public
opinion toward the U.S. in several  Muslim countries  has soured
since 2008, the final year of the George W. Bush administration.
The plans Obama laid out to help  Egypt  in a May 2011  speech , for
instance, have been disrupted by the country’s rocky transition
to democracy, leaving foreign policy makers and their publics to
guess at U.S. strategy moving forward.  Reaching Exhaustion  Given Obama’s preference for reacting to world events
rather than trying to shape them, Clinton had almost no choice
but to try to cover the waterfront, logging visits to a record-
breaking  112  countries. As one of the senators in the hearings
noted, she worked herself to exhaustion doing it.  Today, Clinton’s nominated successor, Senator  John Kerry ,
is on  Capitol Hill  for his confirmation hearings. Let’s hope
that instead of sending him off in all directions at once, the
president allows his new secretary of state to focus on a small
number of well-articulated, and well-supported, foreign policy
initiatives. First on our list would be coping with the Arab
Spring.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 