-- Colombia Cerrejon Union Sees ‘Imminent’ Strike, Union Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-24T22:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/colombia-cerrejon-union-sees-imminent-strike-official-says.html
Workers at Cerrejon, a Colombian
 coal mine  owned by BHP Billiton Plc,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , may strike as early as next week, a union official
said.  About 4,500 workers may go on strike from Feb. 1 to Feb. 7
at Cerrejon, the country’s largest coal mine, to push for a 9
percent wage increase and improved health benefits, said Alvaro
Frias, a spokesman for the National Coal Industry Workers Union,
known as Sintracarbon. Union workers, who vote in blocks, will
finish casting ballots Jan. 29, he said from Riohacha,  Colombia ,
near the mine.  “The strike will be indefinite, until the company makes an
offer that satisfies workers’ needs,” Frias said today in a
telephone interview.  The mine is investing $1.3 billion to boost output to 40
million tons by 2014, International Relations Manager Carlos
Franco said in a Nov. 6 interview. Cerrejon produced 34.6
million tons of coal in 2012, the company said Jan. 4 in a
 statement  on its website.  Juan Carlos Restrepo, a Cerrejon spokesman, didn’t
immediately return telephone calls and an e-mail seeking
comment. The union is also demanding the company provide better
compensation for communities forced to move as the mine expands,
according to its  website .  The benchmark price for hard coking coal in the first
quarter is $165 a ton, down 3 percent from the fourth quarter
and the lowest since $129 a ton in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to
Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp traded at $99 a metric ton
today, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  