-- Consumer Comfort Falls Amid Mounting Concern Over U.S. Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-01-24T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/consumer-comfort-falls-amid-mounting-concern-over-u-s-economy.html
Consumer confidence  fell last week
to its lowest level in more than three months as concern about
the  U.S. economy  mounted.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 36.4
in the seven days ended Jan. 20, the weakest since early
October, from minus 35.5 the prior period. The measure has
fallen for three straight weeks, the longest slump since August.  The setback in sentiment corresponds to the two percentage-
point increase in the payroll tax that took effect at the start
of 2013, indicating the resulting drop in take-home pay has
shaken Americans. Less discretionary income and confidence may
slow  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, and hurt sales at retailers including  Coach Inc. (COH)   “Consumer sentiment continues to indicate displeasure with
what, for most Americans, was an unexpected increase in the
payroll tax at the beginning of the year amid the stagnant wage
environment that has characterized the economic expansion,”
said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York.  Claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly dropped last week
to a five-year low, highlighting the challenges in adjusting the
data for swings at the start of a year, another report showed.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
by 5,000 to 330,000 in the week ended Jan. 19, the fewest since
the same week in 2008, the Labor Department reported today in
Washington. Economists forecast 355,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Calendar Effect  “The swings are attributable to the calendar,” said  Brian Jones , senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New York,
who projected a drop to 328,000. He said the numbers probably
will rise at the end of the month as the calendar returns to
normal. “We’re going to pay for this,” he said.  Stocks were little changed, restrained by a slump in Apple
Inc. Inc. after the world’s most valuable company reported the
slowest profit growth since 2003 and weakest sales increase in
14 quarters. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up less than
0.1 percent to 1,495.66 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Of the three components of the comfort index, the gauge
measuring consumers’ views on the  state of the economy  was the
only one to show a decline, retreating to minus 64.6, lowest
level since October, from minus 60.3 the prior week.  The share rating the economy positively fell to 18 percent
from 20 percent. Prior to last week, the figure had held at or
above 20 percent for five consecutive periods, a first since
early 2008.  Buying Climate  The other two components improved. The buying-climate gauge
climbed to minus 42.8 from minus 43.3 after falling for four
straight weeks. The report showed 29 percent of those surveyed
said it was a good time to buy things they want or need, up from
28 percent the prior week, which was the lowest reading since
September. Two in 10 called it an “excellent” time for
purchases, up from one in 10 a week earlier.  The  personal finances  barometer rose to minus 1.8 from
minus 2.7 the prior week. That may reflect consumers’ responses
to contained inflation after a report last week showed the cost
of living was also little changed in December, capping the
smallest annual gain in the past decade.  Among groups, the biggest declines in confidence last week
occurred among men, Democrats and full-time workers, who were
the most pessimistic in four months. Waning sentiment among the
employed underscores the role that the  payroll tax  may be
playing.  The levy used to fund Social Security benefits reverted to
6.2 percent this year from 4.2 percent. That means someone
earning $50,000 a year will get about $83 less per month.  Income Groups  Among income groups, consumer comfort among those earning
$15,000 to $25,000 annually rose to minus 43.8, the highest in
more than three years.  People making $25,000 to $50,000 saw the biggest declines
in sentiment last week, a sign middle-income households may be
the ones feeling the tax bite most.  The comfort gauge for people making $50,000 to $75,000 slid
to the lowest level since June. The measure for those earning
more than $100,000 was positive for the 12th consecutive week,
even after slipping about two points.  Coach, the largest U.S. luxury handbag maker, is among
companies saying sales are being hurt by bickering in  Washington 
about taxes, budget cuts and the federal debt. The New York-
based company yesterday reported second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates as sales at stores open at least a
year in  North America  dropped 2 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 29 from the same period a year earlier.  Coach Sales  “We were clearly disappointed in our North American
performance,” Lew Frankfort, chief executive officer, said on
an earnings call. There “was a muted consumer environment in
the U.S. with a fiscal cliff uncertainty weighing on shoppers,”
along with “intensified competition and heightened promotional
activity” before the holidays, he said.  The House yesterday voted to temporarily suspend the
nation’s borrowing limit, removing the debt ceiling as a source
of contention for now.  The weekly comfort reading was higher among Democrats than
Republicans last week for an unprecedented 44th straight time, a
record in data back to 1990, today’s report showed. Nonetheless,
the index for registered Democrats fell to the lowest level
since early October.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in  New York , conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate. The percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  