-- Cooper Health System Pays $12.6 Mln Over Kickback Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-24T23:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cooper-health-system-pays-12-6-million-to-settle-kickback-case.html
Cooper Health System, a  New Jersey 
hospital, agreed to pay $12.6 million to resolve claims that it
paid kickbacks to doctors to build its cardiology program, U.S.
Attorney Paul Fishman said.  Cooper settled with the U.S. and New Jersey governments,
which joined a physician’s whistle-blower claims that the
Camden-based hospital used “consulting” and “compensation”
agreements to induce the referral of patients.  From October 2004 to December 2010, Cooper paid outside
physicians $18,000 a year to serve on the Cooper Heart Institute
Advisory Board and attend four meetings a year, according to
Fishman. Cooper’s later billings to the Medicare and Medicaid
programs were based on tainted referrals made in violation of
federal and state anti-kickback laws, the government said.  “Payments to outside physicians by hospitals require
heightened scrutiny because those payments may be improper if
they are based on patient referrals,” Fishman said in a
statement. “Such kickback arrangements interfere with the
physician-patient relationship.”  The case began with the filing of a whistle-blower lawsuit
in 2008 by a cardiologist, Nicholas M. DePace, who was recruited
to join the advisory board, according to Fishman. He sued under
the  False Claims Act , which allows whistle-blowers to go to
court on behalf of the government and share in any recovery.  Cooper agreed to pay $10.3 million to the U.S. government
and $2.3 million to New Jersey. The U.S. will pay DePace
$1.95 million and New Jersey will pay him $442,890, according to
a settlement agreement filed in federal court in Camden.  After three years of negotiations with the government,
Cooper decided “to settle our dispute without the admission of
wrongdoing to avoid the burdens and uncertainties of a
protracted litigation,” John P. Sheridan Jr., Cooper’s chief
executive officer and president, said in a statement.  The case is U.S., New Jersey and DePace v. Cooper Health
System, 08-cv-5626, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  