-- Copper Rallies as U.S., China Growth Buoy Outlook for Demand
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-24T16:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/copper-falls-for-second-day-as-codelco-predicts-global-surplus.html
Copper rose in  New York  for the
fourth time in five sessions on signs that economic recoveries
are gaining traction in the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest
metals consumers.  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in December by
the most in three months, signaling that the economy is poised
to keep expanding through the first half of this year, a
government report showed today. A preliminary purchasing
managers’ index for China released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed manufacturing advancing this month at
the fastest pace in two years.  “China is showing signs of life, and in general things are
slowly moving in the right direction,” Frank Cholly, a senior
commodity broker at RJO Futures in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “The copper market needs a steady diet of good news
like this to keep momentum.”  Copper futures for delivery in March climbed 0.1 percent to
$3.6895 a pound at 11:23 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Prices
fell as much as 0.6 percent earlier after Codelco, the biggest
producer of the metal, predicted a surplus.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the U.S. outlook for the
next three to six months increased 0.5 percent, the New York-
based group said today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected the measure would rise 0.4 percent.  The China factory index rose to 51.9 this month. That
compares with December’s final reading of 51.5 and the median
estimate of 51.7 from 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A
reading above 50 signals expansion.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months increased 0.1 percent to $8,108 a metric ton ($3.68 a
pound).  Aluminum, lead, zinc and tin also gained in London. Nickel
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  