-- Cordray Nomination Shows U.S. Consumer Bureau Battles Remain
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-25T17:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cordray-nomination-shows-consumer-bureau-battle-lines-unmoved.html
The re-nomination of  Richard Cordray 
to run the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau shows that
the former  Ohio  attorney general has won the confidence of
Democrats who fought for the agency’s creation despite his
failure to win over Republican critics.  President  Barack Obama  yesterday put Cordray’s name forward
for a full five-year term after more than a year of work in
which he oversaw the agency’s effort to protect consumers from
scams and other abuses in the financial services market.  “Through it all, Richard has earned a reputation as a
straight shooter and somebody who’s willing to bring every voice
to the table in order to do what’s right for consumers and our
economy,” Obama said at a White House news conference.  “There’s absolutely no excuse for the Senate to wait any
longer to confirm him,” Obama added.  Opponents of the nomination may point to a ruling today by
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington to support their
argument that Obama’s appointment of Cordray to the post in
January 2012 was unconstitutional.  Obama bypassed Republican opposition by installing Cordray
through a so-called recess appointment, arguing that the Senate
was out of session. That move put Cordray in the job through the
end of 2013.  ‘Constitutionally Invalid’  The court ruled that three Obama recess appointments made
at the same time, to the  National Labor Relations Board , are
“constitutionally invalid” because the Senate was not in
recess at the time.  “Considering the text, history and structure of the
Constitution, these appointments were invalid from their
inception,” U.S. Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote.  The ruling today is the first substantive decision by a
federal appeals court on several challenges to the president’s
naming of the NLRB members on Jan. 4, 2012.  Raymond Natter, a partner with Barnett Sivon & Natter, P.C.
in Washington said a company can now go into court and seek a
“summary judgment motion” overturning the Cordray appointment.
That might invalidate the important actions by the bureau since
last January, though the decision can be appealed, and the court
could preserve some of its decisions.  “It means rules would have to be reissued,” Natter said
in an interview. “Proposals would have to be re-proposed.
Enforcement actions could be reversed.”  Mark Calabria, a former Senate Republican staffer, said a
decision against the Obama administration over the NLRB would
probably have the ripple effect of stalling any progress Cordray
makes in the Senate. They would also embolden Republicans in
their quest to change the law.  Confirmation Process  “How can you have a confirmation process if a court has
said he’s been unconstitutionally appointed?” Calabria,
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
in Washington said in an interview.  Yesterday’s re-nomination drew praise from consumer groups
and  Elizabeth Warren , whom Obama passed over for the job when he
first nominated Cordray in July 2011.  “The CFPB has had an extraordinary first year and a half
holding credit card companies accountable for cheating consumers
and adopting the first set of rules to clean up the mortgage
market,” Warren, now a Democratic senator from Massachusetts,
said in a statement. “Senate confirmation of Rich’s nomination
will continue this momentum.”  Cordray has won support from some of the bankers whose
companies are overseen by the bureau.  Jamie Dimon , the chairman and chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , praised Cordray’s work as the head of the
agency.  ‘Great Progress’  “They’ve done a great job,” Dimon said in a television
interview with Fox Business News. “They started from  ground
zero  and they are making great progress.”  Dimon singled out the CFPB’s so-called qualified mortgage
rule, which outlines underwriting standards, calling them
“good, thoughtful” and prompt. “They did it quickly. They
didn’t delay.”  The re-nomination may also spark debates over the bureau
itself. Republicans are still pressing for the agency to be
headed by a multi-member commission before confirming anyone to
the job. Democrats will count on Warren, who serves on the
banking committee that must consider the nomination, to help
block opposition.  The  Independent Community Bankers of America , a trade
association of smaller banks, also praised Cordray.  Outreach Praised  “Cordray has repeatedly reached out to community banks to
better understand how the bureau’s regulations affect our
industry, and the CFPB has worked to ensure that new mortgage
regulations allow these institutions to continue meeting the
needs of their customers and communities,” the group said in an
e-mailed statement.  Richard Hunt , president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, said the financial services lobby would push to
revamp the structure of the agency as a multi-member commission.  “For the past two years, the CFPB has been a political
football in part due to its flawed structure,” Hunt said in an
e-mailed statement. “This is the perfect opportunity for
Congress to replace a sole director with a commission.”  Americans for Financial Reform, an umbrella group of
consumer advocates, labor unions and civil rights organizations,
said the Senate should simply approve Cordray for a full term.  “The Senate now has a second chance to confirm this
commendable nominee,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.
“It should.”  Budget Authority  Senate Republicans, using Senate rules that let the
minority block nominations, closed ranks to oppose any nominee
in 2011 unless the Obama administration agreed to create a
commission to run CFPB and subject its budget, now linked to the
 Federal Reserve , to congressional appropriations.  Senator  Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican who helped
lead the fight against Cordray in 2011, has not changed his
position, his spokesman Jonathan Graffeo said in an e-mail.
Shelby was the top Republican on the banking commission in the
last Congress but will be replaced by Senator  Mike Crapo  of
 Idaho .  Crapo spoke out against the bureau’s existing structure in
a Dec. 8, 2011 speech on the Senate floor. In an e-mailed
statement, he affirmed the Republican stance.  “If the president is looking for a different outcome, the
administration should use this as an opportunity to work with us
on the critical reforms we have identified to him,” Crapo said
in the statement.  Warren’s Role  Before her election to the Senate, Warren was the Obama
administration adviser who set up the agency and is widely
credited with devising the concept behind it. While at the
agency, Warren opposed changing the law to create a commission
and subject it to congressional appropriations.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, yesterday said in an interview that the
Senate’s expanded Democratic majority in the 2012 election
“helps a little” in overcoming Republican opposition, as does
Warren.  “We now have a new senator named Elizabeth Warren,”
Durbin said. “So there’s going to be an additional strong voice
on the floor to support the CFPB.”  The Senate now has 55 Democratic and 45 Republican votes.
Rules require 60 votes to end debate and move to an actual vote,
which would still allow 40 of those Republicans to block
nominees.  New Appointment  A new recess appointment for Cordray is possible, according
to a Jan. 9, 2012 report of the  Congressional Research Service .
“The President may make successive recess appointments of the
same or a different individual to a position,” according to the
report.  There is a U.S. law that prohibits a recess appointee from
being paid “from the Treasury,” according to the report. CFPB
is funded via the Fed’s income stream, not through the Treasury.  Cordray has previously expressed interest in running for a
statewide office in Ohio. The former governor,  Ted Strickland ,
announced earlier this month he would not seek the Democratic
nomination for his old job in 2014, opening the field to other
candidates.  Ohio Landscape  David Rothstein, a researcher with Policy Matters Ohio, a
Cleveland-based policy analysis group, said the re-nomination
may have closed the door on that possibility.  “The buzz around Ohio now is that this cements the idea
that Cordray will not run for governor,” Rothstein said in an
interview.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television, Cordray said
that he does not “think about politics” while working at CFPB.  “I’m in a job that doesn’t mix with politics,” Cordray
said in the interview aired on Jan. 10. “I have a lot of work
to do looking after consumers across this country and I’m happy
to be doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  