-- Soybeans and Corn Drop as South American Rain May Ease Dryness
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-01-24T13:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/corn-declines-as-price-gains-may-limit-use-in-ethanol-production.html
Soybeans and corn fell for a second
day in Chicago on speculation that rain in  South America  will
ease dry conditions threatening supply of the crops.  Dry areas of Argentina and southern  Brazil  may see rain
tomorrow into the weekend, with some showers reaching  Rio Grande 
do Sul state in Brazil and into eastern and northern Argentina,
QT Weather said in a report. Brazil and Argentina were the
world’s largest exporters of soybeans and corn last season after
the U.S., according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “Reports are coming out of South America of much-needed
and perhaps even extensive rains,” economist  Dennis Gartman 
said today in his Gartman Letter. “In Brazil, rain is expected
over the main soybean-producing regions in the next several
days, and this precipitation in Mato Grosso especially will aid
the bean crop that was planted there late but can still use
moisture.”  Soybeans for delivery in March slid 0.9 percent to $14.235
a bushel at 7:01 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, heading for
a fourth decline in five sessions. Corn for the same delivery
month dropped 0.6 percent to $7.1625 a bushel and reached
$7.1575, the lowest since Jan. 14 for a most-active contract.  Brazil’s corn  crop  may total 72.5 million metric tons in
the year beginning March 1, the USDA’s  Foreign Agricultural
Service  said yesterday in a report on its website. That’s larger
than the USDA’s official forecast of 71 million tons.  Ethanol Production  Corn also declined on concern demand might slow to use the
grain for making ethanol,  Luke Mathews , a Sydney-based analyst
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , said in a report e-mailed
today. U.S.  production  of the biofuel fell in the week ended
Jan. 11 to 784,000 barrels a day, the lowest level since the
U.S. Department of Energy’s statistical unit began tracking
weekly data in June 2010, the government said last week. The
weekly DOE numbers are due for release today, according to the
department’s website.  Wheat for delivery in March retreated 0.5 percent to $7.705
a bushel. In Paris, milling wheat for the same delivery month
fell 0.9 percent to 249.25 euros ($332.13) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Brazil, the world’s second-largest wheat importer after
Egypt, may step up purchases of North American supplies as its
domestic production declines, the USDA’s FAS said. The agency
pegged Brazil’s wheat imports at 7.4 million tons, compared with
the USDA’s official forecast of 7.5 million tons.  “While  Argentina  has been Brazil’s primary traditional
wheat supplier, analysts are now estimating that in order to
meet domestic demand Brazil will need to import 2.5 to 3 million
tons of wheat from North America, conservatively estimating 1.5
million tons from the United States,” the FAS said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  