-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; Xerox Risk Falls on Earnings
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-24T22:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-apple-profit-growth-slows.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held as jobless claims in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped to
a five-year low.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.1 basis point to a mid-price of 86.6 basis points at 4:34 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Signs of improvement in the labor market may relieve
investor concern that economic weakness will pressure companies’
ability to repay debt obligations. Applications for unemployment
insurance payments decreased by 5,000 to 330,000 in the week
ended Jan. 19, the fewest since the same week in 2008, the Labor
Department reported today in  Washington . Economists  forecast 
355,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  “Although Apple earnings sent some caution yesterday, the
job numbers today were positive,” Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL Financial , which oversees $350
billion of assets, said in a telephone interview. “Economic
data is helping credit spreads to narrow. Investor sentiment is
still more positive than what we had anticipated.”  Xerox Swaps  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The cost of protecting  Xerox Corp. (XRX) ’s debt from losses for
five years fell after earnings of the provider of document and
business services beat analyst expectations thanks to a shift
away from the traditional printing business.  Profit excluding some items fell to 30 cents a share from
33 cents a year earlier, above the average analyst estimate of
29 cents, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company said.  Default swaps tied to the company’s debt declined 6 basis
points to 208 basis points at 4 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg
prices show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 1.4 basis points to 436.5 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt tightened 4
basis points to 4.69 percentage points, led by spreads on bonds
of technology companies, which fell 7 basis points to 5
percentage points, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in  New York  at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  