-- Costa Rica Central Bank May Impose More Currency Controls
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2013-01-24T20:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/costa-rica-may-impose-more-currency-controls-chinchilla-says.html
Costa Rica’s central bank is “very
likely” to impose more currency controls to stem the flow of
capital from developed markets that has driven the colon higher,
President Laura Chinchilla said.  “It is very likely that the the bank will have to announce
some measures on their own in the coming days,” Chinchilla said
today in an interview in Davos, Switzerland, where she is
attending the World Economic Forum. “I wouldn’t dare anticipate
what kind of measures.”  Chinchilla, 53, has called capital inflows from developed
markets seeking higher yields “weapons of mass destruction”
against the nation’s economy. Her government submitted a bill to
Congress this week that would raise taxes to 38 percent from 8
percent on foreign investors who transfer out of the country
profits from capital inflows.  The colon fell 0.1 percent to 501.80 per dollar at 2:30
p.m. local time. The colon has gained 1.4 percent against the
dollar this year through yesterday, the most among Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Chilean peso.
A stronger currency hurts exporters by making their goods more
expensive.  Emerging Markets  The government’s moves are a part of an accelerating trend
in  emerging markets  from Asia to Latin America to address
appreciating currencies. Currencies in Colombia, Poland and
 Romania  reached their strongest levels this month since at least
February 2012, while  Thailand ’s Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-
Ranong said last week the currency was “not at a good level.”  The government added to capital flows in November with a $1
billion bond sale. The yield on the securities maturing in 2023
rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.86 percent.
The government will sell another $1 billion in bonds in May or
June, Finance Minister Edgar Ayales said on Jan. 17.  Costa Rica has lured investors including  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and Intel Corp., as well as medical device manufacturers,
partly on the basis of its open economy, educated workforce and
free trade agreement with the U.S. The country’s $40 billion
economy is the second biggest in Central America, after
Guatemala.  The World Bank ranked Costa Rica’s economy 110th out of 185
in terms of ease of doing business. The country was ranked 51st
in “trading across borders.”  “Short-term capital seeks to make money fast,” said
Chinchilla, who has a Masters degree from Georgetown University
in  Washington . “The types of controls that we are using are
ones that focus on that kind of investment. We cannot send a
message that harms foreign direct investment, which has been a
very important part of our economic development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden in Davos, Switzerland at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  