-- CVR Energy Rises to All-Time High on Dividend Plan: Dallas Mover
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-01-24T16:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/cvr-energy-rises-to-all-time-high-on-dividend-plan-dallas-mover.html
CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , the oil refiner and
fertilizer maker that was taken over by billionaire investor
 Carl Icahn  last year, rose to an all-time high after announcing
a new quarterly dividend policy and a special dividend of $5.50-
a-share.  CVR climbed 5.5 percent to $54.51 at 11:41 a.m. in New
York. Earlier, the shares reached $54.75, the  highest  since the
company was taken public by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2007.  The special dividend, scheduled to be paid on Feb. 19 to
shareholders of record as of Feb. 5, will result in about a $392
million cash payout to Icahn, who owns 82 percent of the
company’s shares. The annual dividend is expected to be $3 a
share, beginning with a payment in the second quarter,  Sugar
Land , Texas-based CVR said in a statement today.  “The policy reflects the strength of our balance sheet,
our fundamental ability to generate free  cash flow  and our
confidence in the future prospects of our business,” Icahn,
chairman of CVR Energy, said in the statement.  CVR and other refiners have rallied as U.S. crude
production has risen to the highest  level  since 1993,
outstripping demand in some regions and crimping domestic  oil
prices . CVR and  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC)  saw record  profits  in 2012
as they bought cheap oil and sold fuel at prices linked to the
higher global cost of crude.  The dividends extend in part from CVR Energy’s ownership of
 CVR Refining LP (CVRR) , a master-limited partnership that began public
trading this month. So-called MLPs don’t pay corporate income
tax, leaving more cash for payments to holders.  Total expected payments amount to $7.75 a share, or a 15
percent yield on yesterday’s closing price, more than triple the
2012 dividends made by HollyFrontier, the highest dividend-
paying independent refiner last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  