-- Czechs Voting for President as Clash With Government Looms
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-25T16:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/czech-presidential-election-threatens-to-usher-in-cabinet-critic.html
The Czech Republic’s first direct
presidential election may vote in a new leader set to oppose the
government’s economic program as the minority coalition extends
its austerity measures amid a  recession .  Former Prime Minister Milos Zeman is seen as the favorite
in opinion polls in a run-off against Karel Schwarzenberg, the
millionaire prince and foreign minister who is promoting closer
ties with the European Union after a decade under Vaclav Klaus,
a critic of the EU and euro. Voting started at 2 p.m. in Prague.  As the eastern EU member of 10.5 million struggles to exit
its second recession since 2009, government deficit cuts were
the campaign’s focus. Zeman criticized his opponent for backing
increases in sales taxes and an overhaul of the pension system.  “Just like Klaus, Zeman as the president will stretch the
constitution and try to see how far he can go in his activism
against the government,” said Jiri Pehe, a political analyst
and director of  New York  University in Prague.  The two days of balloting will elect the ex-communist EU
member’s third president since it became an independent state 20
years ago. Klaus, an economist who as premier oversaw the
transition from a centrally-planned to market economy two
decades ago, replaced the late Vaclav Havel in 2003 and is
forbidden by law to seek the post again.  Austerity Benefits  The government credits its austerity measures with helping
to cut borrowing costs. Yields on five-year koruna notes fell
172 basis points, or 1.72 percentage points, in 2012, touching a
record-low 0.66 percent on Dec. 27. The five-year rate rose 9
basis points to 0.87 percent as of 4:14 p.m. in Prague,
according to generic rates compiled by Bloomberg.  The president, who until now had been elected by lawmakers,
selects the leader who attempts to form a government after
elections and influences  monetary policy  by holding the sole
right to name central bank board members. The position’s powers
haven’t changed under the new voting system.  Zeman, 68, and Klaus were rivals in the 1990s, heading the
two largest political parties in the country. Zeman, an
economist who worked as a forecaster in the academy of science
after the fall of communism in 1989, won the premier’s office in
1998 when his  Social Democrats  formed a minority government that
ruled in an agreement with the opposition Civic Democrats, then
led by Klaus.  More Investment  His economic program for the presidential race included
calls for more state investment and restoring progressive
taxation for higher earners. He has opposed Premier Petr Necas’s
pension overhaul, a program designed to boost private retirement
savings that was among reasons cited by  Standard & Poor’s  when
it lifted the rating on the country’s debt two steps to AA-, its
fourth-highest investment grade, in 2011.  Zeman said he would name central bankers who support
economic growth and not strive only to meet the inflation and
currency-stability goals mandated by law.  The run-off vote comes as a recession and corruption fuel
support for the political heirs of Havel’s Communist-era
jailers, who endorsed Zeman. Schwarzenberg, a former Havel aide,
wants to bolster U.S. and EU ties and campaigns for human rights
across the globe.  Pussy Riot  He supported members of Russian punk band Pussy Riot last
summer when they were convicted for a stunt against President
 Vladimir Putin  and said Necas’s view that backing the group may
hurt  Czech exports  to  Russia  was “shocking.”  After Schwarzenberg defied the polls to finish a surprise
second in the first round, the race appears too close to call.  Oddsmakers at the largest Czech betting companies initially
saw the prince as the favorite, though the odds reversed this
week. Zeman also led in the only opinion poll published between
the two election rounds, 54 percent to 46 percent for
Schwarzenberg. The survey by Ppm Factum Research company was
taken among a representative sample of 1,061 Czechs and
published Jan. 18.  Schwarzenberg sparked a wave of fresh publicity today by
failing to follow the required procedure while voting. He cast
his ballot without first placing it inside the obligatory
envelope,  invalidating  his own vote, the public Czech Television
channel reported, citing his spokesman, Marek Prazak.  Voting stations close at 10 p.m. in  Prague  and open again
tomorrow at 8 a.m. Results are expected soon after polls close
at 2 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  