-- Denmark Raises Rates to Defend Krone as Haven Trade Fades
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-01-24T15:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/danish-central-bank-raises-interest-rates-to-defend-krone-peg.html
The Danish  central bank  raised its
benchmark  interest rates  for the first time since July 2011 to
defend the krone’s peg to the euro after investor appetite for
the safest assets waned.  The Copenhagen-based bank raised the  benchmark lending rate 
to 0.3 percent from a record-low 0.2 percent and increased the
rate for  certificates of deposit  to minus 0.1 percent from minus
0.2 percent. The bank, which doesn’t hold scheduled meetings and
adjusts interest rates to keep the krone close to a targeted
7.46038 rate against the euro, normally changes rates in tandem
with the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank .  “The independent hike reflects that the debt crisis has
come under control to an extent that investors are less afraid
of losing their money,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, said by phone.  Denmark  in July tested what central bank Governor Nils Bernstein at the time called “uncharted territory” by cutting
its deposit rate below zero for the first time. The step
followed a capital influx that had threatened to strengthen the
krone beyond the limits of its peg. The bank last changed rates
independently of the ECB in May 2012.  Draghi Pledge  Europe’s leaders have since managed to persuade investors
in the euro region that the worst of the debt crisis is over.
ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s July pledge to do whatever it takes
to keep the euro intact has helped push yields on bonds sold out
of Spain and  Italy  lower, while yields on debt issued by AAA
governments have risen.  The yield on Denmark’s 1.5 percent bond due 2023 traded at
1.646 percent as of 4:23 p.m. in Copenhagen, compared with as
low as 1 percent in December. The difference in yield between
10-year benchmark Danish debt and similar-maturity German bunds
was eight basis points today, versus a negative spread of 31
basis points in November, according to generic price data
available on Bloomberg.  Danske Bank, Denmark’s biggest lender, rose 1.9 percent to
106.40 kroner at 4:19 p.m. in Copenhagen trading. The shares
 erased a loss  of as much as 1.5 percent from earlier today.
 Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , the country’s second-largest listed lender, rose
as much as 0.7 percent, outperforming a 0.3 percent decline in
the Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen all-share index.  Capital Flows  “We still expect just one more similar hike from the
central bank this year, but we cannot rule out that the
normalization of capital flows could trigger more, though it
will still be small-sized interventions,” Bocian said.  Denmark’s krone strengthened to 7.4613 against the euro,
compared with 7.4619 prior to the rate increase announcement.
The krone peaked in 2012 at its strongest level of 7.4306
against  Europe ’s single currency.  Over the past four months of last year, the central bank
sold foreign currency to support the peg, buying Danish kroner
for a combined 5.2 billion kroner ($930 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  