-- Danoff to Rubenstein Say They’re Bullish on U.S. Economy
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-01-24T18:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/danoff-to-rubenstein-say-they-re-bullish-on-u-s-economy.html
Carlyle Group LP co-founders  David Rubenstein  and Bill Conway, and William Danoff, manager of the
$85 billion  Fidelity Contrafund (FCNTX) , joined top investors expressing
optimism about the  U.S. economy  as stocks rally.  Rubenstein and Conway, co-chief executive officers of
Washington-based Carlyle, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker  in Davos today they expect to do
more deals this year as the U.S. grows 2 percent to 3 percent.
Rubenstein, 63, said he was “very bullish” on the U.S. economy
and Conway described it as “very strong.”  “Now is a good time to buy,” Conway, 63, said in the
interview at the World Economic Forum.  Top investors including hedge-fund manager  David Tepper 
have said they’re optimistic this year as the U.S. housing
market recovers, stocks rally, Europe deals with its debt crisis
and the economy in China shows signs of improvement. U.S. stocks
rose today, briefly sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
above 1,500 for the first time since 2007, as an unexpected drop
in jobless claims and better-than-forecast earnings offset a
slump in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Apple  plunged  the most in more than two years after posting
the slowest profit growth since 2003. Shares dropped 10 percent
to $460.20 at 12:22 p.m. in New York.  “I’m bullish,” Danoff, 52, said in an interview posted on
the website of Boston-based Fidelity Investments. “Stocks are
relatively cheap and U.S. companies have become much leaner.”  Beyond Crisis  Danoff’s  fund , which he has run since 1990, averaged annual
returns of 12 percent for the past 22 years, compared with 9.1
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Danoff, in the interview, pointed to improving conditions
in the housing market and manufacturing as trends that will
benefit the economy and the stock market. He described the
global economy as beyond the crisis phase.  “If you are in cash you have to think really hard about it
and say, ‘How much cash do I really need?’” said Danoff.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President  Gary Cohn  said he is
“fairly bullish” on global stock markets because investors
will shift money from bonds to equities as  interest rates  rise.  Rising rates, driven by greater economic activity, will
also be positive for Goldman’s business, Cohn said in an
interview with Schatzker today at Davos. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to climb
to 2.26 percent in the fourth quarter, from 1.86 percent today.  ‘Greatness’ Explosion  Tepper, who runs the $15 billion Appaloosa Management LP,
said he is bullish on U.S. stocks as the economy is set to grow
as much as 3 percent this year.  “This country is on the verge of an explosion of
greatness,” Tepper said in a Jan. 22 interview with  Stephanie
Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” “The key is
to be long equities this year.”  Tepper, 55, made his last big call on equities in 2009,
when his fund returned 130 percent betting on bank stocks in the
aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  Carlyle (CG)  is the world’s second-biggest manager of
alternative assets such as private equity and real estate. The
firm, which was founded in 1987, oversees $157 billion in
assets.  The U.S. economy is expected to grow 2 percent in 2013, the
median prediction of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  