-- Deutsche Boerse May ‘Have a Look’ at Euronext, Faber Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-01-24T14:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/deutsche-boerse-may-have-a-look-at-euronext-faber-says.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , operator of the
Frankfurt exchange, would inspect NYSE Euronext’s European stock
markets if they were offered for sale following a merger with
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , Chairman Joachim Faber said.  “Everybody will have a look at it, but we will appreciate
whether this makes sense for the organization and particularly
also for our shareholders,” Faber, chairman of the supervisory
board, said in an interview at the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland, today. “Cash businesses and the stock-
exchange markets are not the highest yielding and highest return
businesses. So we will have a cautious view and, if at all, will
only do it with a smart solution.”  ICE, the 12-year-old energy and commodity futures bourse,
agreed on Dec. 21 to acquire  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  for cash and stock
worth $8.2 billion. European regulators blocked Deutsche
Boerse’s purchase of NYSE last year, citing concern over
competition in derivatives and clearing and rejecting arguments
the combined exchange would be a regional champion.  NYSE Euronext and ICE said in December they plan to explore
an initial public offering for the Euronext division, which
operates exchanges in Paris, Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam.
NYSE Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said in a Jan. 16
Bloomberg Television interview that the unit is not for sale.  Nasdaq Interest  Euronext might also also attract interest from  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-largest U.S. equity exchange.  “If there was a sale, we would be remiss if we didn’t
evaluate it,”  Robert Greifeld , Nasdaq OMX’s chief executive
officer said in a Jan. 17 interview. “We would take a look, but
we evaluate about 100 opportunities a year and pull the trigger
on very few of them.”  Faber, the former head of asset management at Allianz SE,
said Deutsche Boerse is confident about its future, echoing
comments this week by  Reto Francioni , chief executive officer of
Deutsche Boerse.  “We will probably have another good equity year,” Faber
said. “On the other hand, we will certainly also have -- at
least from the banking community -- reduced trading volumes. So
I’m not quite sure whether this will be a rapid increase. But it
is not a bleak outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  