-- Deutsche Bank Said to Sell CDOs to Help Meet Capital Goal
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-01-24T17:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/deutsche-bank-said-to-sell-cdos-to-help-meet-capital-goal.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, is said to have issued collateralized debt obligations,
using a structure common before the credit crunch to shed its
riskier assets and boost its capital ratio.  Institutional investors recently bought the products, which
packaged asset-backed securities already on the bank’s balance
sheet, said a person with knowledge of the transaction who
requested anonymity because the matter is private. A Deutsche
Bank official declined to comment.  The CDOs, representing $8.7 billion of risk, were sold in
two tranches in dollars and euros,  Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung  reported earlier, citing people it didn’t identify.
Buyers will receive a payment of 8 percent to 14.6 percent
depending on how much risk they take on, the newspaper said.  “Until now, banks have had a hard time laying-off assets
they don’t want to keep,” said  David Watts , a credit strategist
at CreditSights Inc. in  London . “The traditional way of banks
getting rid of them is to securitize them. These things sound as
if they have tasty yields, but there tends to be a good reason
for that.”  Slicing Risk  CDOs pool fixed-income securities and slice them into
segments of varying risk and return. They proved popular before
2008 among yield-hungry investors until demand shrivelled as the
real estate crash and downfall of Bear Stearns and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. pushed money managers into safer assets
such as  U.S. Treasuries .  Deutsche Bank’s deal is another example of the return of
structures killed off by the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  London-based asset manager Cairn Capital Ltd. is raising a
new, 300.5 million-euro ($402 million) collateralized loan
obligation, the first European deal since June 2011, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  In the U.S., firms including  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  have
started selling CDOs backed by commercial real estate debt for
the first time since the crunch, with Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc predicting issuance will climb to as much as $10
billion in 2013, 10 times last year’s figure.  Deutsche Bank established its non-core operations unit last
year to wind down 125 billion euros of risk-weighted assets it
deems not central to its business. The Frankfurt-based lender
plans to reduce that volume, which includes assets ranging from
securitized positions to a Las Vegas casino, to 90 billion euros
by the end of March.  The bank has said it would boost its core Tier 1 capital
ratio, a measure of financial strength, to 7.2 percent as of
Jan. 1 when factoring in stricter rules for reserves. Deutsche
Bank is scheduled to update investors on the plan on Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ; 