-- Deutsche Boerse Said to Plan New Program of Cost Cuts
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A n g e l a   C u l l e n
-- 2013-01-24T14:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/deutsche-boerse-said-to-plan-new-program-of-cost-cuts.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the operator of
the Frankfurt stock exchange, plans a new round of cost cuts as
it attempts to shore up profits in the face of declining trading
volumes, according to two people familiar with the plans.  Details of the program are not yet final, said the people,
who asked not to be identified as the discussions are private. A
spokesman for  Deutsche Boerse  declined to comment.  Deutsche Boerse and its rivals, including NYSE Euronext and
London Stock Exchange Group Plc, have seen volumes drop
following the global financial crisis of 2008. Traditional
exchanges have also lost market share to trading venues such as
Bats Chi-X Europe. The Frankfurt-based company’s third-quarter
 net income  tumbled 50 percent to 159.9 million euros ($213
million) as revenue fell 19 percent.  European regulators blocked Deutsche Boerse’s acquisition
of New York-based NYSE Euronext last year, citing concerns over
competition in derivatives and clearing. The German exchange
spent about 82 million euros in 2011 on legal, consulting,
banking and other expenses related to the failed merger.  The  shares  climbed 1.8 percent to 48.69 euros at 3:29 p.m.
in Frankfurt trading, the highest price in almost nine months.  Deutsche Boerse is moving its Eurex derivatives exchange to
a new trading system as it develops a standalone strategy. The
company completed the acquisition of Eurex, Europe’s largest
derivatives exchange, from SIX Group AG in April.  “The crucial growth in our markets will not take place in
the future in Europe or  North America , but instead in Asia and
 Latin America ,”  Reto Francioni , chief executive officer of
Deutsche Boerse, said in his New Year’s speech earlier this
week. “That is why we have massively reinforced our presence in
those places over the last 12 months and will continue to do
so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  