-- Deutsche Bank Debt Salesmen Said to Go Amid Pay Overhaul
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-25T00:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/deutsche-bank-debt-salesmen-said-to-go-amid-pay-overhaul.html
Deutsche Bank AG’s Casey Talbot, co-
head of credit sales for the Americas, left the company this
week along with at least three other debt salesmen, people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Talbot also was head of investment-grade bond sales for the
Americas at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. Fellow senior credit
salesmen Pat Iossa and Michael Curry were pushed out this week
as the firm curbs executive pay, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the departures haven’t been announced.  Deutsche Bank,  Europe ’s biggest lender by assets, is
overhauling compensation to improve profitability and bolster
capital. Co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain, 50, has said he
sees a risk the company may lose talented workers if competitors
don’t embrace similar cuts. More than a dozen Deutsche Bank debt
traders in New York have left since the start of 2011.  “We have taken a bigger first step than most of our
competitors,” Jain said at a conference in  London  in September.
“Is there a risk that our competition doesn’t follow suit? Only
if you are willing to accept low ROEs with unchanged
compensation practices elsewhere.”  Jain was referring to return on equity, a measure of how
efficiently a company generates income. Deutsche Bank’s  ROE (DBK)  was
5.38 percent for the three months ended Sept. 30, about a
quarter of what it was for the same period in 2007.  Job Cuts  Talbot joined Deutsche Bank in 2010 from Bank of America
Corp., where he was head of structured credit sales. He
previously worked for Zurich-based UBS AG, according to
employment records filed with the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. He didn’t immediately respond to phone calls and e-
mails requesting comment.  Deutsche Bank, when it hired Talbot, said the firm was
committed to having “the best people in place as credit markets
continue to recover.”  Iossa and Curry were both managing directors who had spent
more than a decade at the company. Iossa, who dealt in
distressed debt, joined in 1999 while Curry had been there since
2000, according to Finra records.  John Raveche, who started as a director in investment-grade
debt sales in 2010, and John Silver, a director in currency
sales, also left, the people said.  Raveche, who previously worked at London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Tokyo-based  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment, nor did Silver.  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman in New York,
declined to comment on the departures.  Deutsche Bank is among lenders grappling with Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and new rules requiring them to hold more
reserves against riskier assets. The company said Oct. 30 that
it was eliminating 1,993 jobs, including 814 at its investment
bank and 617 support positions, mainly from the securities unit.  Deutsche Bank  rose  2.6 percent yesterday to 36.33 euros in
 Frankfurt . The shares have advanced 10 percent this year,
compared with an 8.6 percent gain for the 38-company  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  