-- Diamond, Del Missier Among Those Denied Libor Anonymity
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-24T12:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/diamond-del-missier-among-those-denied-libor-anonymity.html
Former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer Bob Diamond and Jerry Del Missier, the former chief
operating officer of the bank, were among those who failed to
block publication of their names in connection to the U.K.’s
first lawsuit tied to the rigging of Libor.  Rich Ricci, chief executive officer for corporate and
investment banking, John Varley, another former CEO, Mark Dearlove, head of the bank’s money-market desk, and Chris Lucas,
group finance director at the London-based lender, were also
among the group of 104 who sought anonymity, according to court
documents released today.  “The cat is out of the bag,” Judge Julian Flaux said in
rejecting the employees’ bid for anonymity earlier this week.
“It wouldn’t take a rocket scientist to work out who they
are.”  Barclays is being sued by affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd. claiming an interest-rate swap should be annulled because
it is linked to  London  interbank offered rate, which Barclays
tried to manipulate. Guardian said it wouldn’t have signed the
swap contract, which resulted in a loss for the Wolverhampton,
England-based company, if it had known about the manipulation.  Flaux had ordered Barclays to give Guardian’s lawyers the
identities and e-mails of bank staff who were included in
disclosures to British and American regulators during a probe
into interest-rate manipulation. Only 24 of the 104 people named
were involved in setting Libor, Flaux said.  Fine, Resignations  Barclays said in an e-mailed statement that just because
some employees names appeared in “hundreds of thousands of
pages of documents” after three-year investigation doesn’t mean
they were involved in any wrongdoing.  More than a dozen banks worldwide are under investigation
for Libor-rigging. Barclays was fined 290 million pounds ($459
million) in June when regulators found traders had tried to
manipulate Libor and other interest rate benchmarks for profit.  That fine triggered the resignations of Diamond, Chairman
Marcus Agius and Del Missier. Diamond was called to testify in
front of British lawmakers at the House of Commons Treasury
Committee in July. He was later criticized in a parliamentary
report for giving “unforthcoming and highly selective
evidence” about his knowledge of Libor manipulation.  Barclays will cover legal costs incurred by the employees
from their attempt to block publication of their identities,
Flaux said.  A spokesman for Diamond declined to comment.  Bloomberg News joined with other media organizations,
including the Times in London, the Telegraph and the Financial
Times in opposing the employees’ application for anonymity. The
names weren’t immediately released after Flaux’s ruling.  Dan Doctoroff, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Bloomberg LP, has offered a measure dubbed the Bloomberg
Interbank Offered Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a
variety of financial transactions in an effort to better reflect
participating banks’ real cost of credit. Bloomberg LP is the
parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  