-- Diebold Tumbles as CEO Exits Amid Miss on Earnings
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-24T21:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/diebold-tumbles-as-ceo-exits-amid-miss-on-earnings.html
Diebold Inc. (DBD) , a maker of automated
teller machines, fell the most since July after saying it would
hire a new chief executive officer and that 2012 earnings would
miss its forecast.  Thomas Swidarski is stepping down immediately from his post
and his board seat, the company said today in a statement. His
departure after seven years was announced amid an “accelerated
slowdown” in Diebold’s business with U.S. regional banks.  “Given the company’s ongoing performance and pace with
which it is delivering tangible value, it is in our
stakeholders’ best interests to make a change in leadership,”
Chairman Henry D.G. Wallace said in the statement. “The
company’s execution of its strategies has not been what we want
or expect, and we have underperformed against the opportunities
in the marketplace.”  Wallace, who replaced John Lauer earlier this week, will
lead the company while directors seek a new CEO, Diebold said.  Diebold dropped 8.4 percent to $29.91 at the close in New
York, the biggest slide since July 30. The North Canton, Ohio-
based company’s stock has fallen 45 percent from a 2007 high of
$54.25.  Earnings have faltered in the wake of the financial crisis
as U.S. regional banks, the biggest customers for Diebold’s
ATMs, stopped expanding,  Gil Luria , a Los Angeles-based analyst
at Wedbush Inc., said in a telephone interview.  ATM Demand  Demand for the machines “really hasn’t recovered since the
financial crisis,” Luria said. “Tom Swidarski did as good of a
job as he could in these circumstances, but the reality is that
Diebold over the last six years has had a really hard time
growing earnings and I think the board of directors decided that
it was time to say that the current direction didn’t work.”  Diebold’s assessment that adjusted 2012 earnings would be
$2.07 a share, lower than its October forecast of $2.25 to $2.30
a share, occurred on the heels of interest by one of its largest
shareholders in proposing a director.  Gamco Investors Inc. (GBL) , Diebold’s second-biggest holder with
a 7.79 percent stake as of Jan. 10, said it would nominate
Robert Prather, president of  Gray Television Inc. (GTN/A)  and one of the
Rye, New York-based asset management firm’s own directors, to
serve on Diebold’s board.  The Jan. 10 letter is “probably the visible part of
shareholder pressure,” Luria said. “The company has made very
little progress in the last six years.”  Fourth-quarter earnings of 45 cents a share, excluding non-
routine expenses, restructuring charges and other items, missed
the average estimate of 65 cents from analysts.  In addition to the decline in its U.S. regional bank
business, profit was also undercut by costs tied to  Hurricane
Sandy  and delays in its Brazilian operations, Diebold said. The
ATM maker projected 2013 earnings would be unchanged to
moderately lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  