-- Double-Dueling Audi S8 Takes on Mercedes-Benz, BMW
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/double-dueling-audi-s8-takes-on-mercedes-benz-bmw.html
The S8 executive sedan is what
happens when  Audi (NSU)  takes off its gloves. More accurately, the S8
is what happens when it takes off its gloves and uses them to
slap Mercedes-Benz and BMW.  That is an invitation to a double duel.  The Mercedes S-Class and BMW 7 Series have long ruled the
roost when it comes to full-sized luxury sedans. The segment
doesn’t sell a load of cars, but it does carry a lot of
prestige.  Mercedes and BMW typically stuff their luxury haulers with
as much new-age technology as possible, and then offer versions
with extra horsepower and long wheelbases. These uber models
include the S63 AMG and 760Li, both which go for around
$140,000.  Audi’s A8 sedan has been around since the 1990s, but the
high-performance S8 model has only been offered sporadically.
The last generation came out in 2006 and was outfitted with a V-
10 engine. While it was certainly game, it wasn’t a game
changer.  The 2013 model year brings an all-new S8 and this time it
isn’t playing fair.  The sedan starts at $110,895 and is a technological
showpiece. It looks great. And it’s faster than most  sports
cars .  Leather Seats  Titans of industry who prefer to be driven might take
pause, however. No long wheelbase model is offered.  That means you can forget about a rear throne that reclines
like a leather-lined Barcalounger. Audi buyers who want to
spread out in the rear will have to endure the vagaries of the
long-wheelbase A8. It’s offered as both a V-8 and W-12 model.
However, even the latter, the $137,000 A8 L W12, has less power
than the S8.  The S8, comparatively, is like a Lear jet. Smaller, and
really, really fast.  How fast? Well, Audi says it can crack 60 miles per hour in
3.9 seconds. That’s speedier than most muscle cars. Heck, it’s
significantly quicker than the company’s supercar, the V-8
powered R8 4.2.  The S8’s previous gas-thirsty V-10 was jettisoned in favor
of a smarter, more efficient V-8. The 4.0-liter V-8 is twin-
turbo-charged and direct injected, and built of lightweight
aluminum. With 520 horsepower, it is more powerful than the 5.2-
liter V-10, and propels the car to 60 mph a full second quicker.  Better Mileage  It also gets better mileage, with 15 miles per gallon
around town and 26 highway. The previous one managed only 13 and
19 mpg. Now that’s progress.  I drove the S8 around the Tri-State area. The weather was
cold and damp, and aside from my own couch, the cabin of the
Audi was the best place to take refuge.  The gorgeous leather seats had an exquisite cross-stitched
diamond pattern, electronically adjusted in 22 different
positions, had a massage function and were also heated and air-
conditioned. Come to think of it, they were better than my
couch.  Executive sedans always get car makers’ latest gadgets. I
first experienced a night-vision system on a BMW 7 Series and
adaptive cruise control in a Mercedes-Benz S-Class.  If the S8 doesn’t have anything on it that I haven’t seen
before, the reason is Audi doesn’t wait to let its latest
technologies filter down to lesser models. Like the A6 and A7
sedans, the S8 gets a thin navigation screen that slides out of
the center console and employs  Google Earth. (GOOG)  The car also acts
as a movable Wi-Fi spot. The cabin is a happy place for a
technophile.  Driver’s Paradise  It’s also a great place for a driver.  Around the city and during rush-hour on the highway, the S8
performed its duty perfectly: It mitigated the irritation of
modern driving. The swell of the stereo kept me entertained at
red lights, and it moved smoothly in spurts of hurry-up-and-stop
freeway traffic.  Exactly as a luxury sedan should.  Then I got it out onto quieter roads, far out of town, and
let the S8 show me what it could really do. From a stand-still,
I dropped my foot on the accelerator. All thoughts of shiny
gadgets and leather luxury were wrenched from my head.  An expletive might have fallen from my mouth. The S8 rips
like a hopped-up  Porsche 911 .  It also turns beautifully. Moving a big luxury car through
a narrow two-lane road often feels like a chore. Try to go
through that same road with speed, and it can feel like either
an act of bravery or stupidity.  Local Hero  The S8 seems to shrink around you. I was always aware just
how much room I had between the fenders and the edge of the
road. The all-wheel-system pulls the car through turns with an
ease that is nearly insolent. Yeah, it’s a 4,600-plus-pound car.
So what? Watch this.  I’ve had a long love affair with the BMW 7-Series. The
steering is better than the S8, and there is better sense of
road feedback. But it isn’t as heroic as this Audi.  This is no empty challenge. Expect that both Mercedes and
BMW will have to answer back. The luxury sedan segment just got
a lot more interesting.  The 2013 Audi S8 at a Glance  Engine: 4.0-liter twin-turbo V-8 with 520 horsepower and  479 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 3.9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 15 city, 26 highway.  Price as tested: $129,995.  Best features: Amazing interior, roaring drive.  Worst feature: No long wheelbase offered.  Target buyer: The CEO who likes to drive himself.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 