-- Dow Chemical Disavows Texas LNG Export Project It Co-Owns
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-01-24T21:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/dow-chemical-disavows-texas-lng-export-project-it-co-owns.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by revenue, said it won’t invest in a proposed
$6.5 billion natural gas export project at a Texas terminal it
partly owns.  Dow, which uses gas to make components for everything from
hair spray to cat food to vehicle upholstery, doesn’t have an
“active role” and “has no interest in” the Freeport LNG
export venture in which the chemical company holds limited
partner status, said George Biltz, Dow’s vice president of
energy and climate change.  Dow Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  has
been a vocal opponent of shipping unlimited amounts of domestic
gas to overseas markets, warning of higher prices at home that
would discourage construction of new chemical plants and
factories. Dow is listed as a limited partner in Freeport’s
federal permit applications by virtue of its ownership stake in
an adjacent gas-import facility built during the last decade.  “Dow is not going to be part of the new investment,”
Biltz said during a telephone interview. “We have taken no role
and haven’t worked with them at all” on the export proposal.  Freeport LNG is seeking federal permission to chill 1.4
billion cubic feet of gas a day to liquid form for shipment via
tankers to foreign markets such as Japan and  Spain .  Import Plants  The closely held partnership wants to install refrigeration
units,  storage tanks  and other equipment alongside its existing
gas-import terminal on Quintana Island about 65 miles (105
kilometers) south of Houston. Freeport plans to complete
financing during the fourth quarter for the first phase of
construction, and commence production in 2017, General Counsel
John Tobola said in a phone interview.  North American energy producers are scrambling to build
export terminals for liquefied natural gas, or LNG, as growing
supplies of the fuel from shale formations have overwhelmed
homegrown demand and collapsed prices. Like Freeport, many of
the proposed export ventures are slated to be built adjacent to
LNG import facilities constructed in the mid-2000s when
luminaries such as then-Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan 
were warning of an imminent gas shortage that would create the
need for massive inflows of foreign supplies.  Those gas shortages never materialized, thanks to advances
in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing that unleashed
previously untouchable reserves and boosted U.S. production of
the fuel to a record. With most of the LNG import projects
remaining largely idle, the new proposals transform erstwhile
importers into would-be exporters.  ‘Indiscriminate’ Exports  Freeport’s Tobola declined to comment on Dow’s role in the
export venture. The company’s efforts to obtain financing and
government approvals wouldn’t be affected by any potential
change in the ownership structure, he said.  Dow rose 1 percent to $34.43 at the close in  New York . The
stock has increased 6.5 percent this year.  Dow executives have been warning since March 2011 that
“indiscriminately” exporting gas may derail billions of
dollars in U.S. industrial investments that are predicated on
the availability of cheap gas.  The company, based in Midland,  Michigan , has $4 billion in
planned expansions along the U.S. Gulf Coast that would feed off
streams of gas and gas byproducts from shale wells. Makers of
chemicals, plastics, steel and other energy-intensive products
have proposed investing $95 billion in new capacity through
2020, Biltz said.  Lobbying Group  To press the anti-export case, Dow last month formed
America’s Energy Advantage with three other chemical makers, as
well as aluminum producer  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , steelmaker  Nucor Corp. (NUE)  and
the American Public Gas Association. Liveris, Dow’s CEO, also
has the ability to promote his message through his co-
chairmanship of U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s Advanced
Manufacturing Partnership and his membership in the President’s
Export Council.  Liveris is concerned that unfettered gas exports may
consume domestic supplies faster than new wells can be drilled,
leading to the type of price spikes that prompted Dow and its
competitors in the last decade to build factories outside the
U.S. For its part, Dow opted to build new plants in lower-cost
gas markets such as  Kuwait  and  Saudi Arabia  through joint
ventures.  Liveris’s lobbying for a cap on gas exports drew the ire of
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. gas producer. In a Jan. 17
post on Exxon’s website, Vice President of Public and Government
Affairs Ken Cohen characterized America’s Energy Advantage as
“a small gaggle of companies” that was “playing a weak
hand.”  Exxon’s Ire  “Unfortunately for AEA -- but fortunately for U.S.
consumers -- expert after expert has shown that the economic
benefits to the country from LNG exports are significant and
outweigh any potential domestic natural gas price increases,”
Cohen wrote. Exxon’s Golden Pass project is among the 16
awaiting Energy Department assent to export gas to non-free
trade nations.  Biltz declined to comment on Exxon’s remarks.  Freeport Chief Financial Officer Hugh Urbantke estimated
the cost of the project at about $6.5 billion during a December
2011 interview. Other limited partners in Freeport include  Osaka
Gas Co. (9532) , Zachry American Infrastructure LLC and Freeport LNG
Investments LLP, according to the venture’s website.  Freeport Chairman and CEO Michael S. Smith founded the
partnership in 2002, a year after selling Basin Exploration Inc.
to  Stone Energy Corp. (SGY) , a Lafayette, Louisiana-based oil and gas
explorer, for about $430 million.  The slew of permits and licenses Freeport is required to
obtain includes clearance from the Energy Department to sell gas
to nations that don’t have free-trade agreements, or FTAs, with
the U.S. Freeport’s application is next in line for review,
according to the Energy Department in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  