-- Drugmakers Prep for U.S. Rules on Disclosing Payments
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-01-24T20:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/drugmakers-prep-for-u-s-rules-on-disclosing-payments.html
Drug companies and medical-device
makers would be forced to publicly disclose any money paid to
doctors under new U.S. regulations designed to make patients
aware of conflicts of interest that may affect their health.  The final rule, a provision in President  Barack Obama ’s
health law that is more than a year overdue, is set to be
released soon, said  Brian Cook , a spokesman for the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services. Companies would have to publish
payments to doctors for research and consulting services.  The rules would for the first time give patients a peek at
a doctor’s financial link to drugmakers, information that
regulators have long been privy to yet typically kept to
themselves. Expanded public disclosure may bring more scrutiny
on physicians serving on advisory panels that help the  Food and
Drug Administration  decide whether to approve a new drug.  “The question is whether there’s some residual fondness
for the company because they did pay you,” said  Sidney Wolfe ,
director of the health policy research group at the consumer
watchdog group Public Citizen. “More disclosure is better.”  Doctors who now sit on FDA advisory panels must inform the
agency about conflicts of interest. The FDA determines when a
waiver for a financial conflict may be necessary and otherwise
keeps arrangements between doctors and companies secret, even
from other panel members. At least 12 drugmakers, including New
York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , started making those disclosures public
in anticipation of the new regulations.  Ethical Interactions  The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
the primary lobbying group in  Washington  for drugmakers, said
that while it supports more disclosure, the new regulations
should take into account “the importance of context in the
publication of physician payment information.”  “Ethical interactions between biopharmaceutical companies
and health-care professionals are essential to maintaining
patient trust,” Matthew Bennett, a spokesman for PhRMA, said in
an e-mail. The principle behind the so-called sunshine provision
“is complementary to this belief and it has great potential for
helping patients understand the ways in which” such
collaboration benefits their health and medical innovation,
Bennett said.  The Obama administration hasn’t explained why the rules are
delayed, said U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican.
The sunshine provision, which was part of the Affordable Care
Act signed into law in 2010, was supposed to be issued by
October 2011. CMS is “working to release the regulations as
soon as possible,” Cook said in an e-mail.  Basic Accountability  Grassley  wrote  the White House Jan. 22 urging officials to
release the regulation today or name a date it would be issued.  “Letting the sun shine in and making information public is
basic to accountability,” Grassley, the top Republican on the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said in the letter. “The sooner we
can properly implement this law, the sooner we can establish
greater accountability for patients and consumers, especially
with medical research.”  The regulation is under consideration by the White House
Office of Management and Budget, the final step before it’s
publicly released. Lobbyists for the  American Medical
Association , the largest U.S. physician organization, visited
the White House this month seeking changes to the rule.  Grace Period  “The AMA has been lobbying for what we would consider a
weaker rule,” said Celia Wexler, a lobbyist for the Union of
Concerned Scientists, an environmental organization, who has
also visited the White House on the regulation. “We’re mostly
concerned about what might happen to it.”  The doctors’ group said it wants physicians to have more
than 45 days to challenge information in the government’s
database and add commentary to explain the payments. It also
wants some corporate contributions to physicians excluded from
disclosure, including sponsorships for educational activities
and “indirect” payments, such as unsolicited contributions a
company might make to a nonprofit group affiliated with doctors
or to physicians’ employers or practices.  The AMA wants to ensure “the registries will provide a
meaningful and accurate picture of physician-industry
interactions,” AMA president Jeremy Lazarus said in an e-mail
sent by a spokeswoman, Heather Lasher Todd. “It is critical
that the final rule provide physicians with a clear way to
correct any inaccurate information and not place any substantial
administrative burden on physician practices.”  Yaz Pill  Congress designed the law so data would be publicly
available by the end of September 2013, Grassley said. Now that
the regulation is 15 months overdue, the public may miss an
entire year’s worth of data collection because companies need at
least a year to comply, he said.  When the FDA reviews applications for new drugs and medical
devices, it relies on outside doctors, academics and researchers
for insight and recommendations on the safety, effectiveness and
need for the products. Watchdogs, including Washington-based
 Public Citizen  and the Project on Government Oversight, have
cited instances where doctors advising the FDA on a particular
medicine had also been paid to consult for the product’s maker.  The Project on Government Oversight has asked the FDA to
post advisory committee members’ financial disclosure forms
online since 2010. The group wrote the FDA a year ago urging the
agency to do so again after four advisers who backed  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
Yaz and its class of birth control pills against concern that
they may have higher risk of blood clots were found to have done
work for Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer or a company that make
generic versions of the pills.  Dynavax Vote  During the December 2011 meeting, the FDA said there wasn’t
a conflict of interest. The vote in favor of the class of oral
contraceptives containing the hormone drospirenone was 15-11.  The issue was brought to light again in November when
 Dynavax Technologies Corp. (DVAX) ’s experimental hepatitis B vaccine
failed to win the backing of FDA advisers despite a positive
regulatory review just days before. A search through the website
of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which discloses doctor payments,
revealed the chairman of the advisory panel previously did work
for Glaxo, which has a similar product on the market.  The chairman, Robert Daum, a professor of pediatrics at the
 University of Chicago  received  $4,646  from Glaxo for consulting
in 2009, according to the London-based company’s website. Daum
was the only panel member to vote against the efficacy of the
vaccine. On a separate vote, the panel split 8-5 in saying
Dynavax didn’t have adequate safety data to support approval.  The FDA was aware of the payments and didn’t consider them
a financial interest that warranted a waiver or interfered with
Daum’s ability to sit on the panel, Rita Chappelle, an agency
spokeswoman said in an e-mail.  Have Faith  Daum said in a telephone interview that his past
relationship with Glaxo, which was for work on a different type
of vaccine, didn’t influence his vote.  “I don’t think that kind of funding in the distant past
would influence my votes,” he said. “I think you have to have
some faith in the integrity of the people you’ve asked to
serve.”  He said he wasn’t sure whether the FDA should be required
to disclose his relationships with drugmakers regardless.  Michael Ostrach, vice president and chief business officer
for Berkley, California-based Dynavax, declined to comment on
Daum.  Finding Advisers  “In areas of medicine that are popular these days, I think
it’s hard to find enough skilled reviewers without possible
conflicts of interest and this means that a good committee may
have a few such members with possible conflicts,” Ned Feder, a
staff scientist with the Project on Government Oversight, said.  In May, the FDA had 634 advisory committee positions and
106 were vacant, according to the  latest data  on the agency’s
website. This compares with 608 positions in May 2010 and 216
vacancies.  “The solution, I think, is not to insist on limiting
committees to members without conflicts,” Feder said. “Simply
disclose the financial arrangements of all committee members.”  Allan Coukell, director of medical programs for the Pew
Health Group in Washington, agreed, saying some financial
relationships between doctors and drugmakers are necessary and
beneficial like payments for research.  “No drug can be developed or tested without the
participation of physicians who enroll patients in clinical
trials,” Coukell said in a telephone interview. “That’s an
essential part of  drug development  and we need it to continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  