-- DuPont’s Kullman Says China Growth to Benefit Solar Unit
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-24T21:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/dupont-s-kullman-says-china-growth-to-benefit-solar-unit.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by market value, said its solar-materials and
pigments businesses will be the biggest beneficiaries from a
growing Chinese economy.  An acceleration in  China  would “greatly support” its
performance chemicals unit, which makes titanium dioxide, a
white paint-pigment, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview from
the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland.
China’s plan to double installations of photovoltaics helps
DuPont’s electronic materials unit, she said.  Chinese government data shows gross domestic product
accelerated to 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter after slowing
for seven straight quarters. Still, DuPont “cannot be sure”
growth momentum will continue in the country, where the company
boosted sales volumes 16 percent in the fourth quarter, she
said.  Kullman, 57, is shifting Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont’s focus to products that help meet global demand for
food, energy and security. She expanded in food ingredients and
biofuel enzymes with the 2011 acquisition of  Denmark ’s Danisco
A/S. the CEO said Jan. 22 she expects to complete the sale of
DuPont’s auto-paint unit to Carlyle Group LP for $4.9 billion in
the current quarter.  Kullman is eliminating 1,500 jobs as a weak global economy
challenges her target for adjusted annual earnings growth of 12
percent. Per-share profit will increase 2 percent to 7 percent
this year as lower earnings from titanium dioxide pigment
offsets gains in other units, DuPont said Jan. 22.  DuPont rose 1.2 percent to $48.07 in New York yesterday.
The shares have gained 6.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  