-- Dylan, Hirst, Masriadi Woo Asian Billionaire Art Buyers
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-01-24T18:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/dylan-hirst-masriadi-woo-asian-billionaire-art-buyers.html
Singapore’s Art Stage is luring the
growing pool of wealthy Southeast Asian collectors with Damien Hirst’s butterflies, canvases by Indonesian artist Nyoman Masriadi and paintings by singer Bob Dylan.  More than 1,000 champagne-sipping VIPs got a preview of the
fair before it opened yesterday. They included chef Daniel Boulud,  New York  Asia Society Museum director  Melissa Chiu ,
Japanese artist Takashi Murakami and Indonesian tobacco tycoon
 Oei Hong Djien .  Compared with last year, when many galleries grumbled about
a lack of deep-pocketed collectors, the event is off to a
stronger start, said dealers.  “With the Dow at a four-year high, a lot of people have
loosened their purse strings,” said Jasdeep Sandhu, whose
Singapore-based  Gajah Gallery  sold two Masriadis for $350,000
and $200,000.  Global stocks have been recovering in recent
weeks. On Jan. 24, the S&P 500 topped 1,500 for the first time
since 2007.  “There’s more of a buzz this year,” said Graham Steele,
director of  White Cube  Hong Kong, who has sold several works by
Antony Gormley and received “serious interest” in Hirst’s
butterflies.  Disgruntled Gallerists  Not everyone is happy, however. Art Stage’s Swiss founder
Lorenzo Rudolf has set up his own Indonesian pavilion, angering
many galleries that represent artists from that country.  “There is a conflict,” said Meli Angkapripta, whose
husband owns Jakarta-based  Nadi Gallery  which is selling
Indonesian artist Handiwirman Saputra. “The gallery shows his
work and Art Stage invites him to the pavilion too. It would be
better if he brings artists not already represented.”  In an interview, Rudolf said the pavilion was necessary
because of the lack of a proper Indonesian art infrastructure
and to “give the galleries a kick to go into the international
level.”  Last year, many galleries complained when Rudolf organized
a trip to  Indonesia  for important collectors in the middle of
the fair, leaving them with fewer potential customers.  Rudolf started Art Basel Miami during his 1991-2000 stint
as director of Art Basel, the world’s biggest contemporary art
fair. While Art Basel Hong Kong has established itself as the
most important international art fair in Asia, Art Stage has
increasingly focused on becoming a Southeast Asian art hub.  Asian Wealth  This year, more than 70 percent of the 130 participating
galleries are Asian, many drawn to Art Stage because of the
growing wealth in Southeast Asia.  Asia-Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in North
America for the first time, according to a report in June last
year by Cap Gemini SA and RBC Wealth Management.  Singapore has 91,200 U.S. dollar millionaires, more than
regional rival Hong Kong, with 83,600. It also has the highest
ratio per capita -- almost one in six -- of any country in the
study, the report said.  Helga Edwards, who represents London-based Halcyon Gallery,
is exhibiting at Art Stage for the first time with paintings by
Dylan based on earlier sketches he did while touring.  The most expensive canvas, done in 2007, carries a 395,000
pound ($624,000) price tag.  Tokyo-based Gallery Koyanagi is also making its Art Stage
debut with black-and-white photographs by Hiroshi Sugimoto.  Art Stage Singapore is at the convention center of the
Marina Bay Sands through Jan. 27. Information: +65-6224-4975 or
 http://www.artstagesingapore.com .  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s  New York weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Singapore at  fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  