-- Coffee Leaf Rust Threatens Production in Central America
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z ,   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-25T16:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/leaf-rust-outbreak-threatens-central-american-coffee-production.html
Coffee growing nations in Central
America will need $300 million to fight a disease spreading in
the region and reducing crops, said Nils Leporowski, president
of Guatemala’s National Coffee Association, known as Anacafe.  Guatemala, Central America’s second-biggest coffee grower,
may lose a third of its crop because of leaf rust, President
Otto Perez Molina said yesterday in Davos,  Switzerland . The crop
in Costa Rica may be 30 percent to 40 percent smaller because of
the fungus, President Laura Chinchilla said in a separate
interview in Davos. Coffee exports from  Honduras , the region’s
biggest grower, will be down 767,000 bags due to leaf rust, also
called roya, the Honduran Coffee Institute said.  Coffee production in  Mexico  and Central America will be
19.7 million bags in the 2012-2013 season that started Oct. 1,
the  International Coffee Organization  estimated in a report on
Jan. 9. That is 2.8 percent lower than the previous forecast of
20.3 million bags, data from the London-based group showed.
Farmers around the world will harvest 144.1 million bags, the
ICO estimates. A bag of coffee weighs 132 pounds.  “In the next few months when demand increases, the market
will realize that the countries south of Mexico to  Peru  do not
have the amounts of coffee expected and that there will be less
availability of high-quality coffee,” said Ronald Peters,
executive director of the Costa Rican Coffee Institute, adding
that higher temperatures and below normal rainfall may have
helped fuel the outbreak.  Coffee Futures  Arabica coffee futures traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York  declined 37 percent last year, the most in more than a
decade, partly because of a bigger crop in  Brazil , the world’s
largest grower, and rising stockpiles. The beans favored by
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  were the worst performing commodity in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials last year.
Prices are up 2.7 percent this year.  “The roya situation and the potential that next season’s
crops may be impacted is certainly a current focus of the
market,” Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank International in
 London , said by e-mail yesterday. “If the Central American crop
is lower, this will support coffee prices.”  Guatemala’s government will help growers cope with losses
from the foliage-attacking disease, Perez Molina said. The
country will spend $40 million to fight the fungus, Anacafe’s
Leporowski said, adding that as many as 100,000 jobs could be
lost in the season started Oct. 1 due to roya. Costa Rica will
provide aid to farmers affected, said Chinchilla.  The disease will probably spread throughout the region as
last year’s slump in prices reduced farmers’ income, limiting
their ability to pay for chemicals to treat crops, said  Stefan
Uhlenbrock , an analyst at F.O. Licht GmbH in Ratzeburg,  Germany .  Government Aid  “The minister of agriculture briefed us at the last
meeting and told us about the impact, which could be very big,”
Perez Molina of Guatemala said. “The government will help
farmers, especially small-and medium-sized ones.”  About 40 percent of Guatemala’s 2013-2014 crop may be lost
because of the disease, up from 15 percent of the harvest this
year, according to Leporowski. The 2013-14 season will run from
Oct. 1 this year to Sept. 30, 2014.  About 17,000 farmers in  El Salvador , or 65 percent of
producers, will receive aid from the government to fight the
outbreak, newspaper El Diario de Hoy reported Jan. 23.  The damage in  Costa Rica  may be “very high,” Chinchilla
said. The Costa Rican Coffee Institute, known as Icafe, cut the
nation’s production estimate to 1.648 million bags from a
previous forecast of 1.714 million bags, it said on Jan. 4. Some
farmers have already lost as much as 20 percent of their crop,
said Peters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden in Ottawa at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  