-- Egypt’s Transition Needs Some Quiet U.S. Help
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-24T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/egypt-s-transition-needs-some-quiet-u-s-help.html
If ever there was a moment for the
U.S. to lead from behind, it is in Egypt and it is now.  The popular revolt that began in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  two
years ago today was the most inspiring of the Arab Spring, but
what has followed has proved to be the opposite. Amid the chaos,
the U.S.,  Europe  and others are holding back on commitments to
the Arab world’s largest and most important country.  Every step along the way since former President  Hosni Mubarak  left office in February 2011 has demonstrated how not to
build a functioning democracy: from the overlong assumption of
power by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, to the
crackdown on U.S. pro-democracy organizations a year ago, to the
Supreme Constitutional Court’s decision to dissolve Parliament
last June, to President Mohamed Mursi’s usurping of powers in
November.  Each step helped to polarize the nation, culminating in the
violent clashes between Islamist and secular protesters late
last year. Each step fed cynicism about what a constitution
means and how a democracy can work.  The turmoil shriveled Egypt’s tourism industry, foreign
investment and growth rate -- from 5 percent before the
revolution to 2 percent last year. Any optimistic scenario for
 Egypt  will have to reverse that dismal trend: Even at its peak
growth rate of 7.2 percent in 2008, the economy produced barely
enough jobs for the numbers of young people flooding into the
labor market. In Egypt -- as in  Tunisia  and Libya -- the
revolution was as much about jobs as freedom.  External Help  Unlike Libya, Egypt needs a lot of external financing -- an
estimated $22 billion this year alone -- just to stay afloat.
And Egypt can be frustratingly hard to help. When the U.S. gave
more than $60 million for democracy promotion after the
revolution, the Egyptian response was to prosecute the
recipients.  None of these setbacks, however, are arguments for
disengagement. The U.S. need not add significantly to the
roughly $2 billion it has already  committed  (though not
delivered) to Egypt, and the $1.3 billion in military aid it
provides annually to persuade Egypt to keep the peace with
 Israel . Nor should it be seen as trying to shape the country’s
future -- Egypt and the U.S. need each other, but they  don’t
like  each other enough for that.  So what can be done? In one sense, everything is on hold
until parliamentary elections in the spring. Only then can the
government be expected to sign up for the essential $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund  program  that would unlock money from
donors and investors. The current government accepted the deal
in December, but then asked to delay the program after the
reaction to one of the conditions -- an unpopular tax increase -
- caused it to withdraw the measure within a day. The deal is
now being renegotiated.  As former Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  writes on Bloomberg
View, the IMF program would provide the meaningful economic
policy that Egypt lacks. A recent Atlantic Council  paper 
describes how nobody knows if the next government will take the
IMF route or choose a populist path that won’t require it to
raise taxes, privatize state assets or cut the roughly 10
percent of gross domestic product that the government spends on
subsidies. That path would be disastrous for Egypt and the
region.  To get back on track, the new government will have to
accept the IMF deal and be less domineering. Meanwhile, the
secular opposition will have to give up its efforts to bring
down the elected Islamist government by using politicized
courts, and instead build up the party organizations that win
elections.  Stronger Framework  The U.S. and other outside powers can play a persuasive
role. As we argued at the beginning of this series on the Arab
Spring, Egypt, Tunisia and Libya need a stronger framework to
help them with the transition. The U.S. is the only country that
can coordinate Egypt’s donor countries --  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia ,
 Turkey  and the European Union -- within such a framework. It’s
also in a unique position to leverage the IMF and  World Bank  to
increase their loans to Egypt when the time comes.  The U.S. can do more in two other areas. First, it should
resume negotiating a  free-trade  agreement with Egypt. The EU has
had one since 2004, and while Egypt’s Salafists will probably
balk, business people -- including many in the Muslim
Brotherhood -- would welcome a U.S. equivalent. More
immediately, the U.S. could increase the range of tax-free goods
that can be exported to the U.S. from Egypt’s Qualified
Industrial Zones.  Secondly, the U.S. administration can be more forceful on
democracy and human rights. It has understandably soft-pedaled
the promotion of stronger democratic institutions since the
arrest of U.S. nongovernmental-organization personnel. A new
Egyptian law on nonprofits, and trials, will probably follow the
elections, clearing the way for this to change. The U.S.-
Egyptian security relationship may be paramount, but the U.S.
must also stand up for democracy and human rights if it’s to
stand for anything.  This would be leading from behind, not in a military
campaign as in  Libya , but in an economic and political one to
reboot Egypt’s transition. It’s worth the attempt.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 