-- Seven Dead in Egypt Anniversary Clashes Injuring Hundreds
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-26T02:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/egypt-opposition-to-protest-on-second-anniversary-of-uprising.html
Sporadic clashes between security
forces and protesters punctuated the second anniversary of
 Egypt ’s 2011 uprising, with President Mohamed Mursi’s opponents
massing against an Islamist they say has failed to fulfill the
revolution’s goals.  Tens of thousands of Egyptians, led by youth groups and
secular activists, protested in Cairo’s Tahrir Square under a
haze of tear gas, while demonstrators in coastal Alexandria
hurled rocks at police, who who also responded with tear gas.  Clashes continued into the evening, and the scene was
mirrored in cities including Suez and Ismailiya. At least seven
Egyptians died and 476 were injured during clashes between
protesters and security forces across the country, the health
ministry said in a statement.  Chants of “leave, leave,” and “the people want the fall
of the regime” rang out in various cities, a reminder of the
calls at the start of the movement that pushed  Hosni Mubarak 
from power. In the two years since, Mursi’s critics say he has
focused on cementing the Muslim Brotherhood’s hold on power
instead of reviving the economy, improving  living conditions  and
cracking down on corruption and police brutality.  “The revolution has been hijacked,” and Mursi and the
Muslim Brotherhood “are enemies of  women’s rights ,” said
Bothaina Kamel, 50, an activist who joined a march from Cairo’s
Shoubra neighborhood.  Economy Stagnant  Mursi, narrowly elected in June in a runoff against
Mubarak’s last premier, has fueled discontent by issuing decrees
that temporarily expanded his powers and pushing through
ratification of an Islamist-drafted constitution.  Against a backdrop of unrest, Mursi has struggled to right
an economy  growing  at the slowest pace for two decades in the
two years since the revolution, as tourists and investors stayed
away. Authorities are battling to defend the pound, which has
plunged 7 percent in the past month. The central bank has spent
about 60 percent of its  foreign reserves  since the start of
2011. The  budget deficit  exceeded 11 percent of economic output
last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The government is in talks with the IMF on a $4.8 billion
loan that officials say will boost investor confidence and
unlock more funds, though negotiations have repeatedly stalled
amid political bickering. An IMF delegation will arrive within
two weeks to “finalize” the deal, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil
said Jan. 24.  ‘Vicious Cycle’  “Egypt is facing a vicious cycle, with rising unemployment
levels and socio-economic deprivation breeding yet more
instability that prevents economic recovery,” Oliver Coleman,
an analyst at U.K.-based risk-advisory firm Maplecroft, said by
e-mail in response to questions.  At yesterday’s rally, Fathi Mohamed, a 46-year-old
electrician, said he was there because “we still haven’t gotten
our rights: bread, freedom, social justice and human dignity.”  “We didn’t revolt against Mubarak to end up with Mursi,
whose ways are even worse than Mubarak’s,” he said. “The
Brotherhood is now everywhere in the state.”  Ahmed Sobea, a media adviser for the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, said it was too early to judge
Mursi’s performance, especially given the challenges he
inherited. He urged the opposition to propose solutions and not
put up obstacles.  Sowing Chaos  “Most of those who take to the streets on Jan. 25 will aim
for the day to be peaceful, but the fear is that some might want
to sow chaos, thinking this would be reproducing the revolution
or could lead to the departure of the president,” he said.  Islamist groups have said they will steer clear of
demonstrations to avert possible clashes with protesters. Even
so, the fight came to them, with the Freedom and Justice Party’s
office coming under attack in the Beheira governorate, the
state-run Ahram Gate website reported.  In Cairo, roadblocks and coils of barbed wire surrounded
Mursi’s palace. “Your walls will not protect you from the
revolutionaries,” read a slogan scrawled on a makeshift
concrete barrier.  Additional challenges came from soccer fans known as Ultras
who have been holding demonstrations, gearing up for a possible
court ruling today over the Port Said stadium riots last year
that left dozens dead. Ultras marched into  Tahrir Square 
yesterday, chanting: “We’ll teach them manners, we’ll show them
rage.”  Molotov Cocktails  Several thousand people massed in front of the main
television and radio building in Cairo, chanting against Mursi
and hurling rocks. Hundreds more blocked the tracks of Cairo
metro trains in the downtown area, halting service on the line.  In Suez, protesters using Molotov cocktails set fire to the
administrative prosecutor’s building adjacent to the Suez
governorate office, according to an e-mail from security
officials.  At least 95 Egyptian security personnel were injured in
clashes with protesters, the country’s  interior ministry  said in
a statement.  On his Facebook page, Mursi posted a statement offering his
condolences to the Egyptian people over the casualties in the
clashes and said that the government will bring those
responsible to justice.  Unity Bid  The opposition has sought to overcome internal differences
in recent months and present a  united front  to what they say are
authoritarian tendencies on the part of Mursi and the
Brotherhood.  That will be tested in legislative elections in coming
months. The opposition’s campaign against a constitution drafted
by an Islamist-dominated panel failed to prevent the charter’s
approval in a December referendum vote.  Some of the protesters against Mursi described yesterday’s
rallies as an effort to hold the president accountable, not
topple him.  “Despite all the negatives, he is an elected president,”
said Sara Yehia, a 24-year-old researcher. “We must be more
focused on goals, including pursuing the Interior Ministry, and
not rush to demand a change of the regime every time something
goes wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  