-- Einhorn Closed Short Position in Herbalife, WSJ Says
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-24T14:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/einhorn-closed-short-position-in-herbalife-last-year-wsj-says.html
(Corrects name of hedge fund in first paragraph of story
published Jan. 23.)  David Einhorn , who questioned
 Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  in May, said his hedge fund, Greenlight Capital
LP, closed a short position in the company last year, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  Einhorn told investors at a meeting yesterday that the
short sale was profitable, though he didn’t disclose the size of
the profit or the position, the newspaper reported.  Last year, Einhorn, chairman of Greenlight, asked
executives at the nutritional supplement maker why they had
stopped providing information tracking certain groups of its
distributors in its filings. Einhorn didn’t say if he was an
investor of Herbalife, which sells vitamins, shake mixes and
skin gels through a marketing network of independent
distributors worldwide.  In its annual letter sent to investors yesterday and
obtained by  Bloomberg News , the company said it has made a
“modest reduction” in its short exposure at the end of the
year, without disclosing whether it held a position in
Herbalife.  “As always, we continue to reexamine our positions. Some
we have kept, some we have added to, and some we have reduced or
eliminated,” the company said in the letter.  Inflated Pricing  Bill Ackman , founder of  New York  hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, joined Einhorn last year in raising
questions about Herbalife. On Dec. 20, Ackman appeared at a Sohn
Investment Conference in New York and accused Herbalife of using
inflated pricing, misleading sales information and a complicated
incentive structure to hide a pyramid scheme.  Herbalife fell 2.6 percent to $43.01 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 31 percent this year after tumbling
36 percent in 2012.  Earlier this month, Herbalife reported preliminary fourth-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates as net sales rose
about 20 percent in the period.  “Herbalife is a financially strong and successful company,
having created significant opportunities for distributors and
positively impacted the lives and health of our consumers over
our long history,” Chief Executive Officer Michael O. Johnson
said in a statement on Jan. 17.  Short-selling refers to the practice of borrowing shares
and selling them, with the goal of profiting by repurchasing
them later at a lower price. A pyramid scheme is a scam in which
people pay money or buy goods, typically not a genuine product,
for the chance to earn profits when others join the scheme,
according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  