-- Elekta-Philips Win MD Anderson Center for MRI Device Test
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-01-24T07:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/elekta-philips-win-md-anderson-center-for-mri-device-test.html
Elekta AB (EKTAB)  and  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA)  won their first hospital contract to test a new
type of radiation therapy machine designed to increase the
accuracy of treatment and reduce the need for surgery.  The  University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center  will test
the machine, which uses magnetic resonance imaging during
treatment to keep the radiation focused on the tumor, the
companies said today in a statement. Stockholm-based Elekta and
Amsterdam-based Philips plan other collaboration agreements with
hospitals, which must purchase or lease the equipment.  Radiation therapy uses a high-energy beam of X-rays that
passes through the patient’s body to kill cancer cells. The beam
is highly susceptible to magnetic fields, so MRI is typically
done before treatment to map out where cancer cells are and
where the beam should be aimed. The new machine is designed to
allow MRI to be done during treatment so the beam can be
repositioned in real-time should the target shift as the patient
breathes or moves.  “Historically, putting the two technologies together has
been a crazy idea” because the magnets would cause the energy
beam to bend,  Kevin Brown , Elekta’s head of scientific research,
said in an interview.  The companies created a special magnet that accommodates
the presence of radiation nearby. The electron beam streams
through a “null” space between the magnetic fields, Brown
said. He declined to specify how much the machine will cost
because it’s still in development and not yet for sale.  1999 Concept  The idea to combine MRI with radiation-treatment technology
was first proposed in 1999 by  Jan Lagendijk , a radiation
oncology physicist at University Medical Centre Utrecht in the
Netherlands, where the new machine is being tested. With real-
time imaging, the beam can be refocused should the target area
change, such as a lung tumor that moves when the patient
breathes.  “It’s dancing around, not just in millimeters but
centimeters,” Lagendijk said in an interview. “A kidney moves
up to 6 centimeters when you breathe.”  The machine can target therapies within 1 millimeter of
accuracy to minimize the amount of healthy tissue radiated near
cancer cells, he said. The radiation dose can be increased to
make a highly-targeted, personalized treatment with the aim of
negating the need for surgery in some cases, he said.  ‘Gold Standard’  “MRI is the gold-standard modality for imaging soft
tissues, and MR imaging of the cancer during radiation therapy
could provide the health care team the ability to optimize
treatment while reducing toxicity,” Steven J. Frank, an
associate professor of radiation oncology and director of
advanced technologies at MD Anderson, said in the statement.  Elekta and Philips used the MRI component of the prototype
on healthy volunteers and tested the radiation treatment on
fluid plastic models to make sure the beam hits its target and
is as potent as traditional radiotherapy.  A different imaging technology, known as computed
tomography, or CT scanning, has been combined with radiation
therapy for treatment of tumors in bones, Lagendijk said. A CT
scan uses multiple X-ray beams to capture an image of the body.
MRI is “superior” for looking at soft tissue, particularly
tumors of the rectum, esophagus and kidneys, which are hard to
treat due to low visibility with CT, Lagendijk said.  Curing Role  Radiotherapy is becoming more sophisticated, and 40 percent
of cancer patients who are cured now receive it as part of their
treatment, Henry Scowcroft, science information manager at
Cancer Research U.K., said in an e-mail.  “It will be intriguing to see to how well the device
performs as the consortium develops the technology, and whether
it will lead to real improvements in cancer care,” Scowcroft
said.  Once enough hospitals are on board, the companies will
request regulatory approval for testing the machine on cancer
patients, Elekta’s Brown said. Marco van Vulpen, Lagendijk’s
colleague and principal investigator, is designing clinical
trials for patients with tumors in the kidney, pancreas and
prostate. Installation of the machines should start next year,
Lagendijk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  