-- Mellanox Sinks on Second Forecast Miss: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-24T15:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mellanox-sinks-on-second-forecast-miss-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , an
Israeli maker of technology used to transfer and store data,
plunged to a nine-month low in Tel Aviv after its sales
projections missed estimates for a second time this month.  The technology developer  sank  14 percent to 155 shekels, or
the equivalent of $41.72, the lowest since April 15, at the
close in Tel Aviv, in 5.5 times the three-month average daily
volume. The company’s U.S.-traded shares plunged 15 percent to
$44.11 at 9:56 a.m. in New York. Chief Financial Officer Jacob Shulman yesterday said Mellanox will report first-quarter
revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates by as much as 48
percent.  Revenue for the three months ending in March 31 will reach
$78 million to $83 million, Shulman said in a call with analysts
after Mellanox reported fourth-quarter earnings. The range
compares with the $130.7 million average of  13 sales estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company sparked a 17 percent drop in
its U.S. stock  the day after  lowering fourth-quarter forecasts
Jan. 2. Chief Executive Officer Eyal Waldman said he expects
growth to resume in the second quarter.  “This is very bad news,” Rudi Shtivi, senior analyst at
Leumi Partners Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , the investment banking arm of
 Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , said today by phone. “There is no
doubt this is a very strong statement by the company about the
business environment it is operating in.”  High Volatility  The stock’s plunge led declines on the benchmark TA-25
Index which fell 0.7 percent. Mellanox’s  30-day historic
volatility , a measure of stock swings, rose to 84.32 today, the
highest since Nov. 18.  “It’s very bad for a company to miss twice,” Brian Freed,
an analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. who has a buy rating on
Mellanox, said in a phone interview from  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
yesterday. “It will, if not permanently then for a very long
time, impair the multiple  Wall Street  is willing to pay for the
stock.”  The sequential drop in revenue is mostly due to a build-up
in inventory by one of the company’s customers, CEO Waldman
said, without naming the client.  “The majority of the inventory will be depleted in the
first quarter of 2013 and we expect growth to resume in the
second quarter of 2013 and thereafter,” he said on the call
yesterday.  Mellanox said at the beginning of this year that  sales for
the last three months  of 2012 would be $119 million to $121
million, below guidance issued in October for revenue of $145
million to $150 million in the quarter.  Shares have slumped 57 percent in  New York  since hitting a
record $119.93 Sept. 6. Mellanox  rallied  270 percent in the
first eight months of 2012 on surging demand for its technology
from suppliers of information storage and data systems.  “They’ve already shot their credibility to a great
degree,” Wunderlich’s Freed said. “Not getting back to beating
or meeting estimates is just going to further damage that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  