-- Embraer Jumps on Republic Deal Valued at Up to $4 Billion
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-01-24T20:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/embraer-rises-on-4-billion-order-from-republic-sao-paulo-mover.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s fourth-
largest planemaker, surged the most in two years after signing a
contract to sell regional jets worth about two-thirds of its
annual revenue last year.  The shares  jumped  8.9 percent to 15.93 reais at the close
of trading in  Sao Paulo , the most since January 2011 and the
highest closing level in eight months. Earlier, shares climbed
as much as 12 percent.  The manufacturer led gains on the Bovespa stock index after
announcing an order from  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  for 47
of its E-175 jets, with an option for an additional 47. The
first delivery is scheduled for mid-year and the contract may
total $4 billion should the option for more planes be exercised.  “The re-fleeting of the airlines in the  United States  --
that is our major source of demand,” Chief Executive Officer
Frederico Curado said in an interview in Davos, Switzerland.
U.S. airlines will need 300 to 400 regional jets in the next two
years, and Embraer seeks to supply half of them, he said.  “We are going to sell more new aircraft than we deliver
this year,” Curado said. “We are going to increase our
backlog.”  The deal is “monumental” for Embraer, Sandro Fernandes, a
trader at brokerage Corval, said by phone from  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil. “A good portion of this year’s revenue and dividends is
already guaranteed.”  ‘Still Cheap’  Embraer’s sales grew 26 percent in 2012 to 12.5 billion
reais ($6.1 billion), according to the average estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue will climb to 12.7
billion reais this year, according to analysts’ estimates.  The stock is “still cheap with momentum and upside to our
figures,” Renato Mimica, a Banco BTG Pactual SA analyst, wrote
in a note to clients.“We are still strong buyers,” Mimica
wrote.  Republic, an Indianapolis-based provider of commuter
flights for larger carriers, placed its order as it disclosed a
new contract to operate bigger regional jets for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
 American Airlines .  70-Seat Demand  Under the 12-year accord, Republic will operate 76-seat
jets for Fort Worth, Texas-based American, which reached a new
contract with pilots last month allowing regional partners to
use larger planes. Republic will phase in 53 Embraer SA E-175
jets at a rate of two to three planes a month beginning mid-year
and ending in the first quarter of 2015, the airlines said.  Regional jets with 70 or more seats have been a focus for
U.S. airlines as models with 50 or fewer seats fall from favor
because of rising fuel costs.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  agreed to buy
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  76-seat planes last month, and CEO  Richard Anderson  said this week he expects to cut Delta’s 50-seat fleet
to as few as 100 within two years from about 300 as of December.  Embraer has risen 34 percent in the past 12 months while
the Bovespa fell 2.1 percent. Today’s trading volume was almost
five times the average over the past three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  