-- Emerging Stocks Drop as Apple Sales Hit Asian Suppliers
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-24T22:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/emerging-stocks-fall-to-one-week-low-on-apple-auto-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated the
most in a week as slower sales growth at  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  dragged down
Asian suppliers and earnings reports disappointed investors.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , which assembles Apple’s
iPhone, slumped to a five-month low in Taipei. India’s  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  lost the most since May as its luxury-vehicle unit
said profit margins probably fell.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  slid to a
three-week low after the automaker said fourth-quarter net
income declined more than expected.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  surged the most
in two years after Brazil’s top plane maker received an order
worth up to $4 billion.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,072.26 in New York as an exchange-traded fund of developing-
nation stocks also declined. Apple shares sank 12 percent after
the company posted the slowest profit growth since 2003 and the
weakest sales increase in 14 quarters.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index
dropped to a six-week low as economic growth data missed
estimates and North Korea threatened a nuclear test. The
Shanghai Composite Index fell.  “It feels like sentiment has run hard,”  Michael Wang , an
emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital LLP in  London , said
by e-mail. “With earnings season coming up and with some mixed
results so far, there doesn’t seem to be much appetite to add
risk at the moment.”  MSCI’s developing-nations gauge has added 1.6 percent this
year, trailing a 4.3 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO) 
The emerging-markets index trades for 11 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.5, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. A measure of 100-day  volatility  on the
developing-country index dropped to 10.3 today, the lowest level
since October 2005.  Power Rates  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.4
percent to 44.31, while the  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, added 3.3
percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 1.3 percent.  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  plunged 7.5 percent to the lowest price in a week
in after Brazil reduced energy costs more than previously
announced. President  Dilma Rousseff  said the cuts will pare
power rates by as much as 32 percent compared with a reduction
of 28 percent she announced in September.  Gold Miners  Embraer was the best performer on the MSCI emerging markets
gauge, climbing 8.9 percent after announcing an order from
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. for 47 E175 airplanes, with an
option for an additional 47. The contract may total $4 billion
should the option for more planes be exercised.  Gold companies fell in  Lima  as the metal declined by the
most in three weeks.  Rio Alto Mining Ltd. (RIO) , the developer of the
La Arena copper and gold mine in Peru, dropped 2.5 percent, the
most since Jan. 3, while  Cia de Minas Buenaventura SA (BUENAVI1)  tumbled to
the lowest price since September 2009.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. declined 0.7 percent to 100.53, the
lowest close in two weeks. Stocks fell on concern the nation’s
economic recovery won’t be sustained, while Focus Media Holding
Ltd. dropped 3.1 percent amid a probe by the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,494.82. The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in December by the most in three months,
signaling stronger housing and job markets will help the world’s
largest economy make more progress in the first half of 2013.
Other reports showed claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly
dropped, manufacturing picked up and  consumer confidence  waned.  Kospi Drops  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut global growth
forecasts and now projects a second year of contraction in the
euro region. The Czech Republic’s PX index fell 0.5 percent,
erasing yesterday’s gains, and Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 0.2
percent. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index added 0.1 percent,
rising for a 10th day.  South Korea’s Kospi index sank 0.8 percent after the  Bank
of Korea  said economy grew 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
less than the median 1.8 percent estimate of 12 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The won weakened 0.3 percent versus
the dollar.  North Korea threatened to conduct a nuclear weapons test
“targeted” at the U.S. after the nation pushed through United
Nations sanctions against the totalitarian state for a rocket
launch last month.  Foreign Investment  Taiwan’s Taiex Index fell 0.6 percent and the BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost 0.5 percent.  India’s rupee pared declines after the government increased
the limit on foreign investment in local debt markets. The
currency closed little changed versus the dollar after an
earlier drop of as much as 0.4 percent.  Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rallied 2 percent after a minister said
government support for social housing would bolster the  property
market . Pakistan’s  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index (KSE100)  rose for a
seventh day, the longest winning streak since Aug. 23, to a
record.  Rising Volumes  Equity trading volumes were higher than average in Poland,
South Korea, India and  China , with more than two times the 30-
day average changing hands in WIG20 shares a day after Poland
sold a stake in PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s largest
lender. In South Korea, about 22 percent more Kospi shares
changed hands versus the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell two basis point to 262 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer,
retreated 1.9 percent and OAO Norilsk Nickel lost 0.7 percent in
Moscow. Morgan Stanley cut Moscow-based Norilsk to the
equivalent of hold, and Rusal to the equivalent of sell, citing
a recent rally.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. jumped 3.6 percent in
Moscow, the highest close since April 23. Billionaire  Mikhail
Prokhorov ’s Onexim Holdings Ltd. agreed to sell his entire stake
in the gold producer, according to three people with knowledge
of the plan who asked not to be identified as the information is
confidential.  Consumer Stocks  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) , a Turkish state lender,
retreated 3.7 percent in Istanbul, the most since Oct. 3, after
Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said a secondary public
offering would be possible after the bank’s shares are
transferred to the Treasury in at least a few months’ time.  A  gauge  of consumer discretionary companies in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1 percent, the most among 10
industry groups, followed by technology companies. Hon Hai lost
2.9 percent, while Apple plunged the most since since September
2008.  Tripod Technology Corp. (3044) , which makes printed circuit
boards, fell 5 percent in Taipei and LG Display Co., which
supplies panels to Apple, slipped 1.2 percent in Seoul.  Hyundai Motor Co. sank 4.6 percent after it said fourth-
quarter net income declined 5.5 percent to 1.89 trillion won
($1.8 billion). Analysts expected 1.98 trillion won, according
to the average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Tata Motors tumbled 6.3 percent in Mumbai. Profit before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the three
months to December was similar to figures during the preceding
two quarters, and the margin relative to sales was probably
“slightly lower,” Tata’s Jaguar Land Rover Plc unit said.  Chinese Manufacturing  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , which makes personal computers, climbed
6.6 percent, the most since Aug. 1, in  Hong Kong . The company’s
smartphone business in China has turned profitable, and is
seeing strong sales growth in emerging markets, the Wall Street
Journal said, citing Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming.  Data today showed China’s manufacturing is expanding at the
fastest rate in two years, boosting prospects that economic
 growth  will accelerate. The preliminary reading of a  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index was 51.9 in January, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics. That compares with the 51.5 final
reading for December and the 51.7 median estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  