-- EPA Loses Bid for Full-Court Review of Cross-State Rule
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-24T23:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/epa-loses-bid-for-full-court-review-of-cross-state-air-rule-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency lost a bid for review by a full federal appeals court of
a three-judge panel’s ruling that threw out regulations designed
to cut cross-state pollution from coal-fired power plants.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington , in a two-sentence
order today, said the majority of seven judges who considered
requests by the EPA and other parties voted against
reconsidering the earlier decision.  The panel’s 2-1 ruling on Aug. 21 dealt a blow to the Obama
administration’s efforts to curb harmful emissions with a
regulation it said would provide “dramatic” health benefits
for 240 million people.  Two of the judges on the panel,  Brett Kavanaugh  and  Thomas Griffith , said in that decision that the agency overstepped its
legal authority and imposed standards that were too strict. The
court sided with power companies and mining groups that
challenged the measure, which caps emissions in more than two
dozen states.  The court ordered the agency to continue to enforce a 2005
measure known as the Clean Air Interstate Rule until a viable
replacement to the cross-state regulation can be issued.  The agency in seeking full court review said in an Oct. 5
filing that Kavanaugh and Griffith developed “regulatory policy
out of whole cloth” in violation of their role of review.  The EPA, in an e-mailed statement, said it was disappointed
by the court’s decision and was considering “any appropriate
further course of action.” The agency could ask the U.S.
Supreme Court to consider the case.  Sulfur Dioxide  The EPA rules, which applied to Texas and 27 other states,
would have imposed caps on sulfur dioxide, which can lead to
acid rain and soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and
nitrogen oxide, a component of ground-level ozone and a main
ingredient of smog.  Lawsuits challenging the rule called it “one of the most
costly, burdensome and arbitrary” ever issued under the  Clean
Air Act .  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  