-- Merkel Says Japanese Yen, Central-Bank Liquidity Are Concerns
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-01-24T14:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/merkel-says-japanese-yen-central-bank-liquidity-are-concerns.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
the Japanese government’s call for monetary easing and central-
bank cash that’s been unleashed to stem Europe’s debt crisis
constitute risks to the global economic recovery.  “I can’t say I’m completely free of worry when I look at
 Japan  right now,” Merkel said today during a question-and-
answer session after addressing the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland. For Europe, the “large amount of
liquidity” pumped into the financial system last year,
particularly to help banks, has to be mopped up again, she said.  Merkel added her voice to German officials including
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  who have challenged Japan
for trying to devalue the yen to spur the world’s third-largest
economy. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, sworn in on Dec. 26, has
called on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to carry out unlimited monetary
easing and accept a higher central bank inflation target to
boost exports by pushing the yen lower against competitors.  In her speech, Merkel said that Europe should use 2013 to
concentrate on bolstering competitiveness with the aim to
produce goods across the region that the rest of the world wants
to buy. She called for a “competitiveness pact” to follow
steps already taken toward banking union and a fiscal compact.  The euro area must use the lull in the three-year-old debt
crisis and avoid becoming dependent on the  European Central Bank 
to cover for policy makers, she said. While the ECB has gone
“to the limits of its own mandate” to defend the euro, it can
only serve in a bridging function as governments tackle economic
overhauls, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  