-- Metro Isn’t in Talks to Sell Kaufhof, Board Member Muller Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-24T12:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/metro-isn-t-in-talks-to-sell-kaufhof-board-member-muller-says.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s largest
retailer, isn’t in talks to sell its department-store chain
Kaufhof, management board member Frans Muller said.  The unit’ increase in market share in Germany is
“extremely” positive, especially in textile markets, which
aren’t “so easy,” Muller said at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland. Metro said Jan. 16 that revenue at Kaufhof
dropped 0.9 percent to 3.1 billion euros ($4.1 billion).  “Kaufhof is a good business for us,” Muller said in an
interview. “We are not in talks with anyone.”  Metro Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch halted negotiations
to sell Kaufhof in January last year, saying market conditions
weren’t suitable. Metro has sought to exit the unit since 2008.
Nicolas Berggruen, a German billionaire who made an offer for
the asset at the end of 2011, is also attending the economic
forum. He was competing for the unit with Signa Holding GmbH, an
Austrian real-estate company managed by Rene Benko.  Metro, based in Dusseldorf, has also sought to exit its
Real hypermarket business and last year  agreed to sell  the
grocery stores in eastern  Europe  to Groupe Auchan SA of  France 
for 1.1 billion euros. It was Koch’s first big deal since taking
the helm at the start of last year.  Fnac ‘Nonsense’  Muller said speculation Metro would merge its Media-Saturn
business with  PPR (PP)  SA’s Fnac in France is “nonsense” after
Swiss newspaper L’Agefi reported that Metro could return to the
French electronics market by buying Fnac.  Koch has pledged to focus on the Cash & Carry wholesale
unit and Media-Saturn electronics stores. The retailer reported
little changed fourth-quarter revenue on Jan. 16 as increased
sales at Media-Saturn in Germany offset weakness in western
Europe. It also announced on that day that the electronics chain
is leaving  China .  “The year 2012 wasn’t great,” Muller said, adding that
visibility for 2013 is “very low.”  Metro cut its 2012 profit forecast in October because of
the weakening economic climate in southern Europe and parts of
eastern Europe. It expects 2012 earnings before interest, tax
and other items to be about 2 billion euros.  -- Editors: Thomas Mulier, Celeste Perri  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net 
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  