-- EU Carbon Plunges 40% as Lawmakers Suggest Rejection of Glut Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-24T17:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/eu-carbon-plunges-40-as-lawmakers-suggest-rejection-of-glut-fix.html
European Union carbon prices plunged
a record 40 percent after a panel in the 27-nation bloc’s
parliament recommended rejection of a strategy to strengthen the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade market.  The European Parliament’s industry committee advised
against the plan by the EU’s regulatory arm to change the
emissions-trading law to tackle a glut by 42 votes against
versus 18 for. Carbon permits for December sank to a record 2.81
euros ($3.75) a metric ton immediately after the ballot.  “This should be the final wake-up call,” EU Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Something has to be done urgently. I can therefore
only appeal to the governments and the European Parliament to
act responsibly.”  At stake is the fate of the 54-billion-euro EU emissions
trading system after an excess of allowances caused by an
economic crisis drove prices down 91 percent from a record in
April 2006. While the non-binding committee vote is only a
recommendation for other members of the parliament, it
highlights the division between lawmakers, whose support is
ultimately needed to enact carbon-permit supply curbs.  The proposal by the European Commission to alleviate
oversupply by delaying sales of some permits caused a rift among
governments, industry organizations and lawmakers, sparking
questions whether the EU needs the cap-and-trade system. The
commission’s plan is “absurd” and will hurt German industry by
pushing up their costs, Joachim Pfeiffer,  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s CDU party economy spokesman, said today.  Economic Crisis  “The market is panicking really,” Daniel Rossetto,
managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd. in London, which
advises in emission markets, said by telephone. Carbon traders
are concerned that the region’s greenhouse gas market may not
continue beyond 2020, he said.  Most member states, whose approval is also needed for the
so-called backloading plan to be implemented, remain undecided
whether to back the fix, according to the EU presidency.  EU allowances pared some losses in the second part of
today’s session and closed 6.9 percent down at 4.33 euros on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  While the opinion of the industry committee in the EU
parliament, known as ITRE, is disappointing, it came as no real
surprise because it “has always been a conservative
committee,” said Julia Michalak, policy officer at Climate
Action Network  Europe , a lobby group. “The vote in the
environment committee will be the real test.”  Increased Uncertainty  ITRE has an advisory role in the legislative process to
change the bloc’s emissions law. The environment committee is
leading work on the draft measure in the  Parliament  and is due
to vote on it next month. Its chairman, Matthias Groote, who
supervises the proposal in the assembly, said today in a text
message that a compromise was still possible in his panel.  The opposition in the industry committee indicates that the
plenary vote that will follow a decision by the environment
committee and ensuing talks with governments “is not a forgone
conclusion,” according to Konrad Hanschmidt, a London-based
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The increased
uncertainty will reduce any speculative buying from utilities
and financial institutions, he said by e-mail.  ‘Market Overreacted’  “This will make today’s oversupplied market even more
fragile and potentially amplify the bearish pressure of
auctions,” he said. “However, the market overreacted slightly
today, as the ITRE vote does not fundamentally change the
outcome of backloading.”  The draft law change, which confirms the commission’s right
to decide the timing of auctions, is the first element of an EU
strategy to reduce the glut of allowances. Once it is approved
by governments and the parliament, the bloc will vote on a
separate regulation setting out the details of auction delays.  To win the approval of member states, the backloading
regulation would need 255 out of 355 votes in a ballot system
that favors larger countries. The success of the proposal relies
on German support, according to analysts including  Trevor Sikorski  at Barclays Plc.  The U.K., which together with Germany, Italy and  France  has
the largest number of votes in the EU, yesterday set conditions
for backing the measure. Britain would prefer delaying sales of
1.2 billion allowances, more than the 900 million proposed by
the commission, and is seeking reassurances on a deeper overhaul
of the emissions system that should follow backloading, the
Department of Energy and Climate Change said.  National Systems  The EU needs to take long-term action to improve the
market, “but before we can do that we also need to make sure
that there’s something there still to discuss,” Yvon
Slingenberg, head of the emissions-trading unit at the
commission, told lawmakers in Brussels. The alternative to the
EU carbon market is a patchwork of national systems, she said.  “Certain member states have already taken some national
measures and it’s very likely and a big risk that if the price
goes further down more national measures will be enacted,” she
told members of the environment committee today. “And this is
indeed fragmentation of the internal market which I think the
industry is very attached to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  