-- EU Greening Plans Should Exempt Smallest Farms, Committee Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-24T09:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/eu-greening-plans-should-exempt-smallest-farms-committee-says.html
Proposed European Union requirements
that would tie farmer payments to environmental targets should
have exemptions for small farms and operations that already use
similar ecological practices, a parliament committee said.  Farms smaller than 10 hectares (25 acres) should be exempt
from the EU’s so-called greening plans, and rules should be
relaxed for operations up to 30 hectares, the European
Parliament’s agriculture committee said, according to a
 statement  yesterday on its website. Farms already participating
in national or regional environmental programs may also be
exempt, as long as those programs have environmental effects
similar to the greening rules, it said.  The EU’s plan would make 30 percent of budgets for direct
payments contingent on environmental measures including crop
diversification and maintaining permanent pastures or grassland
areas. The U.K.’s parliament committee for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs said in June EU plans threatened to reduce  food
security  by taking farmland out of production.  Greening plans should be “possible for every farmer in the
EU, not just those in countries that can afford to fund it under
rural development programs,” Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos,
rapporteur for direct payments and rural development
regulations, said in the statement. “This greening is clearly
subject to EU rules, and now needs to be paid for by real EU
money for a public good.”  Reduced Payments  The agriculture committee also endorsed proposals that
would cap direct payments to any one farm at 300,000 euros
($400,000) and lower payments by 70 percent for those receiving
between 250,000 euros and 300,000 euros. Payments to farms
making between 200,000 euros and 250,000 euros would be lowered
by 40 percent and farms making 150,000 euros to 200,000 euros
would be cut by 20 percent, according to the statement.  Direct payments should go only to active farmers, and other
groups, such as airports and sports clubs, should be
automatically excluded from receiving funding unless they can
prove that farming makes up a “substantial share of their
income,” the committee said.  Funding should be distributed more evenly among the EU’s 27
member countries so that no one nation receives less than 65
percent of average payments in the bloc, the committee said.  Committee endorsements should be adopted by the full
parliament before negotiations begin with member countries. A
plenary vote is provisionally scheduled for March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  