-- EU to Embark on Strong Bank-Structure Overhaul, Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/eu-to-embark-on-strong-bank-structure-overhaul-barnier-says.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said that he will present proposals
this year for a “strong reform” of bank structure in a bid to
prevent lenders from being too-big-to-fail.  The EU plans will “separate well the risks in the banking
sector,” the European Commissioner said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Connan yesterday at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . The proposals may be
published by September, he said.  Barnier said that the “basis” of his work was a report
presented last year by an EU mandated group led by Bank of
Finland governor  Erkki Liikanen . The group proposed that banks
should be forced to shift some trading activities into
separately capitalized units.  BNP Paribas SA  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are among EU banks
that signaled opposition to the Liikanen group’s proposals,
saying that they would force them to cut back lending to
businesses and households. Barnier said that his proposals would
“respect the diversity of the banking sector” in the EU.  “I am considering all options,” he said, adding that his
team of EU officials is carrying out impact studies.  Barnier said officials are also working on proposals for a
“single resolution authority” that would handle  bank failures 
in the 17-nation euro area.  Failing Banks  The plans will build on a draft law from last year that
would force each nation to set up a bank-financed fund to pay
for costs of restructuring and winding down failing banks.  The planned single authority will draw on these national
funds rather than be backed by a central pot of money, Barnier
said.  “It will work by using these national funds,” he said.
“I have not spoken of a European fund.”  Separately, Barnier said that he was “not shocked” by
moves by the EU lawmakers to cap banker bonuses by setting a
maximum ratio of fixed pay compared with variable compensation.  He also said that he was working with U.S. authorities to
iron out differences in the implementation of rules for over-
the-counter derivatives.  The EU and U.S. should progress toward a “transatlantic
financial alliance” with parallel regulations that spur
“exchanges and the interdependence of our economies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  