-- Eurocopter Sales Rise to Record on Energy, Military Users
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-24T17:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/eurocopter-sales-rise-to-record-on-energy-military-customers.html
Eurocopter SAS (EAD) , the helicopter unit
of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., said it had record
sales last year on demand from energy companies and military
customers, and will boost output more than 15 percent this year.  “We will continue the growth story” after the company
reached 6.3 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in sales last year,
Eurocopter Chief Executive Officer Lutz Bertling told reporters
in Paris. Deliveries of new models, including EC175 helicopters,
should start this year, he said.  Deliveries of larger models to the oil and gas sector and
to military customers helped Eurocopter increase sales last year
even as deliveries dipped to 475 rotorcraft from 503 in 2011.
Shipments, which have fallen in recent years after order intake
collapsed in 2010, are set to increase again this year.  “We have to manage the ramp-up and we have to manage the
supply chain where suppliers are not always in the best shape,”
Bertling said of his 2013 priorities. Some companies that
manufacturer parts for Eurocopter are struggling, he said.  Building choppers accounted for 49 percent of revenue last
year, with services contributing 42 percent and other activities
such as making composite doors for the Airbus SAS A350 supplying
the remainder, the company said.  Eurocopter also is struggling to fix the EC225, used
heavily by oil and gas operators, after operational restrictions
were put in place due to crashes. The U.K. and  Norway  have
barred flights in hostile environments over water, affecting
about 30 percent of the fleet.  ‘Severe’ Impact  The impact on customers is “very severe,” Bertling said.
Two issues have affected the fleet, he said, with the fix for
one identified and the other still under investigation. A
resolution may be in place in April, the CEO said.  The company also is pushing forward with efforts to improve
earnings and meet a target of 10 percent return on sales before
2016, Bertling said.  New order volume rose for a third consecutive year, to 469
helicopters representing 5.4 billion euros in future business,
Bertling said. Bookings could top 500 craft this year, he said.  Growth will come mainly in Asia, which is set to become the
largest market in two to four years, he said. Development of the
Chinese market is contingent on airspace restrictions being
lifted, he said.  More Competition  Strong prospects also exist in  Brazil , he said. Eurocopter
faces heightened competition after Italian helicopter maker
AgustaWestland this week teamed with  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , which is based
in Brazil, to chase orders. Bertling said the rivals are talking
about local production, while Eurocopter is moving beyond that
to design helicopters in the country and export them globally.  In the military market, Eurocopter remains in protracted
talks about adjusting Tiger attack helicopter and NH90 transport
models. Those talks, which were supposed to conclude last year,
may continue into April, he said.  In  France , Bertling said he sees signs of further NH90
orders and doesn’t expect a big hit from a review of defense
priorities by the government. As part of those discussions,
annual shipments of NH90 troop transport helicopters may dip to
six a year from eight, said Dominique Maudet, Eurocopter
executive vice president.  EADS shares have advanced almost 18 percent this year,
valuing the manufacturer of Airbus planes at 28.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  