-- Ex-California City Officials on Trial for ‘Phantom’ Jobs
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n
-- 2013-01-25T01:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/ex-bell-officials-face-trial-in-california-city-s-looting.html
Six former Bell, California, city
council members used their part-time jobs to loot public funds
while leaving the blue-collar, Latino suburb of  Los Angeles  in
financial distress, a prosecutor said at the start of a criminal
trial.  “When we caught up with them, Bell city council members
were making over $100,000 a year, and this did not include
benefits,” Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney Edward
Miller said today in his opening statement. “Being a city
council member is designed to be just a part-time job. They
don’t actually run the city. They have a city manager that’s in
charge of that.”  The six are accused of misappropriating about $1.2 million
in public funds by getting paid almost $8,000 a month for
attending board meetings that prosecutors said never took place
or lasted only a few minutes.  The  jury trial  in state court in  downtown Los Angeles 
doesn’t include former city manager  Robert Rizzo , who was
charged with 53 counts of misappropriation and conflict of
interest, including giving about $1.9 million in unauthorized
loans to himself and others. Rizzo and former assistant city
manager Angela Spaccia will be tried in a separate case.  The accused on trial now are Oscar Hernandez, 65, Teresa Jacobo, 54, George Mirabel, 63, Luis Artiga, 51, George Cole,
62, and Victor Bello, 54.  Median Salary  Lawyers for the defendants told jurors that their clients
believed they were essentially on a salary, rather than being
paid for their attendance on individual committees. They said
their clients had relied on the City Attorney Ed Lee, who
attended every meeting and advised on every issue.  “Oscar Hernandez was paid a salary,” his attorney,
Stanley Friedman, told the jury. “When he got a check, it was
direct deposit. Like most of us, he got a stub. It didn’t break
it down.”  George G. Mgdesyan, the attorney for Artiga, said the city
council members were victimized and taken advantage of by Rizzo.  “There is no conspiracy in this case,” Mgdesyan said.
“These people were not friends with Rizzo. In fact, he was
trying to trick these people.”  All eight officials were arrested in September 2010 and
accused of misappropriating more than $5.5 million. The Bell
scandal, with Rizzo receiving $800,000 a year to run a city of
38,000, has put the pay of municipal executives under scrutiny.
The median salary for  California ’s city managers in 2009 was
$187,728, according to the state controller’s office.  ‘Phantom’ Meetings  Prosecutors allege that the six former council members were
paid for “phantom” committee meetings on four boards, the
Solid Waste Authority, Surplus Property Authority, Public
Finance Authority and Community Housing Authority, from the
start of 2006 through July 2010.  Lawyers for the six defendants have said their clients were
unaware that the compensation they received was tied to specific
boards rather than part of their salary as council members.  “Mr. Cole was in the belief his salary was for the
entirety of his work,” his lawyer, Ron Kaye, said in a phone
interview. “We’re going to present evidence Mr. Cole was
working beyond full time for the city of Bell.”  Cole served 24 years on the council and, in the final year,
worked for free, Kaye said.  Salary Breakdown  Stanley L. Friedman, a lawyer for Hernandez, said his
client doesn’t read English fluently and never had an
understanding that his salary was broken down by the various
boards he served on.  The defense lawyers are scheduled to give their opening
statements later today.  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
Los Angeles, has five council members who serve part-time and
select the city’s mayor from among themselves.  The median  household income  in Bell is $37,121 and 93
percent of residents are Hispanic, according to U.S. Census
data. Twenty-five percent live below the poverty line. The
median household income in California is $61,632, according to
census data.  Los Angeles County prosecutors said in court filings that
the council members awarded themselves monthly salaries as high
as $1,712 for serving on each of the boards. State law allows no
more than $200 in compensation a month for attending housing
authority meetings, according to prosecutors.  Full Pay  The other three authorities rarely conducted any business
during the 3 1/2-year period, not meeting at all for a nine-
month stretch during 2007 and 2008, while the council members
received full monthly pay for serving on the boards, according
to prosecutors.  “When they did meet again in June 2008, it was for the
purpose of giving themselves raises,” prosecutors said in a
court filing. “After passing this raise, the Surplus Property
and Solid Waste and Recycling authorities never met again, while
the Public Financing Authority met once more two years later.”  The Solid Waste and Recycling Authority met for two minutes
in 2006 and had only one other meeting in 2008, prosecutors
said.  A 2010 state audit found that the city used at least $1.2
million in funds meant for low-income housing and maintaining
local roads as a “self-indulgent slush fund” to pad salaries
and cover unlawful expenses.  Petty Cash  California Controller John Chiang said at the time that the
city had almost no accounting controls and that its general fund
was run like a petty-cash drawer.  The city issued $50 million of a $70 million voter-approved
bond measure without a documented plan to use the proceeds, and
then lost $1.7 million in potential interest earnings because
most of the money was deposited in a non-interest-bearing
account, according to the state audit.  Property-tax receipts that were supposed to pay back the
bonds were deposited into the city’s general fund, its main
account, rather than to a restricted debt-service fund, the
audit found. Rizzo’s salary raises were contingent on a positive
cash balance in the general fund, according to the audit.  Bell paid $4.8 million to buy land from a former mayor
without documenting the purpose, the audit found. In addition,
$10.4 million was paid to two companies owned by the city’s
then-director of planning services.  The case is People v. Hernandez, BA376025, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  