-- Fed-Bank of Korea Study Says QE Pain Varies: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-25T12:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/fed-bank-of-korea-study-refutes-qe-pain-claim-cutting-research.html
Emerging-market policy makers who
argued the  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing led to capital
inflows that distorted their bond markets may have exaggerated.  The first and second of three rounds of large-scale asset
purchases led to a 100-basis point and 13-basis point drop in
U.S. 10-year Treasury yields respectively, according to Jeffrey
Moore and Alexander Tepper of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , and Sunwoo Nam and Myeongguk Suh of the  Bank of Korea . The
resulting decline in government bond yields in 10 emerging-
market economies included in the study: about 17 basis points
for QE1 and 2 basis points for QE2, the  paper showed .  “These effects are qualitatively similar to conventional
U.S. monetary policy easing,” the authors wrote in a New York
Fed staff report published this month. The views expressed in
the study were the authors’ and don’t necessarily reflect those
of the institutions they represent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has kept interest rates close
to zero since December 2008. In the first round of QE starting
in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion
of Treasuries. In the second round, announced in November 2010,
the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  Every 10-basis point decrease in Treasury yields pushed up
the foreign share in emerging-economy bond markets by only an
average 0.4 percentage point, the authors said, as international
investors sought returns outside the U.S. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The countries studied were  Brazil ,  Hungary ,
 Indonesia ,  South Korea ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,  Peru ,  Poland ,  Thailand 
and  Turkey .  The size of government debt markets of the 10 countries in
the study grew to $2.2 trillion in 2010 from $445 billion in
2000, while foreign participation increased to 16 percent from 2
percent in the same period, according to the report.  “Changes in U.S. longer-term Treasury rates appear to have
influenced foreign investment in EMEs’ government bond markets
and, in turn, longer-term government bond yields in many EMEs,”
the authors said. “However, these effects appear to vary
depending upon the FX rate regime, degree of financial openness,
financial linkage with the U.S., and the size of the government
bond market in each country.”  * * *  Housing may lift U.S. economic growth by as much as two
percentage points in 2013 via stepped-up construction and
increased spending by homeowners heartened by higher property
prices, according to Carl J. Riccadonna, senior U.S. economist
at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.  Writing in Deutsche Bank’s Jan. 18 “U.S. Economics
Weekly,” Riccadonna argued that the wealth effect from rising
home prices could have as big an impact on the economy this year
as may a rebound in housing construction. “A little home
appreciation goes a long way,” he wrote.  Rising  property prices  not only provide homeowners with a
psychological lift. They also allow households to refinance
their debts at lower  interest rates  and tap into the equity of
their homes, freeing up cash for consumption, according to the
report.  “Housing is typically the single largest asset for most
households,” Riccadonna said. “As a result, a small change in
home values can have a massive effect on aggregate household
assets.”  Deutsche Bank is forecasting that U.S. home prices will
rise 5 to 10 percent this year, creating anywhere from $860
billion to $1.72 trillion in household wealth. That in turn
could translate into as much as $172 billion in extra  consumer
spending , Riccadonna said.  Couple that with increased  residential construction , and
housing’s impact on gross domestic product in 2013 could be
substantial, he added. “This relatively small sector is poised
to play an outsized role in the year ahead.”  * * *  Forget eliminating import tariffs. Supply-chain barriers
are greater impediments to global commerce and reducing them
would have a more significant impact on GDP and world trade, a
study showed.  Global GDP and exports could increase by a combined $4.2
trillion if countries removed just two supply chain hurdles,
researchers from the  World Economic Forum , Bain & Co. and the
 World Bank  said. In contrast, completely ending tariffs would
increase GDP and exports by $1.5 trillion, they said in a Jan.
23 report released at the forum’s annual meeting in Davos,
Switzerland.  “The biggest deterrents to trade are physical,
administrative and informal obstructions to the movement of
goods,” according to the  report . “Regulations that impinge on
the smooth functioning of a product’s global supply chain
interfere with trade more than traditional barriers do.”  The two key parts of the supply chain governments should
try to improve are border administration and transportation and
communications infrastructure. Better and more transparent
border administration increases the speed at which imports and
exports can clear customs and reduces corruption. Upgrading
inadequate road, rail, sea or air networks is the other key, as
well as improving technology to track shipments.  Fewer supply-chain barriers will reduce costs for companies
that trade and allow them to pass savings to consumers and other
businesses in the form of lower prices, according to the report.  “Consumers gain access to a wider variety of goods,”
according to the report. “Workers benefit as well, as the boost
to GDP is likely to stimulate employment growth.”  Still, the changes may be easier said than done.  “Reducing certain supply-chain barriers -- particularly
those related to infrastructure -- requires upfront investments,
whereas tariffs can be eliminated with the stroke of a pen,”
the researchers said. “The magnitude of the required
investments will depend on the specific situation in a given
country or region.”  * * *  The world needs a multilateral agreement to regulate global
foreign direct investment after extensive discussions to set one
up between 1970 and 1998 never came to fruition, said Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  The proliferation of bilateral trade accords or
international agreements -- 3,164 among 181 countries at the end
of 2011 -- is proof that there should be a standardized set of
rules for FDI, Anders wrote in a  policy brief  published this
month. A Multilateral Investment Agreement, or MIA, should be
formed within the  World Trade Organization , he said.  “An MIA is needed now more than ever because FDI has
skyrocketed in the last few decades,” Aslund said. “It is too
large to be left unattended by international regulation.”  Global foreign direct investment has climbed from $27
billion in 1982 to a peak of $2.2 trillion in 2007, according to
the  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development .  Resistance to the development of a code of conduct for
multinational companies, competition by  emerging markets  for
FDI, the increase in bilateral agreements and an anti-
globalization movement meant that efforts to forge an MIA over
the decades failed.  Such an accord can help facilitate international investment
by state-owned companies or sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) that
are sometimes viewed with suspicion if they are interested in
acquisitions that may be linked to another country’s national
security, Aslund wrote.  “A large number of countries have set up SWFs that are
considered dubious,” Aslund said. “Countries that are
recipients of these state funds question the transparency and
objectives of the funds.”  An investment agreement is needed
“to mediate the interests of state investors and national
security worries in the recipient countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  