-- Ferro Investors to Nominate Three Directors in Proxy Fight
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-24T21:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/ferro-investor-group-to-nominate-three-directors-in-proxy-fight.html
A group of investors in  Ferro Corp. (FOE) ,
a U.S. chemical producer, plans to nominate three people for
election to the company’s nine-member board because of
“historic and current under-performance.”  FrontFour Capital Group LLC and Quinpario Partners LLC and
their affiliates will nominate Jeffry N. Quinn, David A. Lorber
and Nadim Z. Qureshi to the board, the group said today in a
statement. The investment companies own a combined 2.83 million
shares of Ferro, about 3.3 percent of  shares outstanding ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ferro, which makes materials used in electronics, coatings
and glass, announced the resignation of Chief Executive Officer
James F. Kirsch in November and appointed an interim CEO while
it searches for a successor. The company should sell its solar-
paste and pharmaceutical businesses and the nominees should be
directly involved in hiring a new CEO, the investor group said
in a letter to shareholders.  “We are concerned that the unsatisfactory past performance
of the current board and its management team is a precursor of
further disappointing performance to come,” Lorber and Quinn
said in a letter to shareholders accompanying the statement.
“Further  shareholder value  must not be destroyed.”  Ferro declined to comment, Mary Abood, a spokeswoman for
the Mayfield Heights, Ohio-based company, said in an e-mail.  Historical Declines  Ferro gained 2 percent to $4.97 at the close in  New York ,
the highest price since May 11. The shares have gained 19
percent this year.  Ferro declined 15 percent last year and 80 percent in the
five years through the end of December. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 13 percent last year and declined 2.9 percent
in the five-year period.  Quinn is chairman and CEO of Quinpario. He held the same
positions at Solutia Inc., a St. Louis-based chemical maker,
until the company was acquired by Eastman Chemical Co. last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lorber is a
managing member of FrontFour. Qureshi was named senior vice
president for Solutia in August 2011.  FrontFour in 2011 nominated four people to serve on the
board of  Fisher Communications Inc. (FSCI)  Two of the nominees were
voted onto the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  