-- Fistfights, Chatty Cadaver Heads Show PS1 in Top Form
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/fistfights-chatty-cadaver-heads-show-ps1-in-top-form.html
After a two-year renovation, all of
 MoMA PS1 ’s major galleries are open to the public. And something
suddenly is right with the place.  Half of its current shows could be mistaken for prom
decorations, yet my recent visit marks the first time PS1 felt
like a museum rather than a makeshift school carnival.  A maximalist with the sensibility of a miniaturist, Thomas
Lanigan-Schmidt combines cellophane, aluminum foil, cheap holiday
decorations, altars, angels, chalices and bleeding hearts with
images of drag queens, fellatio, saints, Jesus and the Madonna
and Child.  Rather than seeming blasphemous, however, in “Tender Love
Among the Junk,” his dazzling mixed-media constructions,
installations and collages come off as intimate, genuine
confessions.  I’ve never cared much for Lanigan-Schmidt in small doses,
where his Byzantine and gay references can clash. Seen here en
masse, his gilded personal history -- a lavish assault spanning
the years 1968 to 2005 -- rises above labels such as irony,
irreverence and mere kitsch.  Decorative Art  Also falling on the decorative side are the exhibitions
“Metahaven: Islands in the Cloud,” “Ed Atkins” and “Jeff Elrod: Nobody
Sees Like Us,” an installation of bland, blurry, computer-based
abstract paintings that made me dizzy.  “Metahaven” is devoted to the eccentric Amsterdam-based
design team Vinca Kruk and Daniel van der Velden -- famous for their
work with WikiLeaks. Uninspired, it veers toward illegibility.  Also off-key here is “Ed Atkins,” the British artist’s
first U.S. solo show. Featuring eyeballs, curtains of human hair
and the disembodied talking heads of male cadavers, Atkins’s
monotonous video installations are too derivative of Tony Oursler’s oddball surrealism to hold their own.  Still, these shows convey the range of decorative, party-
favor aesthetic.  Countering frivolity is “Now Dig This! Art and Black Los
Angeles 1960-1980.” Originating at the  Hammer Museum  and now
beautifully installed in Queens, the show is a rare chance to
see the handmade dolls of John Outterbridge, the erotic, spider web-
like “pantyhose pieces” of Senga Nengudi and Melvin Edwards’s welded-
steel abstract sculptures.  Torture Machines  Cutting to the bone, Edwards’s industrial amalgamations
suggest entrails, trophy heads, flayed bodies and machines of
torture -- violent and dark transformations with a classical
weight worthy at times of David Smith.  Complementing “Now Dig This!” is “Unnatural Histories,” a
strong exhibition of the neo-primitive figurative sculpture of
Pakistani-American artist Huma Bhabha.  Using such materials as clay, worn tires, twisted gutters,
rusted grating, plastic, Styrofoam and animal bones, she creates
altars, totems and deities that waver between modern garbage and
ancient ruins.  The smell of burnt cork permeates the galleries, adding to
the apocalyptic air, and two of her arresting bronze sculptures,
a ghost and a god, greet you in PS1’s courtyard like ancient
Egyptian figures.  Also compelling is “Cyprien Gaillard: The Crystal World.” The French
artist’s celebrated documentary films depict soldiers, artifacts
and ruins in  Iraq  and black-market footage of hundreds of men
squaring off in a massive, organized fistfight.  Gaillard convinces with his camera footage, but less so
with paintings, Polaroid snapshots and an installation of odd
construction equipment fragments. Still, his show proves
gradually unsettling.  “Now Dig This!” runs through Mar. 11; “Cyprien Gaillard
runs through Mar. 18; “Ed Atkins,” “Jeff Elrod,” “Thomas
Lanigan-Schmidt,” “Huma Bhabha” and “Metahaven” all continue
through Apr. 1 at MoMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Ave., Long Island
City, Queens. Information: +1-718-784-2084;
 http://www.momaps1.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on
 tech .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 