-- Focus Tumbles on Concern SEC Probe Will End Carlyle Buyout Plans
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-24T19:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/focus-tumbles-on-concern-sec-probe-will-end-carlyle-buyout-plans.html
Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  fell the
most in four months on concern a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation into potential securities law
violations will endanger  China ’s biggest leveraged buyout.  Focus, a Shanghai-based advertising company, dropped 2.8
percent to $25.08 by 2:03 p.m. in New York, set for the steepest
one-day slump since Sept. 24. The company, which sank as much as
8 percent, said in a Jan. 18  regulatory filing  that the SEC is
probing the purchase and resale of companies including Allyes
Online Media Holding Ltd.  Focus agreed Dec. 19 to be bought for $3.7 billion by a
consortium of investors led by  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)  The ad company,
which short-seller Muddy Waters LLC said in 2011 overstated its
network, joins Chinese companies seeking to withdraw from U.S.
exchanges after corporate governance concerns cut valuations.
The investigation may complicate Focus’ go-private plans, said
David Riedel, president of Riedel Research Group Inc.  “Any time you say SEC and probe it’s certainly bad for the
company’s share price, especially if part of that sentence also
includes U.S.-listed China,” Riedel said by phone today in New
York. “But the real deciding factor is whether the
privatization is going to go through.”  A phone message left for Randall Whitestone, a spokesman at
 Carlyle Group , was not immediately returned.  The SEC first informed Focus it was initiating a non-public
investigation March 14, and sought documents on past
acquisitions, including Allyes, the company said. the
Washington-based body last month accused the Big Four accounting
firms of blocking a probe into potential fraud by nine unnamed
China-based companies by withholding documents.  Focus agreed in 2007 to pay as much as $300 million in cash
and shares for Allyes, then China’s largest Internet ad agency.
In January 2010, Allyes and Focus management members paid an
additional $13.3 million for a 38 percent stake in Allyes. Six
months later, Silver Lake Management LLC purchased a controlling
stake in Allyes for $124 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  