-- Focus Drives Drop as Economy Hits Index: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-24T22:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/focus-drives-drop-as-economy-hits-index-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in  New York 
fell for a second day on concern the nation’s economic recovery
won’t be sustained.  Focus (FMCN)  Media Holding Ltd. dropped amid a
Securities and Exchange Commission probe and as Muddy Waters LLC
called the company a fraud.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. declined 0.7 percent to a two-week
low of 100.53. Shanghai-based Focus, which disclosed the
investigation into possible violations of securities law Jan.
18, sank the most since September. China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.
traded at the widest  discount  to Hong Kong in three months.  While a private survey released yesterday showed Chinese
manufacturing is expanding at the fastest rate in two years,
economic growth will probably slow in the second half should
policy makers refrain from easing monetary policy,  Li Daokui , a
former central bank adviser, said in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland. The China-US gauge  trades at  an average 13.6 times
estimated earnings, from a two-month high of 14 times Jan. 10.  “Investors are perhaps finding that shares have moved too
far, enough to discount the good news that we’ve seen,” Tony Hann, who oversees $400 million of assets as head of emerging-
market equities at Blackfriars Asset Management Ltd., said by
phone from London. “Recent economic data looks better but I
still have some concerns about sustainability and also what the
growth trajectory is.”  China’s economy  arrested a seven-quarter slowdown in the
three months to Dec. 31, posting growth of 7.9 percent, the
fastest pace since th first quarter of 2012.  Securities ‘Violations’  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., held at $41.53 in New York,
after declining 0.5 percent Jan. 23. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index was also little changed at a five-year high of 1,494.82,
as the worst slump for Apple Inc. in four years pulled
technology shares lower and overshadowed better-than-forecast
company earnings.  Focus, which slid as much as 8 percent, ended the day 3.1
percent lower at $24.99, the biggest one-day decline since Sept.
24. The Chinese digital advertising company agreed to be bought
by a consortium of investors led by  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in a $3.7
billion privatization deal last month.  The company, which short seller Muddy Waters LLC said in
2011 overstated its ad network, said in a regulatory filing Jan.
18 that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
potential “violations” of  securities law , with special
attention to the purchase and resale of companies including
Allyes Online Media Holding.  ‘Long-Standing Fraud’  Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for the buyout consortium,
said by e-mail that they were aware of the SEC probe and will
move ahead with the transaction. Focus is a “long-standing
fraud” and the Carlyle-led group will see a “significant
loss” on the buyout, according to a  report  posted today on
Muddy Waters’ website.  Focus Chief Executive Officer Jason Nanchun Jiang and media
manager Jing Lu didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment. Phone calls to Lu made outside of business hours in
Shanghai weren’t returned.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , which owns the fifth-most visited website in
China, rallied for a fourth day, adding 0.9 percent to $50.26,
the highest close since May 1.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , owner of
China’s most-used video websites, climbed 0.5 percent to a
seven-month high of $22.60.  ‘Negative Impact’  “The issue with  Focus Media  will cast some negative impact
on sentiment toward U.S.-listed Chinese equities and perhaps
cause some daily volatility,” Henry Guo, a San Francisco-based
senior analyst at research firm ABR Investment Strategy LLC,
which focuses on technology and media companies, said by phone
yesterday.  “The recovery in China’s macro-economy is helping drive up
Internet companies, especially those names that can benefit from
the growth in the online advertising market this year,” he
said.  China Unicom’s American depositary receipts sank 4.7
percent to $15.98 in New York, the steepest one-day slump since
June 21. The ADRs, each representing 10 underlying shares in
China’s second-largest wireless network operator, traded 2.3
percent  below  its  Hong Kong  stock, the widest discount since
Oct. 25.  ADRs of Beijing-based China Mobile, the world’s biggest
mobile-phone company, slid for a third day, losing 0.9 percent
to a two-month low of $55.15. China Telecom Corp., the smallest
of the three companies, sank 2 percent to $54.77 in New York,
the lowest price in a month.  4G Network  China Mobile starting a commercial service with its
homegrown 4G network in Hong Kong in December is “very clever
positioning” that should help the company win government
approval for the rest of China, HSBC Holdings Plc analyst Tucker Grinnan said last month.  “There was some chatter about China Mobile releasing a 4G
network, and that was probably sooner than people expected,”
Jun Zhang, an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp., said by phone
from  San Jose , California yesterday. “That would be really
positive for China Mobile and I don’t think China Unicom has the
resources for a 4G network right now.”  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a Shanghai-based real estate
developer, was the biggest decliner on the China-US gauge,
dropping 6.2 percent to $5, the steepest slide in a month.
Chinese new  home prices  rose in December in the most cities in
20 months, stoking concern the government may issue new controls
on the  property market .  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises (HSCEI)  measure slid 0.6 percent to
12,095.77 in its second day of declines. The  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares dropped 0.8 percent to 2,302.60
yesterday.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, sank 1.3 percent to 78.16, declining the
most in three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  