-- Fog in Channel, Cameron Cut Off
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2013-01-24T16:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/fog-in-channel-cameron-cut-off.html
While Prime Minister  David Cameron  was making his long-awaited  speech  on the
future of the U.K.’s relationship with the rest of Europe this week, Brussels
was shrouded in fog. Inevitably, a number of European newspapers recalled the
old joke on British insularity, allegedly from a 1930 Daily Mirror headline:
"Fog in Channel: Continent Cut Off." Cameron, in his speech, tried to play it both ways: He wants a new
relationship with Europe and is at the same time determined that the U.K. should
remain inside the European Union. Legislation will be prepared for a referendum
to put the issue to the people, and after the next election in 2015, assuming a
Conservative victory, Britons will vote in the first half of the next four-year
to five-year parliament. Leaders across  Europe  gave the speech a cool reception. Sweden is generally
sympathetic to the U.K.'s position in Europe, but a pithy tweet by Foreign
Minister  Carl Bildt , widely quoted in today’s newspapers, seems to crystallize
what most European opinion makers think of the Cameron speech: "Flexibility
sounds fine, but if you open up to a 28-speed Europe, at the end of the day
there is no Europe at all. Just a mess." (It is 28 because  Croatia  should join
in July.) This morning’s papers across Europe reflect a mix of irritation and anger
with Cameron, as well as some sadness.  Les Echos , the French business daily,
runs a front-page headline: "The  Great Britain  of David Cameron provokes
Europe." It also has a column by Nicolas Madelaine titled "Double or Quits,"
indicating the sense that Cameron is gambling with the EU. Cameron, according to Madelaine, is betting that his new policy will keep his
party together over Europe, and that even if he can't get what he wants in any
new negotiation, he'll still be able to persuade the British public to vote yes
-- and to prevent a referendum from being transformed into a vote to punish the
government of the day. "He has not found a winning formula," says Madelaine. Italy’s  Corriere della Sera  runs a front-page commentary by Franco Venturini
titled "The Impatient English." He thinks Cameron’s threat of a divorce is
motivated less by political calculations than by culture and history. Of course,
he argues, an attempt will be made to find an "anti-divorce compromise." He does
not sound very optimistic: Within reasonable limits, Europeans will seek an
agreement with  London . But the task is up to Cameron, now that the game has
begun, to explain to the English that, with or without fog, they will remain
isolated (even from the USA) if they vote "out."   Cameron's speech doesn't rate the front page in  France 's right-leaning daily
Le Figaro, which is running a  piece  by researchers Thierry Chopin and Jean-
Francois Jamet on exactly how Britain could leave and yet stay in Europe’s
single market -- which is what many legislators in Cameron's  Conservative party 
want. They argue, as does Cameron in his speech, that leaving the EU but staying in
the single market, similar to Norway's position, is a nonstarter for the U.K.,
because  Norway  has no say in how the rules are made. So they suggest giving
votes to non-EU members when it comes to the working of the single market: For the  United Kingdom , leaving the EU but
maintaining a key role at the heart of the single market would constitute a
reasonable compromise. Such a statute would not prevent the United Kingdom from
participating on a case-by-case basis in other EU initiatives (for example in
matters of defense or foreign policy.) But it would be a guarantee of
participation based on mutual interest, avoiding frustration on either side of
the Channel. In this way, they argue, the euro-zone countries could integrate closer, both
politically and financially, but at the same time non-EU members would have a
say in the running of the single market. Implicit here is another idea. This
two-level Europe might accommodate not just the U.K., but problematic potential
members such as Turkey and Ukraine. While  Angela Merkel ,  Germany ’s chancellor, has  said  a compromise should be
found with the U.K. to keep it in the EU,  the weekly  Der Spiegel 's online
edition is scathing. It runs an opinion piece titled: " Europe’s Scaredy-Cat ."
Cameron’s speech, argues Christoph Scheuermann, was boring and the British
leader is running scared of euro skeptics in his own party, as well as of the
anti-European United Kingdom Independence Party, which has been draining support
from the Conservatives. Cameron's vision of Europe is a free trade area
with access to the beaches of the Mediterranean. Beyond that, he doesn't
associate the project with a past or a future. Apart from vague demands like
competitiveness, flexibility and fairness, he has no idea how the EU should
develop. His thinking on Europe is indecisive and chained to the present. What
Europe witnessed on Wednesday was a speech delivered by a politician prone to
knee-jerk reactions who lacks values or a vision. He lacks gravity. Cameron
floats above Europe like an astronaut. Belgium ’s Le Soir is equally harsh. Its front-page  headline  is "Perfidious
Cameron," drawing on the centuries-old continental description of the U.K. as
"Perfidious Albion." Inside Jurek Kuckiwiecz writes an editorial titled "Brixit:
 A Suicidal Adventure." There is no question, he says, of accepting a compromise
at any price, and going against the wishes of the majority of EU members, just
to satisfy one. "That is the red line: that of democracy so much vaunted by Mr.
Cameron." If ever there has been a story that will continue to run and run, it is this
one. It will be sad, difficult and enormously time-consuming. With the
consolidation of the euro area, a new Europe is already emerging and, whatever
the outcome, it is already affecting Britain’s relationship with its partners,
with portents for the future. Nicholas Whyte, a longtime observer of EU politics, says the U.K.’s influence
on decision making in Brussels is fast diminishing. The attitude is: "Why should
we do you any favors if you are gone in five years? No one wants to be in a box
with Britain," according to Whyte, who now works for the advisory group
 Independent Diplomat , which helps countries, such as  South Sudan , to lobby in
Brussels. His words seem logical, whatever the democratic merits of Cameron's
in-out referendum. (Tim Judah, the Europe correspondent for the World View blog, is a
correspondent for the Economist and author of several books on the Balkans.
 Follow him  on Twitter. The opinions expressed are his own.) To contact the author of this article: Tim Judah at
timjudah@btinternet.com To contact the editor responsible for this article: Marc Champion at
mchampion7@bloomberg.net