-- Former Tepco Chairman Said Questioned in Fukushima Legal Probe
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-01-24T06:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/former-tepco-chairman-said-questioned-in-fukushima-legal-probe.html
Prosecutors questioned the former
chairman of  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  as part of a criminal
investigation into the 2011 nuclear accident at the Fukushima
plant, Kyodo news service reported, without citing anyone.  Tsunehisa Katsumata, who served as chairman of the power
company known as Tepco until June 2012, was interviewed by
investigators probing alleged professional negligence resulting
in deaths and injuries connected to the accident, Kyodo reported
today.  Katsumata was questioned about whether the disaster, during
which an earthquake and tsunami triggered the worst atomic
accident since Chernobyl in 1986, could have been predicted and
measures that were taken to prepare for such a crisis, as well
as officials’ response, according to Kyodo.  Tsuyoshi Numajiri, a Tepco spokesman, said in a phone
interview with  Bloomberg News  that the company would cooperate
with any investigation. He declined to comment further.
Officials at the Tokyo and Fukushima prosecutors offices
declined to comment.  The investigation is in response to a complaint filed in
June with the Fukushima City prosecutor’s office by more than
1,300 residents alleging negligence in  Japan ’s worst civil
nuclear-plant accident.  The complaint targets around 40 people, including former
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Haruki Madarame, the former head of
the Nuclear Safety Commission, Kyodo said.  “Man-made” Failures  They are accused of being responsible for the injury from
 radiation exposure  and deaths of hospital inpatients during
their transfer to a hospital, Ikuo Yasuda, a lawyer representing
residents who filed the complaint, said in an August interview.  The investigators plan to decide whether to pursue criminal
charges in the spring, Kyodo reported.  Prosecutors took up the case last year after completion of
independent investigation reports. One published in July led by
 University of Tokyo  Professor Kiyoshi Kurokawa, said “man-
made” failures led to the nuclear disaster. The direct causes
of the accident were all foreseeable, the report said, but Tokyo
Electric, regulators and the ministry of economy trade and
industry overseeing the industry failed to develop basic safety
requirements.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and its six reactors run by
the utility known as Tepco was hit by a magnitude 9 earthquake
at 2:46 p.m. on March 11, 2011 that knocked out mains power for
cooling reactors. The 15-meter tsunami that followed destroyed
electrical equipment and flooded basements with seawater that
disabled back-up generators.  Three reactors had meltdowns, causing release of radiation
into the air and sea, forcing the evacuation of 160,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  