-- French Wheat Sales Seen Facing Protein Risk by Granit’s Everling
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-24T09:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/french-wheat-sales-seen-facing-protein-risk-by-granit-s-everling.html
France ’s wheat exports to North
Africa are at risk because the average protein content in the
grain is falling, according to Jean-Philippe Everling, the
executive director of French grain trader Granit Negoce.  “For several years now, in France, in milling wheat we
have a trend of falling protein,” Everling said at a grain-
industry conference in Evreux, France, yesterday. “We need to
have a wheat that finds a place in nearby countries. We’re on a
razor edge with our 11 percent protein.”  Export markets demand milling wheat with protein content of
at least 11.5 percent, according to the Granit director. Average
protein content in French soft wheat was 11.4 percent last year,
similar to 2011, crop office FranceAgriMer reported in
September.  France is the European Union’s biggest wheat exporter, and
more than half of the country’s soft-wheat crop is sold abroad,
meaning farmers depend on exports for prices, according to
Everling. The country’s wheat exports have shifted away from EU
countries since 2007-08 in favor of nations outside the bloc,
mostly for milling quality grain, he said.  French exporters risk losing out to shippers with better
grain quality on sales to North Africa and the Middle East,
Everling said. The standard for Russian wheat is 12 percent
protein, he said.  “We export milling wheat, we’re not the only one,” the
Granit director said. “We’re in a tight market, but not in a
market of shortage. To supply the market, you must have the
adequate quality. If we don’t supply it, don’t worry, they’ll
find other suppliers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  