-- Funds Show Risk Appetite by Spending on Development
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/funds-show-risk-appetite-by-spending-on-development.html
Money managers will allocate more
capital to European funds backing construction projects as they
see short-term value in taking on more risk, according to a
survey published today.  Twice as many investors and money managers than last year
plan to buy into  value-added funds , or 43 percent of the 155
surveyed by the European Association for Investors in Non-Listed
Real Estate Vehicles. Value-added funds increase returns by
investing some of their capital in property development or in
space that may become vacant and then leasing it.  “Investors are beginning to look for opportunities further
up the risk curve as opposed to concentrating solely on core,
which has dominated the market for the last couple of years,”
said Casper Hesp, director of research and market information
for the Amsterdam-based association.  Real estate lending in western  Europe  will continue to
stagnate this year as banks shun risk, Matthew Cutts, head of
lenders and investors at London-based EC Harris LLP wrote in a
document posted to the consulting firm’s website yesterday. That
makes development appealing to European funds because the
shortage of bank financing for construction means fewer new
offices and shopping malls and less competition for tenants.  Germany  is Europe’s top location for investors, fund
managers and “fund of funds” managers, according to the
survey. Scandinavia was the second choice for investors and the
U.K. was No.2 among fund managers and fund of funds managers.  The group defines core as a fund that invests mainly in
income-producing investments, has low debt, little or no
development exposure and generates a high proportion of return
through income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  