-- LG Display Profit Trails Estimates on Apple IPad Slowdown
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-01-24T10:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/lg-display-s-profit-trails-estimates-on-apple-ipad-sales-won.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-
largest maker of flat panels, reported quarterly  profit  that
trailed analyst estimates because of slowing demand for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPads and a stronger won.  Net income was 319.7 billion won ($299 million) in the
three months ended December, compared with the 363.4 billion-won
average of 22  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Fourth-
quarter sales rose 15 percent to 8.7 trillion won, according to
a statement today. The  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  affiliate had a 6
billion won loss a year earlier.  The company suffered as consumers shunned Apple’s original
iPads in favor of a new mini version, which uses less lucrative
screens, and as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  smartphones dented the
allure of iPhones. The strengthening won is also cutting the
repatriated value of the panel-maker’s  sales  from overseas.  “The iPad mini business is little help to LG Display
because of the low price point and razor-thin margins,” said
Daniel Kim, a Seoul-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “We
are also incrementally concerned about Apple’s long-term edge in
smartphones.”  Apple Slowdown  Cupertino, California-based Apple yesterday reported the
slowest quarterly sales growth since 2009. The company accounted
for about 20 percent of LG Display’s sales last year, according
to Seoul-based Korea Investment Trust Management analyst Yoo Jong Woo. Samsung makes its own smartphone displays.  LG Display’s operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative costs, almost doubled to 587
billion won, compared with a loss a year earlier.  The company plans capital  spending  of as much as 4.5
trillion won, little changed from last year, Chief Financial
Officer James Jeong told reporters in Seoul. First-quarter
profit will also be lower than in the fourth quarter, he said.  “A strong industry recovery isn’t expected this year,” he
said. “We will continue to strengthen our specialty products
portfolio and try our best to stay in the black.”  Specialty products, such as 3-D and high-resolution panels,
will account for 70 percent of sales this year compared with
about 55 percent last year, he said.  The LG Display fell 1.2 percent to close at 28,550 won in
Seoul trading before the earnings announcement, while the
benchmark Kospi index declined 0.8 percent. The panel-maker has
lost 8.1 percent this month after  gaining  27 percent last year.  Shipments of screens for 9.7-inch iPads fell to 1.5 million
units in November from more than 4 million in October, Daewoo
Securities Co. analyst Jonathan Hwang said in a Jan. 7 report.
The company shipped 3 million of the 7.9-inch panels in
November, he said. Apple unveiled the iPad mini, which uses the
7.9-inch screens, in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  