-- MGA Bratz Win Over Mattel Partly Erased by Appeals Court
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-25T00:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mga-bratz-win-over-mattel-partly-erased-by-appeals-court.html
MGA Entertainment Inc.’s $172.5
million victory over rival toymaker  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  for theft of
trade secrets was thrown out by a federal appeals court that
said the company’s counterclaims shouldn’t have been allowed to
go to the jury.  At the same time, the three-judge panel of the U.S. Court
of Appeals in San Francisco upheld the trial judge’s decision to
award closely held MGA $137.2 million for having to defend
against Mattel’s claims that MGA’s Bratz dolls infringed
Mattel’s copyrights.  “At one point, a copyright defendant had to show that the
plaintiff’s claim was frivolous or made in bad faith in order to
be entitled to fees; but no longer,” the panel said in a ruling
today. “Even assuming Mattel’s claim was objectively
reasonable, the district court didn’t abuse its discretion in
awarding MGA fees.”  It was the second time the three judges reversed the
outcome of a trial in the eight-year battle between Mattel, the
maker of Barbie, and MGA, which Mattel accused of stealing the
idea for its Bratz dolls. In 2010, the panel reversed a trial
judge’s ruling that had given Mattel almost complete ownership
of MGA’s Bratz brand.  Mattel in the second trial in Santa Ana, California, lost
on its copyright infringement claim, a result that it didn’t
contest on appeal. The toymaker appealed U.S. District Judge
David Carter’s decision to allow MGA to bring counterclaims in
the case that Mattel said were unrelated to the underlying
lawsuit.  Trial Jury  The trial jury awarded MGA $88.5 million in damages on its
claims that Mattel employees used fake business cards to get
access to MGA’s booths at toy fairs and obtain MGA’s trade
secrets. The judge later reduced the verdict to $85 million and
then doubled it by adding $85 million in punitive damages.  Carter had also awarded MGA $2.5 million in lawyer fees and
costs for its trade secret-theft claims, which was vacated by
the appeal court’s ruling together with the $170 million in
compensatory and punitive damages.  The appellate panel agreed with Mattel that MGA’s
counterclaims weren’t “compulsory” in that they weren’t based
on the same underlying facts as Mattel’s trade-secret theft
claims against MGA. As such, the judge had erred by allowing
MGA’s claims to be part of the case, the panel said.  “That both Mattel and MGA claimed they stole each other’s
trade secrets isn’t enough to render MGA’s counterclaim
compulsory,” the panel said. “What matters is not the legal
theory but the facts.”  MGA, based in Van Nuys, California, said in a statement
that the appeals court’s decision allows the company to bring
the trade secret-theft claims in a new lawsuit.  ‘Egregious Theft’  “We are confident that when the second jury hears about
Mattel’s sneaking into our showrooms and egregious theft of
scores of our secrets over the years, they will be even more
appalled than the first jury and award MGA even greater
damages,” MGA Chief Executive Officer Isaac Larian said in the
statement.  Alan Hilowitz, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-based
Mattel, said in an e-mailed statement that the company was
confident a new lawsuit by MGA would be barred by the statute of
limitations.  “We look forward to the speedy and final resolution of
this dispute, and will continue to focus our efforts on
successfully competing in the marketplace,” Hilowitz said.  The case is Mattel Inc. v. MGA Entertainment Inc.,
11-56357, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  