-- Gazprom Drubbed by Medvedev as Novatek Rallies: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-01-24T04:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/gazprom-drubbed-by-medvedev-as-novatek-rallies-russia-overnight.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) ,  Russia ’s gas export
monopoly, is poised to lose ground on the stock exchange to
smaller rival  OAO Novatek (NVTK)  on prospects the government will open
the market up to competition.  American depositary receipts  of Gazprom fell 0.4 percent to
$9.63 in  New York  yesterday, after Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Davos,  Switzerland  that the company may lose its exclusive right
to ship the commodity abroad as long as that doesn’t lead to
lower prices or damage the nation’s economic interests. Novatek,
second to Gazprom in Russian natural gas production, jumped 2.4
percent to $117.30 in  London .  “People are very optimistic about Novatek and very
pessimistic about Gazprom,” Mattias Westman, who helps oversee
about $4 billion in Russian investments, including Gazprom
shares, as chief executive officer of Prosperity Capital
Management Ltd. in London, said by phone yesterday. “We are in
favor of the de-monopolization and restructuring of Gazprom.”  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies
traded in the U.S. closed unchanged at 103.27, while  futures  on
Moscow’s RTS Index slid 0.5 percent to 159,750 in New York
hours. Gazprom, whose ADRs have slipped 1 percent this year,
trades for 3.07 times estimated earnings, 80 percent below the
15.7 ratio for Novatek’s London stock. The Tarko Sale, Siberia-
based company has lost 2.1 percent in 2013 on the London
International Stock Exchange.  ‘Lose Money’  Gazprom’s monopoly could be scrapped “because there are
other, independent gas producers,” Medvedev said in the
interview yesterday on the sidelines of the  World Economic
Forum . “But we mustn’t lose money, that’s the most important
thing. Money comes first.”  The world’s biggest natural gas producer, state-controlled
Gazprom was granted the monopoly by President  Vladimir Putin  in
2006. It is  Europe ’s single biggest supplier of gas. Novatek has
been seeking to weaken Gazprom’s grip by gaining an exemption
for liquefied natural gas, which is shipped by tanker rather
than through Gazprom’s pipelines.  “Some investors may want to sell Gazprom and buy Novatek
as an alternative, so the discount between the two may widen,”
Ilya Balakirev, an analyst at UFS-Finance Investment Co. in
Moscow who rates Gazprom hold and is reviewing his position on
Novatek, said by phone yesterday. “Novatek has potential for
growth, while it’s hard to imagine Gazprom falling much further
down. Gazprom’s valuations are already ridiculously cheap.”  ‘Short Gazprom’  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, increased 0.4 percent to $30.43,
the highest level since Jan. 4. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the stock futures, declined 0.4
percent to 21.04. Gazprom’s ADRs fell to the lowest level since
Jan. 16 yesterday, settling at a 0.9 percent discount to the
company’s Moscow-listed shares. The company’s  stock  increased
0.5 percent to 146.63 rubles, or the equivalent of $4.86. One
ADR equals to two shares.  Novatek stock will climb another 19 percent in London this
year to about $140, according to Ilya Kravets, who helps manage
$100 million of assets at Daniloff Capital LLC in New York,
including London-listed shares of Gazprom and Novatek.  “It may make sense to short Gazprom and buy Novatek longer
term, although details on how exactly the government plans to
end Gazprom’s monopoly rights remain to be seen,” Kravets said
by phone yesterday. “Novatek has a lot of potential for
growth.”  More Customers  Novatek, controlled by Chief Executive Officer Leonid
Mikhelson and Gunvor Group co-founder  Gennady Timchenko , gained
2.3 percent to 341.44 rubles, or $11.3 yesterday in Moscow.  The company, looking to boost its domestic and overseas
market base, agreed on Jan. 10 to form a joint venture in the
northern Yamal region to liquefy natural gas for shipment by
tanker to foreign markets. A month earlier, Novatek signed a
contract with Gazprom-controlled OAO Mosenergo and bought
control of a regional distributor in Kostroma from the larger
producer for about $18 million.  Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie Financial
Corp., said Gazprom will oppose any attempt to change his status
as the monopoly gas exporter.  “If Novatek gets rights to export gas, it would be a big
win for them,” Tikhomirov said by phone yesterday from Moscow.
“Gazprom however won’t give up easily. They have every reason
and all the means to fight such decision.”  China Investment  The Russia Direct Investment Fund, the Kremlin’s private
equity fund, has invited Chinese Investment Corp. to flow money
into the Moscow Exchange, fund Chief Executive Officer  Kirill Dmitriev  said in an interview in Davos yesterday.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) , the world’s largest nickel and
palladium producer, fell 0.1 percent to $20.01 in New York
yesterday. The company’s dollar-denominated Moscow-listed  stock 
rose 6.7 percent to $197.70 when it last traded on Jan. 22. That
was the highest level since Oct. 24, 2011. One ADR represents
one-10th of the Moscow-traded, dollar-denominated share.  Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s Metalloinvest is
increasing its 4 percent stake in  Norilsk Nickel  and is ready to
sell it if offered a good price, Elena Martynova, a spokeswoman,
said by e-mail from Davos yesterday.  Crude oil for March delivery declined 1.5 percent to $95.23
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the largest drop
since Dec. 21. Brent oil for March settlement rose 0.3 percent
to $112.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, while  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend, added
0.3 percent to $112.12.  The ruble gained 0.2 percent to 30.1620 yesterday, the
highest level since May 11. Ruble futures showed the currency
little changed at 30.413 per dollar.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
lost 1 percent to HK$4.88 in Hong Kong trading as of city’s
midday break. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  