-- German Stocks Rise as Euro PMI, U.S. Jobs Data Surprise
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-24T16:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/german-stocks-decline-commerzbank-deutsche-bank-retreat.html
German stocks  rose as reports showed
euro-area manufacturing and services contracted at a slower pace
in January, and American jobless claims fell to a five-year low,
offsetting Apple Inc.’s slowest profit growth since 2003.  Henkel AG advanced 2.1 percent after Berenberg Bank AG
reiterated its buy recommendation for the chemical company.
Deutsche Bank AG and  Commerzbank (CBK)  AG gained at least 1.5 percent.
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  fell 2.6 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 0.5 percent to 7,748.13 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The benchmark has gained 1.8 percent so
far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget
and American companies reported better-than-expected earnings.
The broader HDAX Index also added 0.5 percent today.  “The pace of the contraction in  Europe  is decelerating,”
Henrik Drusebjerg a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $220 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “We have fairly good numbers from the U.S.
Investors are more and more sure that we are in a modest risk-on
environment and as long as this data carries on, we should see
this continue. Even though  Apple (AAPL)  disappointed last night, we are
seeing fairly good results. Overall, there is support for more
risky assets without being overly optimistic.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the equity benchmark was 14 percent more than the average of the
last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro PMI  Euro-area  services and manufacturing output  contracted at a
slower pace this month than economists had estimated. A
composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries rose to 48.2 from 47.2 in December, London-based
Markit Economics said today. Economists had forecast a reading
of 47.5, according to the median of 22 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey . A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Claims for  jobless benefits  in the U.S. unexpectedly
dropped last week to a five-year low. Applications for
unemployment insurance payments decreased by 5,000 to 330,000 in
the week ended Jan. 19, the Labor Department reported today.  U.S. lawmakers voted to temporarily suspend the nation’s
borrowing limit late yesterday, removing the debt ceiling for
now as a tool for seeking deeper spending cuts. The measure,
passed 285-144, lifts the government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing
limit until May 19. It now goes to the Senate, where Majority
Leader Harry Reid said lawmakers will pass the bill unchanged
and send it to President  Barack Obama .  Apple Slows  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, reported the
slowest profit growth since 2003 and the  weakest  sales increase
in 14 quarters, as higher costs and rising competition make it
harder to sustain revenue expansion.  Henkel, the Dusseldorf-based maker of Persil detergent,
gained 2.1 percent to 63.72 euros after Berenberg confirmed its
buy recommendation for the chemical company.  “Henkel is the one household & personal care stock to
own,” Seth Peterson and Andrew Steele, analysts at Berenberg,
wrote in a note today. “There are many good European HPC firms,
but none offers the same combination of value, growth and peace
of mind. Investors should feel reassured, rather than
disappointed, that management’s 2016 growth strategy represents
‘more of the same.’”  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, rose 2.6 percent
to 36.33 euros as a measure of banking stocks performed the best
of 19 industry groups on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Commerzbank added 1.5 percent to 1.65 euros. Germany’s
second-biggest bank will cut 4,000 to 6,000 jobs over the next
four years to reduce costs and meet its profit goals.  The job reductions will apply to all units worldwide with
the retail bank having “significant overcapacity,” according
to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg news, the contents of
which were confirmed by spokesman Simon Steiner in Frankfurt.  Deutsche Boerse  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  gained 2.4 percent to 48.96 euro, its
highest price since April. The operator of the  Frankfurt  stock
exchange plans a new round of cost cuts as it attempts to shore
up profits in the face of declining trading volumes, according
to two people familiar with the plans.  Details of the program are not yet final, said the people,
who asked not to be identified as the discussions are private. A
spokesman for Deutsche Boerse declined to comment.  Dialog Semiconductor, which makes chips used in Apple’s
iPhone, fell 2.6 percent to 14.18 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  