-- Global Regulators Said to Weigh Delay of Derivative Margin Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-01-24T18:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/global-regulators-said-to-weigh-delay-of-derivative-margin-rules.html
Global regulators may delay rules to
reduce market risk by requiring banks to hold collateral against
uncleared swaps from fully taking effect until 2019, according
to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will seek
additional comments this year on a new draft of collateral rules
for companies including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , according to three people who requested anonymity because
the process is private.  The final document, originally scheduled for publication by
the end of 2012, will now come later this year. And the measure
may phase in the rules’ implementation between Jan. 1, 2015 and
Jan. 1, 2019, according to two of the people.  U.S. and European Union  regulators are struggling to align
rules for the  $639 trillion market  for over-the-counter
derivatives, which became a target for tougher oversight after
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Basel
committee has already issued rules that would more than triple
the capital banks must hold to protect against losses.  Regulators have said that the draft collateral rules would
prevent companies from exploiting rule differences between
nations. Last year’s paper set out a partial list of assets that
can count as collateral, including gold and some equities.  That draft version also set out approaches for calculating
the writedowns that should be applied to these securities.  The Basel committee is working on the collateral rules with
the International Organization of Securities Commissions.  The committee, which is headquartered at the  Bank for
International Settlements , includes regulators from 27 nations
including the U.S., U.K. and  China .  Madrid-based IOSCO brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  