-- Goldman Seeing Bullish Signs in Spain RMBS: Mortgages
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-01-25T13:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/goldman-seeing-bullish-signs-in-spain-rmbs-mortgages.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  traders are
telling investors  Spain ’s housing market is improving, even as
 unemployment  is at a record 26 percent and 2 million homes
linger unsold after a decade-long building boom crashed.  A Goldman Sachs trading desk is recommending Spanish
residential mortgage securities that are priced cheaper than
other assets linked to the country and may be attractive to
comparable European bonds, according to a presentation seen by
 Bloomberg News . While official statistics are lagging behind,
homes are selling in regions with the most inventory and housing
starts are dropping, the bank said.  Spain is mired in its second recession in three years and
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is imposing the deepest budget cuts
in the country’s democratic history to avoid an international
bailout. While that’s restored some investor  confidence , the
number of jobless is near 6 million and home prices that more
than doubled in the decade through 2007 before turning negative
in the first quarter of 2008 have fallen by about 26 percent.  “We have significant concerns over the increasing
unemployment levels in Spain, particularly in a falling housing
market,” said Dipesh Mehta, a London-based securitization
analyst at Barclays Plc, without referring to the Goldman Sachs
report. “On both counts we do not expect the situation to
improve anytime soon.”  About 40,000 homes have been foreclosed on in Spain since
the collapse of the market five years ago. Overbuilding created
ghost towns of unoccupied homes around the country, and the
Ministry of Public Works estimated last year there were 700,000
unsold homes. With unfinished units and foreclosures, the total
stands at 2 million, according to Madrid-based real estate
consulting firm Acuna & Asociados.  No Credit  “On the asset side there will be further depreciation,”
said Angel Mas, president of European  mortgage insurance  at
 Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  “We are nowhere near the end of this,
because there’s no credit in the market. Until there is some
credit available, we won’t see the true value of the assets,
because there aren’t enough transactions.”  The Goldman Sachs presentation was created by a European
sales and trading desk to be distributed to clients and may
differ from the bank’s research. Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman
for the New York-based bank, which turned bullish last year on
U.S. housing amid the nascent recovery, declined to comment.  Potential Upside  Investors should buy in the 159 billion euros ($213
billion) Spanish RMBS market as the debt offers potential upside
should the economy recover, according to the Goldman Sachs
presentation.  The debt has been left behind in a rally that has narrowed
spreads on everything from Irish mortgage bonds to U.K. subprime
home-loan securities, Goldman Sachs said.  Investor confidence has jumped since European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged in July to do “whatever it
takes” to protect the euro and the prospect of a Greek exit
from the 17-nation common currency has faded. Spain sold 7
billion euros of 10-year bonds this week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Yields on the country’s January 2023 securities
fell 10 basis points today as of 8:03 a.m. in  New York  to 5.13
percent, after the ECB said banks will next week repay more of
its emergency three-year loans than  economists forecast in
another sign the region’s debt crisis is abating.  RMBS securities are attractive compared to pools of covered
bonds secured by Spanish home loans, known as multi-cedulas,
which have drawn buyers including Pacific Investment Management
Co. and BlackRock Inc.  Covered bonds differ from asset-backed securities because
the originator guarantees the bonds, on top of the real-estate
collateral. That backing means some of them have returned more
than 40 percent since June when Spain requested a 100 billion-
euro rescue for its financial sector from the European Union.  Comparable Spreads  A pool of home loans originated by  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the
nation’s largest lender, trades at about a 3.5 percentage point
spread, compared with 2.1 percentage points for covered bonds
issued by the country’s largest banks, the presentation said.  Still, that’s not enough for some investors.  “ There is too much inventory on bank balance sheets to
come out yet,” said Henry Cooke, the London-based head of
Europe ABS at  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . “The RMBS are
better than covered bonds, but the lack of information makes me
cautious.”  Goldman Sachs highlighted seven Spanish real-estate indexes
that show real-estate prices have dropped between 11 percent to
as much as 35 percent since the peak.  The average price of houses and apartments declined 15.2
percent from a year earlier, the most since the measure began in
2008, the National Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said last
month.  Repossessed Homes  Prices of repossessed Spanish homes sold by lenders last
year tumbled 65 percent compared with the value of the property
when the loans were made, Fitch Rating analysts said in a Dec.
12 report. That compares with an average 50 percent decline
since 2007, the Fitch report said.  “Fitch believes that the factors weighing on the Spanish
residential  property market  will continue to deteriorate,”
Madrid-based analysts Carlos Masip and Juan David Garcia wrote
in the report. “The gap between original valuation and the sale
price is a reflection of a distressed mortgage market,
characterized by high borrower indebtedness, constrained
affordability” and “falling property prices,” they wrote.  The Spanish government is setting up a so-called bad bank
called Sareb to take toxic assets off the books of Spanish
lenders. That’s “in fact provided some avenues for the right
 home prices  to be recognized in the books,” said Genworth’s
Mas.  Housing Moving  The government, wary of the easy credit that fueled the
 country’s boom , has done little to encourage the lending that’s
needed to get the housing market moving again, said Mas.  “I still believe the biggest mistake the Spanish
government is making is trying to drive looking at the rear-view
mirror,” he said. “The only way to get out is to somehow
reactivate the credit market.”  Investors demand 360 basis points, or 3.6 percentage
points, above the interbank borrowing rates to buy senior
Spanish mortgage-backed securities, according to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  data. That’s the lowest extra yield above benchmark rates
since June 2011, and compares with 400 basis points for a bond
backed by Irish home loans, 450 basis points on a Portuguese
comparable security and 1,400 basis points on senior bonds
backed by Greek residential mortgages.  Spreads Tightening  Spreads on Spanish mortgage-backed bonds are tightening
even with residential mortgages arrears at 3.5 percent at the
end of September 2012, the highest since at least 2006 when
delinquencies were close to zero, according to Spanish Mortgage
Association data.  Investors could add Spanish real estate bonds ranging from
those backed by prime borrowers to subprime such as class A
notes issued by UCI 14, a transaction set up by Union de
Creditos Inmobiliarios SA, a lender jointly controlled by BNP
Paribas SA and  Banco Santander , the Goldman Sachs presentation
said.  With RMBS, it depends on the price of the assets,” Mas
said. “If you are just talking about how the RMBS is trading,
there may be some at a big enough discount to recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 