-- Goldman Sachs’s Cohn Says Bonds Pose Big Risk After Record Rally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-24T19:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/goldman-sachs-s-cohn-says-bonds-face-big-risk-after-record-rally.html
Debt markets that have seen junk-
bond yields drop to record lows may face a ‘‘substantial
repricing’’ if interest rates spike or investors begin pulling
money out of fixed-income,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President
Gary Cohn said.  A sudden or large increase in rates would be a shock to
markets, presenting ‘‘a big risk’’ with ‘‘a low probability,’’
Cohn, 52, said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television’s
 Erik Schatzker  at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland. Such a move would potentially be heightened by a
liquidity shortage as large banks cut holdings to comply with
new capital requirements, he said.  ‘‘I’m concerned when money starts flowing out of fixed-
income funds, with firms trying to reduce their risk-weighted
assets and firms trying to reduce their balance sheets, who will
be the ultimate buyer of those fixed-income products?” Cohn
said. “Someone has to buy them, and maybe it takes a fairly
substantial repricing of fixed income to find the next round of
buyers.”  Investors have funneled cash into junk bonds at a record
pace as the Federal Reserve holds benchmark interest rates
between zero and 0.25 percent and buys back bonds to suppress
borrowing costs. Bond sales by Spain and  Portugal  this week are
among signs that the European sovereign-debt crisis has eased.
Buyers of fixed-income products must be told that “just because
it is a bond doesn’t mean that it trades at par,” Cohn said.  Inventories Drop  The 13 largest investment banks have announced plans to cut
$1.03 trillion in risk-weighted assets, consulting firm McKinsey
& Co. said in a report yesterday. Inventory holdings of
corporate bonds by top dealers have dropped about 40 percent
from two years ago and are less than a quarter of their 2007
peak, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of the banks have a new plan of de-risking their
balance sheets, getting their risk-weighted assets down to try
to improve their equity ratios,” Cohn said. “And I’m not sure
that that capital can come back into the market quick enough”
if there’s a sell-off, he said.  Cohn is not the first to warn of a potential liquidity
squeeze for institutional investors that have driven junk bond
yields to record lows. Greenwich Associates, a consulting firm
that surveys large investors, said in a report this month that
banks have increasingly relied on electronic trade crossing, a
process that depends on a large number of buyers.  “When everyone wants to sell, there will be no one on the
other side to cross trades with and capital-constrained banks
will have no interest in assuming their traditional role of
liquidity backstops,” Andrew Awad, a Greenwich consultant, said
in the report.  Widest Gap  Yields on dollar-denominated junk bonds dropped to an
unprecedented 6.46 percent on Jan. 22, and prices rose to 105.6
cents from as low as 54.8 cents in December 2008, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Yields over benchmarks for junk debt owned by exchange-
traded funds are 2.03 percentage points less than for below-
investment-grade bonds that they don’t hold, the widest gap on
record, according to Bank of America Corp. The difference
between yields on offerings above and below $400 million has
widened to about the highest level since February 2009, as
investors favor bonds sold in the most liquid batches.  Portugal sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.34 billion) of five-
year bonds through banks, the first offering of that maturity in
almost two years. Spain sold 7 billion euros of 10-year bonds on
Jan. 22, a sale Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said had the
biggest demand in the nation’s history.  “At some point, interest rates will go higher again, and
all of the money that has piled into fixed income over the past
three years, some of it will come out,” Cohn said. “We will
clearly be there to facilitate, we will clearly be there to
provide balance sheet and liquidity to our clients, but
ultimately, we can’t be the buyer of last resort.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  