-- Sundance Faces Gordon-Levitt’s Abs, Radcliffe Howl
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/gordon-levitt-radcliffe-sniper-jolt-sundance-review.html
Porn pays, but is it good for you?  “ Don Jon’s Addiction ,” Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s feature
directorial debut about a Jersey Shore-type with an addiction to
online pornography, was acquired by Relativity Media for $4
million at the  Sundance Film Festival  this week in Park City,
 Utah .  A summer release is planned. Will audiences go for a comedy
that includes snippets from porn films? And that features
Gordon-Levitt’s muscled stud bragging about his number of daily
climaxes, not to mention a fairly explicit tumble with co-star
 Julianne Moore ?  Here are my first impressions of this and a few more
Sundance entries that will be making their way to theaters in
the coming months.  Don’s ‘Addiction’  I’m guessing that Gordon-Levitt has seen “ Saturday Night
Fever ” more than once. His alpha-male Jon Martello -- Don Jon to
his worshipful barroom wingmen -- could be a nephew to  John Travolta ’s disco-dancing Tony Manero.  But the Don’s addiction isn’t the Hustle. He prefers
climaxing in front of a computer screen, which tends to get in
the way of emotional connections with actual women.  Bulked up and pomaded, Gordon-Levitt’s performance is a bit
showy. But the comic dinner-table arguments with his muscle-
shirted dad (a perfectly cast Tony Danza) make the film’s
“Fever” addiction worth the indulgence.  ‘Blue Caprice’  An artful drama inspired by the 2002 Beltway sniper attacks,
Alexandre Moors’s “ Blue Caprice ” was the most disturbing film I
saw at Sundance.  Isaiah  Washington  and Tequan Richmond play John Allen
Muhammad and Lee Malvo, who terrorized Washington with random
sniper shootings a year after 9/11.  Moors and cowriter R.F.I. Porto begin the movie with frantic
emergency calls and crime scene footage before flashing back to
the killers’ meeting. That’s when Muhammad -- an American hiding
out in the Caribbean with his three absconded children --
rescued the drowning, possibly suicidal 16-year-old Malvo off
the coast of Antigua.  Five months later, with Muhammad’s emotional state
deteriorating after losing custody of the kids, the faux
father/son duo make their way from  Seattle  to D.C. (in a blue
Chevrolet Caprice), armed with a Bushmaster rifle and a plan to
topple “the system” one murder at a time.  “Blue Caprice,” which hadn’t landed a distribution deal as
of this writing, unfolds slowly, almost dreamlike, with
meticulous, tense attention to Muhammad’s growing rage and
Malvo’s increasing dependence.  Neither this serious meditation on fatherless children in
leaderless cultures, nor the exceptional performances, can make
us unsee the film’s nerve-fraying scenes of carnage.  Harry’s Howler  The latest, and possibly best, in a recent line of Allen Ginsberg impersonators (following  James Franco  and Tom
Sturridge) is  Daniel Radcliffe  in director John Krokidas’ “ Kill
Your Darlings .”  Krokidas and screenwriter Austin Bunn find a fresh take on
the overexposed Beats by exploring the often footnoted but
rarely examined 1944 murder of David Kammerer by Ginsberg’s
friend (and Kammerer’s sometime lover) Lucien Carr.  Carr (Dane DeHaan) was the effete, visionary lynchpin in the
Columbia University literary circle that included Ginsberg, Jack
Kerouac (Jack Huston) and William Burroughs. (Ben Foster nailing
Burroughs’s mesmerizing drone).  Michael C. Hall gives a subtle, desperate performance as
Kammerer.  With the murder as a framing device, “Darlings” recounts
Ginsberg’s instant infatuation with the charismatic, unstable
Carr and their disparate, shifting levels of self-acceptance as
young gay men.  I wasn’t entirely convinced by the film’s bloody denouement,
and the flashes of surreal visual tricks lean toward gimmickry.
DeHaan’s breakout performance and scriptwriter Bunn’s knowing
grasp of ’40s moods and rhythms nicely capture a world on the
edge of something new.  Sony Pictures Classics (6758)  has acquired distribution rights.  Outlaw Heroes  Director/screenwriter David Lowery’s “ Ain’t Them Bodies
Saints ” is the best Terrence Malick-style film in years.  With its outlaw heroes and gorgeous fields at twilight,
“Saints” inevitably recalls Malick’s great “ Badlands ” (1973).  Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara play Bob and Ruth, moony-eyed,
dirt-poor Texans on a robbing spree that goes wrong. The film’s
prologue ends with a panicked shoot-out, as the pregnant Ruth
wounds a local sheriff and Bob takes the blame.  Four years later (the era is unspecified, or possibly
timeless), Bob escapes prison to be with Ruth and their young
daughter, who have come under the watchful, smitten eye of the
very officer Ruth wounded.  “Saints” plays like a folk ballad, plaintive, aching and
haunted. Affleck, Mara and Keith Carradine (as Bob’s wily old
mentor) are first-rate, and  Ben Foster  (unrecognizable from his
turn in “Kill Your Darlings”) gives a soulful, lovely
performance as the small-town sheriff willing, for better or
worse, to let bygones be bygones.  A distribution deal hasn’t been announced, though Harvey and
 Bob Weinstein  already have foreign rights.  Jane Austen  With “ Twilight ” author Stephenie Meyer co-producing, Keri Russell starring and  Jane Austen  inspiring, “Austenland” should
have been the mother of all rom-coms.  “Austenland” stars Russell as Jane Hayes, a single woman
obsessed with all things Austen, especially the BBC production
of “ Pride and Prejudice .”  Fed up with dating losers, Jane blows through her life
savings on a trip to an Austen-themed resort in  England , where
guests spend a week role-playing Regency era types in a country
manor staffed with actors doing the same.  Will she choose the dashing Darcy stand-in (JJ Feild)? Or
the irreverent stablehand (Bret McKenzie)?  Based on the 2007 bestseller by Shannon Hale (who co-wrote
the film with director Jerusha Hess), “Austenland” begins as a
likable traipse down the path between life and fantasy.
Eventually it stumbles into predictable, trite rom-com terrain.  At least Jennifer Coolidge, as a vacationing vulgarian
trying too hard for British civility, is a hoot the entire way.  Sony plans to release “Austenland” this summer.  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans in Park City,
Utah, at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 