-- Greggs Advances as Punch CEO Swaps Pints for Pies: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-24T17:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/greggs-advances-as-punch-ceo-swaps-pints-for-pies-london-mover.html
Greggs Plc (GRG) , the U.K.’s biggest
bakery chain, rose for an eighth straight day after naming  Punch
Taverns Plc (PUB)  boss Roger Whiteside as chief executive officer,
finding a replacement for CEO Ken McMeikan after only six weeks.  Whiteside, who has been a non-executive director of Greggs
since March 2008, will quit Punch, which is in talks with
investors and bondholders about restructuring 2.4 billion pounds
($3.8 billion) of mortgage-backed bonds, on Feb. 1. He will join
Greggs on Feb. 4, the companies said separately today.  Greggs  shares  gained 1.1 percent to 480 pence, the highest
since McMeikan said he was quitting. The eight-day rising streak
was the longest since October 2009, while the volume of shares
traded was more than double the three-month daily average.  “It is good news they have managed to get him so
quickly,” Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd.,
said by phone. “I am pleased an appointment has been made.”  Black, who cut his recommendation to hold from buy on Dec.
10 when McMeikan said he was resigning to take up the same
position at closely held Brakes Group, will leave his rating
unchanged until it becomes clear whether Whiteside will follow
the company’s current strategy, he said.  “On the balance of probability the appointment does
represent continuity,” Black said. “We want to make sure how
he wants to take it forward” before restoring the  rating .  Punch Falls  Whiteside, 54, took over as CEO of Punch in September 2011
following its separation from Spirit Pub Co. He previously
worked for 20 years at  Marks & Spencer Group Plc, (MKS)  heading its
food business. He was one of the founders of  Ocado Group Plc, (OCDO) 
where he was joint managing director from 2000 to 2004, before
heading Thresher Group Ltd., then the U.K.’s largest liquor-
store chain, until 2007. He joined Punch in November 2008.  Punch shares  gained 16 percent between Whiteside’s
appointment and the announcement of his resignation. The stock
fell 3.3 percent to 10.875 pence.  Greggs’ current streak may reflect a catch-up with a rally
among similar-sized consumer companies such as Dairy Crest Group
Plc, Black said. Greggs was the fifth-worst performer among the
87 companies in the FTSE All-Share Index last month.  The company was at the heart of last year’s “pastygate”
row over plans to make Cornish pasties and other hot baked foods
subject to value-added tax. It had its biggest one-day gain in
15 years on May 29 when the government scrapped the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net  