-- Guinea Working With Vale on Simandou Deal, President Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-24T21:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/guinea-working-with-vale-on-simandou-deal-president-says-3-.html
Guinea is seeking a way for  Vale (VALE3)  SA,
the world’s biggest  iron-ore  producer, to resume work at the
Simandou project in the West African nation, President  Alpha Conde  said.  “ Vale  will be one of the big partners of Guinea in iron
ore and it’s the Simandou project which is interesting for
Guinea so we will find a solution with Vale,” he said yesterday
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Davos, Switzerland.
“We’re working on it.”  Vale, which bought a 51 percent stake in a section of
Simandou in 2010, put the scope and schedule for its $1.26
billion Zogota iron-ore project in Simandou South under review
in October. The 2 million-metric-ton project was expected to
start producing in the second half of last year. The company,
which is suspending operations at unprofitable mines as it cuts
costs, wants greater clarity from the government on regulations
and infrastructure cost uncertainties before restarting work,
Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said Dec. 6.  Vale’s press office in  Rio de Janeiro  yesterday declined to
respond to Conde’s comments.  Vale’s Simandou partner is BSG Resources Ltd., a company
controlled by Israeli businessman Beny Steinmetz, which in
November said it received a letter from the Guinea government
regarding an investigation into how the venture with Vale
obtained mining rights. The project may cost as much as $10
billion to develop, BSG said in a statement on its website.  Rio Tinto  Vale  slid  2.2 percent to close at 38.63 reais in Sao Paulo.
The stock has declined 5.5 percent this year through today,
underperforming the 0.4 percent increase of the Brazilian
benchmark  index .  Guinea also offered  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group “a strategic
partnership for 50 or 100 years” to develop the company’s
rights in another section of  Simandou , Conde said yesterday,
without providing details.  “Now the ball is in Rio Tinto’s court,” he said. “We
have no worries about the financing.”  David Luff , a Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio, said he
wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Rio Tinto rose for the first time in three days, adding 2.1
percent to 3,575.00 pence in London.  Separately, Conde said that Guinea, which neighbors Mali to
the west, wants more nations to get involved in a battle to
defeat al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb in northern Mali. He said
that without wider involvement, Mali risks becoming another
Afghanistan, which harbored terrorists including  Osama bin
Laden , after two decades of war tore the nation apart.  Algeria Plant  Weapons and money have flooded the Sahel region of Africa
after the fall of Libya President  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011,
threatening to destabilize governments in west and north Africa,
according to the  United Nations . Terrorists that seized an
Algeria gas plant this month use northern Mali as a base, where
they have collected millions of dollars in ransom, according to
the  U.S. Treasury .  The French military helped Mali recapture two towns this
week, as foreign governments expressed concern that al-Qaeda in
the Maghreb, which controls two-thirds of Mali, is using the
northern part of the nation to operate as a base. The U.S. is
providing intelligence and planes for the mission.  “If France hadn’t intervened, it would have been a
disaster,” Conde said during the interview. “We need to
prepare for a second war, a much tougher war, a much longer war,
in the Sahara. If we want to avoid Sahara becoming the new
Afghanistan, everyone needs to be involved in this war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Connan in  London  at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  