-- Libor Suit List Shows Barclays Probe Spanned NY to Tokyo
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-24T16:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/libor-suit-list-shows-barclays-probe-spanned-ny-to-tokyo.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  senior executives,
dozens of traders and the bank’s chief economist were all
identified by regulators in a probe into interest-rate rigging
that spanned continents, according to documents released in the
U.K.’s first Libor-manipulation lawsuit.  Barclays is being sued by affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd. claiming an interest-rate swap should be annulled because
it is linked to Libor, which Barclays tried to rig. Judge Julian Flaux in  London  rejected a bid by a group of employees
identified in the Libor documents to prevent their names from
being published ahead of a trial later this year.  “The cat is out of the bag,” Flaux said rejecting the
employees’ bid for anonymity earlier this week. “It wouldn’t
take a rocket scientist to work out who they are.”  Among those identified in connection with the case were
former Chief Executive Officers  Robert Diamond  and  John Varley ,
and Jerry Del Missier, the bank’s former chief operating
officer. The list of names, which Flaux said had to be turned
over to Guardian, was compiled from evidence Barclays provided
in the regulatory probes that led a 290 million-pound fine
($457.5 million) in June.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, said
people named in the hundreds of thousands of documents used in
the investigation weren’t necessarily suspected of wrongdoing.
Only 24 of the 104 employees on the list had any involvement in
setting Libor, Flaux said on Tuesday.  Resignations, Fine  Diamond and Del Missier, who resigned in the wake of the
investigation and fine, were called to testify in front of
British lawmakers last year about the extent of their knowledge
of the rigging of the benchmark  interest rate  that is meant to
reflect how much banks pay to borrow from each other.  Tom Gough, a spokesman for one of the law firms
representing the Barclays employees, declined to comment. A
spokesman for Diamond declined to comment.  Guardian says it wouldn’t have signed the swap contract,
which resulted in a loss for Wolverhampton, England-based
company, if it had known about the manipulation.  More than 200 Barclays employees were identified in
documents given to regulators. Those who didn’t seek anonymity
haven’t yet had their names released. More than a dozen banks
worldwide are under investigation for rate-rigging. Regulators
say banks may have submitted inaccurate borrowing estimates to
appear financially stronger, or on the request of traders
seeking to boost profits.  Routine Misstatement  The Barclays list also includes  Tim Bond , the former head
of asset allocation strategy at Barclays’ investment bank. He
publicly described Libor figures as “divorced from reality,”
saying in a Bloomberg Television interview that firms were
routinely misstating their borrowing costs to avoid the
perception they were facing stress.  Mark Dearlove, head of the bank’s money-market desk and
responsible for the bank’s Libor submissions, and Stephen Morse,
former compliance chief, were also included. Del Missier told
lawmakers that Diamond instructed him to submit artificially low
Libor rates and “passed the instruction along” to Dearlove.  The list derived from the probe evidence included employees
that worked at offices in cities including London,  Singapore ,
 Tokyo  and  New York . While most are traders, desk heads and
executives, the list also includes  Julian Callow , chief
international economist at Barclays.  Messages left for Bond, Varley and Callow didn’t receive
immediate responses.  Qatar Investigation  Another executive who sought anonymity in the Libor case
was Chris Lucas, Barclays’ group finance director. He is under
investigation in a separate regulatory probe into payments made
to Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, the bank revealed last year.  Bloomberg News joined with other media organizations,
including the Times in London, the Telegraph and the Financial
Times in opposing the employees’ application for anonymity.  Dan Doctoroff , President and Chief Executive Officer of
Bloomberg LP, has offered a measure dubbed the Bloomberg
Interbank Offered Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a
variety of financial transactions in an effort to better reflect
participating banks’ real cost of credit. Bloomberg LP is the
parent of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  