-- Libya Reinforces Units Near Border After Algeria Attack
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-01-24T13:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/libya-reinforces-units-near-border-after-algeria-attack.html
Libya is reinforcing security at oil
and gas installations near its southern border after last week’s
terrorist attack in  Algeria .  “We must be fully prepared for any emergency,” Colonel
Ahmed Al-Kabasha, a senior commander of the  Defense Ministry ’s
petroleum facility guards, said in a statement carried by
Libya’s state-run LANA news agency late yesterday.  Militia units from Zintan, a town 120 kilometers (75 miles)
south-west of the capital Tripoli, have been sent to border
areas in armed jeeps backed by air patrols, Al-Kabasha said. The
deployment covers the southern Sahara, where the majority of oil
production is concentrated.  Gunman linked to al-Qaeda attacked a fortified Algerian gas
plant partly run by  BP Plc (BP/)  near the Libyan border on Jan. 16 in
a four-day siege that resulted in the deaths of at least 38
foreign hostages and 32 militants. The attackers wore Libyan
military uniforms, Algeria’s privately run Ennahar television
said on its website last week, citing unidentified officials.  Libya, which holds  Africa ’s biggest  oil reserves , relies on
militias created during the 2011 revolt against  Muammar Qaddafi 
rather than trained security forces, said Nicolo Sartori, an
analyst at Rome’s Institute of International Affairs.  “Libya seems to be more at risk, simply because the
government doesn’t have the same strength as the Algerian
authorities,” he said in an interview this week.  Refinery Protest  The U.K. government today urged Britons to leave the
eastern city of Benghazi in response to threats against
westerners, the  Foreign Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “We are now aware of a specific and imminent threat to
westerners in Benghazi,” it said. British nationals who ignored
previous advice to leave Benghazi should depart now, according
to the statement.  U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three colleagues were
killed by gunmen during a Sept. 11 attack on the American
consulate in Benghazi.  The Foreign Office has advised since September 2012 against
travel to Benghazi and all areas of  Libya  except Tripoli,
Zuwara, Az Zawiya, al Khums, Zlitan and Misrata, and the coastal
towns from Ras Lanuf to the Egyptian border.  Refinery Protest  In June, armed militias occupied three eastern Libyan oil
terminals, halting production for 48 hours in an election
protest. Production at the Zueitina refinery, 600 miles east of
Tripoli, only resumed last week after protesters occupied the
site. The disruption cost Libya 350 million dinars ($279
million), Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said.  There are several major oil and gas installations close to
the Algerian border, including the Wafa gas treatment plant 540
kilometers southwest of Tripoli, and the El Feel, or Elephant,
field, jointly run by Libya’s National Oil Co. and  Italy ’s  Eni
SpA. (ENI)   Oil field security is paramount, Al-Arusi said in an
interview on Jan. 21: “The armed forces, the revolutionaries,
the guards of oil installations and the guards of the borders
have instructions to protect the oil of Libya,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  