-- ICA Seeks $800Mln From Investors for Road, Water Projects
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-01-24T22:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/ica-seeks-800mln-from-investors-for-road-water-projects.html
Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*) ,  Mexico ’s largest
construction company, is targeting as much as $800 million from
private investors this year for road and water concession
projects, Chief Executive Officer Alonso Quintana said.  The company, based in Mexico City, plans to get funding
from investors including pension funds instead of holding
initial public offerings for the units and concessions involved
in the projects, Quintana said in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland, where he’s attending the World Economic Forum.  “We want to bring in private investment to our
concessions, somewhere in between $500 million and $800
million,” he said. “It’s a lot less complicated than an IPO.”  Investment in infrastructure should begin to pick up as
President Enrique Pena Nieto settles into office, he said.
Changes to the energy industry promised by the new president,
who took office Dec. 1, would allow state-owned oil company
Petroleos Mexicanos to double capital investment to as much as
$45 billion a year, Quintana said.  A bigger budget for the company known as Pemex is in line
with Pena Nieto’s plan to promote an energy bill to boost
investment in the company without privatizing it, the state-
owned producer said in an e-mailed response to questions.  New Airport  ICA Fluor, a joint venture between ICA and Irving, Texas-
based  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , has a $150 million engineering contract to
help design Pemex’s new refinery in Hidalgo state, Quintana
said.  The government is close to beginning the process to build
an airport near Mexico City, he said. ICA would be interested in
bidding on the project, he said.  ICA was unchanged at 36.87 pesos at the close in Mexico
City. Shares have  risen  94 percent over the last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  