-- Iceland Expected to Complete EU Talks, Irish EU Minister Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-01-24T15:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/iceland-expected-to-complete-eu-talks-irish-eu-minister-says.html
The European Union will continue to
work with  Iceland  on its membership bid, even after the north
Atlantic island’s government decided to freeze talks as it
readies for parliamentary elections, Ireland’s European Affairs
Minister Lucinda Creighton said.  “The negotiations on the chapters that are still open will
continue,” Creighton said today in an interview in Reykjavik.
It’s the task of the Irish EU Council Presidency “to work on
the Icelandic accession process over the next months, even
though the elections will take place in April.”  Iceland’s government announced on Jan. 14 that it would
freeze its talks on joining the 27-nation bloc before the April
27 elections. Iceland started EU accession talks in July 2010
and had planned to vote on membership later this year, according
to Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson.  The island has opened discussions in 27 of the bloc’s 35
policy areas and completed 11. Iceland’s government sought EU
entry after the economy collapsed in 2008, with its three major
lenders defaulting on $85 billion and the krona plunging as much
as 80 percent against the euro offshore.  Iceland’s current coalition wants to advance toward EU
membership, even as polls show growing hostility to entry and
signal the opposition parties will win in this year’s election.  Withdrawing the membership application could hurt the
relationship with the EU, said Creighton. “From my point of
view the very simple expectation that we have is that Iceland
will see through the negotiations and see what comes out of it
and make a judgment then,” she said.  A majority of Icelanders agree. A Jan. 18 poll showed that
48.5 percent of voters want to proceed with the application,
compared with 36.4 percent who want Iceland to withdraw from the
process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 