-- Rise in Leading Index Signals U.S. Expansion Into 2013
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-01-24T21:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/index-of-leading-economic-indicators-in-u-s-increases-0-5-.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in December by the most in three months, signaling stronger
housing and job markets will help the world’s largest economy
make more progress in the first half of 2013.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.5 percent after no change in
November, the New York-based group said today. Other reports
showed claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly dropped,
manufacturing picked up and consumer confidence waned.  A rebounding residential  real estate  market driven by
record-low interest rates will probably reverberate through the
economy this year, spurring sales of appliances and furniture
that underpin employment. The budget battles plaguing Washington
may prevent a more immediate pickup in growth.  “The recovery is continuing, and it does look like it’s
still on pretty good ground here,” said Scott Brown, chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg,
 Florida , who correctly forecast the leading indicators index.
“By the time we roll into March, firms typically do step up
their hiring, and the housing market really starts to get going.
Spring is really going to tell the tale on growth.”  Most stocks rose as the economic data and better-than-
forecast corporate earnings helped offset the worst slump for
Apple Inc. in four years. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at
1,494.82 at the close in New York, almost unchanged from
yesterday.  Jobless Claims  Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
by 5,000 to 330,000 in the week ended Jan. 19, the fewest since
the same week in 2008, the Labor Department reported today in
 Washington . Economists forecast 355,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The figures may reflect challenges adjusting the data
during the holiday period and at the start of quarters. This
year’s changes are following patterns seen in prior years, a
Labor Department spokesman said as the data were released. In
2008, claims dropped for consecutive weeks in early January and
then rebounded at the end of the month.  “The swings are attributable to the calendar,” said Brian Jones, senior U.S. economist at Societe Generale in New York,
who projected a drop to 328,000. He said the numbers probably
will rise at the end of the month. “We’re going to pay for
this,” he said.  The reports on the leading index and jobless claims follow
figures showing resilience in the global economy.  China ’s
manufacturers expanded in January at the fastest pace in two
years, while euro-area services and factory output shrank less
than economists projected.  European Economy  A euro-area composite index based on responses from
purchasing managers in both manufacturing and services rose to
48.2 from 47.2 in December, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Markit’s factory survey in China climbed to 51.9 from
51.5.  In the U.S., Markit’s  preliminary  gauge of manufacturing
rose to 56.1 in January, the highest since March 2011, from 54 a
month earlier as orders and employment accelerated.  “We are seeing, in our business, some degree of
improvements in markets in the United States, in the Middle
East,” Richard Adkerson, president and chief executive officer
at  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , said on a Jan. 22
earnings call. “China shows promise this year for renewed
growth as they spend on infrastructure and takes steps to
improve its economy.”  Survey Results  Economists projected the leading index would rise 0.4
percent last month, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Estimates from 48 economists ranged from
increases of 0.2 percent to 1 percent after a previously
reported 0.2 percent drop in November.  Five of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, helped by fewer jobless claims and higher stock
prices. The slump in unemployment applications in December
partly reflected the rebound in the economy after superstorm
Sandy.  The leading gauge was restrained in December by  fewer
orders  to factories and a drop in demand for business equipment.  “A pickup in domestic growth is now more likely compared
to a few months ago,” Ken Goldstein, an economist at the
Conference Board, said in a statement. “For growth to gain more
traction, we also need to see better performance on new orders
and an acceleration in capital spending.”  The leading index for January may get another boost from a
rally in equities after U.S. lawmakers avoided broad-based tax
increases and moved to temporarily suspend the federal debt
limit. The S&P 500 climbed almost 5 percent through yesterday.  Fourth Quarter  The world’s largest economy probably grew at a 1.2 percent
annual pace in the last three months of 2012, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg project a Commerce Department report will
show Jan. 30. Economists forecast that the resolution on taxes
reached at the start of 2013 will allow growth to proceed at a 2
percent rate for the whole year.  Congress still must figure out how it will handle automatic
spending cuts scheduled to begin March 1, an event that could
further crimp economic growth.  In the meantime, the housing market may support the
expansion while the lawmakers debate the budget. Building
permits, a proxy for future construction,  increased  in December
to the highest level since June 2008, showing lower prices, a
lack of supply and record-low mortgage rates are encouraging new
projects.  Labor Market  The labor market also looks stable. Payrolls expanded by
1.84 million in 2012, matching the prior year.  Consistent job gains may help underpin sentiment.  Consumer
confidence  fell last week to its lowest level in more than three
months as concern about the U.S. economy mounted.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 36.4
in the seven days ended Jan. 20, the weakest since early
October, from minus 35.5 the prior period. The measure has
fallen for three straight weeks, the longest slump since August.  The setback in sentiment corresponds to the two percentage-
point increase in the payroll tax that took effect at the start
of 2013, indicating the resulting drop in take-home pay has
shaken Americans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  