-- India Seeks to Boost Inflows by Raising Debt Cap to $75 Billion
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-01-24T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/india-boosts-debt-investment-cap-for-foreigners-to-75-billion.html
India  took a step to spur capital
inflows and avert a debt-rating downgrade by raising a limit on
foreign  investment  in rupee bonds by $10 billion to $75 billion.  The nation boosted the cap on holdings of government debt
yesterday to $25 billion from $20 billion while an ownership
ceiling for corporate notes was increased to $50 billion from
$45 billion, according to a statement on the  Reserve Bank  of
India’s website. The rupee erased a 0.4 percent loss after the
announcement. Bonds were little changed.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has boosted efforts to revive
Asia’s third-largest economy since mid-September, cutting fuel
subsidies and opening up more industries to overseas investment,
after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings warned the nation’s
investment-grade rating is at risk. The move to spur debt
inflows comes after the rupee slid 3.9 percent last quarter as
the current-account deficit widened to $22.4 billion.  “This will help increase inflows to India in the short-and
medium-term, especially as sentiment towards the economy has
been improving,” said Siddharth Mathur, strategist at UBS AG in
 Singapore . “But this is just a single measure that may help at
the margin. It isn’t a silver bullet. I wouldn’t overplay its
significance as India’s structural current-account deficit needs
structural solutions.”  Rupee, Bonds  The rupee ended little changed yesterday in Mumbai at
53.685 a dollar, after having traded 0.1 percent stronger on the
day earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
on the 8.15 percent government bonds maturing in June 2022 rose
1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.88 percent,
according to the central bank’s trading system. Local bond and
currency markets are shut today for a holiday.  Rupee-denominated debt returned 11 percent in the past
year, the best performance among  Asia ’s biggest local-currency
fixed-income markets, HSBC Holdings Plc data show. The yield on
India’s 10-year sovereign notes dropped 69 basis points since
the end of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
securities still offer an  extra  608 basis points over similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Global funds bolstered  holdings  of rupee-denominated
government and corporate bonds by 26 percent in 2012 to $32.9
billion. The amount reached a record $33.3 billion on Jan. 3
after central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last month
policy makers need to focus on supporting the economy, fueling
speculation the monetary authority will cut  interest rates .  Interest Rates  The  Reserve Bank of India  will cut its  repurchase  rate by
25 basis points to 7.75 percent at its next review on Jan. 29,
according to 22 of 26 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Three
predict a cut to 7.50 percent and one sees no change. The
measure was last lowered by 50 basis points in April.  The RBI has some room to ease policy to spur growth,
 Raghuram Rajan , the top adviser in the nation’s finance
ministry, said in an interview on Jan. 23. He spoke in
Singapore, during an international tour by Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram to woo investors as the government
strives to revive growth. India’s  economy  will expand as little
as 5.7 percent in the 12 months through March, the slowest pace
in a decade, according to official estimates.  Chidambaram said this week fiscal prudence will be a key
budget theme next month, pledging to reduce the government’s
 deficit  to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product for the 12
months through March 2014. He vowed the gap won’t breach his
target of 5.3 percent of GDP in the current fiscal year “under
any circumstance.”  ‘Path of Consolidation’  “It’s absolutely important to signal to the world that we
are on the path of fiscal consolidation,” Chidambaram told
investors in  Hong Kong  on Jan. 22. “In the last five and half
months, we have addressed the problem in small but significant
steps. Add all these together, and we will see we have traveled
quite a distance. There’s no case at all to downgrade India.”  The government allowed state refiners last week to fix
diesel prices on their own for the first time in more than a
decade, a move aimed at reducing the government’s subsidy
payments and improving public finances.  Bond risk in India fell this year. The cost to insure  State
Bank of India (SBIN) ’s debt, considered a proxy for the sovereign by
some investors, for five years against non-payment using credit-
default swaps fell 20 basis points to 206, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  ‘Ensuring Growth’  Option traders are the most bullish on India’s currency in
four years. One-year contracts, conferring the right to sell the
rupee against the dollar, cost 140 basis points more than those
to buy yesterday, near the least since November 2008. The so-
called risk reversal rate has slid 270 basis points in the past
year.  “Where we can aid growth is through reforms,” Rajan said.
“We play an enabling role. Ultimately, the economy itself, the
private sector and the public sector, will play the dominant
role in ensuring growth. But we can create the framework. We
have done a fair amount and we will do more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  