-- India’s Cabinet Approves Panel to Probe Wal-Mart Lobbying
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-24T19:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/india-s-cabinet-approves-panel-to-probe-wal-mart-lobbying.html
India ’s Cabinet approved a retired
judge to probe claims that  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  broke rules as
it lobbied to enter the country’s retail market.  A retired judge of the Supreme Court or former chief
justice of a high court will investigate the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer, Information & Broadcasting Minister
Manish Tewari said in New Delhi after a meeting of the nation’s
cabinet today.  Wal-Mart spent as much as $25 million since 2008 on
discussions regarding its foreign investments, including in the
Indian retail industry, the Press Trust of India said Dec. 9,
citing company disclosure filings before the U.S. Senate.
Opposition lawmakers in parliament alleged part of the money was
spent in India, where paid lobbying is not allowed.  India’s parliament last month endorsed a September decision
to allow foreign investment in retail stores selling more than
one brand, the centerpiece of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
biggest embrace of foreign investment in a decade, as he seeks
to revive a slowing economy.  Overseas companies including Wal-Mart,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and
 Carrefour SA (CA)  are seeking to benefit from entering the world’s
second-most populous nation, where retail sales are estimated to
reach 47 trillion rupees ($875 billion) by 2017, according to a
 report  by Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India
and  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)   Lobbying Disclosures  “We remain excited about the opportunity to grow our
business in one of the world’s most brilliant economies, expand
opportunities for farmers and help lower the cost of living for
families in India,” Kevin Gardner, a  Wal-Mart spokesman, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The judge will investigate reports of Wal-Mart’s lobbying
disclosures and whether any of the retailer’s activities in
India broke the law, according to a statement from the Ministry
of Company Affairs today. The findings will be submitted to the
government within three months, according to the statement.  Gardner said the allegations being made against Wal-Mart
are false.  “These disclosures have nothing to do with political or
governmental contacts with India government officials,” Gardner
said. “It shows that our business interest in India was
discussed with U.S. government officials -- along with 50 or
more other topics during a three-month period.”  Wal-Mart has said it is investigating potential violations
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in India,  Brazil  and  China .
The U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are investigating allegations that the world’s
largest retailer systematically bribed Mexican officials to more
quickly open stores.  The shares  rose  0.1 percent to $69.56 at 2:15 p.m. in New
York. Wal-Mart advanced 14 percent last year compared with a 13
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  