-- Lion Fund Says Buy China Stocks That Tap Urbanization
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-25T07:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/lion-fund-says-buy-china-stocks-that-tap-urbanization.html
Lion Fund Management Co., the $7.5
billion money manager that led Chinese investors into gold
exchange-traded products, said the best returns in 2013 will
come from stocks that tap the migration of farmers to the city.  Demand for building materials, home appliances and property
will benefit as  Li Keqiang , set to become  China ’s new premier in
March, promotes urbanization to drive economic growth that’s
showing signs of accelerating after a two-year slowdown, Lion’s
Chief Executive Officer, Ao Chengwen, said in an interview with
 Bloomberg News  on Jan. 23.  “The improving Chinese economy this year is a game
changer,” Ao, 45, said at Lion Fund’s Beijing headquarters.
“Companies that can benefit from urbanization look most
appealing and primed for a rally.”  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has advanced 13
percent since Nov. 21, when Li championed urban development as a
path to sustainable economic expansion. The country’s  gross
domestic product  rose 7.9 percent in the three months through
December, ending seven quarters of slowing growth in the world’s
most populous nation.  More than 21 million people -- roughly equivalent to the
population of  Australia  -- left their rural homes for jobs in
the city in 2012, according to China’s National Bureau of
Statistics. Providing housing and consumer goods for these
workers is a huge investment opportunity, said Ao, who declined
to identify specific stocks Lion Funds may purchase.  Market Leader  The company employs 200 people across its branches in
Beijing,  Shanghai  and Shenzhen. It will boost staff by about 10
percent this year as the economy grows, Ao said. He aims to
increase assets under management to $10 billion in 2013.  The  fund manager  was the first in China to raise money for
investments in gold exchange-traded products overseas in early
2011. Harvest Fund Management Co., Bosera Asset Management Co.,
China Universal Asset Management Co. and others followed.  Lion Fund may launch products this year that are linked to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, because it offers attractive
liquidity and returns, Ao said.  Regulators have signaled they will relax some restrictions
to increase foreign access to the country’s  capital markets  and
to allow more Chinese investment in overseas markets, he said.  The People’s Bank of China will prepare a trial program
allowing citizens to invest in overseas capital markets, it said
on Jan. 11. It has listed the second phase of its qualified
domestic individual investor program, or QDII2, as a priority
this year.  Offshore Yuan  Lion Fund opened a Hong Kong office last month with about
10 staff, he said. It will tap offshore  yuan  assets to reinvest
in the Chinese market, according to Ao, who said he expects
China to increase quotas for money that can return to the
country from 270 billion yuan ($43.4 billion).  About 70 percent of the  money manager ’s current assets are
allocated in equities, 20 percent in fixed-income products and
the rest in the derivatives products for gold, oil and gas
assets, and real estate investment trusts, Ao said.  “Chinese citizens have about 20 trillion yuan in  bank
deposits , which shows that a strong demand for fixed-income
products will always be there,” Ao said.  Gold ETPs  The company has investments in overseas gold ETPs valued at
about $300 million, down from almost $500 million at the
beginning of 2011, when it started, said Ao.  “The reduction in size of the investments was mainly
because investors cashed out when bullion prices reached a
record in 2011,” he said. “With  gold prices  stabilizing, we
now see more investor interest, especially through term deposits
on a monthly basis.”  Investors hold 2,618 metric tons of gold in  exchange-traded
products  after bullion’s longest bull market in at least nine
decades. Gold capped a 12th annual advance in 2012 and rose to a
record $1,921.15 an ounce in 2011. Gold gained 0.2 percent today
to trade at $1,671.28 at 3:50 p.m. Beijing time.  “We still have a bullish view on gold,” Ao said. “Gold
will shine with monetary easing by central banks around the
world.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  