-- TIPS Lag Behind Treasury Market Ahead of Auction
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-01-24T01:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/tips-lag-behind-treasury-market-ahead-of-auction.html
Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities are lagging behind conventional U.S. government debt
for a third month before the U.S. sells $15 billion of TIPS
today.  Inflation notes have handed investors a 0.5 percent loss
since the end of October, versus a 0.2 percent decline for the
broader market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The International Monetary Fund cut its 2013 growth
outlook for the U.S. yesterday and the House of Representatives
voted to temporarily suspend the nation’s borrowing limit.  “Inflation isn’t a concern now,” said Shinji Kunibe,
chief portfolio manager for fixed-income investment at Nissay
Asset Management Corp. in  Tokyo , which oversees the equivalent
of $58 billion. “The debt ceiling problem was merely postponed,
and fiscal tightening will put downward pressure on the
economy,” weighing on bond yields, he said.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.82
percent as of 9:48 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader. The price of the 1.625 percent note due in November 2022
was 98 9/32.  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, less
than the 3.6 percent forecast in October, the Washington-based
IMF said yesterday.  ‘On Track’  In the U.S., “underlying economic conditions remain on
track,” the IMF said as it reduced its forecast for the world’s
largest economy to 2 percent from 2.1 percent in 2013 and raised
it 0.1 percentage point to 3 percent next year.  The last six 10-year TIPS sales since January 2012 have
drawn negative  yields .  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.55 percentage
points earlier this week. It was the most since November. The
average over the past decade was 2.19 percentage points.  Treasuries rose yesterday as the House voted to suspend the
borrowing limit, leaving for a later date decisions on automatic
spending cuts and government funding. The measure will go to the
Senate, where Majority Leader Harry Reid said lawmakers will
pass the bill unchanged and send it to President  Barack Obama .  Global investors say the state of the U.S.’s finances is
the greatest risk to the world economy, with the government
within weeks of reaching its borrowing limit, according to a
Bloomberg survey of investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  