-- Ireland Should Drop Model-Student Act and Get Help
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-01-24T16:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/ireland-should-drop-model-student-act-and-get-help.html
(Corrects number of times Ireland has issued medium-term
debt in fourth paragraph in article published Jan. 24.)  Talk to practically any investors in
 London  and they will tell you Ireland is a shining example of a
successful euro-area bailout program, a narrative that the
country’s international creditors eagerly endorse.  So it might have come as a surprise when Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said at a meeting with his euro-area counterparts
this week that the Irish -- and Portuguese -- may get an
extension on the maturities of some of their bailout loans.  This would help to reduce Ireland’s debt burden, of course.
But why is it necessary if Ireland’s bailout has been such a
success? The answer is simple: Ireland’s debt is not yet on a
sustainable path, and the country needs more help to return to
one if it’s to become the success story that many say it already
is.  Clearly, Ireland hit some positive milestones recently.
This month, the government issued medium-term debt for the
second time since it was forced out of the bond markets in
September 2010 -- and at lower borrowing costs than those
attached to its bailout loans. The government also sold 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in  Bank of Ireland  debt, while the
 European Central Bank  said last week that Irish banks had
significantly weaned themselves off central-bank funding in
December.  Weak Fundamentals  This is all good news, but out of sync with Ireland’s
fundamentals. The economy remains reliant on foreign demand, and
its main export markets -- the rest of the euro area, the U.K.
and the U.S. -- are likely to contract or to grow slowly this
year. The prospects for fostering domestic demand in Ireland
don’t look good, either. The government agreed to its sixth
austerity budget for 2013, and unemployment has been stubbornly
high at almost 15 percent for the past year. As a result, both
the public and private sectors will continue to drag on growth.  Ireland’s financial sector, which effectively bankrupted
the nation, also remains a cause for concern. BlackRock
Solutions was brought in to run independent stress tests on the
nation’s banks in 2011, after which they were recapitalized
according to BlackRock’s worst-case, stressed  scenario . Most
investors assumed this was the end of the Emerald Isle’s banking
drama, but the auditor, a unit of BlackRock Inc., probably
wasn’t pessimistic enough. At 1.1 percent, the European
Commission’s growth  forecast  for Ireland this year is lower than
BlackRock’s worst-case 1.4 percent -- and in my analysis, still
too rosy. I expect Ireland to grow 0.5 percent in 2013. Either
way, this is likely to leave a hole in the balance sheets of the
Irish banks, whose debts the government has guaranteed and
effectively holds.  Irish banks will also continue to suffer from their
 mortgage loans .  Arrears  on owner-occupied properties whose
mortgage payments are more than 180 days overdue continue to
rise and now account for a whopping 80 percent of total arrears.
Many of the people who own these mortgages will default,
depleting the banks’ capital ratios.  Partly because of these economic and financial headwinds,
Ireland’s public finances remain unsustainable. The country’s
debt burden ended 2012 at almost 120 percent of gross domestic
product -- the  fourth-highest  in the euro area after Greece,
 Italy  and  Portugal . Ireland’s  primary deficit  also remains
large, at about 4.3 percent of GDP in 2012.  If the financial crisis has taught us anything, it is that
excessive public- or private-sector debts can be ignored for
years. Once investors recognize the danger, though, they start
charging the appropriate premium for borrowing, and the party
comes to a screeching halt. Given the current market euphoria
about Ireland, it could take some time for investors to start
worrying, but shocks elsewhere in the region ( Greece  and  Spain 
look like front-runners to provide one) may jolt investors back
to reality. At that moment, Ireland would find itself shut out
of the bond markets once again.  Extended Maturities  Ireland is right to be looking for extra help now, because
the longer a debt overhang goes unresolved, the bigger the
losses when a resolution is finally sought. One proposal
suggested this week is to extend the maturities on some of
Ireland’s bailout loans. If Ireland were to get the same 15-year
extension that Greece  received  in December, that would reduce
the Irish debt burden by fewer than 10 percentage points, to
about 110 percent of GDP in net present value terms. That’s a
drop in the bucket of what’s needed.  The Irish government hopes its banks will be retroactively
recapitalized by the European Union’s permanent bailout fund,
the European Stability  Mechanism . That would significantly
reduce Ireland’s debt burden, yet  Germany  has dug in against the
idea and is unlikely to relent, at least until  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has cleared elections in September. Even if Ireland were
to win this concession from its creditors, separating bank and
state debt retroactively is like trying to unscramble an egg.
The ultimate debt relief would be small.  The ECB could help keep Ireland’s borrowing costs low and
facilitate its re-entry into the markets by buying Irish
 government bonds  through the outright monetary transactions
 program . However, these purchases are only conducted if a
country has submitted to conditionality. Senior government
members have stressed to me how eager Ireland is to exit its
bailout program and regain full fiscal sovereignty. It would be
politically poisonous to exit one program with conditionality
only to enter another.  A realistic solution is available. Last week, Ireland’s
central-bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said good progress was
being made in talks with international creditors to restructure
the promissory notes that the government issued to guarantee
failing banks. Currently, the state has to repay 3.1 billion
euros every year through 2022 -- slightly less thereafter -- to
the Irish central bank in order to honor those notes. The next
repayment is scheduled for the end of March. A significant
extension on the maturity of those repayments could make a real
dent in Ireland’s mountain of debt.  Possible Deal  The government has leverage it could use in the
negotiations with its creditors. If Ireland were to default on
the March promissory note (not a policy I am suggesting!), then
Ireland’s creditors would be in a very difficult position: At
the same time, they would be reluctant to pull the plug on their
Irish success story and to set a moral-hazard-creating precedent
by not doing so. Ireland’s creditors may, therefore, be willing
to strike a deal to avoid having to eventually make such a
difficult choice.  The Irish government has been reluctant to play hardball in
negotiations so far, partly because it has gone to such lengths
to appear the model student. Equally, Ireland’s creditors have
resisted making concessions because it looks odd to praise a
country as a success while saying it needs help to succeed. The
sooner both sides abandon this charade, the greater the chances
of Ireland becoming the model it is made out to be.  ( Megan Greene  is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. Until 2012, she was director
of European economic research at Roubini Global Economics LLC.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  