-- Iron Ore Seen Falling in Second Quarter as China Restocking Ends
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-01-24T08:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/iron-ore-seen-falling-in-second-quarter-as-china-restocking-ends.html
Iron ore  will almost erase the past
two months’ rally and fall 19 percent in the second quarter as
weather stops disrupting supply and Chinese restocking ends,
according to a Barclays Plc trader of the commodity.  The raw material used to make steel will average $120 a dry
metric ton in the three months from April, said Richard Lee, who
most accurately predicted Chinese ore imports in a September
survey of 11 analysts, traders and brokers. Iron ore traded at
$147.70 a ton yesterday, prices from The Steel Index Ltd. show.
Second-quarter swaps to bet on, or hedge, prices are trading at
about $136 a ton, according to data from SSY Futures Ltd.  Iron ore rebounded as much as 83 percent since plunging to
an almost-three-year low in September, according to the Steel
Index.  China , the world’s biggest importer, is rebuilding
inventories before the Lunar New Year, and storms closed ports
in  Australia , the largest supplier. The rally will end next
quarter as underlying steel demand remains weak, Lee said.  “Supply is tight due to weather, and restocking demand
should hold for next month or so, but once these subside into
spring it could expose steel demand as rather soggy still,” Lee
said by e-mail yesterday. “Firm Chinese growth numbers, while
positive for the macro economies, are not very encouraging for
stimulus.”  China’s economic risks have shifted back to growing too
quickly as new regional-government officials try to boost
development, Fan Gang, a People’s Bank of China academic adviser
from 2006 to 2010, said yesterday in an interview in Davos,
 Switzerland , where he is attending the  World Economic Forum .  Ore with 62 percent content at the Chinese port of Tianjin,
which rallied to a 14-month high of $158.50 a ton on Jan. 8, has
declined 6.8 percent since then, Steel Index data show.  Record Imports  Chinese imports rose to a record 70.9 million tons in
December, customs data show. Inventories dropped 28 percent
since September to 69.7 million tons, the lowest since 2010,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. The
world’s second-largest economy is accelerating after seven
quarters of slowing growth.  Harbor masters reopened the Australian ports of Cape
Lambert, Dampier and Port Hedland yesterday after a tropical
cyclone had forced ships to stop loading. Interruptions linked
to weather are likely in coming months, Oslo-based investment
bank RS Platou AS said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  