-- IRS to Appeal Court Bar to Its Licensing of Tax Preparers
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-24T22:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/irs-to-appeal-ruling-barring-licensing-of-tax-preparers.html
The  U.S. Internal Revenue Service 
said it will appeal a court’s ruling that it lacks the power to
license tax preparers, a decision that might affect as many as
700,000 people who work on clients’ returns.  Immediately discontinuing the agency’s tax preparer
oversight program “would result in a substantial disruption to
tax administration,” the IRS said yesterday in a court filing.  U.S District Judge James Boasberg in Washington, ruling on
a lawsuit filed by three preparers, invalidated the program Jan.
18. The agency overstepped its authority by relying on an 1884
law that allows it to regulate people presenting cases before
the Treasury Department, he said.  The IRS program favored large corporate providers of tax
services such as  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  and  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  over smaller
independent return preparers, said Dan Alban, an attorney with
the  Institute for Justice , a self-described libertarian public
interest law firm representing the plaintiffs.  Large providers lobbied the IRS “for this program that
they knew would put a lot of mom-and-pop preparers out of
business,” Alban said in a phone interview from the group’s
Arlington,  Virginia ’s offices. “This is an example of
protectionism at its finest.”  Company Support  Tax-preparation companies expressed support for the
program.  “We have been proponents of oversight, not to disadvantage
competitors but in favor of consumers,” said Julie Miller, a
spokeswoman for Intuit, the maker of TurboTax.  The court’s ruling “eliminates key protections for
millions of taxpayers,” Kathy Pickering, vice president of
government affairs H&R Block, said in an e-mailed statement.  “H&R Block continues to believe the IRS standards and
additional oversight strengthen the industry’s credibility,
reliability and integrity ultimately protecting U.S.
taxpayers,” she said.  Imposing Standards  The IRS said the rules were designed to impose standards on
return preparers who aren’t certified public accountants,
attorneys or enrolled agents already licensed to practice before
the agency.  The idea, promoted by  Douglas Shulman  while he was IRS
commissioner, was to impose minimum standards and help the
agency thwart tax fraud.  The agency’s licensing program affects from 600,000 to
700,000 preparers “who are responsible for a substantial number
of the more than 80 million returns filed each year,” the IRS
said in court papers.  The program required preparers to register with the federal
government, pass a competency test and meet continuing-education
requirements. A 15-hour continuing-education regime began in
2012 and the testing was set to go into effect this year.  100,000 Registered  Almost 100,000 return preparers have registered to take the
test and the IRS has collected more than $100 million in
registration and competency-testing user fees, according the IRS
filing. The agency said it has spent more than $50 million and
assigned 167 employees to operate the program.  The IRS also would probably face lawsuits and demands for
fee refunds if the injunction isn’t lifted during an appeal, the
court filing said.  “All these actions -- and taxpayer funds -- would be
wasted if the Court of Appeals subsequently overturned this
court’s decision and reinstated the return preparer program,”
the IRS said in its request to Boasberg to suspend the
injunction against the program for at least 14 days to allow an
appeal.  The agency said it will appeal in the next 30 days even if
the court declines to lift the injunction.  The case is Loving v. Internal Revenue Service, 12-cv-
00385, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 