-- Jaguar Bets on China to Defray Royalty Payments: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-25T11:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/jaguar-bets-on-china-to-defray-royalty-payments-corporate-india.html
Jaguar Land Rover Plc, the luxury
unit of India’s biggest automaker, is betting surging sales in
China will help it defray royalty payments triggered by the
company setting up factories outside the U.K.  Jaguar is liable to pay royalties to  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which
sold the brands to  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  in 2008 for $2.5 billion,
for use of the platform required to make its best-selling cars
when manufactured outside the U.K., it said in a U.S. regulatory
 filing  on Jan. 23. The unit of Mumbai-based Tata Motors will
build vehicles to suit Chinese markets, spokeswoman Kay Francis
said in an e-mail response to questions.  The owner of the marque brands is banking on rising volumes
in China, which trumped the U.K. as its biggest market in 2012,
to counter the levies amid growing popularity of its cheaper
models that stalled profit, according to Umesh Karne, an analyst
with BRICS Securities Ltd. Shifting focus to the world’s biggest
auto market helped Jaguar Land Rover sell a record 357,773
vehicles last year even as total car sales in Europe plunged to
its lowest in 19 years.  “The management is very confident about doing well in
China,” said Mumbai-based Karne. “While royalty payments will
affect margins, Jaguar Land Rover may be able to offset this by
saving on import duties and thereby being able to reduce prices
and increase volumes.”  Biggest Gain  Shares of Tata Motors, which derived three quarters of its
operating income from the unit in the year ended March, gained
the most in a week, the biggest gainer on the benchmark BSE
India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , which increased 0.3 percent. They gained
2.6 percent to 301 rupees in Mumbai.  Tata Motors in the Jan. 23 filing said  margins  in the three
months through December may have declined due to the pound
weakening against other currencies and higher sales of its best-
selling model.  Profit at Tata Motors, led by Cyrus Mistry, may have
dropped 13 percent to 29.5 billion rupees ($549 million) in the
three months to Dec. 31, according to the median  estimate  of 35
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company on Nov. 7 reported
 net income  in the quarter ended Sept. 30 rose 11 percent to 20.8
billion rupees, from 18.8 billion rupees a year earlier, missing
analysts estimates. Tata Motors will report December quarter
earnings next month.  The average selling price of models such as the Jaguar XF,
Land Rover Freelander and the best-selling Evoque is about
30,000 pounds ($47,500), compared with the 42,000-pound average
on other models, Vijay Somaiya, the head of treasury and
investor relations at Tata Motors, said on a conference call
yesterday.  Eligible Vehicles  Jaguar Land Rover will have to pay access fees and
royalties when producing models based on the EuCD platform
developed by Ford. The Freelander and Evoque are among the
vehicles built on the so-called European D-class platform and
eligible for the payments to Ford if made outside the U.K.  “It’s a question of how much Jaguar Land Rover will have
to pay in royalties to see how it will affect profitability,”
said Juergen Maier, a fund manager in Vienna at Raiffeisen
Capital Management, which manages about $1.1 billion in
emerging-market assets. “We will have to wait and watch to see
what models they decide to make in China, and the royalties that
they will have to pay Ford.”  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
tripled payment to parent Suzuki Motor Corp. in the year ended
March 31 from 2008. The company paid 18.03 billion rupees, or
5.2 percent of its sales in the latest financial year.  Saudi Arabia  Jaguar Land Rover, which together with Chery Automobile Co.
is investing 10.9 billion  yuan  ($1.75 billion) to build a
manufacturing plant in eastern China, hasn’t decided on the
models it plans to make in the nation, said Francis, who
declined to discuss royalty payments.  The equal venture between Jaguar, which produced its first
car, the SS Jaguar 2.5 liter saloon in 1935, and Chery will
include a local brand as well as a research & development center
and an engine plant.  Jaguar Land Rover is also studying the feasibility for a
plant in Saudi Arabia, it said last month. The initial
investment is estimated at 4.5 billion riyals ($1.2 billion),
the National Industrial Clusters Development Program, under the
Saudi Arabian Ministry of Commerce & Industry, said in a
separate statement. The factory would produce 50,000 Land Rovers
a year by 2017, it said.  Local manufacturing may help Jaguar Land Rover avoid paying
import duties in certain nations. With a factory in China, the
luxury carmaker won’t have to pay a 25 percent levy to ship the
vehicles into China.  “It’s cheaper to make cars in China,” said Deepesh Rathore, the New Delhi-based managing director of IHS Automotive
in India. “So they will factor in the royalty payments in the
price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  