-- Japan’s Metal Smelters See 12 Billion Yen Cost Rise on Power
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-01-24T06:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/japan-s-metal-smelters-see-12-billion-yen-cost-rise-on-power.html
Base-metal producers in  Japan , the
world’s third-largest economy, will face a 12 billion yen ($135
million) cost gain if power companies follow a rate increase by
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (5411) , according to an industry group.  Smelters of non-ferrous metals such as copper, nickel and
zinc purchase a total of 5 billion kilowatt-hours each year,
Masao Yamada, chairman of the Japan Mining Industry Association,
told reporters today. Tokyo Electric raised corporate
electricity rates by 16.7 percent in April before cutting them
to 14.9 percent in September.  The shuttering of most of Japan’s nuclear reactors after
the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011 has forced
utilities to turn to alternative energy sources and pay a higher
price for fuel. Kyushu Electric Power Co., which supplies
Japan’s southern island, plans to increase prices by 14 percent
for corporate customers from April 2013.  “If other power companies follow Tokyo Electric’s hike, it
will be difficult to run our business,” said Yamada, also
president of  Dowa Holdings Co. (5714)   Together with the nation’s eight other industry groups
including steelmakers, the association urged the trade ministry
to take measures, including subsidies and the resumption of
idled nuclear power plants, to alleviate any cost increase,
according to a  statement  from the groups.  Zinc smelters consume four times the amount of electricity
that copper producers use, Yamada said. Smelters affected would
include Pan Pacific Copper Co., Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.,
 Mitsubishi Materials Corp. (5711) , Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co. and
Toho Zinc Co.  Japan’s steel industry faces an increase in costs of as
much as 100 billion yen annually due to rate increases, which
will hurt smaller mills that operate electric furnaces the most,
Hiroshi Tomono, chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation,
said Nov. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  