-- Japan Leapfrogs U.K. in Business Ranking as Cash Trumps Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-24T23:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/japan-leapfrogs-u-k-in-business-ranking-as-cash-trumps-cuts.html
Japan, printing money and bolstering
national pride, swept past the U.K., which is trying to implement
an austerity program and loosen European ties, in a ranking of
the best countries to do business compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan rose four places to third, behind the U.S. and  Hong
Kong , which led for a second straight year, in an index based on
six criteria including the degree of economic integration and
readiness of the local consumer base. Japan’s advance coincides
with a 14 percent slide in its currency against the dollar in
the past year that has bolstered its export competitiveness.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for unlimited money-
printing and a doubled central bank inflation target to help
revive the world’s third-biggest economy that was overtaken by
 China  in 2010. He also plans to adopt a more assertive approach
in regional disputes, particularly with emerging superpower
China.  “There’s been a huge groundswell for change in Japan to
extract the country from its malaise of the best part of 20
years and Abe has been elected with an agenda to revitalize,”
said Martin Whetton, interest-rate strategist for  Australia  at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “In contrast, the U.K. is close
to a triple-dip, with high taxes and uncertainty around its role
in  Europe .”  Survey Components  Bloomberg Rankings measured nations on a scale of zero to
100 percent based on six factors: the costs of setting up
business; hiring and moving goods; the degree of economic
integration; less tangible costs such as inflation and
corruption; and the readiness of the local consumer base, a
category that includes the size of the middle class, household
consumption and gross domestic product per person.  Hong Kong (HSI)  scored 79.6, eclipsing the U.S.’s 77 and Japan’s
75.6.  Germany  was the leader on the basis of economic
integration, while the United Arab Emirates won on the movement
of goods. Luxembourg led on less-tangible costs. Hong Kong was
deemed best for setting up a business.  Japan scored highest for the price of labor and materials
because its compensation as a percentage of total expenses was
only 6.9 percent, compared with 11.9 percent in the U.S. and 23
percent for Hong Kong.  Canada Rises  Canada , where unemployment reached a four-year low last
month, was among the gainers, rising six places to sixth-equal
with Australia.  Switzerland , by contrast, fell to 17th, level
with the U.A.E., which rose seven spots. The Swiss central bank
introduced a currency cap of 1.20 francs per euro in September
2011 to help exporters and fend off the threat of deflation.  A quarterly survey on Jan. 17 of investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed they are the most
bullish on Japan’s markets in more than three years and
confident that Abe will weaken the yen to boost exports.  Japan’s currency is heading for an 11th straight weekly
decline, the longest on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It traded at 90.65 as of 8:41 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Respondents who see Japan offering the best opportunities
worldwide over the next year rose to 21 percent this month from
September’s 5 percent, the survey showed. Fifty-four percent
said they’re more optimistic than pessimistic on how Abe’s
policies will affect Japan’s investment climate, up from 21
percent two months ago, when subscribers were asked about his
predecessor,  Yoshihiko Noda .  Japan’s Stocks  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  increased for 10 straight
weeks through Jan. 18, the longest rally since 1987. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Nomura are
predicting Japanese stocks will extend gains.  Japan still faces numerous challenges. A territorial
dispute with China over eight uninhabited islands in the  East
China Sea  has prolonged Japan’s recession and hurt a trade
relationship of more than $300 billion. China dropped five
places in the business ranking, to 24th.  The U.K. slid to 10th, from fourth, and is more expensive
when it comes to setting up a business than France, which also
dropped six places, to 14th.  Standard and Poor’s last month became the third ratings
company to warn that Britain could be stripped of its top-notch
ranking after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
conceded it is taking longer than planned to repair public
finances. Investors often ignore actions by the ratings
companies, as shown by the rally in  U.S. Treasuries  after the
nation lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  U.K. Austerity  In an autumn statement, Osborne said austerity will
continue until 2018, three years later than planned when his
Conservative-led government took office in 2010, vowing to
tackle a budget deficit of more than 11 percent of GDP.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has promised a referendum on
whether Britain should leave the European Union, allowing U.K.
voters to decide on breaking up the 27-nation bloc. He is
responding to pressure from lawmakers in his  Conservative Party 
for looser ties with the EU or an outright departure from the
political union.  “There is uncertainty over the U.K.’s membership of the EU
and even what will constitute the U.K. with  Scotland  looking to
exit,” Nomura’s Whetton said.  Hong Kong, ranked as the best place for business, charges a
corporate tax rate of 16.5 percent compared with the U.S.’s 35
percent. 