-- Japan Price Slide Shows Risks From BOJ Delay in Easing: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-01-25T07:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/japan-cpi-fall-shows-challenge-for-boj-s-new-inflation-target.html
Japan ’s consumer prices fell for the
seventh time in eight months, underscoring the risk that the
central bank may struggle to reach a 2 percent inflation target
unless it implements new easing measures earlier than planned.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.2 percent in
December from a year earlier, the government said in Tokyo
today, matching the median estimate of 23 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said
today that meeting the target would not be easy and that central
banks need to be alert to financial bubbles.  Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said in an
interview yesterday that reaching the inflation target announced
this week will be difficult without more easing, as he endorsed
further yen weakness.  Minutes  of a December BOJ meeting released
today show that some members were in favor of making asset
purchases in the first half of 2013 to support an economy that
contracted in the second and third quarters of last year.  “There is no doubt that the 2 percent target is too
high,” said  Yuichi Kodama , Tokyo-based chief economist at Meiji
Yasuda Life Insurance Co. “The BOJ will have to implement much
looser measures.”  The yen fell, heading for a record stretch of weekly losses
against the dollar. The currency was 0.2 percent lower at 90.50
per dollar as of 4:14 p.m in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
closed 2.9 percent higher, while the Topix Index capped its
longest weekly winning streak since 1973.  The BOJ said this week that it will shift to Federal
Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases from January 2014 and
target the achievement of 2 percent inflation “at the earliest
possible time.” The central bank’s forecasts this week showed
inflation at 0.9 percent in the year starting April 2014.  Buy Bonds  Shirakawa said that the nation faces the risk of higher
bond yields if the BOJ buys “more and more” debt.  “If we change policy to buy more and more bonds to
mechanically achieve 2% inflation, people might think we are
financing  government spending ,” Shirakawa told reporters today.
“Long-term  interest rates  would rise, and the effects of
monetary easing would be lost.”  He also said that central banks have a responsibility to
prevent bubbles and keep the economy stable.  Investors are betting they have at least 30 years until the
BOJ’s efforts to reach its target pose a threat to their bond
holdings. Japan’s 30-year government bond yield was at 1.995
percent, while the benchmark 10-year yield fell to 0.72 percent,
the lowest since Dec. 14.  Daiei Inc. (8263)  supermarkets will cut the price of 1,000 goods
by an average of 12 percent from this weekend, the company said
in a Jan. 22 statement.  Bold Easing  Abe, who said yesterday that he expects bold easing from
the central bank, takes his plan to pull the economy out of
recession to a divided parliament next week, seeking to win
support for reshaping the BOJ after Shirakawa’s term ends in
April.  The Diet opens on Jan. 28 with the Liberal Democratic Party
back in power after last month’s landslide win in lower house
elections, with Abe under pressure to fulfill his pledge to
revive the world’s third-largest economy.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this week it sees inflation
at 0.5 percent at the end of next fiscal year and said the BOJ’s
inflation target remains “far off.” The bank raised its Japan
growth forecast for the year beginning April 2013 to 2 percent
from 1.2 percent.  Abe says he wants a BOJ chief who supports using monetary
stimulus to revive growth. His nominees for governor must be
approved in the opposition-controlled upper house, which will
hold elections in July.  Yen Demand  One BOJ board member said ending interest payments on
banks’ reserves at the BOJ would weaken demand for the yen as a
safe-haven, the minutes of the Dec. 19-20 meeting released today
showed.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Singapore ’s industrial production fell
for the fourth time in five months in December.  In  Europe , Britain’s economy likely shrank in the fourth
quarter as a boost from the 2012  Olympic Games  during the summer
unwound, leaving the country on the brink of an unprecedented
triple-dip recession.  In the U.S., new-home sales probably picked up in December,
economists predicted ahead of a Commerce Department report.  Deputy Economy Minister Nishimura, who spoke after data
showed Japanese exports fell for seven months, joined officials
pushing back at international criticism as the yen’s more than 9
percent decline in two months causes friction ahead of
February’s Group of 20 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  