-- Japan Expels Taiwan Boat From Disputed Area With Water Cannons
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-01-24T07:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/japan-coast-guard-warns-taiwan-vessels-to-avoid-disputed-islands.html
Japanese Coast Guard vessels fired
water cannons at a Taiwanese boat to keep a group of activists
from landing on East  China  Sea islands at the center of a
dispute that’s strained ties between  Japan  and China.  The Taiwanese boat left the area along with four Taiwanese
coast guard vessels that had accompanied it, the Japanese Coast
Guard said in a faxed statement. Three Chinese Marine
Surveillance vessels were also circling the islands just outside
Japanese-administered waters, according to the statement.  China has demanded that Japan withdraw its September
purchase of the islands, elevating tensions between  Asia ’s
biggest economies that has damaged a $340 billion trade
relationship and prolonged Japan’s recession. The U.S. has
repeatedly said the chain, also claimed by Taiwan, falls under a
mutual defense treaty with Japan while saying it takes no
position on sovereignty.  Taiwan ’s trip today was aimed at safeguarding sovereignty
and protecting its citizens, who departed at 1:45 a.m. from
northern Taiwan, the Coast Guard Administration said in a
statement on its website. The group aimed to put a statue of the
sea goddess Matsu on the islands, Taipei-based  Central News
Agency  reported.  Japan last shot water cannons in September to drive off
about 50 Taiwanese fishing boats and patrol vessels from the
islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. The
dispute has escalated in the past month, with both China and
Japan dispatching fighter jets to monitor each other’s movements
in the area.  Blocking Ships  Japanese Coast Guard vessels had earlier tried to block the
Taiwanese ships 28 nautical miles from the islands, Taiwan’s
 Central News Agency  said.  China this week criticized Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  for saying the U.S. opposes any effort to disrupt
Japan’s administration of the islands. Her talks in  Washington 
with Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida were the highest
level meetings between the two allies since Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe took office last month. He pledged to boost defense
spending in response to China’s claims to the area, which are
rich in oil, natural gas and fish.  Abe made an overture to China this week by having coalition
New Komeito Party leader Natsuo Yamaguchi carry a personal
letter to Beijing from him to Communist Party General Secretary
Xi Jinping. In an editorial today, the Chinese state-run Global
Times newspaper said it was doubtful that “the secret whispers
brought by Yamaguchi are valuable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  