-- Japan Export Slide Bolsters Abe’s Case for Driving Down Yen
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-24T04:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/japanese-export-slide-bolsters-abe-s-case-for-driving-down-yen.html
Japan ’s exports fell more than
analysts forecast and the annual trade deficit swelled to a
record, bolstering the case for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to
weaken the yen even as trade tensions mount.  Shipments  dropped 5.8 percent  in December from a year
earlier, compared with a median estimate for a 4.2 percent
decline in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists. The annual
deficit was 6.93 trillion yen ($78 billion), the  finance
ministry  said in Tokyo today.  Japan is mounting a defense of its currency policies ahead
of a Group of 20 meeting next month, as officials from  Germany 
to South Korea express concern at efforts to weaken the yen. In
an interview in Tokyo yesterday, currency chief Takehiko Nakao
said that the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is not undertaking a “competitive”
devaluation and its aim is to end deflation.  “Foreign officials are becoming increasingly vocal over
the possibility that Japan’s policy actions have the potential
to prompt a currency war,” said Izumi Devalier, a Japan
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “I think the
government will avoid taking the rhetoric too far.”  A yen that has weakened about 7 percent against the dollar
in the past two months makes products relatively cheaper in
export markets and boosts overseas income for Japanese companies
such as  Canon Inc. (7751)  when repatriated. It also pushes up the cost
of imports such as liquefied natural gas.  Yen’s Level  The currency fell 0.6 percent to 89.10 per dollar at 1:32
p.m. in  Tokyo . The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.8 percent.  With imports rising 1.9 percent and exports falling for
seven months, the nation’s trade shortfall in December was 641.5
billion yen, the sixth month in deficit. Imports of LNG rose 8.3
percent from a year earlier.  Japan’s export slide comes as  Europe ’s crisis drags on
shipments and a diplomatic dispute with  China  over islands
claimed by both nations hurts demand for products such as Toyota
Motor Corp.’s cars.  Exports to China fell 15.8 percent from a year earlier,
while those to the U.S. dropped 0.8 percent. Shipments to the
European Union were 11.1 percent lower.  “These are bad numbers for the economy,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and a
former BOJ official. “The positive impact of the yen’s decline
on exports has yet to be seen, but it is already boosting import
values.”  Asset Purchases  The yen strengthened on Jan. 22 by the most since May after
the Bank of Japan said it will adopt a 2 percent inflation
target with no deadline and delay Federal Reserve-style open-
ended asset purchases until January 2014.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA are
predicting that Japan’s currency will resume declines as Abe
presses for more easing. Goldman yesterday raised its growth
forecast for the year beginning April 2013 to 2 percent from 1.2
percent and said it sees the yen at 100 per dollar by the end of
2015.  “Abe will try to push the yen down as far as he can, at
least to 100-105 per dollar,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Today’s export
figures will reinforce his case.”  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in Seoul
yesterday that his nation’s exporters may be “at risk” from
Japanese policies.  The Japanese government yesterday raised its view of the
economy for the first time in eight months after it unveiled a
10.3 trillion yen fiscal stimulus package this month  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  