-- Juniper Profit Forecast Tops Some Estimates on Upgrades
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-01-24T22:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/juniper-profit-forecast-tops-some-estimates-on-upgrades.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-
biggest maker of computer-networking equipment, forecast first-
quarter profit that exceeded some estimates as wireless carriers
bought equipment to upgrade networks.  Profit excluding some items will be 18 cents to 22 cents a
share, on sales of $1.05 billion to $1.07 billion, Sunnyvale,
California-based Juniper said in a statement. Analysts on
average had  predicted  earnings of 21 cents on sales of $1.07
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Juniper sells routers and switches to telecommunications
carriers, competing with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
supplier of networking gear. Juniper is benefiting from an
upgrade cycle in the telecommunications industry as carriers
rush to accommodate a surge in data use by smartphone and tablet
customers.  “These carriers are going to have to invest to build out
their capacity,” said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP
Securities LLC. “Juniper has some interesting product upgrades
that could help them.”  The  shares  were little changed in extended trading. Juniper
advanced 1 percent to $21.50 at the close in New York, for a
gain this year of 9.3 percent.  Fourth-quarter earnings excluding some items were 28 cents
a share, beating the average 22-cent estimate. Revenue increased
to $1.14 billion, compared with a $1.13 billion projection.  Sales to telecommunications carriers and other  Internet
providers  rose 9.3 percent to $739.4 million, while sales to
enterprise businesses fell 9.7 percent to $401.4 million.  Federal Spending  The fiscal fight in Washington has slowed spending by
federal agencies in the U.S., Juniper Networks Chief Executive
Officer  Kevin Johnson  said in an interview. Demand from the top
 Internet service providers  in the U.S. improved, he said.  “Service providers at some point are making decisions
about whether to add capacity or modernize their networks,”
Johnson said. “What we’re seeing in this quarter were the signs
of that investment pattern beginning. It’s still early days, but
the number of projects we’re engaged in, and the tone around
service provider spending is starting to improve.”  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. telephone company, in November
announced $14 billion in new spending over three years to
upgrade its wired and wireless networks. The company’s total
capital expenditures will be about $22 billion for each of the
next three years, AT&T said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  