-- Karaoke Bodyguard, Sherman Poses: London Weekend Guide
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-01-25T16:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/karaoke-bodyguard-sherman-poses-london-weekend-guide.html
An ex-secret serviceman risks his
life for a stalked diva. The two fall hopelessly in love.  Remember “The Bodyguard” (1992) with Whitney Houston? Now
comes the stage musical, which has just seen its  London  run
extended for five months.  Directed by Thea Sharrock, it’s an excuse for the cast to
perform Whitney covers, with the plot threaded around the tunes.
Several hits are performed by the diva’s sister (Debbie Kurup).
The untalkative bodyguard (Lloyd Owen) gets to sing “I Will
Always Love You” in a karaoke bar. Even the stalker (Mark
Letheren) exercises his vocal chords.  The good news is, Heather Headley -- who plays superstar
Rachel -- doesn’t even try to copy Houston. She plots her own
musical course, demonstrating volume and range.  “The Bodyguard” is at the Adelphi Theatre. Information:
 http://www.thebodyguardmusical.com  or +44-844-579-0094.  Joe Allen is a good place to eat near the Adelphi. This
low-key restaurant has been serving theatergoers since 1977 and
is popular with actors. It’s one of  Joe Allen ’s quirks that
burgers don’t appear on the menu and you need to ask for them.
Information:  http://www.joeallen.co.uk/  or +44-20-7836-0651.  Saturday  Seven of the self-portraits that brought fame to  Cindy Sherman  are currently on view at the Whitechapel Gallery.  The black-and-white shots from the 1977-1980 “Untitled
Film Stills” series are set indoors or outdoors, and show
Sherman posing in a range of wigs and guises that vaguely recall
the movies of  Alfred Hitchcock  or Michelangelo Antonioni.  On the opposite wall is another woman artist’s work. Zoe
Leonard photographs instruments used to control women’s bodies.
There’s a medieval chastity belt; a wall of gynecological
instruments that look more suited for plumbing; and a “beauty
calibrator” -- a device once used in Hollywood to measure
perfect facial features.  The photographs are in a three-part, yearlong show of works
from the Sandretto Re Rebaudengo collection (based in Turin,
 Italy ). At the Whitechapel Gallery, 77-82 Whitechapel High
Street, E1 7QX. Information:  http://www.whitechapelgallery.org 
or +44-20-7522-7888.  Saturday Night  Music fans can spend the weekend catching rare shows from
two veteran acts: the Animals, known for “House of the Rising
Sun,” and jazz-funk band Incognito.  The Animals -- whose members included Eric Burdon and  Alan
Price  -- are now led by John Steel and Mick Gallagher. They
still crank out golden hits including “We Gotta Get Out of This
Place” and “Don’t Let Me Be Misunderstood.” (Islington
Assembly Hall, Upper Street, Jan. 26.)  Incognito has similarly gone through dozens of musicians,
with Jean-Paul “Bluey” Maunick their perennial singer. (Jazz
Cafe, 5 Parkway, Camden, Jan 24, 25 and 26.)  Information:  http://assemblyhall.islington.gov.uk/  and
 http://venues.meanfiddler.com/jazz-cafe/home .  While in Camden, it’s worth seeking out Market, just along
Parkway. It’s a casual restaurant serving seasonal British food.
The early evening set menu is 17.50 pounds ($27.75) for two
courses. Information:  http://www.marketrestaurant.co.uk/  or +44-
20-7267-9700.  Sunday  Snowfall permitting, there are free guided walks around
London this weekend.  Whether it’s to check out old Camden Town, learn about
seafaring London, or explore the Lea Valley in the east, Walk
London -- funded by Transport for London to show how pedestrian-
friendly the city is -- has a promenade for every taste.  On Saturday and Sunday:  http://www.walklondon.org.uk .  A big selection of guided tours is also available for 9
pounds a pop from London Walks, whose offerings include London
as experienced by the Beatles and  Oscar Wilde , and Olympic-
themed strolls. Information:  http://www.walks.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 