-- Kerry Warns Iran as Senate Schedules Confirmation Vote
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-01-25T03:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/kerry-issues-iran-warning-as-he-seeks-senate-confirmation.html
U.S. Senator  John Kerry  stressed the
need to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons as he
described the “immediate, dangerous challenges” for the nation
that he will deal with if confirmed as secretary of state.  “The president has made it definitive -- we will do what
we must to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon,” Kerry
said in testimony yesterday to the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. “And I repeat here today: our policy is not
containment. It is prevention, and the clock is ticking on our
efforts to secure responsible compliance.”  Kerry appeared before the Senate panel he has headed as
chairman since 2009. Republican colleagues predicted before the
hearing that he would easily win Senate confirmation to succeed
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The chamber is scheduled to
vote on his nomination on Jan. 29, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said late yesterday.  Kerry was introduced at the hearing by Clinton, Republican
Senator  John McCain  of Arizona and Democratic Senator  Elizabeth Warren  of  Massachusetts . Clinton described Kerry as the “right
choice” for the job she is leaving after four years, and McCain
offered support “without reservation” for his fellow  Vietnam 
War veteran.  During a largely friendly four-hour hearing, Kerry was
asked about the challenges that will likely consume much of his
tenure should he be confirmed. The committee hasn’t announced
the date for a vote on his nomination which, if approved, would
advance to the full Senate for confirmation.  Policy Challenges  The Massachusetts Democrat discussed the prospects for
stability in  Afghanistan  and the scheduled 2014 withdrawal of
American troops, greater U.S. involvement in  Syria ’s civil war,
and the fallout from the Libyan revolution, as arms from that
conflict fall into the hands of North African terrorist groups.  Several senators raised questions about the U.S.
relationship with  Russia , both in terms of cooperation on
nuclear nonproliferation and on resolving the Syrian conflict.
Others probed for Kerry’s views on  China  as an economic
competitor as well as an increasing military presence in the
Pacific region.  In the wake of Israeli elections that gave centrists a
boost, Kerry told Arizona Republican Senator Jeff Flake that his
“prayer is that this could be a moment” when it’s possible to
restart peace talks.  “President Obama is deeply committed to a two-state
solution,” Kerry told the committee, linking the conflict to
many other U.S. goals in the  Middle East .  “We need to find a way forward,” Kerry said. If that
doesn’t happen “the results would be disastrous in my
judgment.”  ‘Prove It’  On Iran, Kerry said the administration hopes for a
“diplomatic solution.” In response to a question from
Democratic Senator  Robert Menendez  of New Jersey, who ran the
hearing, Kerry said that Iran can do what many countries do to
comply with international nonproliferation accords.  “If their program is peaceful, they can prove it,” Kerry
said, adding that the U.S. is willing to hold bilateral talks
with Iran as well as the current six-power negotiations.  Kerry said the legitimacy of Afghan elections in early 2014
will be crucial to U.S. plans to pull most troops from the
country next year.  “If it doesn’t have legitimacy, if we don’t succeed in
that effort, it’s going to be very, very difficult to convince
the American people” and U.S. allies to stay engaged, Kerry
said.  ‘Reap the Whirlwind’  Kerry had met in the past with Syrian President Bashar al- Assad in an effort to encourage an opening by the Syrian regime
toward the West. Now, Kerry said, Assad has made
“reprehensible” decisions and he predicted Assad is “not long
for remaining” as Syria’s leader.  McCain said the U.S. failure to get more deeply involved in
the Syrian conflict will have serious repercussions.  “We are sowing the wind in Syria and we’re going to reap
the whirlwind,” he said, referring to Islamic radical groups
involved in the fighting there.  Kerry said relations with Russia have “slid backward a
little bit in the last couple of years,” citing Russia’s halt
to U.S. adoptions as one example. Still, he said Russia is
cooperating on a number of issues such as Iran and nuclear arms
reductions.  On China, Kerry highlighted the competition for resources.
“China is all over Africa -- I mean, all over Africa -- and
they’re buying up long-term contracts on minerals,” he said.
“And there’re some places where we’re not in the game, folks.”  ‘Economic Statecraft’  Throughout, Kerry spoke about the need to focus on the
“economic statecraft” that Clinton emphasized during her
tenure, promoting U.S. business.  In his opening remarks, Kerry urged lawmakers to address
domestic economic issues such as the deficit, saying a strong
economy undergirds strength overseas. Kerry said the U.S. is
seeking, as President  Barack Obama  said in his inaugural
address, to move beyond the decade of war.  “President Obama and every one of us here knows that
American foreign policy is not defined by drones and deployments
alone,” Kerry said. “We cannot allow the extraordinary good we
do to save and change lives to be eclipsed entirely by the role
we have had to play since September 11th, a role that was thrust
upon us.”  American foreign policy is also defined by food security
and energy security, humanitarian assistance, the fight against
disease and the push for development “as much as it is by any
single counterterrorism initiative,” he said.  World Traveler  From Afghanistan and Pakistan to Sudan and China, Kerry,
69, has made at least 30 trips abroad over the past four years,
often serving as an unofficial special envoy for the Obama
administration.  On foreign policy, Kerry shares Obama’s preference for
working through multinational alliances and for avoiding open-
ended engagement, such as the  Iraq war  they both opposed.
Kerry’s approach to U.S. intervention abroad has been reflected
by his comments on the war in Syria, in which he has shared
Obama’s reluctance about direct military involvement.  Kerry and Obama have political bonds dating to 2004, when
the senator gave Obama his breakthrough opportunity as the
keynote speaker at the Democratic convention that nominated
Kerry for president. The speech turned Obama, a state senator
from  Illinois  running for the  U.S. Senate , into a national
political star.  In 2008, Kerry backed Obama over front-runner  Hillary Clinton  in the Democratic presidential primaries, only to see
Obama choose Clinton as his first-term secretary of state.  Vietnam Legacy  After graduating from  Yale University , Kerry volunteered
for the Navy. In two tours of duty in Vietnam, he rose to the
rank of lieutenant and served on a Swift Boat that traveled
treacherous river deltas. He was decorated with a  Silver Star , a
Bronze Star and three Purple Hearts.  Kerry came to see the war he fought as futile, and on his
return to the U.S. he became a leader of Vietnam Veterans
Against the War. Kerry made an unsuccessful bid for a House seat
from Massachusetts the following year, then worked as a
prosecutor before being elected lieutenant governor in 1982 and
senator in 1984.  Largely because of the wealth of his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, Kerry is one of the richest members of Congress. His net
worth was at least $181.5 million in 2011, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  