-- Kittiratt Discourages Excessive Intervention to Weaken Baht
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-01-24T11:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/kittiratt-discourages-excessive-intervention-to-weaken-thai-baht.html
Thailand’s Finance Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the central bank should avoid
intervention that fights against market forces to stem the
baht’s appreciation even as he pushes for a weaker currency.  “I will never encourage Bank of Thailand to go and trade
against the market-determined rate unless it’s only part of the
daily stability, the weekly stability,” Kittiratt said in an
interview today. “The impact on this would be only a very small
basis point of the  exchange rate . There won’t be any effort
against trading against this rate to any significant level.”  The baht extended losses from a 17-month high this week
amid speculation the central bank will intervene to halt gains.
December export growth missed analysts’ estimates, prompting
concern that the currency’s appreciation will pare shipments
that account for about two-thirds of the economy.  Thailand is among emerging market nations seeking to stem
inflows as monetary easing in the U.S.,  Japan  and other
developed economies spurs demand for higher-yielding assets.
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government raised the
minimum wage throughout the country this month, adding to
stimulus measures aimed at increasing purchasing power and
reducing reliance on exports for growth.  “In the short term, if I can hope for, I would like to see
a little bit weaker baht,” Kittiratt said in Bangkok before
flying to Davos,  Switzerland , to attend the  World Economic
Forum . “For the exporters, a strong baht really pushed them
into pressure. While they are adjusting themselves to higher
human resources costs, a weak  Thai baht  may help them.”  Seeking Stability  Lower  interest rates  would discourage inflows into the
country, Kittiratt said, adding that the measure could be a
“double-edged sword.”  “One of the things we’d like to see is stability,” he
said. “The job of the central bank is to work under certain
resources and measures they have to smooth it. I disagree with
any measures -- whether short term, medium term or long term --
that won’t be natural or sustainable.”  The baht advanced 2.7 percent in the past month against the
dollar, the most among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Thailand ’s SET Index has increased 5.3 percent, more
than benchmarks in  Indonesia ,  Singapore  and  Malaysia .  Intervention Pressure  Global funds purchased $3.4 billion more Thai sovereign
debt than they sold this month through yesterday and poured a
net $459 million into  local equities , Thai Bond Market
Association and stock exchange data show. The 10-year government
bond yield was 3.72 percent, compared with 1.83 percent for
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries and 0.73 percent in Japan.  Kittiratt’s remarks “lessen the pressure on the Bank of
Thailand to intervene as the government is shifting attention to
domestic demand from exports,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a
Bangkok-based analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl. “A stronger baht
benefits domestic consumption and investment by making imports
cheaper. The government is also calling for lower  interest rates 
and a rising baht makes the case of a rate cut stronger.”  Thailand’s  inflation  accelerated to a 13-month high in
December as subsidies failed to counter rising prices of food
and fuel. Consumer prices rose 3.63 percent from a year earlier
after an increase of 2.74 percent the previous month, official
data showed on Jan. 2.  ‘Play Catch-Up’  Daily minimum wages in Thailand have risen as much as 89
percent after two increases in the past year. Most factories are
located in an area where wages rose to 300 baht per day last
April, an average increase of 38 percent, according to the
industry ministry.  Investors may be trying to “play catch-up” after the baht
lagged behind gains in other currencies last year, Bank of
Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters today.  “From what we see, it’s not a currency attack,” he said.
“The flows to attack the currency will try to dictate the
market and try to build up the price. From what we see now, the
selling and buying sides are not much different. They are rather
balanced.”  Over the long term, the government plans to invest in
infrastructure to increase imports and reduce pressure on the
currency, Kittiratt said. He has proposed spending 2 trillion
baht ($67 billion) over seven and a half years on projects
including a railroad network to accelerate investments that
slowed in the wake of the Asian financial crisis.  1997 Crisis  In 1997, Thailand devalued the baht to shore up a faltering
economy, abandoning its policy of pegging the currency to the
 U.S. dollar . Investors sold Asian stocks and currencies, causing
neighboring economies including Malaysia and Singapore to
shrink, and leading Thailand,  South Korea  and Indonesia to seek
bailouts from the  International Monetary Fund .  “The shadow of 1997 is there,” Kittiratt said, adding
that a conservative approach to spending had led to persistent
current-account surpluses. More spending would lead to “a
pleasant deficit, because we are going to invest in those
imports that will help yield a long-term return for the
country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  