-- NBA’s New Orleans Team Will Change Name to Pelicans From Hornets
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/nba-s-new-orleans-team-will-change-name-to-pelicans-from-hornets.html
The National Basketball Association
team in New Orleans will change its name to the Pelicans after
this season to “represent the culture and resolve of the Gulf
Coast region.”  The pelican is pictured on  Louisiana ’s state flag and state
seal, and the brown pelican was selected as the state bird in
1966. The team’s colors will be blue, gold and red.  “The message of a healthy habitat, in which the pelican
thrives, will provide the centerpiece for a program of healthy
living, exercise and education to that of protecting, saving and
restoring our coastal wetlands and wildlife,” the team said
yesterday in an e-mailed release. “The pelican will serve as
that symbol.”  The team now known as the Hornets moved to New Orleans from
 Charlotte  for the 2002-03 season and kept the nickname.  Tom Benson, owner of the National Football League’s New
Orleans Saints, bought the Hornets last year from the NBA’s 30
franchise owners, who had purchased the team from George Shinn
in December 2010.  Benson said when he bought the franchise that he planned to
change the  nickname to something more fitting for the city,
which along with the Gulf Coast is still recovering from the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill and Hurricane Katrina in August
2005.  “When we purchased the basketball team, it was a priority
to change the name to reflect our culture, our community and our
resolve,” Benson said in the release. “Our region has been
hard hit in recent years and the one thing that stands out is
the resiliency and determination to come back, to fight and
overcome. The pelican symbolizes that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  