-- New York’s Broadway to Become ‘Super Bowl Boulevard’ in 2014
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-24T19:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/new-york-s-broadway-to-become-super-bowl-boulevard-in-2014.html
Broadway in Manhattan will be turned
into the site of a Super Bowl-themed free party next year when
the  National Football League ’s championship game is held at
MetLife Stadium across the Hudson River in East Rutherford, New
Jersey, New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The street will become “ Super Bowl  Boulevard” from 44th
to 33rd streets as the center of the New York’s events leading
to the Feb. 2 title game, the mayor said in a City Hall news
conference attended by NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell , New York
Giants co-owners  John Mara  and  Jonathan Tisch , and New York Jets
owner  Woody Johnson .  “This city depends on tourism, it depends on people having
good feelings about New York, to come here to get an education,
medical care, to start a business, to work, to entertain
themselves and expand their minds, and the Super Bowl is another
one,” Bloomberg said. “We know how to handle big events and
this one will go off as a textbook example of what you should
do.”  The media center, where about 5,000 credentialed reporters
will work, will be at the Sheraton in Times Square. Media day,
where each player and coach on the competing teams is available
to be interviewed, will be held at the Prudential Center in
Newark, New Jersey, that state’s governor,  Chris Christie , said
today.  “The Super Bowl is not just a game anymore,” Goodell
said. “It’s a week of events.”  The mayor, whose economic development strategy for the city
has included an 11-year marketing campaign to boost tourism to a
record high totaling an estimated 52 million visitors in 2012,
has said he expects to reap hundreds of millions of dollars in
economic impact from the event, including free advertising that
the most-watched televised sports event may bring.  Decade Effect  The greatest economic impact, the mayor said today, is
spread over the 10 years after the game, as people show up as
tourists inspired by having seen the city on television.  The NFL events on Broadway will be open the Wednesday
through Saturday before the game. The Vince Lombardi Trophy,
which goes to the winning team, will be on display there. The
league will hold football clinics and nightly concerts, as well
as player appearances and availabilities for autographs,
according to a press release.  From 1970 to 2001, the Super Bowl actually brought an
average of $92 million of income gain to its host city,
according to a study co-authored by Victor Matheson, currently
an economics professor at the College of the  Holy Cross  in
Worcester, Massachusetts.  Jersey Guys  The teams will stay in  New Jersey  hotels and practice in
the state, with the National Football Conference representative
using the Giants’ headquarters near the stadium in East
Rutherford. The American Football Conference team will use the
Jets’ headquarters in Florham Park.  This year’s title game is Feb. 3 in New Orleans. Next
year’s will be the first held in a cold-weather city in an open-
air stadium.  “Outdoors in the Northeast, that’s never been done
before,” Johnson said, as temperatures outside hovered near 25
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 4 Celsius) with winds gusting at
around 35 miles per hour (56 kph). “It will be challenging and
a lot of fun. We have to welcome this weather and we will.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net  