-- New London Hub Airport May Need $48 Billion Subsidy
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-24T11:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/new-london-hub-airport-may-need-48-billion-subsidy.html
A new hub airport for London would
need a subsidy from government funds of as much as 30 billion
pounds ($48 billion),  a report  into the commercial viability of
the plan found.  The research, commissioned by the House of Commons
Transport Committee from  Oxera , an Oxford, England-based policy
analyst, assessed scenarios and alternative plans for a new hub
as a result of government opposition to the expansion of
Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest airport. The future of aviation in
the U.K. is currently being reviewed by a commission headed by
Howard Davies, a former chairman of the Financial Services
Authority.  “This work was framed specifically to help the committee
assess the commercial viability of a new hub airport by asking
whether any future owners could make adequate returns sufficient
to obtain finance,” the panel’s chairwoman, Louise Ellman, an
opposition Labour Party lawmaker, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The results suggest a new airport would require public
investment and have considerable impact on Heathrow and other
London airports.”  The constraints on Heathrow, which has only two runways and
operates close to capacity, were demonstrated over the past week
when snow and poor visibility forced the cancellation of
hundreds of flights.  Public investment of between 10 and 30 billion pounds would
be needed as none of the scenarios examined offered a rate of
return that would be sufficient for private-sector investors,
the report found. There would also need to be government
subsidies to provide surface transport links, Oxera said.  This need not put an end to the plans, the report
concluded. “From a public perspective, the project may still
offer good value for money, depending on the scope of wider
benefits that the airport could facilitate,” Oxera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  