-- New England Power Plants Burning More Oil in Frigid Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-01-24T22:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/new-england-power-plants-burning-more-oil-in-frigid-weather-1-.html
New England  is relying on power
plants fueled by oil and coal as bitter cold weather boosts
demand while pipeline constraints limit natural gas supplies and
send prices soaring.  The grid operator asked some units that burn  fuel oil  to
start up to ensure adequate supplies and avoid “emergency
action” if gas supplies or generation were to be disrupted
unexpectedly, said Vamsi Chadalavada, chief operating officer of
ISO New England Inc. Coal plants are running because the fuel is
cheaper than gas, he said.  Power producers on the six-state grid have shifted away
from coal and oil in recent years as they took advantage of
cheaper gas made available from shale reserves such as the
Marcellus in the Northeast. Low gas prices also limited imports
of liquefied natural gas.  “The ISO has been worried for a while now about its
reliance on natural gas and whether there is going to be an
adequate supply of natural gas when you get to these high-demand
days,” Chadalavada said in an interview from the system
operator’s headquarters in Holyoke,  Massachusetts . “It’s going
to be a recurring issue until there are improvements within the
infrastructure.”  Spot on-peak  wholesale electricity  on the six-state grid
rose $5.05, or 2.4 percent, to average $217.12 a megawatt-hour
as of 5:13 p.m., the fifth consecutive gain, according to
according to ISO New England data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices
are heading for the highest daily average since July 22, 2011.  Frigid Weather  The temperature in  Boston  dropped to a low of 8 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 13 Celsius) today compared with the average
low of 22 degrees, and may bottom out at 16 tomorrow, according
to AccuWeather Inc.  Spot gas at the Algonquin City Gates for delivery to
locations including Boston rose $3.1155, or 10 percent, to
$34.3839 per million British thermal units on the
 Intercontinental Exchange , the highest price since January 2004.
Algonquin gas traded at $3.608 on Jan. 11.  Coal units become economical in the region when gas prices
top $6 per million Btu, Chadalavada said. Plants burning fuel
oil became economical when gas climbs above $24.  It can take 12 to 20 hours to ramp up plants fueled by oil
and coal, he said.  Oil-fired units produced 1,211 megawatts, accounting for 8
percent of the region’s total, at 3:08 p.m., the grid operator
said. There was no reported oil generation a week ago.  Regional Generation  “We called up oil units as a hedge in case there is a
disruption of natural gas,” Chadalavada said. “With the wind
chill it feels closer to zero degrees; that’s a marked
difference from recent weeks and that translates to higher
demand.”  Coal plants accounted for about 671 megawatts of
generation, or 4 percent, while gas plants were at 47 percent.
Production from nuclear plants tends to be steady at about 30
percent of the region’s total. The balance is produced by hydro-
electric and renewable  power plants .  The oil units are running more often because they are more
economical when winter demand tops 20,000 megawatts, said Lacey
Ryan, a spokeswoman for the grid operator. During the summer
these plants typically start to come online when demand reaches
23,000 megawatts, she said.  Power consumption  on the New England
grid today may peak at 21,240 megawatts.  New England will consume about 3.54 billion cubic feet of
gas today and 3.66 billion tomorrow, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in a  winter alert  today. Demand may be
“slightly higher” on Jan. 28, according to the report.  The  average price  for wholesale electricity in New England
was $36.09 a megawatt-hour in 2012, the lowest level since the
region’s competitive market was started in 2003, the grid
operator said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  