-- Nine Entertainment Cuts Rate on $738.2 Million Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2013-01-24T05:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/nine-entertainment-cuts-rate-on-738-2-million-loan-correct-.html
(Corrects amount in first paragraph of story published on
Jan. 23)  Nine Entertainment Co. cut the
 interest rate  it will pay on a A$700 million ($738.2 million)
covenant-lite  term loan  the company is seeking to refinance
debt, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The seven-year debt will now pay interest at 2.75
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
down from 3.25 percentage points, said the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. The Libor
floor remains at 1 percent.  The interest rate will step down to 2.5 percentage points
more than Libor when leverage, or debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, is below 2
times, the person said.  Nine Entertainment is proposing to sell the loan at 99.75
cents on the dollar, compared with 99.5 cents initially
proposed, the person said, increasing proceeds for the company
and reducing the yield to investors.  Lenders are now being offered six months of soft-call
protection of 101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1
cent more than face value to refinance the debt during the first
six months.  UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan Stanley and Nomura
Holdings Inc. are arranging the financing and commitments are
due tomorrow at 5 p.m. in  New York , according to the person. The
debt is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by
 Standard & Poor’s .  The Australian broadcaster owned by CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. also is seeking a A$ 100 million five-year revolving line
of credit that pays 2.75 percentage points more than Libor with
a 50 basis-point fee on any unused portions, the person said.  Covenant-lite debt doesn’t carry typical lender protection
such as financial-maintenance requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  