-- Nomura Said to Cut Team of Proprietary Stock Traders
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-25T18:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/nomura-said-to-cut-team-of-proprietary-stock-traders.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
largest brokerage, is considering closing Angel Lane Principal
Strategies, which speculates on markets with capital provided by
the lender, four people with knowledge of the talks said.  The review of the division’s future may come within two
weeks, said the people, who declined to be identified because a
decision hasn’t been reached. The review isn’t related to ALPS’s
performance, one of the people said. The unit cut about 15 jobs
in  London  this week and seven from its New York office last
week, the people said.  Angel Lane Principal Strategies is overseen by London-based
Christian Dalban, whom Nomura hired in 2010 from Israel Englander’s $16.9 billion U.S. hedge fund,  Millennium Management
LLC , the people said. After joining Nomura, Dalban began hiring
at a time when competing firms were scaling back proprietary
trading desks to comply with a U.S. regulation known as the
Volcker rule, which limits risk-taking.  Nomura, based in  Tokyo , started reducing the number of
London proprietary traders focused on stocks at Angel Lane last
year, people with knowledge of the matter said in September. The
bank is cutting costs by $1 billion, with almost half the
savings coming from  Europe . Nomura struggled for four years to
build a business overseas after its purchase of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian units in 2008.  Paul Volcker  Kenji Yamashita, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Nomura,
declined to comment. Jonathan Hodgkinson, a New York-based
spokesman, declined to comment.  Shares of Nomura rose 0.4 percent to 490 yen in Tokyo. The
benchmark Topix Index climbed 2.2 percent. Nomura stock more
than doubled last year, compared with an 18 percent gain in the
Topix.  The name of the Nomura trading unit is derived from a
500,000-square-foot building on Angel Lane along the River
Thames in London’s financial district that the bank moved into
in April 2011.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , based in New York, began closing
its proprietary trading units in September 2010, two months
after the U.S. Congress approved the provision named after
former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, which restricts
banks with government-backed customer deposits from using a
firm’s money to wager on markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  