-- Noonan Presses for Backstops as Ireland Nears Bailout Exit
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-24T12:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/noonan-presses-for-backstops-as-ireland-nears-bailout-exit.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  pressed the nation’s bailout partners to present “a menu
of options” to smooth the government’s exit from the rescue
program this year.  The troika of the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank  are due to present a
paper on potential transition arrangements “in the next week or
so,” Noonan said in an interview with Francine Lacqua for
Bloomberg Television today in Davos,  Switzerland .  “Backstop arrangements, which one mightn’t have to use but
which would reassure the market, would be one of the strategies
we’d be interested in,” he said. “We’d like to see a range of
options and then take advice on the ones that would best suit
our circumstances.”  Ireland stepped out of international bond markets and
sought a 67.5 billion euros ($90 billion) three-year bailout
program in 2010 as its banking system came close to collapse.
Last year, Noonan raised the possibility of a precautionary
 credit line  being provided to the government as it makes a full
return to international markets.  Testing Markets  “It’s not an issue of being in the markets, it’s an issue
of at what price,” said Noonan. “We don’t want to go back into
the market and fall back out of it again.”  Ireland sold 2.5 billion euros of bonds on Jan. 8, priced
to yield 3.316 percent. That’s less than the average 3.5 percent
on the nation’s aid package.  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark security due in October
2020 was at 4.15 percent today, down from 14 percent in July
2011.  “We’ve been testing the market with treasury bills and
with bonds with short term maturities of four or five years,”
he said. “Later in the year we’ll go for longer bonds.”  As it nears the bailout exit door, the government is also
seeking relief on it banking debt. Irish bonds rallied and the
nation first returned to long-term international credit markets
after European leaders agreed in June to break the link between
sovereign debt and banks.  “We expect to exit our program in 2013,” Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  said at a panel discussion in Davos. “ We can’t do
it without the cooperation of what’s been committed of our
European colleagues.” Bank debt “has been a crushing burden on
the people of Ireland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  