-- Nortel Talks on Splitting $9 Billion Fail, Mediator Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-25T21:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/nortel-talks-on-splitting-9-billion-fail-mediator-says.html
Creditors of  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ,
the defunct telecommunications company, failed to agree on how
to divide about $9 billion in cash, the judge overseeing the
mediation said.  Prices on $1.675 billion of Nortel bonds plunged as much as
4 percent after yesterday’s announcement by mediator Warren K. Winkler, the chief justice of Ontario. Winkler “has concluded
that further efforts at mediation are no longer worthwhile,”
according to an e-mailed statement.  The mediation involved Nortel’s Canadian, U.S. and European
entities and their creditors, including retirees. The European
group, led by bankruptcy administrators in the U.K., is seeking
a share of the cash on behalf of 38,000 pensioners.  “When you know that litigation can take years and delay
recoveries for everyone, you would think the parties could
figure something out,” Kevin Starke, a senior analyst with CRT
Capital Group Inc., said in a telephone interview.  The groups have been fighting over a shrinking pile of cash
that won’t cover all of the debts owed by Nortel and its units.
Creditors have presented more than $36 billion in claims in
 Canada , according to a status report filed in a Toronto court in
October.  Retiree Payments  Bankruptcy administrators in the U.K. are demanding
$2.67 billion from Nortel’s main U.S. unit, claiming the money
is needed to pay the retirees, according to court documents.  A group that says it represents about 20,000 Canadian
retirees claimed they have been forced to accept cuts in
benefits while former employees of Nortel’s U.S. and U.K. units
have not. The group, known as Nortel Retirees and Former
Employees Protection Canada, blamed bond investors for the
troubles faced by pensioners.  “We have been treated as pawns in this game by vulture
bond funds,” Don Sproule, the group’s president, said in a
 statement .  A group of bondholders that participated in the mediation
said they weren’t responsible for the failure to reach a deal.  “The bondholder representatives were not the ones that
walked away from this mediation,” the group said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is unfortunate that others appear to have chosen
litigation rather than a consensual resolution that would get
distributions out to creditors.”  Bondholder Group  The bondholder group, represented by the  law firm  Milbank,
Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, LLP and the financial advisory firm FTI
Consulting, includes hedge funds Centerbridge Partners LP,
GoldenTree Asset Management and Monarch Alternative Capital LP.  The talks were designed to prevent court battles in Canada,
the U.S., the U.K. and  France , where conflicting rulings by
different judges would be “a catastrophic outcome,” Winkler
wrote in April, when the current mediation started. The first
two mediation efforts failed.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in 2009 in Toronto,  Delaware , the U.K. and France, with various
units under the control of separate teams of lawyers and under
the jurisdiction of different courts.  James L. Bromley, who was lead attorney for Nortel’s U.S.
bankruptcy, didn’t return e-mail and phone messages seeking
comment on the talks.  U.K. bankruptcy officials claim Nortel’s U.S. and Canadian
units siphoned money from the European units for years, leaving
them unable to pay pensioners and other creditors.  Financial Transfers  To determine whether that is true, courts would have to
dissect thousands of financial transfers made among the various
Nortel  units , CRT Capital’s Starke said. For each transfer,
courts will have to determine whether the companies involved
were solvent at the time the money moved.  Starke said he had expected the parties to avoid fighting
in court by settling.  “I find it all a little surprising,” he said.  Yesterday the company’s 10.75 percent bonds that mature in
2016 fell 3.8 percent to 112.25 cents on the dollar, and its
10.125 percent bonds due in July fell as much as 4 percent,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Today, the 10.75 percent bonds climbed less than 1 percent
to 112.50 cents on the dollar. The 10.125 percent bonds fell by
about 0.5 percent to 112.125.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  