-- Novartis Board Was Shocked by Vasella’s Decision to Leave
-- B y   L a u r i e   H a y s
-- 2013-01-25T09:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/novartis-board-was-shocked-by-vasella-s-decision-to-leave.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  Chairman  Daniel Vasella ,
who spent more than two decades building  Europe ’s largest
drugmaker, said he will step down next month because finding the
right successors coincided with a good pipeline for the company
and his own timing.  The unexpected announcement Jan. 23 came after six months
of planning and strategic work by directors, Vasella said. He
shocked the board in October when he told them he wanted to
start the process, and several directors tried to talk him out
of leaving, he said.  “One board member finally said, ‘I think Dan has made up
his mind,’” Vasella recalled in an interview yesterday at the
 World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland.  Vasella, 59, built a company that diversified into eye
care, vaccines and generic medicines, and outperformed the
industry in developing new patented drugs. He also drew
controversy for the size of his pay, and criticism for
acquisitions that some investors say haven’t paid off. The stock
gained the most in 16 months when his departure was announced.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Joerg Reinhardt, the former chief operating
officer of Novartis who left three years ago after he was passed
over for the chief executive officer’s job, will come back as
chairman. Vasella’s tenure will end after Novartis’s annual
meeting Feb. 22.  Joe Jimenez  took over from Vasella as CEO in
2010.  Drug Development  Vasella said he would have been up for election to another
three-year term as chairman and he didn’t want to do the job for
only one year before turning 60 next August.  “Many people thought I would stay until I was 70, but that
is too late to start doing anything else,” he said.  The drugs developed under Vasella’s tenure are starting to
pay off. Sales from recently introduced products rose 13 percent
to $16.3 billion last year, and the Gilenya pill for multiple
sclerosis exceeded $1 billion in revenue for the first time,
Novartis said  Jan. 23 . Over the next two years, the company may
submit as many as 20 regulatory filings, with 18 potential drug
approvals.  Vasella said he is most proud of one note in the hundreds
of e-mails he received after yesterday’s announcement noting
that he was “always great to the cleaning people.” He is also
proud of the malaria medicine,  Coartem , that Novartis provided
that saved one million lives as well as unlimited  leprosy
medication  through the  World Health Organization .  Employment Contract  “I guess that made it worth changing professions,” said
Vasella, a physician by training.  Vasella said he is in good health, and he has many
interests to choose from. He said he didn’t think he would
return to practicing medicine, as he would need retraining.  His employment contract calls for Vasella “to continue to
make available his know-how to Novartis” and to refrain from
competing with the company for “a multiyear period,” according
to the  2012 annual report . In return, he will receive “fair
market compensation,” according to the report.  He’s also entitled to a retirement benefit consisting of a
one-time payment of 12 million francs ($13 million) in the form
of an insurance policy, according to the  annual report from
2010 .  He has no immediate plans except to enjoy “staying at home
and not going anywhere,” Vasella said in the interview.  “There is always an end,” he said. “Then it’s a choice
of timing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Hays in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 lhays1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  