-- Novozymes New CEO Says Biofuels May Supply 90% of Revenue
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-24T18:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/novozymes-new-ceo-says-biofuels-may-supply-90-of-revenue.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest
maker of enzymes used in laundry soap, may get 90 percent of its
revenue from biofuel makers by 2030 if more governments start
promoting renewable energy, the company’s next CEO said.  The company currently gets about 16 percent of its revenue
from biofuels and less than 1 percent from enzymes for
cellulosic-ethanol plants, which turn waste and inedible crops
into sugary liquids for fuel, according to Peder Holk Nielsen,
who becomes chief executive officer on April 1.  “If the world really wants to secure a significant part of
its liquid-fuel consumption based on biomass, this would totally
transform the enzyme business,” Holk Nielsen said in an
interview. “This would revolutionize the company.”  It’s the most detailed remarks from Holk Nielsen about
Novozymes’ strategy since Jan. 21 when he was named to replace
Steen Riisgaard as CEO.  Sales will increase in the next few years as more
cellulosic-ethanol plants begin operating and will accelerate if
more governments push distributors to start mixing the fuel with
their gasoline, Holk Nielsen said. Producing biofuel from crop
waste is still experimental and may already rival fossil fuels
on price in some countries such as  Brazil .  Novozymes, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , had 11.2 billion
Danish kronor ($2 billion) in revenue last year, with 78 percent
of that coming from enzymes sales to makers of household care
products, corn ethanol and food and beverages, the company said
in a Jan. 21  statement .  Blending Rules  While many countries require fuel distributors to blend
biofuel made from food crops such as wheat, corn and sugar-cane,
few have policies in place to promote the production of fuel
from their residues, said Alejandro Zamorano Cadavid, an analyst
at New Energy Finance in New York.  “Governments are reluctant to mandate blending of
cellulosic biofuels because of high production costs,” he said.
“It is likely that only countries with strong institutions
capable of overseeing fuel markets will be inclined to set in
motion a volumetric mandate that supports cellulosic biofuel
production.”  The U.S. has an annual quota calling for blending of 12.5
billion liters (3.3 billion gallons) of so-called advanced
biofuel which includes cellulosic ethanol, said Aleksandra Rybczynska, an analyst at New Energy Finance in  London .  EU Market  The European Union allows biofuels derived from non-food
raw materials to count twice toward fuel distributors’ blending
requirements.  China  is considering its own quota for the fuel.  The enzymes necessary to break down cellulosic raw material
cost about 30 cents for each gallon of ethanol produced, 10
times more than those used to process corn starch, Holk Nielsen
said.  While enzyme costs will fall in time, most of the gains in
competitiveness with fossil fuels will come from farmers
developing more efficient processes of collecting biomass from
their fields, according to the 56-year old who currently serves
as an executive vice president leading Novozymes’s enzyme
business. It costs about $2 to produce a gallon of cellulosic
ethanol in some countries where biomass is abundant.  “Cellulosic ethanol could be a total game-changer” for
enzyme companies, he said. “Two dollars a gallon is not the end
of the story at all. It’s just where we are right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  