-- Obama Moving to Divide Republicans With Immigration-Law Push
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-01-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/obama-moving-to-divide-republicans-with-immigration-law-push.html
President  Barack Obama ’s second
inaugural address was heavy on the theme of unity. He used the
word “together” seven times in the 15-minute speech. Buried
beneath the comity was the prelude to a coming fight with
Republicans on an issue that divides them: immigration reform.  Obama couched his comments about immigration in uplifting
language.  “Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to
welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America
as a land of opportunity,” he said. “Until bright young
students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce, rather
than expelled from our country.”  On the surface, there’s nothing controversial about that.
Increasing the number of visas for highly skilled immigrants is
one of the few policy goals Obama and Republicans agree on. That
reflects a big change in Republican thinking in recent months,
as party leaders have softened their anti-immigration rhetoric
after almost three-quarters of Hispanic voters cast ballots for
Obama in November.  If visas for highly skilled workers were the only issue,
Democrats and Republicans could quickly resolve it. Yet it
isn’t. What Obama didn’t say in his speech is that he will
insist on tying the visas to broader changes in immigration
laws, which many Republicans strongly object to.  Citizenship Path  Earlier in January, White House officials told reporters
that the president won’t agree to raise the visa caps without
changes that include a path to citizenship for many of the
estimated 11 million immigrants living illegally in the U.S.  These immigrants aren’t the “bright young” future job
creators Obama lauded in his speech. Most work dirty jobs for
low wages, and many lack high school diplomas. They’re the
undocumented workers Republican governors in  Arizona ,  Georgia ,
 Alabama , and other states have tried to drive away with tough
anti-immigration laws.  Obama’s everything-at-once approach exploits a rift in the
 Republican Party , which is struggling to find a policy its
factions can accept. For many  House Republicans  from southern
and border states, words such as “legalization” and
“citizenship” are nonstarters.  Obama is just dangling visas for the highly skilled as a
way of pressuring conservatives to go along with his “real
goal,” Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, says in
an e-mail, “which is mass amnesty for illegal immigrants.”  Compromise Sought  Still, party leaders and other prominent conservatives --
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , Senator Marco Rubio of
 Florida  -- are urging a compromise, yet to be defined, between
“throw them out” and “make them citizens.”  “There are people who are saying, let’s look at the whole
problem,” says Alfonso Aguilar, an immigration adviser to
former President  George W. Bush  who is now executive director of
the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a Washington
advocacy group pressing for immigration reform. “Clearly, we
can’t deport them all.”  Rubio has offered the only concrete ideas for compromise --
requiring undocumented workers to pay back taxes and a fine,
participate in a guest-worker program, and wait several years
for a green card to avoid the appearance they’re cutting in line
ahead of legal immigrants.  Even Republicans who generally agree with such an approach
may refuse to say so. Congress’s last major immigration bill, in
2006, failed in part because anti-immigration groups besieged
Republicans who supported the effort with angry calls and attack
ads.  Super PAC  This time, a new super political action committee,
Republicans for Immigration Reform, is promising to give cash
and political cover to Republicans willing to back a bill.  “We want members to know there are resources that will be
available to them if they support a broad-based approach to
reform,” says co-founder Charles Spies, a former counsel for
Restore Our Future, a super PAC that supported  Mitt Romney , last
year’s Republican presidential nominee. Spies won’t say how much
he’s raised or from whom.  Aguilar voices optimism that immigration can be retooled as
a conservative issue Republicans can get behind.  “If you’re for the free market, which are the basic tenets
of Reagan conservatism, then you can’t be against immigration,”
he says.  No one expects minds to change quickly. That means skilled
would-be immigrants hoping for the door to open could be in for
a long wait. They’ve become the essential bargaining chip in
what will likely be a tense, protracted negotiation -- between
Democrats and Republicans, and Republicans and Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  