-- Lockheed Sees Rising 2013 Profits Amid Budget Uncertainty
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-31T21:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/lockheed-sees-rising-2013-profits-amid-budget-uncertainty.html
(Corrects comment from Hewson in sixth paragraph of story
published Jan. 24.)  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense contractor, forecast record profit in 2013 even
as the company and other suppliers to the Pentagon face the
prospect of spending cuts to reduce the U.S. deficit.  Lockheed said today that profit for the year may be as much
as $9.10 a share, which will be its highest if it reaches the
goal. Lockheed fell in New York trading after also announcing
fourth-quarter results that missed analysts’ estimates.  The company’s projected full-year profit of $8.80 to $9.10
a share exceeded the $8.28 a share average estimate of 22
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. This week, two of the other
biggest defense contractors --  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  today and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  yesterday -- offered 2013 forecasts that fell
short of analysts’ predictions.  “Lockheed’s performance in the fourth quarter showed
broad-based demand for its portfolio of products,”  Howard Rubel , an analyst at New York-based Jefferies Group Inc, wrote
in a note to clients. Lockheed’s growth in “backlog was
impressive,” Rubel said, citing a 2 percent increase to $82.3
billion at the end of 2012.  Across-the-board cuts in U.S. defense spending of $45
billion through September will be imposed unless President
 Barack Obama  and Congress agree by March on an alternative way
to reduce the federal deficit. While Lockheed had previously
raised the specter of eliminating thousands of jobs if the cuts
known as sequestration go through, the company’s new chief
executive officer said today she doesn’t foresee firing people
this year.  No Job Cuts  “As we look at our go-forward plan for this year, we have
a very strong portfolio and a solid plan in place,” Marillyn Hewson said during a conference call with reporters. “And even
as we look at sequestration and potential budget reductions,
we’re not looking at planned job reductions.”  Lockheed declined 2.9 percent to $93.25 at the close in  New
York  trading and has gained 13 percent in the past 12 months.
Raytheon fell 2.9 percent to $56.54 and has gained 14 percent in
the past 12 months.  Lockheed’s fortunes depend in large measure on the F-35 jet
fighter, its biggest program and the Pentagon’s costliest weapon
system, at an estimated development cost of $395.7 billion.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company said today that its
fourth-quarter earnings were reduced partly by a charge related
to eliminating jobs because F-35 production had slowed.  Income from continuing operations for the quarter was $569
million, or $1.73 a share, compared with $698 million or $2.14 a
share in the same quarter a year earlier, Lockheed said in a
statement today. The average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of $1.82 a share.  F-35 Protection  The Pentagon’s commitment to the F-35 also provides
Lockheed some protection against threatened budget cuts.  Last month Lockheed reached an agreement with the Pentagon
on a contract for the fifth lot of the jets, obligating funds
and ensuring production even if the automatic cuts take effect
in March.  Lockheed said it expects to conclude contracts with the
Pentagon for two more lots of the planes by the middle of the
year and to begin work on another batch that will turn out jets
for Japan and  Israel .  In 2013, Lockheed plans to deliver 36 F-35 jets, or 20
percent more planes than it did in 2012,  Bruce Tanner , the
company’s chief financial officer, told reporters on the
conference call.  Tax Credit  Lockheed’s and Raytheon’s profit for this year will be
boosted by tax credits the companies can claim for research and
development under the tax deal signed into law by Obama this
month. The law extending the tax credit will add 23 cents a
share to Lockheed’s profit in 2013 and about 15 cents a share to
Raytheon’s profit, according to the companies.  Raytheon, the world’s largest missile maker, said today
that profit from continuing operations for the year will be
$5.16 to $5.31 a share. The average of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of $5.46 a share on sales of $24.1
billion.  For the fourth quarter, Raytheon’s profit from continuing
operations was $466 million or $1.41 a share, compared with $539
million or $1.56 a share a year earlier, the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based company said in the statement. The average
of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a profit of $1.31
a share. Sales increased less than 1 percent to $6.44 billion.  Raytheon Backlog  Raytheon has a record backlog of orders “that bodes well
for the next two to three years,” Dave Wajsgras, Raytheon’s
Chief Financial Officer said in a phone interview. The company
also has a “very strong pipeline of opportunities
internationally,” he said.  International sales may grow 3 percent to 5 percent in 2013
offsetting a matching decline in domestic sales, Wajsgras said.  On a conference call with analysts, Raytheon’s Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Bill Swanson said potential
international orders in 2013 included missile defense system
sales to Qatar, Turkey and Oman worth several billion dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  