-- Logitech Selling Units as CEO Says Loss Is Unacceptable
-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-24T10:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/logitech-selling-units-as-ceo-says-loss-is-unacceptable.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the
world’s biggest maker of computer mice, started selling its
remote-control and video security businesses after posting a
third-quarter loss of $195 million.  “These  results  are unacceptable and we are taking decisive
action as an outcome of my strategic review,” Chief Executive
Officer Bracken P. Darrell said in the earnings statement. The
company was  forecast  to report net income of $50.3 million,
according to the average of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
before yesterday’s statement on the impairment. Logitech had a
third-quarter profit of $55 million in the previous fiscal year.  As personal computer sales suffer and demand for mouse-less
tablets has risen, Logitech has adjusted its range of devices,
which now include wireless solar keyboards for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Mac,
iPad and iPhone. In October, the Morges, Switzerland-based
company announced products for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8,
including touch mice.  The company has begun to divest its remote control and
digital video security businesses and plans to “discontinue
other non-strategic products,” including speaker docks, by the
end of the year, it said in the statement. Darrell said the
company will develop more mobility-related products to tap the
growth in smartphones and tablets.  Logitech fell as much as 13 percent, the most in three
months, and declined 7.8 percent to 6.64 Swiss francs at 11:06
a.m. Zurich time. The  stock  dropped 5.5 percent last year after
slumping 59 percent in 2011.  ‘Continued Weakness’  “As we articulated when we started the third quarter,
continued weakness in the global PC market was the primary
factor in our disappointing Q3 results,” said Darrell, who is
also the company president.  The company said yesterday it took a $211 million non-cash
impairment charge in the quarter on its video conferencing unit,
citing a “slowdown in recent quarters” in that industry.  Third-quarter sales fell 14 percent to $615 million, with
the impairment leading to an operating loss of $180 million.
Without the one-time loss, operating income would have been $31
million, the company said. Gross  margin  narrowed to 34.2 percent
from 36.2 percent a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  