-- Olam Raises $712.5 Million From Oversubscribed Bond Offering
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-01-25T09:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/olam-bonds-sale-oversubscribed-as-shareholders-take-up-rights.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity supplier targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , raised
$712.5 million from a 10 percent-oversubscribed bond sale, which
was backed by its two largest shareholders.  Kewalram Singapore Ltd. and Temasek Holdings Pte took up
all of their entitlement of bonds, which were were priced at 95
cents on the dollar, and warrants, the Singapore-based trading
company said yesterday in a statement. Olam, which expects the
bonds and warrants to start trading Jan. 31, said Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese also took up his share.  Olam, the world’s second-largest rice trader, said last
month that it planned to sell $750 million in bonds and as much
as $500 million in warrants to address any “lingering doubts”
about its finances. Olam’s bonds and shares sank in November
after Block, founder of Los Angeles-based Muddy Waters LLC,
questioned its accounting and expansion strategy.  “Muddy Waters has caused greater scrutiny,” said Carey Wong, a senior analyst at OCBC Investment Research Pte. The bond
sale results mean there are other people willing to put their
money into Olam and the proceeds of the sale “really do come in
handy. There’s no question about it,” he said.  Olam shares advanced 0.9 percent to close at S$1.63 in
Singapore. That compares with a 0.6 percent gain in the
benchmark Straits Times index.  ‘Strong Support’  Temasek, which agreed to buy any rights not taken up by
other investors, didn’t go beyond its entitlement, according to
 Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for the Singaporean state investment
company. The offer indicates “strong support from the bond and
equity markets for Olam,” Verghese said in the statement.  Olam received applications for $827 million, or about 10
percent more than the $750 million under offer, it said.  The company, also one of the world’s top six cotton
traders, fell 27 percent last year in Singapore trading and is
down 6.3 percent since Block first said he was short on the
stock and the company was likely to fail. Olam has dismissed the
claims, saying it’s in the best  financial health  since its
initial public offering in 2005.  A short seller profits by selling borrowed shares and
buying them back at a lower price. Olam’s 5.75 percent bonds due
September 2017 fell to a record low of 83.2 cents on Nov. 30,
from 97 cents on Nov. 19, the day Block first said he was short
the stock, Bloomberg prices show.  “We maintain our belief that Olam will fail because it has
squandered huge amounts of money on investments that are
incapable of repaying the debt incurred to finance them,” Block
said yesterday in a statement. “This financing only postpones
the inevitable, while putting more investors’ funds at risk.”  Temasek Holding  Temasek increased its stake in Olam to 20 percent from 16
percent last month in a series of transactions. Kewalram
 Singapore  is the largest shareholder with 20.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It said last month it
would also subscribe to the bonds.  Olam shareholders approved a sub-underwriting fee to be
paid to a Temasek unit by the banks arranging the sale, the
company said Jan. 15.  RRJ Capital, a fund run by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
banker Richard Ong, planned to buy Olam bonds and shares, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last week. The fund
bought the rights to $90 million of Olam bonds on Jan. 15, their
last trading day, the person said. It also plans to invest $60
million to exercise the warrants to be issued with the  five-
year, 6.75 percent bonds .  Fracking Services  RRJ’s team includes Ong’s brother, Charles Ong, who left
his post as senior managing director of special projects at
Temasek last January. RRJ teamed up with a group including
Temasek in 2011 to purchase Frac Tech Holdings LLC, a Fort
Worth-based hydraulic-fracturing services company.  The price of rights to participate in the bond issue, which
traded for a week, fell about 41 percent to 7 U.S. cents on Jan.
15. They reached a high of 22.5 cents on the first trading day.  The decline in the  price  indicated a lack of interest from
shareholders as Olam’s finances were still “far too opaque,”
Michael Dee, a former senior managing director at Temasek, said
in an article in Singapore’s Business Times newspaper Jan. 19.  In November, Muddy Waters offered to pay to get Olam’s  debt 
rated, saying “investors should wonder whether the company is
worried that a rating would mortally wound it.” Olam’s Verghese
rejected the offer. Block reiterated his offer yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net . 