-- On Revolt’s Anniversary, Egypt Needs Economic Miracle
-- B y   S a m i r   R a d w a n
-- 2013-01-24T23:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/on-revolt-s-anniversary-egypt-needs-economic-miracle.html
It may be too early to judge the
success or failure of  Egypt ’s 2011 revolution, but this much is
clear: The young people who led the uprising feel betrayed, and
the Islamist government that followed is focused on
consolidating power when it should be ensuring economic
recovery.  The genius of the Jan. 25 revolt was reflected in its
slogan -- “bread, freedom, social justice.” Those words
expressed an aspiration for change that created unprecedented
expectations, and today the country’s mounting dissatisfaction
is first of all due to the underperforming economy. It is no
coincidence that the first word of the uprising’s slogan was
bread.  Egypt’s economy faces daunting challenges. Technically in a
recession, the country has experienced an extended period of
slow growth, a big budget deficit, declining foreign-currency
reserves and a widening gap in the balance of payments. The
Egyptian pound is under intense pressure. Meanwhile, throughout
the country more people are slipping below the poverty line,
while those already beneath it are sinking ever deeper.  Downgraded Approach  All of these failures were reflected in the downgrading of
Egypt’s long-term credit rating last month by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which cited “deepening political turbulence undermining efforts
to prop up the economy and public finances.” The government’s
approach to managing Egypt’s transition to benefit average
Egyptians is in question.  Such is the backdrop to the debate raging in Egypt,
particularly in light of the vocal demands from private and
public-sector workers for secure employment contracts and higher
pay, which the country does not have the resources to meet. In
the absence of an overarching vision of how to address the
country’s economic challenges, both the government and the
opposition are struggling to find a solution.  It seems that only a miracle can now rescue Egypt’s
economy, and indeed society, from the bleak future that it now
faces. Miracles do happen, but they require vision and political
will. The much-touted  program  of Nahda, or Renaissance, that the
Muslim Brotherhood’s ruling  Freedom and Justice Party  proposed
as the road to recovery and prosperity after presidential
elections in May and June of 2012, vanished into thin air. The
program is now the butt of satire from cartoonists and
comedians. Any serious vision must in reality -- not just on
paper -- address the trio of growth, employment and poverty.
Without a return to prerevolutionary growth of more than 7
percent, unemployment and poverty rates will not fall and the
crisis will continue.  Egypt’s gross domestic product rose less than 2 percent in
2012, roughly the same as the rate of  population growth . So, in
per-capita terms that matter to individual Egyptians, the
economy was stagnant. Without growth, there are no new jobs.
Official data put unemployment at almost 13 percent in 2012,
representing 3.6 million people out of work, rising to about 25
percent for the age group 15-29. That statistic alone
constitutes a socioeconomic time bomb.  Slow growth, combined with rising unemployment, also
explains an explosion in the unregistered economy, which now
accounts for one-third of the working labor force, or about 8
million people, according to Egypt’s statistics agency. The same
causes lie behind an increase in the numbers living below the
poverty line to 25 percent, from 20 percent in 2010. A further
22 percent of Egyptians are at risk of falling into poverty in
the event of an economic shock, such as a sudden acceleration of
inflation, according to a World Bank study.  Way Out  Is there a way out? There has to be, because Egypt cannot
afford to delay an economic recovery any longer. The economic
and social costs would be immeasurable. The starting point
should be to manage the short term, namely 2013. A growth
recovery requires immediately covering a financing gap, caused
by budget and balance-of-payment deficits, of about $14.5
billion. Egypt’s domestic means fall well short of this target.
At present, the investment rate is slightly less than  17 percent 
of GDP, compared with 30 percent to 40 percent or more in East
and  Southeast Asia .  That is why securing the $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund  loan  that the government delayed last month for
political reasons is a must. Not only would an IMF agreement
provide needed  cash flow  to the budget, it would also provide a
kind of certificate to reassure investors that the government
has the sound financial and monetary policies required to deal
with its swelling  budget deficit  and public debt. These measure
about 11 percent of GDP and 85 percent of GDP, respectively.  Managing these debt levels requires fiscal discipline that
deals in the first place with the chronic problem of subsidies,
which in Egypt mainly benefit the top 20 percent of income
groups and swallow as much as 32 percent of public expenditure.
However, a major obstacle to tackling Egypt’s economic crisis
goes beyond economics to politics.  At the moment, there is a political deadlock due to the
acute polarization of Egyptian society between Islamists and
secularists. The credibility of the ruling Muslim Brotherhood
has been eroded by the widespread perception that it has sought
to grab as much power as possible, by dominating all of Egypt’s
institutions: executive, legislative and judiciary. Many
Egyptians think the country is slipping back to the one-party
system of the past, this time dominated by Islamists. They
perceive the growing numbers of government appointments to state
institutions as a way to establish a parallel government that is
loyal only to the ruling party.  The way out of this impasse is to seek a genuinely
inclusive, rather than divisive, political system, in which
consensus can be reached on the major changes to policy that
Egypt so badly needs. In other words, the solution to Egypt’s
economic problems is mainly political.  (Samir Radwan was the Egyptian finance minister from
January to July 2011. He was previously a board member at
Egypt’s General Authority for Investment and at the Financial
Supervisory Authority. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Samir Radwan at  Samir.radwann@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 