-- Hongkong Land Hits Record on Signs Central Rents Stable
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-01-24T08:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/hongkong-land-hits-record-on-signs-central-rents-stable.html
Hongkong Land  Holdings Ltd., one of
the biggest landlords in the city’s Central business district,
climbed to record in Singapore trading amid optimism office
rents in  Hong Kong  may be bottoming.  Hongkong Land rose as much as 3.5 percent to $8.08 and
traded at S$8.02 as of 4:06 p.m. in Singapore, heading for its
highest close on record. About 4.7 million shares changed hand,
the most since May 25. The stock climbed 15 percent so far this
month, compared with a 2.6 percent gain for the benchmark
 Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   “We are seeing a return of leasing transaction volume in
the Hong Kong office market so there is the expectation that
perhaps rents in Central are starting to bottom out,” said Paul Louie, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The
share price has run ahead as the recovery is largely priced
in.” Nomura has a neutral rating on  Hongkong Land (HKL)  with a share-
price forecast of $7.50, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Average rental prices in Central, the world’s most
expensive place to lease office space, fell about 12 percent
last year as banks cut staff and sought cheaper locations on
slowing corporate finance activities. Prime offices in Central
lease for about HK$98.80 ($12.74) a square foot a month on
average at the end of the third quarter, according to Colliers
International.  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, has agreed to extend
its lease for almost 205,000 square feet of space at Two
International Financial Centre in Hong Kong’s Central. The bank
will continue to lease the eight floors it currently occupies in
the city’s second-tallest tower until 2019 at an average monthly
rent of about HK$106 a square foot, said two people familiar
with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  