-- Mongolia Loan May Help Tavan Tolgoi Exit Chalco Deal, CEO Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-01-24T09:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mongolia-loan-may-help-tavan-tolgoi-exit-chalco-deal-ceo-says.html
Mongolia pledged to give Erdenes
Tavan Tolgoi LLC, its largest coal company, a $355 million loan
that Chief Executive Officer Yaichil Batsuuri said may be used
to help it exit an agreement to supply  China .  Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi may use the funds to pay the $180
million it owes  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  as part of a supply
contract signed in 2011 for steelmaking coal, Batsuuri said
today in an interview in Ulan Bator. The $250 million that
Chalco, as the Chinese company is known, gave the Mongolian
miner as a prepayment can be repaid with coal or cash, he said.  Erdenes TT, as the state-owned company is known, halted
deliveries to Chalco on Jan. 11 after it failed to pay a company
that provides logistical support amid a cash crunch. The coal
supplier is also seeking revisions to the contract signed with
 Chalco (2600) , it’s biggest customer, because prices were set at a
level that’s now below the cost of extracting and delivering the
coal, Batsuuri said.  “We wish to cooperate with Chalco in the future, but not
in the way that we are working at the moment,” Batsuuri said at
Erdenes TT’s offices in Ulan Bator. “We want to change our way
of cooperation, especially the price mechanism.”  Erdenes TT exported 2.4 million tons of coking coal to
Chalco in 2012, short of the three million tons it had planned
to ship, said Batsuuri. Mongolia is the largest exporter of
coking coal to China.  Mongolia exported 20.9 million tons of coal last year, down
from 21.3 million in 2011, according to the  National Statistics
Office . The value of the exported coal in 2012 was $1.9 billion,
compared with $2.27 billion in 2011, according to the agency.  Contract Talks  An executive team from Erdenes TT is holding talks with
Chalco on future coal deliveries, said Batsuuri. The company
will only supply coal after it revises prices and volumes with
Chalco, he said. Erdenes TT loses $5 on every ton delivered
because of rising transportation costs and the price its paid
for the coal, Batsuuri said.  Yuan  Li, a spokesman for Chalco’s parent, Aluminum Corp. of
China, didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today seeking
comment. Chalco earlier this week said that officials from its
international trading unit met with Erdenes TT in November to
discuss prices and the volume of shipments. The fundamental
terms of the accord shouldn’t be changed, the Chinese company
said Jan. 22 in a e-mailed response to questions.  The $355 million loan will probably come from the
 Development Bank  of Mongolia, Batsuuri said. The lender last
year raised $600 million through the sale of bonds, according to
its website.  Mining Wealth  Erdenes TT last year gave the Mongolian government about
$310 million as part of a state-initiated program to distribute
the nation’s mining wealth to all citizens, Batsuuri said. That
compounded its cash crunch, he said.  The Mongolian government agreed in December to provide
Erdenes TT a loan of $200 million and this week decided to
increase that amount to $355 million, Batsuuri said.  In addition to paying Chalco, Batsuuri said the company
will also use part of the government loan to buy equipment and
develop the West Tsankhi block of the Tavan Tolgoi coal field,
which is Mongolia’s largest with 6 billion metric tons of
reserves. The participation of foreign companies including
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and China Shenhua Energy Co. in West
Tsankhi is still being reviewed by the government, he said.  Erdenes TT will also not sell shares to the public this
year, according to Batsuuri, who said his preference is for an
initial public offering no sooner than 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in  Ulan Bator  at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  