-- Ontario Teachers’ Leech Says He’s Interested in Pipeline Assets
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-24T15:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/ontario-teachers-leech-says-he-s-interested-in-pipeline-assets.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan ,
which is selling its stake in North America’s Express Pipeline
System, remains interested in investing in energy
infrastructure, including assets that may help break a
bottleneck that’s choking the flow of oil from Alberta.  “That’s a real issue and certainly, from an infrastructure
perspective, could be of interest to us,” Chief Executive
Officer Jim Leech said yesterday in an interview in Davos.
“Generally speaking, pipelines are of interest.”  Teachers’, the country’s third-biggest pension  fund manager 
with C$117.1 billion ($116.7 billion) of assets, agreed last
month to sell its one-third stake in Express Pipeline System,
which transports crude oil from Alberta to Wyoming and Illinois,
to  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  for about $430 million. Partners Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners and Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System are also selling their stakes to Spectra in
the $1.49 billion deal.  Pension funds generally could be interested in such energy
infrastructure investments, Leech said. He is also optimistic
about using rail to help get oil out of  Alberta .  “I understand there are a number of proposals put forward
to use rail as an alternative transport and some very credible
people saying it’s very feasible,” Leech, 65, said.  Teachers’ is seeking investments in areas including
consumer-products companies, which Leech said are “high on the
list”, and telecommunications. Geographically, the Toronto-
based fund manager has invested in northern  Europe  and is
getting more interested in doing private-equity deals in Chile,
Brazil and Colombia, Leech said. The U.S. market may also
provide opportunities, he said.  “We’re picking up hints that the U.S. market is coming
back,” Leech said. “There are some nice early signs -- the
housing market is starting to drift upward, you can see that in
lumber prices in  Canada , so that’s telling you that something is
going on there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Davos, Switzerland at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  