-- Monti Says Monte Paschi Bailout Hinges on Bank of Italy
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-01-25T09:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/monti-says-monte-paschi-bailout-hinges-on-bank-of-italy-review.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA ’s 3.9 billion-euro ($5.2 billion) government bailout may
face a delay after Prime Minister Mario Monti called for a
further review of the bank’s accounts.  Monti said the Bank of  Italy  will take another look at the
bank’s books after the company disclosed this week it may face
more than 700 million euros of losses related to structured
finance transactions hidden from regulators. Monte Paschi
shareholders are voting on a capital increase today to pave the
way for the emergency government loans.  “The subscriptions of those financial tools hasn’t
happened yet, among other reasons because the needed conditions
for the operation to be completed haven’t been met yet,” Monti,
69, said at a press conference in Davos, Switzerland, yesterday.  Monti announced the increased oversight as he tries to
limit the political fallout from  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  on his bid for a
second term in elections next month. Former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi has stepped up attacks against Monti for the
state-aid plan and frontrunner Democratic Party Leader Pier Luigi Bersani for his party’s ties to the bank.  “At this stage I expect that they will wait until there is
a new government to avoid having to deal with such a hot
potato,” said Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-based analyst at
Fidentiis Equities, who has a sell rating on the bank. According
to the decree approved by Monti’s Cabinet in December, the state
aid is set to be completed by March 1.  ‘Under Control’  Monte Paschi Chairman Alessandro Profumo said at today’s
meeting that the “situation is under control” at the bank,
Italy’s No. 3 lender. Monte Paschi said on Jan. 17 it will
review its accounts after Bloomberg News reported the lender
engaged in a derivative with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2008, dubbed
“Project Santorini,” that obscured losses before it sought a
government bailout the next year. The Siena-based bank said in a
Jan. 23 statement it’s reviewing three money-losing derivative
deals, dubbed Santorini, Alexandria and Nota Italia, which led
to losses for the bank.  Monte Paschi shares rebounded as much as 5.9 percent today
to 24.7 cents, after falling 21 percent in Milan during the past
five trading sessions. The bank said in a statement late
yesterday that public figures and politicians are exploiting
reports about the structured transactions with unfounded
speculation of the bank failing.  Democrat Party  The bank is prepared to take additional action if
necessary, Profumo told shareholders, without elaborating.  Bersani’s Democratic Party runs the local government in
Siena where Monte Paschi is based and controls the banking
foundation that is the lender’s biggest  shareholder . Berlusconi
and his allies have slammed Monti over the bailout by linking
the aid to an unpopular real estate levy on first homes, known
as the IMU, which raised from Italian taxpayers an amount
similar to the emergency loans designated for Monte Paschi.  “We paid the IMU to Monti so that he could save the bank”
of the Democratic Party, read yesterday’s front-page headline in
newspaper Il Giornale, owned by Berlusconi’s brother Paolo.
“What has been said about interventions and comparisons between
the amount used for aid and the revenue from taxes is a complete
fantasy,” Monti said.  Monti said today in an Italian radio interview that the
election campaign shouldn’t affect the bailout timing because
it’s being carried out under European rules. Still, he
acknowledged that the Monte Paschi case “has a lot to do with
the ugly beast of mixing banks and politics.”  Parliament Testimony  Monti said that Finance Minister Vittorio Grilli will be
available to testify in Parliament on the Monte Paschi
situation.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, received a first
bailout from Berlusconi’s government in 2009, and has now added
500 million euros to its aid request to cover potential losses
linked to the structured-finance deals, bringing the total cost
of the rescue to 3.9 billion euros.  The three transactions at the center of the case were
approved by the bank between 2006 and 2009 and may lead to 720
million euro of losses, Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola
said in an interview with newspaper Il Messaggero published
yesterday. Viola became CEO in January 2012.  The lender is expected to post a 1.78 billion-euro loss for
2012, based on the average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The Truth  “We want to know the truth, we’re tired of being taken
advantage of,” said shareholder Gianni Acciughi, 60, who took
early retirement from Monte Paschi in 2009. “How is possible
that nobody knew anything about this? If that’s the case, then
legal action has to be taken immediately against those
responsible.”  Members of the Northern League party, a partner in
Berlusconi’s previous government, demonstrated at today’s
investor meeting. They distributed leaflets criticizing
Mussari’s management and his ties to the Democratic Party. Beppe Grillo, the leader of the 5 Star Movement running in the
campaign, said the bank’s case will turn into a scandal worse
than the collapse of food company Parmalat SpA in 2003.  The three deals were uncovered by the bank’s new  management 
last year, Monte Paschi said. The lender’s former leadership hid
documents related to the deals from regulators, the Italian
central bank said in a Jan. 23 statement, adding that
transactions are now being reviewed by the central bank’s
oversight division as well as judicial authorities.  Deutsche Bank designed “Project Santorini” at the height
of the financial crisis, providing Monte Paschi a 1.5 billion-
euro loan that helped it mitigate a 367 million-euro loss from
an older derivative with the Frankfurt-based bank, Bloomberg
News reported.  ‘Troubled Deals’  Deutsche Bank reaped about 60 million euros in profit in
the first two weeks of December 2008 through the loan, according
to more than 70 pages of documents obtained by Bloomberg News
detailing the deal. As part of that trade, the Italian lender
made a losing bet on the value of the country’s government
bonds, according to six derivatives specialists who reviewed the
files. Monte Paschi never disclosed the effect of the 2008 trade
in its annual reports.  Former managers also signed a derivative with  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in 2009 that cut earnings by 220 million euros in
2012, Il Fatto Quotidiano reported on Jan. 22.  “Monte Paschi is focusing on three products exclusively,
which may mean that there may be other troubled deals leading to
additional losses,” Fidentiis analyst Bernardi said.  Former Monte Paschi Chairman Giuseppe Mussari quit as head
of the Italian Banking Association lobby group on Jan. 22 as
scrutiny of the lender’s use of derivatives deepened. Mussari,
in his letter of resignation, said he always acted according to
the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  