-- Lonza Chief to Make Deep Overhaul Drawing on BASF Experience
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-01-24T09:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/lonza-chief-to-make-deep-overhaul-drawing-on-experience-at-basf.html
Lonza Group AG (LONN)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Ridinger said his review of the Swiss drug-
ingredient maker may lead to disposals and management changes as
he forecast lower-than-expected 2013 earnings.  Lonza dropped as much as 6.6 percent, the steepest intraday
decline in a year, and traded 4 percent lower at 53.1 Swiss
francs at 10:45 a.m. in Zurich. Ridinger forecast growth in
earnings before interest and taxes of about 10 percent this year
to 369 million francs ($396 million), compared with an average
estimate of 413 million francs in a  Bloomberg survey  of
analysts.  There is a “near-term risk to profits,” as Lonza
implements measures to improve efficiency, Peter Welford, an
analyst at Jefferies said in a note to clients. “Our longer-
term positive thesis is intact but it will take time for belief
to allow stock outperformance.”  Lonza today announced the appointment of former Cognis CEO
Antonio Trius to the board, highlighting a growing focus on
additives for cosmetics and personal-care products.
Restructuring moves would follow company’s purchase of Arch
Chemicals for $1.35 billion and a push to widen margins to 20
percent by 2015.  Disposal Scenarios  Ridinger, who joined Basel-based Lonza in May after helping
to integrate cosmetic-additives maker Cognis into  BASF SE (BAS) , has
identified potential disposal “scenarios,” he told reporters
on a call.  “We will give an update soon,” Ridinger said. “If we
make changes it’s clear management has to be informed first.”  Sales increased 46 percent to 3.93 billion francs ($4.2
billion) last year, beating the average estimate of 3.87 billion
francs based on 13 analysts’ predictions collated by Bloomberg.
Earnings before interest, taxes, amortizations and depreciations
totaled 640 million francs, compared with the average estimate
of 656.4 million francs.  Nestle SA (NESN)  executive Werner Bauer also joins Trius as a new
appointment on the board. Richard Sykes and Gerhard Mayr will
not stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting on
April 9.  Today’s results are a test for Chairman Rolf Soiron to
vindicate his decision to fire former chief Stefan Borgas a year
ago for failing to deliver on promises. Soiron recruited
Ridinger, a vice-president of care chemicals at BASF, in May to
focus on improving returns on capital and productivity. Borgas
was later hired as CEO of  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)   Global Review  Ridinger is working his way through a global review of the
firm’s manufacturing business. The German-born executive has
acted to stem losses from Lonza’s costly Swiss franc wage bill
by cutting 400 jobs at a site in Visp, Switzerland which makes
chemicals ranging from vitamins to snail-killing powder to keep
the plant competitive.  Lonza expects further sales and Ebit growth for 2013 and
will propose a cash dividend of 2.15 francs for 2012, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  