-- Too Much Has Never Been Enough for Hoarders and Misers
-- B y   W e n d y   W o l o s o n
-- 2013-01-24T19:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/too-much-has-never-been-enough-for-hoarders-and-misers.html
U.S. television viewers are gorging
on a diet of shows about weird and quirky forms of economic
consumption. From the relatively innocuous “American Pickers” to
the slightly irritating “ Storage Wars ” and the extremely
disturbing “My Strange Addiction,” we can’t seem to get our fill
of shows about oddball consumers.  “ Hoarders ” and “Hoarders: Buried Alive” are the most
distressing of this genre. The obsessive, desperate and
profoundly sad people featured in these reality shows have
become the most famous hoarders since the eccentric and
reclusive  Collyer brothers  were found dead in their Harlem
mansion in 1947, entombed by more than 150 tons of stuff they
had accumulated.  Experts disagree about the source of the urge to hoard:
Some link it to obsessive-compulsive disorder, others to anxiety
that becomes acute at moments of personal crisis, and still
others believe it stems from lack of impulse control.  While we may think of hoarding as a modern problem -- we
can surround ourselves with so much stuff only because we have
disposable income and access to credit and very inexpensive
goods -- it appears with some frequency in the historical
record.  Miser’s Vortex  Discussions of hoarding in 18th- and 19th-century
literature focused on misers accumulating money. Typical was an
article in a 1732 issue of the  London Magazine  describing the
“Character of a Miser,” a “Creature that deserves to be despis’d
as a Shame on human Nature.” The author continued, “A Miser’s
Chest is like a Whirlpool, that draws in every thing within its
Vortex, but returns nothing back.”  Being rich was one thing. But keeping capital out of
circulation was something else entirely. It was not only a sign
of profound avarice, but also contrary to what was deemed
appropriate behavior for people who had amassed riches.
Purchasing next to nothing -- and certainly not happiness --
misers refused to use their money to better themselves or the
larger society. As they were often portrayed, misers tended to
live in utter conflict with the resources at their disposal,
wearing tattered clothes, inhabiting ill-furnished hovels and
subsisting on meager diets of porridge and bread.  Eighteenth-century authors wrote less often of people who
hoarded goods, but there are accounts of them, too. A somewhat
beleaguered Simon Slenderpurse wrote to the editor of the Lady’s
Magazine in 1761, cataloging the financial depredations wrought
by the “follies” of his wife, a compulsive “bargain-monger” who
couldn’t resist the seduction of auctioneers, peddlers and used-
goods dealers. The man’s house almost overflowed with her
purchases.  “It is in vain to remonstrate against these proceedings,”
he sighed. “She returns home every day attended by porters laden
with such cargoes, as would be enough to stock half a dozen
middling shopkeepers.”  As researchers have observed, hoarding isn’t a gender-
specific activity, and people hoard all manner of things. Mass
production and ready access to cheap goods have increasingly
enabled hoarders, and it is no coincidence that our recognition
of hoarding -- and perhaps its frequency -- has been on the
rise.  But even well before the second Industrial Revolution, some
Americans were avid hoarders. An article from an 1850 issue of
the New England School Observatory, for example, describes the
acquisitive “passions” of a man identified only as “Old Colonel
W---.” He surrounded himself not with consumer goods, but cast-
offs and miscellaneous items that were of no use to anyone else.  ‘Close-Fisted’  “Though close-fisted in general,” according to the account,
“he was continually throwing away his money, in fives and tens,
on such trash. In this way, he filled all the odd corners in his
dwelling and out-houses with a collection of non-descript
articles, that would have puzzled a philosopher to tell what
they were made for, or to what use they could be put.”  A woman living in Boston devised an ingenious way to manage
her hoard, which consisted of financial instruments, dry goods
and clothing. She packed these objects in trunks, each stored at
a different location. Upon her death at age 80, her heirs
discovered a trunk containing possessions estimated to be worth
almost $7,000. It also contained a key to another trunk, which
itself contained a similar key belonging to another trunk. And
so on, until her heirs found “twenty very large sized trunks and
three huge packing chests.”  Her collection required a four-ox team to haul, and when
inventoried, it included 89 dresses, all “new and perfect” and
made of the best silk, velvet, satin, poplin, alpaca, and
cashmere; 19 shawls; three velvet cloaks; 106 skirts; 114 pairs
of hose; undergarments “too numerous to mention”; table linens;
towels; handkerchiefs; counterpanes; blankets; coverlets;
sheets; goose feathers; chinaware; elegant tableware; fine
jewelry in silver and gold; and more -- “enough to stock a large
store,” according to a newspaper report from 1877.  These accounts suggest that while hoarding may be
particularly emblematic of our materialist age, the “passion”
has seized Americans of previous generations, too.  ( Wendy Woloson  is an independent scholar and consulting
historian. Her most recent book is “In Hock: Pawning in America
from the Revolution to the Great Depression.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Wendy Woloson at  wendy@repositoryofusefulknowledge.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  