-- TOP Oil Market News: Oil Near One-Week Low; Brent Premium Gains
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-24T07:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/top-oil-market-news-oil-near-one-week-low-brent-premium-gains.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Trades Near One-Week Low on U.S. Supplies, Seaway Pipeline  Oil traded near the lowest level in a week in New York
after U.S. crude stockpiles gained and capacity on the Seaway
pipeline was reduced.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  LNG Imports Rise to Record in 2012 as Japan Idles Reactors (1)  Japan’s liquefied natural gas imports rose to a record in
2012 as the country relied on fossil fuels to generate
electricity to make up the shortfall from nuclear plants idled
after the Fukushima disaster.  Reduced Capacity on Seaway Pipeline Boosts Brent Premium to WTI  Enterprise Products Partners LP told shippers that capacity
was limited on its expanded Seaway Pipeline, widening the spread
between domestic benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude and
Brent.  Hawaii  Refinery Stop Set to Lure Asia Jet Fuel: Energy Markets  Asian jet fuel shipments to Hawaii are poised to triple as
Tesoro Corp. shuts the islands’ biggest crude-processing plant,
helping lift refining margins from the weakest level in almost
five years.  China Tracks Errol Flynn to Tasmania in Quest for Wind: Energy  The Roaring Forties gales off Tasmania, where Hollywood
swashbuckler Errol Flynn was first smitten with sailing, are
luring Chinese investors with a different passion -- harnessing
wind to generate electricity.  Oil and Distillate Inventories Advanced Last Week, API Reports  Oil supplies increased 3.17 million barrels to 364 million
last week, the American Petroleum Institute said.  European Naphtha Cargoes to Asia Rise by One From Week Earlier  European naphtha shipments loading in January for transport
to Asia rose to 12 cargoes from 11 a week earlier, shipping data
showed.  Asia Naphtha Crack Spread Gains; Jet Fuel Rebounds: Oil Products  Asia’s naphtha crack spread extends gains, signaling
increased profit for refiners making the petrochemical and
gasoline feedstock. Jet fuel’s regrade rebounds.  Mangalore Refinery Said to Sell Jet Fuel for 50-Cent Discount  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. sold a cargo of
jet fuel for loading in February for about 50 cents a barrel
below Singapore prices, said two traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Dow Chemical Fights Ally Exxon’s Push to Export U.S. Natural Gas  Exxon Mobil Corp. and Dow Chemical Co., big-dollar lobbying
allies on many issues in  Washington , are on opposite sides of a
high-stakes fight over how much of rising U.S. natural gas
supplies should be sold overseas.  Natural Gas Supplies Declined Less Than Average, Forecasts Show  Natural gas inventories dropped by less than average last
week as mild weather curtailed demand for the heating fuel,
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Natural Gas Slips a Second Day on Milder U.S. Weather Next Week  Natural gas futures slipped for a second day in New York as
forecasts for mild weather next week after a cold snap signaled
reduced heating-fuel demand.  Clinton Deputy Nides Said Planning to Leave State Department  Deputy Secretary of State Tom Nides, a former chief
operating officer at Morgan Stanley, plans to leave the Obama
administration next month and may return to the financial
services industry, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Rose 3.17 Mln Barrels  The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly
Statistical Bulletin from the American Petroleum Institute. *T  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Phillips 66 Wood River Said to Plan Crude Unit Work in February  Phillips 66’s Wood River refinery in  Illinois  plans to shut
two crude distillation units, a hydrocracker, a diesel
hydrotreater and a coker for work beginning in late February, a
person familiar with the turnaround schedule said.  Tesoro Reported Major Unit Startup at Golden Eagle Yesterday  Co. reported major unit startup in two separate notices to
Contra Costa County regulators yesterday.  Phillips 66 Reported Unit Shutdown at Rodeo Refinery Yesterday  Refinery in Northern  California  reported shutdown at 740am
local time yesterday, notice to Contra Costa County regulators
shows.  Oil Slides on Seaway Limit, Sugar Rises: Commodities at Close  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 0.3
percent to 661.98. The UBS Bloomberg CMCI index of 26 raw
materials slipped 0.1 percent to 1,596.11.  Valero at 4-Year High After Seaway Reduces Flows: Houston Mover  Valero Energy Corp. reached the highest price since July
2008 as the U.S. benchmark crude fell after Enterprise Product
Partners LP reduced flows on its Seaway pipeline.  California Gasoline Strengthens on February Trading, Fuel Switch  Spot gasoline in California strengthened against futures
after the prompt-month contract rolled into February and before
a Kinder Morgan Energy Partners pipeline switches to more
stringent fuel requirements.  Husky Lima Reported Small Transformer Fire Jan. 19  Husky Energy Inc. incident at Ohio refinery was “nothing
major,” state regulator said.  Delek Tyler Refinery Performing Maintenance on Precipitator  Delek US Holdings Inc. reported excess emissions from fluid
catalytic cracker and No. 9 boiler.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Clean Fuels for Vehicles, Ships to Get EU Regulatory Push  Clean fuels for cars, trucks and ships in the European
Union would get a boost under draft legislation to be presented
today by EU regulators.  Socar Said to Buy Fuel Oil From Hindustan Petroleum for February  The State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, known as Socar, bought as
much as 30,000 metric tons of fuel oil for loading in February
from Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s third-largest state
refiner, said two traders who asked not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.5 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  fell 2.5 percent to 8.63 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Algeria  Attack No Outlier as Oil Targeted 3 Times a Week: Energy  While the attack in Algeria that killed at least 38
hostages was the deadliest raid on the oil industry in five
years, it’s far from unprecedented.  Tracking the Effects of Weather, Storage on U.K. Gas Prices  U.K. National Balancing Point day-ahead gas prices have
gained 33 percent in the past five months. Bloomberg functions
show how colder weather and availability of gas storage
contributed to the gains.  Medvedev Rules Out Competing Against Putin for Presidency (2)  Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said he won’t run
against President Vladimir Putin in the next presidential
election, two months after describing how he struggled to
relinquish the Kremlin.  Obama Seen Skirting Congress to Set Climate-Change Policies (2)  President  Barack Obama , whose inaugural address made
climate change a second-term priority, could bypass Congress and
implement much of his environmental agenda unilaterally through
regulations and executive action.  China May Raise Natural Gas Prices This Year, Barclays Says  China may increase natural gas prices this year as the
government takes a more “market-based approach” to meeting
demand for the cleaner-burning fuel, according to Barclays Plc.  Indonesia  to Move to Spot, Short-Term LNG Contracts: SKKMigas  SKKMigas deputy chairman for planning, Widhyawan
Prawiraatmadja, says Indonesia will move away from long-term LNG
supply contracts to more spot and short- term supply.  Korea Gas Falls to 4-Month Low on Share Sale Report: Seoul Mover  Korea Gas Corp., the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas
importer, slumped to the lowest level in four months in Seoul
trading after the Korea Economic Daily reported the company may
sell new shares.  Rothschild’s Proposed Bumi Chairman King Expects to Oust Tan  Wallace King, proposed by Nathaniel Rothschild as the new
Bumi Plc chairman, expects to win enough backing from
shareholders next month to oust incumbent Samin Tan amid a
battle for control of the Indonesian coal venture.  SandRidge Has Paid $9.5 Million to CEO’s Companies (1)  SandRidge Energy Inc. has paid $9.5 million since 2008 to
companies controlled by Chief Executive Officer Tom Ward and his
relatives and needs to disclose more about its dealings with the
family, according to shareholder TPG-Axon Capital Management LP.  OTHER MARKETS  Yen Snaps Three-Day Climb as U.S. Index Futures Drop on Apple  The yen fell for the first time in four days as Japan’s
deputy economy minister said a correction from strong levels
“isn’t over yet.” Exporters led Japanese stocks higher, while
U.S. stock-index futures sank after Apple Inc. posted the
weakest sales growth in 14 quarters.  Yen Drops on Chinese PMI Gain, Nishimura Call for More Weakness  The yen weakened, snapping a three- day advance, as signs
of strengthening manufacturing in  China  damped demand for refuge
assets and a Japanese official endorsed the currency’s drop to
100 per dollar.  Central Banks Carry Traders to Best Start Since 2007: Currencies  The $4 trillion foreign-exchange market is showing more
confidence in the global economy than at any time in the past
five years as central banks show few signs of pulling back on
their largess anytime soon.  Asian Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses as Japan Shares Rally  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as Japanese
shares rallied on a weaker yen, China’s manufacturing beat
estimates and North Korea threatened a nuclear test. Apple Inc.
suppliers fell after the company reported its weakest sales
since 2009.  U.S. Equity Futures Drop as Apple Posts Slowest Sales Since ’09  U.S. equity futures fell, signaling the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index may retreat from a five-year high, after Apple Inc.
reported no profit growth and the slowest increase in sales in
14 quarters.  Gold Seen Extending Rally as Fed Sticks With QE3 for Years (1)  Gold will rally this year and into 2014 as U.S. Federal
Reserve policy makers will probably maintain asset purchases for
two more years to buttress the recovery of the largest economy,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Sugar Rush Leaves U.S. With Biggest Glut in Decade: Commodities  Record U.S. sugar output is creating the biggest domestic
glut in a decade, reducing costs for Hershey Co. and making it
more likely the government will need to stockpile supply to
support farmers.  North Korea Threatens to Conduct Nuclear Test Targeting U.S. (1)  North Korea threatened to conduct a nuclear weapons test
“targeted” at the U.S. after the Obama administration pushed
through new United Nations sanctions against the totalitarian
state for last month’s rocket launch.  Obama-Netanyahu Odd Couple Tests U.S.-Israel Alliance Resilience  President Barack Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu emerge from their re-election campaigns confronting
the same disputes that divided them last year: peace talks with
the Palestinians, settlements and, above all,  Iran ’s suspected
nuclear weapons program.  SPORTS  Real Madrid Sets Sales Record as Manchester City Ranking Rises  Real  Madrid  is the first sports club to make more than 500
million euros ($665 million) in annual revenue, according to
accountant Deloitte LLP.  Phil Mickelson Likens Tax Comments to His 2006 U.S. Open Blunder  Phil Mickelson said his public complaints about income
taxes were insensitive and amounted to a “dumb mistake”
similar to his final-hole play at the 2006 U.S. Open, where he
blew a chance to win the tournament with a double-bogey.  Arsenal Beats West Ham 5-1 in English Soccer’s Premier League  Arsenal scored four goals in a 10- minute span of the
second half to beat West Ham 5-1 in English soccer’s Premier
League.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  