-- Opap’s Greek Gambling Monopoly Ruled Illegal by EU Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-24T09:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/opap-loses-eu-top-court-case-over-greek-gambling-monopoly.html
Greece ’s gambling monopoly owned by
 Opap SA (OPAP)  was ruled illegal by the European Union’s highest court,
sending shares of the company down as much as 21 percent.  EU law prohibits national rules that grant exclusive rights
without serving the public interest by reducing the number of
betting opportunities, the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg
ruled today. The case was filed by Opap competitors Stanleybet
International Ltd., William Hill Plc and  Sportingbet Plc. (SBT)   The EU’s top court has examined a series of cases brought
by betting companies including  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment
Plc (BPTY) ,  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and Betfair Ltd. over whether state
monopolies may block them from operating freely across the 27-
nation bloc. Online companies have also called on the EU to take
action against what they say are unjustified national
restrictions on cross-border  Internet gambling .  The EU court said that Greece could preserve the monopoly
by subjecting it to stricter controls to ensure consumer
protection. If it fails to do that, the country would have to
open it up to competition from other companies in the EU.  Opap shares fell 11 percent to 6.27 euros at 11:37 a.m. in
 Athens , for the biggest drop on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Opap
Chairman Constantine Louropoulos wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the ruling.  The Athens Stock Exchange fell 1.2 percent to 1,007.13 at
11:23 a.m. in Athens, snapping six days of gains. The bourse
earlier dropped as much as 2.5 percent. Opap carries a 5.8
percent weighting on the index, according to Bloomberg data.  Gaming Shares  Shares of the other gaming companies rose after the ruling.
Ladbrokes rose as much as 4 percent while William Hill  jumped  as
much as 2.4 percent in  London .  An adviser to the EU court in a  non-binding opinion  in the
case in September said the national court can’t conclude the
legislation is trying to restrict the availability of gambling
in the country if Opap, in which the government is a minority
shareholder, pursues an expansionist policy.  The Greek tribunal handling the appeals sought guidance
from the EU court in 2011. EU Internal Market Commissioner
 Michel Barnier  said  last year  he is working on an action plan to
rein in illegal and “unregulated” online gambling.  The EU court has said in some previous cases that gambling
monopolies may be justified if they reduce betting addiction or
reduce criminal activities in a proportional manner.  Stanleybet, Sportingbet and William Hill -- all U.K.-based
companies -- applied separately for Greek licenses to offer
gambling in stores and online. Their applications, filed in
2004, 2006 and 2007, were rejected based on national law, which
the companies argued violated EU rules guaranteeing freedom to
provide services and set up business anywhere in the bloc.  The cases are:  C-186/11 , Stanleybet International Ltd,
William Hill Organisation Ltd. and  William Hill Plc (WMH)  v. Ipourgos
Ikonomias kai Ikonomikon and Ipourgos Politismou; C-209/11,
Sportingbet plc v. Ipourgos Politismou and Ipourgos Ikonomias
kai Ikonomikon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  