-- Opap’s Greek Gambling Monopoly Ruled Illegal by EU Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-24T11:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/opap-s-greek-gambling-monopoly-ruled-illegal-by-eu-court-1-.html
Greece ’s gambling monopoly, owned by
 Opap SA (OPAP) , was ruled illegal by the European Union’s highest
court, sending shares of the company down as much as 21 percent.  EU law bars national rules granting exclusive gambling
rights without cutting the opportunities to bet, the  EU Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today. The case was filed by Opap
competitors Stanleybet International Ltd.,  William Hill Plc (WMH)  and
Sportingbet Plc.  The EU’s top court has examined a series of cases brought
by betting companies including  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment
Plc (BPTY) ,  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and Betfair Ltd. over whether state
monopolies may block them from operating freely across the 27-
nation bloc. Online companies have also called on the EU to take
action against what they say are unjustified national
restrictions on cross-border  Internet gambling .  The decision “clearly shows that the expansion of Opap’s
activities is not EU compliant,” Clive Hawkswood, chief
executive of the Remote Gambling Association, which includes the
three Opap competitors, said in an e-mailed statement. “We hope
that this ruling will spur the Greek authorities into action and
to bring their legislation into line with EU regulations.”  The EU court said that Greece could preserve the monopoly
by subjecting it to stricter controls to ensure consumer
protection. If it fails to do that, the country would have to
open it up to competition from other companies in the EU.  Opap shares were down almost 11 percent to 6.32 euros at
12:56 p.m. in  Athens , for the biggest drop on the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. Opap declined to comment immediately on the decision.  Gaming Shares  Shares of the other gaming companies rose after the ruling.
Ladbrokes rose as much as 4 percent while William Hill  jumped  as
much as 2.4 percent in  London .  “For short term trading it leaves open concerns for
Opap,” said Yiannis Sinapis, an analyst at Athens-based Euroxx
Securities. “However, in our view the ECJ leaves the case open,
although with limitations, for Greece’s high court council to
have the final verdict.”  An adviser to the EU court in a  non-binding opinion  on the
case in September said the national court can’t conclude the
legislation is trying to restrict gambling in Greece if Opap, in
which the government is a minority shareholder, pursues an
expansionist policy.  The Greek tribunal handling the appeals sought guidance
from the EU court in 2011. EU Internal Market Commissioner
 Michel Barnier  said  last year  he is working on an action plan to
rein in illegal and “unregulated” online gambling.  Addiction, Crime  The EU court has said in some previous cases that gambling
monopolies may be justified if they reduce betting addictions or
criminal activities in a proportional manner.  Stanleybet, Sportingbet and William Hill -- all U.K.-based
companies -- applied separately for Greek licenses to offer
gambling in stores and online. Their applications were rejected
based on national law, which they argued violated EU rules
guaranteeing freedom to provide services and set up business
anywhere in the bloc.  The cases are:  C-186/11 , Stanleybet International Ltd,
William Hill Organisation Ltd. and William Hill Plc v. Ipourgos
Ikonomias kai Ikonomikon and Ipourgos Politismou; C-209/11,
 Sportingbet plc (SBT)  v. Ipourgos Politismou and Ipourgos Ikonomias
kai Ikonomikon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  