-- OPEC to Cut Shipments as Asian Demand Ebbs, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-24T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/opec-to-cut-shipments-as-asian-demand-ebbs-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will reduce shipments through to early
February as late winter demand fails to materialize in Asia,
according to tanker tracker Oil Movements.  The group that supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil
will export 23.7 million barrels a day in the four weeks to Feb.
9, down 150,000 barrels, or 0.6 percent, from the previous
period, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report.
Shipments normally climb at this time of the year with the last
phase in winter demand in the northern hemisphere, according to
the consultant. The figures exclude  Angola  and  Ecuador .  “The second winter peak isn’t happening,” Roy Mason, the
company’s founder, said by phone from Halifax,  England . “The
tanker market is moribund. You wouldn’t normally expect it to be
soaring, but it should be going up not down as it’s still winter
in the Far East.”  Japan’s oil purchases dropped 0.8 percent in December from
a year earlier to 19.7 million kiloliters, according to
preliminary  data  from the Ministry of Finance. OPEC production
dropped to the lowest level in 14 months in December because of
a 4 percent supply cut by Saudi Arabia, data from the group’s
monthly report on Jan. 16 showed. Brent traded today at about
$113 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  Middle East shipments will decrease 0.7 percent to 17.4
million barrels a day in the period, compared with 17.52 million
in the four weeks to Jan. 12, according to Oil Movements. That
figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will average 467.6 million barrels,
down 1.5 percent on the previous period, the data show. Oil
Movements calculates the volumes by tallying tanker bookings.
Its figures exclude crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC comprises  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization is next scheduled to
meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  