-- Option Seeks to Raise More Cash to Strengthen Working Capital
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2013-01-24T10:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/option-seeks-to-raise-more-cash-to-strengthen-working-capital.html
Option NV (OPTI) , the Belgian maker of
wireless broadband-access devices, said it needs more money to
strengthen working capital in an effort to return to
profitability.  Option plans to raise at least 9 million euros ($12
million) in a sale of convertible bonds backed by a number of
parties including Chief Executive Officer Jan Callewaert, the
company said today in a statement. Option said in October that
it needed a cash injection of at least 5 million euros before
the end of 2012.  The Leuven, Belgium-based company needs the money to
support the marketing of a range of new wireless products for
markets such as automotive and security and surveillance after
moving away from its standard products for mobile network
operators. A license software agreement with Huawei Technologies
Co. also ended in October, reducing software and license revenue
as of the fourth quarter.  The shares rose as much as 9.7 percent to 34 cents this
morning, the biggest intraday gain since Sept. 24. The stock
last traded at 32 cents, or 3.2 percent higher, at 10:26 a.m.
local time. The investment, further cost reductions and new
product sales should return the company to profitability toward
the end of 2013, Option said.  “So far, Option has been unable to prove that its strategy
- focusing on value-added products, away from commoditized
hardware - is successful,” Guy Sips, an analyst at KBC
Securities in Brussels who recommends investors sell the stock,
said today in a note. “Contract announcements over the last two
years have been scarce or non-existent.”  Software Activities  Cost-saving efforts last quarter including shutting a
facility in Augsburg,  Germany , and moving the software
activities to  Belgium  helped slow the rate at which it spent
cash in the fourth quarter, Option said. The company ended the
year with cash of 3.2 million euros, down from 13 million euros
on June 30.  Option expects to conclude the bond sale in the first
quarter and has agreed a mid-term loan facility of as much as 5
million euros with Mondo NV, controlled by Callewaert, to bridge
potential cash needs until the transaction is completed.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Clapham at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  