-- Morgan Stanley to Spend $500 Million on Technology
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-24T19:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/morgan-stanley-to-spend-500-million-on-technology.html
Morgan Stanley, the biggest
financial brokerage, will spend $500 million to improve computer
systems after flaws in a previous upgrade frustrated the staff.  Investments in technology will be made over the next 18
months, according to a memo from  Greg Fleming , 49, head of its
brokerage unit, that was dated yesterday and obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Brokers complained about glitches and more
cumbersome processes last year after New York-based Morgan
Stanley switched to a single system for its Smith Barney joint
venture with Citigroup Inc.  “For us to be the best wealth-management firm for our
advisers and clients, we must have the best platform,” Fleming
wrote. “We will not stop until we have achieved this.”  Fleming wrote that his top priority for the next year is
his  advisory business , which takes fiduciary responsibility for
managing client funds, rather than just taking commissions on
trades. Dow Jones reported on Fleming’s memo earlier today.  The joint venture was known as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney
until last year, when Morgan Stanley moved to buy out New York-
based Citigroup. The deal turned Morgan Stanley’s wealth-
management division into the world’s largest brokerage, with
16,780 financial advisers at the end of 2012.  The division more than doubled fourth-quarter net income to
$385 million, helping the company beat analysts’ estimates. The
wealth business surpassed a profit-margin target six months
ahead of schedule.  Morgan Stanley has asked regulators for approval to buy the
final 35 percent of the brokerage venture from Citigroup after
resolving a dispute over the valuation of the business in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  