-- TD Bank Is Targeting U.S. Corporate Banking, Meneley Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-01-24T21:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/toronto-dominion-to-target-u-s-corporate-banking-meneley-says.html
  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-largest lender, is targeting wholesale banking in the
U.S. after spending nine years building a network of retail
branches from Maine to  Florida .  “We’re very optimistic about the opportunities going
forward there,” Patrick Meneley, vice-chairman of  investment
banking  at Toronto-Dominion’s TD Securities unit, said in an
interview. “Primarily our focus is going to be mid-tier”
companies.  Toronto-Dominion offers corporate services in the U.S. such
as cash management, bank accounts and foreign exchange to
clients that aren’t “necessarily Fortune 500” firms, Meneley
said in a December interview. About 10 percent of TD
Securities’s C$2.49 billion ($2.51 billion) revenue in 2011 came
from the U.S., according to an April 2012  presentation  by the
firm, with 76 percent coming from Canada and 14 percent from
 Asia  and Europe.  “What we’re really focused on is being a partner of choice
to our target clients,” said Meneley, who has been with TD
Securities since 1997. “We deliver our balance sheets and
become part of their banking group.”  Canadian firms find it difficult to compete with the full-
service, “bulge bracket’ investment banks in the U.S., said
 John Aiken , an analyst at Barclays Plc in Toronto. ‘‘They will
be more of a boutique, and probably within select industries
that TD has a specialization in.’’  ‘Legendary Service’  Toronto-Dominion has  spent  more than $25 billion since 2004
building a U.S. consumer bank branch network. Known south of the
Canadian border as TD Bank, America’s Most Convenient Bank, the
firm advertises better  customer service  and longer hours than
its competition.  ‘‘People are saying ‘If you can deliver that kind of
legendary service in retail, then we can also move our business
accounts over and do banking with you’,’’ Meneley said.  While TD Securities has about 550 U.S. employees,
investment-banking services will also be sold in 1,315 TD Bank
locations. In addition to wholesale products, they also sell
services from  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , the brokerage in
which Toronto-Dominion has about a 45 percent stake.  ‘‘If you’re there as a retail customer and like their
service, you’re obviously going to be swayed to at least think
about moving your business,” Barclays’s Aiken said. “They
already have a relationship, why not try to leverage it?”  Toronto-Dominion advanced 0.6 percent to close at C$83.65
in Toronto. The shares have declined less than 1 percent this
year, the worst  performer  on the 10-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  