-- Osborne Says Credibility ‘Easily Lost’ as IMF Warns on Austerity
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-24T16:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/osborne-says-credibility-easily-lost-as-imf-warns-on-austerity.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said there can be no letup in his budget-cutting
program after the  International Monetary Fund  urged him to
consider easing the pace of austerity if the recovery falters.  “Credibility is very hard won and easily lost and it
would be a huge mistake to put that at risk,” Osborne said at
an event today at the World Economic Forum annual meeting
in Davos,  Switzerland .  Britain is facing the prospect of its first triple-dip
recession on record as the economy struggles to lift itself out
of the financial crisis that began five years ago. The IMF cut
its U.K. growth forecasts yesterday and Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said today a “slower fiscal consolidation may be
appropriate.”  Osborne said last month that weaker-than-forecast growth
means it will take until 2018 to balance the budget, three years
later than planned when his Conservative-led government took
office in 2010 vowing to tackle a deficit of 11 percent of gross
domestic product. He told Cabinet colleagues this week to begin
identifying savings for the fiscal year starting April 2015.  “We have put in place what I think is a credible deficit-
reduction plan,” Osborne said. “It is credible and it is
flexible and we have already exercised that flexibility, so
before Christmas I made it clear that I would extend the horizon
of our ambitions.”  Economic Outlook  The IMF cut its global growth forecasts and now projects a
second year of contraction in the euro region as progress in
battling  Europe ’s debt crisis fails to produce a recovery. The
world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, less than the
3.6 percent forecast in October, the Washington-based lender
said yesterday.  Osborne faced renewed warnings that Britain risks losing
its top  credit rating  after government figures this week showed
the  budget deficit  widened in December as the weak economy
weighed on company profits. Investors often ignore such
actions, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the U.S.
lost its top grade at  Standard & Poor’s  in 2011.  Osborne said the fact that the British government can
borrow cheaply shows investors have faith in his economic
strategy. Ten-year gilts yielded 2.01 percent today, close to an
eight-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  