-- Hostess Seeks End to Sparring With Unions Over Sales
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-24T19:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/hostess-brands-asks-judge-to-approve-march-21-claims-bar-date.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
maker of Twinkies and Wonder Bread, asked a judge to set March
21 as the cutoff date for workers to file back-pay claims and
said it has no obligation to bargain with its former unions.  Hostess, previously subject to 372 collective-bargaining
agreements, said in court papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  White Plains ,  New York , that it now has “no continuing
duty to bargain with” unions objecting to sale procedures. The
company said its staff has been reduced to 255 people, including
20 union members.  With a hearing to approve asset bidding procedures
scheduled for tomorrow, Hostess is trying to deal with post-
bankruptcy claims for unpaid wages, leave, shift differentials
and severance requests. Hostess said it was pushed into
liquidation when its bakers’ union went on strike Nov. 9 after a
judge imposed contract concessions opposed by 92 percent of the
union’s members.  Company officials “are amenable to any process that would
promote the efficient and fair resolution of claims,” Corinne Ball, a lawyer for Hostess, said in the filing, which includes
copies of a claims form workers or their union representatives
must submit.  The Hostess creditors’ committee supports the sale of bread
assets for a total of about $390 million. The committee objects
to a 3.5 percent breakup fee, or $13.65 million, which it said
is too much in return for agreements by  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  to
make the opening bids.  Breakup Fee  Company lawyers said the deal-termination fee is “well
within the range of breakup fees proposed in similar
transactions and is reasonable under the circumstances.”  Flowers is offering to buy 20 bread plants, 38 depots and
other assets for $355 million, which may be increased to
$360 million if certain license rights are included in the sale.
Flowers also agreed to purchase the Beefsteak bread brand for
$30 million.  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , sought court protection in
January 2012, listing assets of $982 million and debt of
$1.43 billion, after years of declining sales as consumers
switched to more healthful foods amid increases in labor and
supply costs.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  