-- Total Seeks More North Sea Forties; Lukoil Offers Urals Crude
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-24T17:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/total-seeks-more-north-sea-forties-lukoil-offers-urals-crude.html
Total SA failed to buy more  North
Sea  Forties crude for a fourth day even as it raised its bid to
the highest level in two weeks. OAO Lukoil’s Litasco offered
Russian Urals grade, without finding a buyer.  The Caspian Pipeline Consortium’s crude link that runs from
northwest  Kazakhstan  to the  Black Sea  will reach full capacity
by 2015, according to OAO Transneft.  North Sea  Total bid unsuccessfully at 80 cents a barrel above Dated
Brent for Forties loading Feb. 5 to Feb. 7 and at plus 75 cents
for a Feb. 9 to Feb. 11 cargo, a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed. That’s the
highest since Jan. 10 and compares with purchases it made on
Jan. 22 at premiums of 35 cents and 40 cents.  The Paris-based company chartered a replacement
supertanker, the DS Crown, to haul Forties to  South Korea  after
canceling its previous booking, according to shipbroker reports.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days rose 19 cents to 73 cents a barrel more than Dated
Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for March settlement traded at $113.57 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $112.63 in the previous session. The April
contract was at $112.45, a discount of $1.12 to March.  Mediterranean/Urals  Litasco offered 100,000 metric tons of Urals at a 90 cent
discount to Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam, the
Platts survey showed. That’s the same price as a Jan. 21 trade.
There were no bids or offers in the Mediterranean.  The Urals differential to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
widened by 2 cents a barrel to minus 11 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In northwest  Europe , the  discount  shrank
to 74 cents a barrel from 76 cents yesterday, the data showed.
That’s the smallest spread since Nov. 6.  The CPC expansion is still dependent on whether fields
being developed have started production, Mikhail Barkov, a vice-
president at  Russia ’s state-owned pipeline operator, said today
in Moscow. The link’s output is to be increased to 67 million
tons annually, or 1.4 million barrels a day.  PKN Orlen SA is seeking to buy 100,000 tons of Urals via an
informal closed tender, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  Orlen plans to buy the blend from either Ust-Luga or
Primorsk ports for loading on Feb. 7 to Feb. 11, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell 2 cents to $2.09 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. That’s the
least since Dec. 4.  CPC Corp., a Taiwan state-run oil company, bought at least
three cargoes of Angolan crude for loading in March, according
to four traders with knowledge of the matter.  The refiner purchased at least two lots of Cabinda and one
Nemba grade, the traders said, declining to be identified as the
information is confidential. Each consignment is for 1 million
barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  