-- Tough-as-Nails Prosecutor White to Tackle SEC Policy Battles
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-01-25T16:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/tough-as-nails-prosecutor-white-to-tackle-sec-policy-stalemates.html
In nominating former U.S. Attorney
Mary Jo White to run the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, President  Barack Obama  said he was sending a signal
that the regulator would be tough on  Wall Street .  “You don’t want to mess with Mary Jo,” Obama said as he
introduced her at the White House.  Political messages aside, White’s experience as a
prosecutor may provide little help with the most pressing and
contentious issues at the SEC, which are on its policy-making
side. They include disputes over how to regulate  money market
funds , streamline initial public offerings, write the Volcker
rule ban on banks’ proprietary trading, and fend off crises in
fractured markets dominated by high-speed trading.  “The challenge for Ms. White will be to balance the fact
that the SEC is first and foremost a regulatory agency with her
prosecutorial background,” Thomas Gorman, a former SEC attorney
who is now a partner at law firm Dorsey & Whitney LLP, said in
an e-mail.  Brian Gardner , senior vice president for Washington
research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., said her learning
curve may slow down policy making.  “Ms. White has limited experience with corporate finance
and market structure issues as well as issues such as the
Volcker rule and money market fund regulation,” Gardner said
yesterday in a note. “We expect little action in the near term
on issues like high-frequency trading as we expect Ms. White
will need to do some on-the-job training before proposing new
policies.”  ‘Great Catch’  John Olson , a securities lawyer and partner at Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher LLP, said White was a “great catch” for the White
House. Olson said her lack of experience with market regulation
means she will have to learn the commission’s regulations for
overseeing exchanges and derivatives.  “That’s all going to be learning-curve stuff for Mary
Jo,” Olson said. “As an experienced prosecutor and trial
lawyer, you have to learn cases and new areas of the law all the
time.”  White’s nomination has left the SEC’s constituencies --from
Wall Street to investor advocates -- looking ahead to her as-
yet-unscheduled Senate confirmation hearings where they will
hear her views on the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and the Jumpstart Our
Business Startups Act for the first time.  While White is “clearly qualified” for the job, “we’re
interested to see what her thoughts are on Dodd-Frank,” said
Scott Talbott, senior vice president of public policy at the
Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based trade group
for large banks and insurance firms.  Agency’s Image  If confirmed, White, 65, would inherit an agency that has
been faulted for not pursuing more top executives for conduct
related to the financial market turmoil of 2008 and for failing
to forge consensus on new rules mandated by Congress. Former
officials said her stature in the legal community will help re-
establish the agency’s image as a tough and competent regulator.  “She is independent, she has great integrity and she is
going to do the right thing,” said   Harvey Goldschmid , former
Democratic commissioner at the SEC who is now a professor at
Columbia Law School. White, who was a student of Goldschmid’s,
“isn’t going to put up with nonsense from any corner of
Washington or the business community,” he said.  One of the first marks White would be able to make on the
agency would be the people she chooses to fill top posts that
are currently open, including the heads of enforcement, market
oversight and disclosure policy.  Attracting ‘Talent’  Outgoing SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami , in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for the program
“Capitol Gains” airing January 27th, said White “will attract
a great deal of talent to the agency.”  White, a partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in
New York, has served on the board of the  Nasdaq Stock Market
Inc. (NDAQ)  As U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York from
1993 to 2002, she became a leading terrorism prosecutor, winning
the conviction of four followers of  Osama bin Laden  for the 1998
bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa.  Under her direction, prosecutors won convictions for the
1993 World Trade Center bombing and a failed plot to blow up the
United Nations headquarters and other New York landmarks. During
that time, she supervised Khuzami as well as George Canellos,
his deputy.  Obama said her nomination will ensure the laws and rules
put in place after the financial crisis are used to protect
investors and families.  Law Enforcement  “It’s not enough to change the law, we also need cops on
the beat to enforce the law,” Obama said.  The SEC, established in the 1930s to oversee Wall Street,
has civil enforcement powers; criminal cases like the ones White
oversaw in the U.S. attorney’s office are handled by the
 Department of Justice .  Still, with her law-and-order background, lawmakers
indicated that she wouldn’t have trouble winning approval in the
Democrat-controlled Senate.  “Mary Jo White is a fearless, tough-as-nails prosecutor
with the knowledge of industry to keep up with the markets’
swift innovation,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, said in a statement. “She will easily be confirmed.”  Senator  Jack Reed , the Rhode Island Democrat who heads the
Banking subcommittee that oversees the agency, said White was
“a strong pick.”  White’s ‘Vision’  “I look forward to having a discussion with Ms. White
about her vision for implementing Dodd-Frank, regulating
computerized trading, and strengthening accountability,
transparency, and investor protections on Wall Street,” Reed
said in a statement.  For their part, Republican lawmakers were non-committal.
Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee said he wants to make sure White
is “committed to working with Congress on technical and policy
improvements to Dodd-Frank.”  Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, chairman of the
House Financial Services Committee, said he’s “particularly
interested to learn during the confirmation hearings how quickly
she plans to finish the SEC’s delayed work on the bipartisan
JOBS Act that Congress passed almost a year ago.”  One potential point of contention will be her work as a
lawyer for some of Wall Street’s biggest names. She represented
former  Bank of America  CEO Kenneth D. Lewis during an SEC probe
of claims that Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank didn’t
disclose bonuses that Merrill Lynch & Co. paid to executives
before buying the brokerage. The bank settled the claims for
$150 million; Lewis wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Defending Corporations  In 2011, White was hired by  News Corp. (NWSA)  to defend its
independent directors against claims related to the company’s
role in phone hacking by News of the World, its former U.K.-
based tabloid.  Jeff Connaughton, who was chief of staff to former Delaware
Democratic Senator Ted Kaufman and is the author of “The
Payoff: Why Wall Street Always Wins,” said it’s an open
question whether White has been “culturally captured” by her
decade-long stint as a defense attorney for Wall Street banks
and other corporate clients.  “There is no reason in the world why she shouldn’t be able
to transform back into a tough-as-nails prosecutor,” said
Connaughton. “But as we too often see in Washington, there can
be cultural baggage. The question is whether she leaves those
bags behind.”  Prosecutorial Zeal  White has yet to display the same kind of prosecutorial
zeal for financial crimes as she brought to terrorism. In one
public appearance last year, White argued that prosecutors
shouldn’t allow public anger to influence investigations.  “You should be aggressive where there is a crime,” she
said at a New York University School of Law event in February
2012. Prosecutors must not “fail to distinguish what is
actually criminal and what is just mistaken behavior, what is
even reckless risk-taking, and not bow to the frenzy,” she
said.  White also surfaced in an SEC controversy when she worked
on behalf of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to vet  John Mack  before he was named
CEO of the investment bank. She sought information in 2005 from
then-SEC enforcement director Linda Thomsen about what an
insider-trading probe of hedge-fund manager Pequot Capital
Management Inc. revealed about Mack’s involvement.  An SEC inspector general’s report issued in 2008 questioned
whether Thomsen should have shared information about a potential
target with White. The agency later informed Mack and Pequot
that it had closed the investigation and wouldn’t pursue any
action against them.  Third Woman  White would be the third consecutive woman to head the SEC.
 Mary Schapiro  stepped down from the SEC’s top job last month and
was succeeded by Elisse Walter, who spent the past four years at
the agency as a commissioner. Walter was able to become chairman
without going through a second Senate confirmation and can stay
on the commission through the end of this year.  White’s husband, John W. White, was head of the SEC’s
division of corporation finance from 2006 to 2008 under
Republican SEC Chairman  Christopher Cox . White is now a partner
at law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  