-- Lowe’s Hires Husqvarna’s Michael Jones as Top Merchant
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-01-24T21:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/lowe-s-hires-husqvarna-s-michael-jones-as-top-merchant.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, hired  Husqvarna AB (HUSQB)  executive Michael A. Jones as its top merchant and promoted Stephen J. Szilagyi to
supply-chain chief as the retailer works to catch faster-growing
 Home Depot (HD)  Inc.  Jones was president of the outdoor equipment maker’s
operations in North America and Latin America, Mooresville,
North Carolina-based Lowe’s said today in a statement. Szilagyi,
49, joined Lowe’s in 2001 and has served as senior vice
president of distribution.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  has cut jobs, closed
stores and shuffled executives in the past year and a half after
trailing larger Home Depot in sales growth. Lowe’s increased
comparable-store sales 1.8 percent in the third quarter,
trailing the 4.2 percent gain by Atlanta-based Home Depot.  Jones, who started at Lowe’s yesterday, and Szilagyi work
two levels below Niblock, 50, creating the potential for them to
become CEO. When hiring senior executives, Lowe’s recruits
candidates with the potential to move into jobs one or two
levels higher, Maureen Ausura, chief human-resources officer,
said in an interview Oct. 19.  “We always hire new executives to these senior positions
at Lowe’s who have the ability to go beyond just the
responsibilities we’re asking them to step into,” Chief
Customer Officer Greg Bridgeford, 58, who will oversee Jones,
said today in a telephone interview. “There are no discussions
about Robert leaving his current position.”  Lowe’s advanced 1.4 percent to $38.41 at the close in  New
York . The shares climbed 40 percent in 2012, compared with a 47
percent gain for Home Depot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  