-- BMW to Build Sports Car With Toyota in Deeper Partnership
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-24T15:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/toyota-bmw-sign-binding-agreements-for-fuel-cells-sports-car.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , will work with  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  to produce a midsize sports car, expanding their
cooperation amid industry efforts to limit development costs.  BMW and Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, will also
set up partnerships to create fuel-cell systems, lightweight
materials and lithium-air batteries, the companies said today.
The two began collaborating in 2011 on  lithium-ion batteries  and
other fuel-saving projects.  Automakers have been setting up technology development
deals to share spending on vehicles and recoup investments
quicker as parts are used in more models.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  today outlined their compact-model
development strategy as part of a year-old partnership aimed at
restoring earnings in a shrinking European market.  “These technologies are expensive, so I think you’ll see
more of these in the future as a way to share costs,” Stephen Girsky, GM’s interim European chief, said in an interview in
Brussels. “It’s all about which companies can work together. As
the cost of technology keeps going up, we’re going to look for
ways to offset the costs and share risks.”  Daimler AG (DAI)  has teamed up with  Renault SA (RNO)  to refresh its
Smart small-car brand, while BMW’s Mini brand shares gasoline
engines with Peugeot.  Fiat SpA (F)  last week announced a final deal
to build a new Alfa Romeo roadster with  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  Paris-
based Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, and Detroit-
based GM said today that a parts-purchasing venture they’re
setting up in the region has won antitrust clearance.  Teaming Up  Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are the only producers among the
region’s Top 10 that don’t have large-scale cooperation
agreements on technology or models.  Toyota’s collaboration with BMW allows the Toyota City,
Japan-based carmaker to expand its European lineup of diesel-
powered vehicles. The partnership enables BMW to work with the
world’s biggest producer of hybrid vehicles as the German
company develops alternative powering systems while fending off
efforts by VW’s Audi division to take the global lead in luxury-
car sales.  “The cooperation between BMW and Toyota is very
promising,”  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Bankhaus Metzler, said by phone. “The two companies are working
together from a position of strength, and doing so as a matter
of choice rather than pressure. The Peugeot-Opel partnership has
more the tone of an emergency alliance.”  Taking Lead  Peugeot will develop three platforms, or the chassis and
major parts, for subcompact and compact models that the French
carmaker and its U.S. partner will produce and sell separately,
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said today at a press
conference in Brussels. The companies “have nothing to
announce” about any joint car manufacturing, Girsky said at the
briefing.  Peugeot  posted  an 819 million-euro ($1.09 billion) net loss
in the first half, and it’s closing a factory and cutting 17
percent of its French workforce. GM’s European division has
racked up $17.3 billion in losses since 1999, and it’s looking
at accelerating plans to shutter a factory in Germany in
response to the regional car market contraction.  The Peugeot-GM alliance is targeted at yielding a combined
$2 billion in cost savings and sales improvements over five
years, Varin estimated in December. The joint parts-purchasing
venture will be a “cornerstone” of the partnership, Girsky
said today.  Powertrain Talks  BMW talks to work with Toyota on electric powertrains are
continuing,  Mathias Schmidt , a BMW spokesman, said by phone. The
German carmaker dissolved a joint venture to develop electric
powertrains with Peugeot last year after GM took a 7 percent
stake in the French company as their alliance formed.  Toyota is aiming for a joint project in the development of
battery-powered cars, Yasumori Ihara, a senior managing officer,
said today at a Tokyo press conference. BMW will supply Toyota
with 1.6-liter and 2-liter engines for the Japanese company’s
models in Europe starting in 2014.  Under its new “i” sub-brand, BMW plans to introduce its
first electric-powered model, the i3 city car, later this year.
The vehicle will be followed by the i8 plug-in hybrid sports
car, which is scheduled to go on sale in 2014.  “In light of the technological changes ahead, the entire
automotive industry faces tremendous challenges, which we also
regard as an opportunity,” BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said in a statement. “This collaboration is an
important building block in keeping both companies on a
successful course in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  