-- Pain Pill Abuse Helped by Doctor Inattention, DEA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-24T20:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/pain-pill-abuse-helped-by-doctor-inattention-dea-says.html
The high rates of abuse of
hydrocodone combination painkillers such as Vicodin show doctors
aren’t taking seriously enough the risks of the pills, a top
Drug Enforcement Administration official said.  “This drug has got a hold of this society and it’s killing
us,” Joseph Rannazzisi, deputy assistant administrator in the
DEA’s office of diversion control, said at a  Food and Drug
Administration  advisory meeting today in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland . “There’s so many prescriptions out there and I’ll
tell you why. The medical community, in my humble opinion, is
not taking this drug seriously.”  The FDA advisers are debating the DEA’s request to limit
prescriptions of hydrocodone combination pills and cough
suppressants to a 90-day supply instead of the current five
refills within six months. The proposal also would strip
physician assistants and nurse practitioners of their authority
to prescribe the products.  Hydrocodone combinations, which join the main ingredient
with less potent painkillers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen,
are considered a Schedule III controlled substance, the third-
highest level on a five-stage scale that takes into account the
potential for addiction. Pure hydrocodone is one class higher
and, as a result, has more restrictions on sales.  The advisory panel is scheduled to vote tomorrow on a
recommendation at the conclusion of the two-day meeting.  Agency Disagreement  The DEA had asked the FDA to recommend reclassifying
hydrocodone-combination products to Schedule II in 2004, a
request the FDA denied in 2008, according to an FDA  document 
released ahead of today’s meeting. The DEA resubmitted its
request in 2009.  “I think it’s obvious the two agencies have a
disagreement,” Rannazzisi said. “They don’t have the luxury of
seeing what I see.”  Emergency department visits related to hydrocodone totaled
115,739 in 2010, more than double 2004 admissions, the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration said in a July 2
 report .  The West Coast tends to use more hydrocodone than the East
Coast. In 2010, 159,000 hydrocodone tablets were sold on average
to California pharmacies compared to 60,000 in  New York 
pharmacies on average the same year, Rannazzisi said.  Abuse Potential  Abuse potential is a complex determination, Silvia
Calderon, pharmacology team leader on the FDA’s controlled
substance staff, wrote in a staff report released ahead of the
meeting. Alternatives to reclassifying, such as education
efforts and prescription drug monitoring programs, may be what
is needed to curtail abuse, Calderon wrote.  Panel members and public speakers also questioned whether
changing the classification on the drugs would change the abuse
potential.  “The classification of opioids doesn’t stop misuse,”
Edward Michna, director of the Pain Trials Center at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts , said during
the hearing. “Oxycotin is class II and it’s our most misused.”  Emergency department visits related to oxycodone products
totaled 182,748 in 2010, according to the SAMHSA. Michna told
the panel that the FDA invited him to speak.  Greater restrictions on hydrocodone could decrease patient
access and cause a chilling effect on doctors’ willingness to
provide needed hydrocodone, he said.  “It’s all about balance,” Michna said.  Zogenix Pill  A change in rules for hydrocodone-combination products may
benefit some companies, including  Zogenix Inc., (ZGNX)  which is
developing a pure form of hydrocodone that would currently have
to compete with less controlled substances such as  Abbott
Laboratories’ (ABT)  Vicodin and generic equivalents. A change in drug
schedules would put Zogenix on a more even keel with
competitors.  Zogenix’s pure hydrocodone painkiller Zohydro failed last
month to win the backing of different FDA advisers who said the
company needed to incorporate more measures into the drug to
deter addicts from crushing the pills to snort them for a
greater high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  