-- Paul Krugman’s Worn-Out Ideas for Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-24T22:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/paul-krugman-s-worn-out-ideas-for-japan.html
Let’s get over this honeymoon for
 Japan ’s new prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and do a reality check
on his idea that the economy is about to boom now that voters
have returned him to office.  At first, I wondered if I had lost my bearings. Was I just
hopelessly cynical after 11 years in Tokyo, watching a numbing
parade of inept leaders come and go as the  Liberal Democratic
Party  pledged change that never arrived? The steps Abe has taken
in the first few weeks of his latest premiership restored my
faith in the merits of skepticism.  Abe’s big idea, the one that has investors feeling the most
bullish on Japan since 2009, is fiscal pump-priming and getting
the  Bank of Japan  to do more to stimulate growth. About 21
percent of respondents to a Bloomberg poll now see Japan as
offering the best opportunities over the next year. The same
poll showed 54 percent are more optimistic than pessimistic
about what some are calling Abenomics.  Those numbers are hard to ignore on two scores. First, I
only hope that those in charge of managing my retirement
accounts aren’t among the Japan-bulls-come-lately. The second is
how short memories can be. Abe, remember, failed miserably in
his first term as prime minister in 2006-2007.  Walker Economy  Abe’s LDP spent almost 20 years building bridges, roads,
tunnels, dams and airports to nowhere and forcing the central
bank to add liquidity to the banking system to end deflation.
And what did those unimaginative policies leave Japan’s 126
million people with? The easy answer is the world’s highest
ratio of debt to gross domestic product. The harder one: Japan
has become a nation that can’t proceed without the economic
equivalent of a walker.  That image takes on a deeper meaning when you consider
Japan’s awful demographics and the dearth of ideas to cope with
them. Take Finance Minister Taro Aso, who this week said elderly
people should “hurry up and die” to relieve pressure on the
government to pay for health care.  So is it really plausible that with just one more try of
the same old remedies, Abe’s team will get the economy to walk
on its own and then sprint ahead? Seriously?  No economist could formulate a credible list of every shot
of stimulus and every dose of monetary steroids that officials
have pumped into the economy since the early 1990s. There have
been too many overlapping treatments to document. None of them,
not a single one, achieved what investors are betting Abe will
do this time: make a Japanese recovery self-sustaining.  Fooling Investors  Deflation won’t end until Japanese consumers believe it
will. Companies won’t hire until they think households will
boost spending. Banks won’t lend until they assume loans won’t
go bad. Wages won’t rise, supporting the expectations of these
three pillars of the economy, until there is genuine confidence
that 2013 or 2014 will be better than 2012.  This gambit may fool some investors, and it even got a  plug 
from Nobel-winning economist  Paul Krugman . It is true that Japan
probably will get a quick GDP jolt. The yen is down and stocks
are up. Japanese have seen this movie before, though, and
suffered through sequel after sequel.  Abe isn’t offering anything new. Aside from a weaker yen,
does he have a plan to make Japan more competitive to take on
 China  or halt Sony Corp.’s slide toward irrelevance? How about
ideas to make the  labor force  more flexible and international,
starting with a new immigration policy? Or a strategy that
inspires young Japanese to start new companies or families? What
about freer trade? Increasing women’s role in politics and
business? Even an energy plan that champions something other
than the nuclear reactors Japanese fear amid earthquake risks?  None of the above. What Abe’s party fails to grasp is that
Japan’s challenge is structural, not financial. Surely that’s
the message BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa was aiming for this
week. Abe talked about browbeating the central bank into a 2
percent inflation target. Shirakawa’s response? Yeah, maybe in a
year. By then, Abe will have replaced Shirakawa, whose term
expires in April, with a more agreeable official. But the BOJ’s
smackdown is a reminder that monetary policy only goes so far
when an economy is hobbled by dysfunction.  The LDP’s policies are like a religion with a fixed set of
beliefs that have little utility in today’s world. The party’s
dogma was fine before 1964, the year the  Tokyo  Olympics wowed a
world that thought Japan couldn’t rise so quickly from the
wreckage of World War II. The policy obsolescence became obvious
once the bubble economy of the 1980s crashed.  Things are changing all around Japan. Yet officials in
Tokyo refuse to embrace the world of 2013, assuming that the
canon that delivered Japan the highest per-capita incomes in
 Asia  is still viable. This faith that Japan is just one huge
spending package away from bliss is becoming more detrimental
with each passing year and credit downgrade. Abenomics really is
more religion than reality.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  