-- Penn State Walk-On Walks Away With BofA Share: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-24T18:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/penn-state-walk-on-walks-away-with-bofa-share-mortgages.html
Quicken Loans Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Bill Emerson went from a walk-on with Pennsylvania State
University’s football team to part of Coach Joe Paterno’s 1982
championship squad, and then a captain two years later.  Emerson last year led Quicken, the mortgage lender owned by
billionaire Dan Gilbert that was the 34th-largest in 2006 as the
U.S. housing boom ended, to near the very top of an industry
that’s reaping the rewards of a refinancing boom engineered by
the Federal Reserve and President  Barack Obama .  Quicken is taking advantage of the collapse of hundreds of
rivals, retreats by some of the largest banks, and hurdles faced
by new competitors. The Detroit-based company overtook  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  as the fifth-ranked originator in the third quarter, and
then surpassed U.S. Bancorp and  Bank of America Corp.  After its
lending jumped to $70 billion in 2012 from a previous record of
$30 billion, it still has room to grow, according to Emerson.  “Our mission is to do as much or more than we did last
year,” Emerson, 50, said in an interview at Bloomberg News
headquarters in New York. “There’s a massive market out there,
and 93 out of 100 people still wake up and go somewhere else.”  The firm’s rapid expansion reflects its opportunities and
ambitions, with its staff growing to about 8,900 this month from
5,400 a year ago. About 7,000 are in  Detroit , where founder and
Chairman Gilbert -- also the majority owner of investment firm
Rock Ventures LLC and the Cleveland Cavaliers basketball team --
moved the lender in 2010 and bought other properties in a long-
term bet on that city’s revitalization.  Reshaping Industry  The company is among firms reshaping a mortgage industry
broken by the housing bust that  drove  values down by 35 percent
across the country before a recovery that began last year.
Causalities included IndyMac Bancorp, American Home Mortgage
Investment Corp. and New Century Financial Corp.; Bank of
America and Citigroup units that made loans through other firms;
and almost all lending that doesn’t qualify for government-
backed programs.  For surviving lenders, business has been booming, with new
loans rising 22 percent in 2012 to $1.8 trillion as the Fed
drove 30-year  mortgage rates  to record lows below 3.4 percent
and Obama expanded federal refinancing programs. Quicken joined
lenders including U.S. Bancorp, Flagstar Bancorp Inc.,  Everbank
Financial Corp. (EVER)  and  PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust (PMT)  in
growing even faster.  Lender Retreat  Retreats by large lenders such as Bank of America left a
“tremendous amount of market share available,” said John Robbins, the head of Bexil American Mortgage Inc., who founded
two mortgage firms sold to banks that are now part of Wells
Fargo & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “If you did a good job, it
was there, and it’s going to continue to be there for a while.”  Quicken made about $25 billion of mortgages last quarter,
exceeding the $22.1 billion of mortgage production reported by
U.S. Bancorp. Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, said it funded $22.5 billion in residential mortgages
and  home-equity loans  as it seeks to rebuild in the business,
while Citigroup reported $16.8 billion in mortgage originations.  Those 2012 volumes would have earned Quicken more than $1
billion in profit, based on mortgage earnings data reported by
 Wells Fargo (WFC) , the market leader with $524 billion of originations
last year. JPMorgan, which last year licensed some Quicken
technology, ranked second.  Quicken has been profitable every year, Emerson said,
declining to provide figures. It has “no near-term game plan in
terms of an exit strategy” such as a sale or initial public
offering, he said.  Call Centers  The company’s business model differs from most of its
rivals. It eschews branches and relationships with mortgage
brokers or correspondent lenders, and grants loans almost solely
through its website and call centers. That’s shifted slightly
since 2010, when it began to strike deals with community banks
to fund loans to their customers on a co-branded basis.  That business and an arrangement to take referrals from
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  fueled about 15 percent of its originations
last year, according to Emerson. Roughly 85 percent of the total
was refinancing, he said.  Quicken’s centralized operations make use of proprietary
software designed to make it more customer-friendly and
efficient, such as by breaking up work typically done by one
processor into 16 different jobs, Emerson said.  That “fantastic technology” has created a “very scalable
model,” said James Raezer, head of mortgage finance in the
Americas at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s securities arm,
one of its lenders. “They’re a pretty impressive
organization.”  Football Success  The company was founded in 1985 by Gilbert as a
traditional, branch-based lender named Rock Financial Corp.
Emerson joined in 1993 as a loan officer, after getting an
interview from a newspaper ad based partly on his college
football success.  He started attending Penn State in 1981 after growing up in
Whitney Point, a small town in upstate New York, about 55 miles
from Syracuse. His father was a physical education teacher,
coaching football, basketball and other high-school sports.  At Penn State, he went out for the football team as an
invited walk-on, with no promise of financial aid, then won a
scholarship after his sophomore year to help pay for his degree
in finance. A 5-foot-11, 195-pound  running back , he played
mostly on special teams, and was made one of five captains as a
senior despite a limited on-field role. He rushed twice for 12
yards and caught one pass, according to  sports-reference.com .  Going Public  Emerson distinguished himself at Quicken by leading an
initiative to create what it described as a “mortgage in a
box.” The firm mailed documents for customers to fill out and
send back -- a precursor to the online model it would begin to
focus on after going public in May 1998, when it raised $33
million.  Within two years, with Internet-related stocks booming, the
company was bought by Intuit Inc., the maker of the Quicken and
TurboTax personal-finance software, for $529.4 million. The
marriage was short-lived, amid predictions that interest rates
were set to rise and as Intuit sought to focus more on small
businesses, rather than consumers.  At Gilbert’s retirement party in 2002, an Intuit executive
broached the idea of him buying it back, Emerson said. After
Emerson took over as CEO as planned, the lender was sold that
August for $20.5 million to a group led by Gilbert, which also
got the right to use the Quicken brand. By last year, Gilbert
ranked 250th on Forbes magazine’s list of the wealthiest
Americans, with a net worth  estimated  at $1.9 billion.  Industry Stature  Emerson, who communicates with Gilbert at least every other
day, has seen his own stature in the industry rise, with roles
at the Mortgage Bankers Association and Housing Policy Council,
an affiliate of the  Financial Services Roundtable  led by the
industry’s top CEOs, as lenders face reforms and prepare for
changes such as the future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Quicken survived the housing collapse better than those
government-supported mortgage-bond guarantors, partly because it
had gotten out of subprime lending in 1998. Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac received about $140 billion of taxpayer aid while
hundreds of lenders failed after making risky mortgages they
couldn’t sell, or because of poorly underwritten loans that they
were later forced to repurchase.  Having a model that by its nature isn’t “loan officer-
centric” probably helped Quicken, Emerson said. For instance,
appraisals have always been ordered through a separate firm it
owns, rather than by employees with incentives to make sure
mortgages close -- a setup later encouraged by regulators in
response to inflated valuations.  Buying Buildings  The firm was based in Livonia,  Michigan  before Gilbert
moved it to  Detroit  -- where his Rock Ventures last month added
five buildings to holdings including the 101-year-old Chrysler
House and 13-story Chase Tower.  The relocation coincided with other shifts in Quicken’s
business. After starting in 2009 to retain “a small
percentage” of the contracts to service, or manage, the
 mortgages  that it makes, Quicken now keeps almost all of them,
and may add more through bulk purchases, Emerson said.  The servicing portfolio, whose growth reflects its view
that the contracts are cheap after firms including Bank of
America sought to shrink their investments, has climbed to about
$80 billion. That would have made it the 17th-biggest servicer
as of Sept. 30, according to newsletter  Inside Mortgage Finance .  ‘Very Aggressive’  Quicken also last year stood out for becoming “very
aggressive” in seeking to use the federal Home Affordable
Refinance Program to refinance underwater loans serviced by
others, said Vipul Jain, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. That’s
exemplified by its radio ads, he said. The company tells
prospective borrowers that it may be able to refinance their
loans no matter how much they owe on their house.  The firm went after HARP loans after Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac made changes to the program that reduced the risk for new
lenders that they would need to buy back the mortgages for
appraisal errors, Emerson said.  The rapid expansion may be hurting its vaunted reputation
for service, after it  topped  J.D. Power & Associates customer-
satisfaction surveys in the past three years.  Online complaints, such as on the Consumer Affairs  website ,
may reflect the growing pains associated with adding new
workers, Emerson said, along with the elevated volumes that are
bogging down the industry and some homeowners being too
optimistic about their properties’ values.  Reputation is especially important to Quicken, Emerson
said, because repeat customers and referrals are a key source of
business, as it avoids seeking to win volumes with the lowest
rates. The company also advertises on television and online,
buys leads from aggregators such as LowerMyBills.com and has
started sponsoring a Nascar racing team.  Daily Reports  Emerson gets daily reports about all complaints seen about
the firm in  social media  or received in e-mails, and he and
Gilbert are alerted whenever a potential borrower’s question
goes 24 hours without a response, he said. An internal slogan,
reminiscent of a sports team, says: “Every client. Every time.
No exceptions. No excuses.”  Emerson’s time at Penn State became directly part of his
professional life last year when he sent a note to Quicken’s
employees in January after the death of Paterno, discussing his
thoughts on the coach. Paterno’s reputation had been tarred by
the Jerry Sandusky child-molestation scandal. A university-
commissioned report in July said Paterno failed to take
responsible action to prevent the sexual abuse of children.  “There’s no way it wouldn’t hit you hard,” Emerson said,
referring to the death of Paterno, whose funeral he attended.
“Anyone who’s played for him, everyone who knows him, knows
what he was about.”  Challenges Ahead  Professionally, Emerson’s biggest challenges may be ahead.  Refinancing, which accounted for 71 percent of originations
last year, may fall to 58 percent of volumes this year and 34
percent in 2014, as rates increase. That’s going to help bring
down total lending by 39 percent to $1.1 trillion, according to
a Mortgage Bankers Association  forecast . Economists predict that
10-year Treasury yields, which help guide borrowing costs, will
rise to 2.27 percent at the end of this year,  from  1.86 percent
as of 1 p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Even with the reduced volumes, firms like Quicken can
expand. New potential competitors are finding it more difficult
to get into the business because it’s harder to obtain state
licenses or Fannie Mae approvals, according to Robbins, whose
Bexil American firm started lending last year through brokers.  Personal Relationships  Still, Robbins is skeptical about how well an online lender
can do once refinancing dries up. Borrowers often choose which
firm to use for mortgages for home purchases based on referrals
by real-estate agents or builders, driven in many cases by
personal relationships with local loan officers, he said.  “It’s the Achilles heel of that particular model,” said
Robbins, who’s been involved in the mortgage business for more
than 40 years. “I have always found that the face-to-face
relationship is far superior.”  Quicken’s refinancing prowess is reflected in its move in
2011 to start marketing around its “ Yourgage ,” a rare attempt
by a lender to differentiate itself with an unconventional
product since the housing boom. Essentially a traditional
mortgage with a term equal to any number of years that a
borrower chooses, the loan accounted for about 5 percent of
volume last year, with eight years being the most popular length
as homeowners seek to avoid extending their debt as they
refinance, Emerson said.  It’s now working on strategies to capture more purchase-
mortgage business, he said.  ‘Slick Marketing’  The firm’s increasing market share gives it customers who
may return when they buy properties, and an online lender can
win over real estate agents by giving them “visibility into
what’s going on with their transaction,” Emerson said. “It’s
completely doable.”  The company has a shot, according to Mark Fleming, chief
economist at real-estate data firm CoreLogic Inc. Differing from
rivals he’s visited, Quicken’s offices “buzz” with engaged
employees, it runs a “slick marketing engine” and consumers
are growing more used to online transactions.  “Things are changing and maybe you don’t need those local
relationships anymore,” Fleming said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 