-- Peugeot to Lead in Platforms for Joint Compacts With GM
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-24T11:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/peugeot-to-lead-in-platforms-for-joint-compacts-with-gm.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  said the French carmaker will take the lead in
developing joint models as the first anniversary approaches of
an alliance aimed at restoring profit to European operations.  Peugeot will spearhead work on the three vehicle platforms
that both manufacturers will use for compact cars they plan to
put on sale in 2016, Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said
today at joint press conference with GM Europe interim President
Stephen J. Girsky in Brussels.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker, and Detroit-
based GM, which owns the Opel and Vauxhall nameplates in the
region, announced plans for the alliance in February 2012.
Projects outlined on Dec. 20 included the chassis and major
parts for the compact models as well as a parts-procurement
venture in the region.  The component-supply agreement, which the companies said
today has met antitrust conditions, will be a “cornerstone” of
the alliance, Girsky said. The companies have “nothing to
announce” about any joint car manufacturing, he said,
reiterating that Opel “is not for sale.”  The first-half net loss at Peugeot amounted to 819 million
euros ($1.09 billion). The Paris-based company since then has
announced plans to shutter its car plant in nearby Aulnay by
2014 and reduce its French automotive  workforce  by 17 percent.
Peugeot’s deliveries in  Europe , where its sales fell faster than
the market contracted, accounted for 62 percent of the
manufacturer’s sales of fully assembled vehicles in 2012.  Accelerated Shutdown  GM, whose European division has racked up $17.3 billion in
losses since 1999, said on Jan. 22 that it may close Opel’s auto
factory in Bochum,  Germany , two years earlier than planned as
the European auto market shrinks for a sixth straight year. The
U.S. carmaker became Peugeot’s second-largest shareholder in
March 2012 with the purchase of a 7 percent stake for 320
million euros.  Girsky and Varin said today that the partnership should
have no effects on jobs at their operations in Germany and
 France .  The alliance will yield a total $2 billion for the partners
in annual cost savings and sales improvements over five years,
Varin said in December. GM and Peugeot are looking at a possible
fourth platform for fuel-efficient cars, and they’re continuing
to consider ways to expand cooperation to growing vehicle
markets, such as  South America  and  Russia , the French CEO said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Brussels via 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  