-- Philippines Holds Key Rate as Inflows Spur Risk of Asset Bubble
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-01-24T08:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/philippines-holds-key-rate-as-inflows-spur-risk-of-asset-bubble.html
The  Philippines  refrained from
cutting benchmark borrowing costs and moved to reduce the rate
on special deposit accounts to curb capital inflows that
threaten to create asset-price bubbles.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the  rate  it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at a record-low 3.5 percent, according to
a statement in  Manila  today. The decision was predicted by all
20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The central bank also
set the rate on all special deposit accounts at 3 percent to
ensure “adequate” liquidity.  Emerging-market policy makers are grappling with capital
inflows that threaten to destabilize their economies as  interest
rates  near zero in developed nations lure investors seeking
higher returns. Bangko Sentral last week said it is considering
expanding  reserve requirements  on banks’ trust products, as the
peso’s rise to a five-year high this month hurts exporters and
erodes the value of remittances.  “Coping with the excessive inflows remains the key
challenge, with the strengthening peso threatening the
competitiveness of several industries,” Eugene Leow, an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before
the decision. “More administrative measures may be introduced
to address these inflows in the near term. In the meantime, we
expect BSP to maintain policy rates.”  The peso was little changed at 40.627 against the dollar as
of 3:59 p.m. in Manila. The benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange
Index gained 0.4 percent at the close.  Speculative Inflows  The Philippines’ $225 billion economy grew 7.1 percent in
the third quarter, the fastest pace since 2010 and the most in
 Southeast Asia . A rising middle class is boosting spending on
Ayala Land Inc.’s homes and Jollibee Food Corp.’s fried chicken
meals, brightening the outlook for company profits and helping
the benchmark  stock exchange index  surge to a record this month.  The monetary authority is focused on containing speculative
inflows and has participated in the  currency market  to restrain
the peso, Governor Amando Tetangco said last week. Bangko
Sentral last month said it will impose limits on currency
forward positions at banks at 20 percent of capital for local
lenders and 100 percent for foreign entities.  The peso has gained more than 6 percent in the past 12
months, the best performer among  Asia ’s 11 most widely-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. “A clear and present concern
is the impact of capital inflows,” Tetangco said earlier this
month, adding that they “could also feed credit booms, asset-
price bubbles and other financial imbalances.”  Eroding Competitiveness  Remittances to the Philippines, which account for about 10
percent of the economy, rose 7.6 percent in November, while
portfolio inflows surged to a record $18.5 billion in 2012.  The currency’s gains are eroding competitiveness, the
Business Processing Association of the Philippines said in a
statement last month. Elsewhere in Asia, advances in the won
prompted South Korea’s central bank to announce in November it
would tighten limits on currency forward positions at banks,
while a Commerce Ministry official in  Thailand  said yesterday
they are worried that the baht’s strength will affect exports.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending
to a record this year while seeking more than $16 billion of
investments in roads and airports to spur growth to as much as 7
percent in 2013.  Standard & Poor’s  last month raised the
country’s sovereign rating outlook to positive, bringing it
closer to an investment grade-status.  The Philippines joins emerging-market peers including
Indonesia, Thailand and Brazil in holding rates at the start of
the year.  Consumer prices  rose 2.9 percent in December from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  