-- Billionaire Prokhorov Said to Agree on Polyus Stake Sale
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-01-24T12:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/prokhorov-said-to-agree-on-3-6-billion-polyus-gold-stake-sale.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
Onexim Holdings Ltd. agreed to sell his stake in  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PGIL)  to investors as he diversifies away from
commodities, said three people with knowledge of the plan.  Onexim and a group of investors selected by billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva sought approval from the U.K.
Takeover Panel for the deal, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private. They didn’t name the
buyers of the 37.8 percent stake in the London-traded producer.  Prokhorov, the 68th richest individual on the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  with $13.6 billion, is selling industrial
assets and keeping financial ventures.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s unit is
buying his Quadra utility, Vedomosti reported. Onexim gained
control of  Renaissance Capital , a Moscow-based investment bank,
from founder and shareholder  Stephen Jennings  in November.  Polyus may merge with Polymetal International Plc should
the sale by Prokhorov succeed, according to Uralsib Capital.  “That’s why current Polymetal owners  Alexander Nesis  or
 Alexander Mamut  are unlikely to be Polyus buyers as otherwise
they would need to do a mandatory offer to minorities in case of
the merger,” Valentina Bogomolova, a Uralsib analyst, said by
phone. Andrey Abashin, a Polymetal spokesman, couldn’t comment.  Dividing Stake  The group of investors will divide the Polyus stake among
themselves so they don’t have to make a mandatory offer, said
the people, who didn’t divulge a price. JPMorgan is advising on
the deal, VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender, will help
fund it and the Takeover Panel may decide this month, they said.  Onexim, Nafta Moskva and VTB’s press services declined to
comment on the deal. JPMorgan in Moscow also wouldn’t comment.  Onexim was considering an international merger before
Prokhorov decided to sell his stake. On Sept. 12, his company
said it was in early talks with two potential buyers for stakes
of less than 20 percent each in the producer.  Nafta Moskva, with 40.2 percent of Polyus, said at the time
it was in talks on providing financial or other support to one
of the potential purchasers. In 2010, Kerimov and his partners
gained control of OAO Uralkali, splitting a 53.2 percent stake
among themselves and avoiding a mandatory offer to minorities.  Prokhorov’s stake had a value of $3.6 billion based on the
share price yesterday. The company today rose as much as a
record 8.5 percent and traded at 215 pence by 11:52 a.m.  Kerimov paid $1.3 billion for 37 percent of Polyus in 2009
from billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , Vedomosti said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Davos, Switzerland at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  