-- Protons May Be Smaller Than Thought Upsetting Theory
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-25T11:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/protons-may-be-smaller-than-thought-upsetting-physics-theory.html
(Corrects description of hydrogen in fifth paragraph of
story published Jan. 24.)  The  proton , a building block of
matter, appears to be smaller than previously thought, according
to researchers who say the finding may open new questions about
how sub-atomic particles interact.  A team led by Aldo Antognini, a physicist at the  Max Planck 
Institute for Quantum Optics in Zurich, used laser spectroscopy
to study the proton’s charge radius in a hydrogen atom that had
been reconstituted to allow a clearer look. They found the
radius differed by about 4 percent from previous measurements,
according to a report in the journal  Science .  Five research groups worldwide are now working to determine
why the different measurements exist and what they mean,
Antognini said in a telephone interview. The result could spur a
reassessment of certain keystone constants used since the late
1940s to outline the electromagnetic force controlling the
actions of sub-atomic particles.  “It’s important to have the proton right to push the
science farther,” Antognini said. The experiment confirms a
similar result the scientists showed in  2010 .  Hydrogen is a unique and important molecule for physics,
because, with just a single electron and proton, it’s too small
to hide anything, Antognini said. Quantum mechanics and
electrodynamics both have emerged from physicists studying the
interactions with hydrogen atoms.  Three methods have been used to measure protons in the
past. Scientists first measured protons by using electron
scattering, a strategy that shakes an electron beam into
hydrogen gas. The collisions between the electrons and the
protons, along with the scatter, allowed scientists to deduce
the proton radius. A second method used hydrogen spectroscopy,
which measured energy levels of electrons to deduce how large
the proton might be.  Heavy Muons  The most recent method uses a particle called a muon, which
is 200 times heavier than an electron but carried many of the
same properties. By firing muons at the hydrogen, the team was
sometimes able to get the muons to replace the electrons
orbiting the proton. The researchers then extrapolated the
proton’s size from the muon’s energy levels, with the result
showing it was about 4 percent smaller than previously thought.  That discrepancy may seem small to laymen, but it’s
significant to physicists, Antognini said, comparing it to
standing a tiny crack in a dam filled with water. The amount of
water creeping through the crack is “negligible compared to the
water on the other side, but it may indicate a larger problem.”  If confirmed the new measurement may introduce new physics
theories to be explored to explain the discrepancy, he said,
adding that the finding may be due to some kind of an error, or
it may be a basic problem with physics theories as they
currently exist, he said. “We want to be very, very cautious,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  