-- THQ Wins Court Approval to Sell Assets for About $72 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-01-24T01:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/thq-wins-court-approval-to-sell-assets-for-about-72-million-1-.html
THQ Inc., the bankrupt video-game
maker, will be split up after winning court approval to sell
most of its assets to multiple buyers for about $72 million,
topping an offer that would have kept the company intact.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath in Wilmington,
 Delaware , today approved the sales, saying “I am convinced the
market has spoken and that the offers were the highest and best
for the assets.”  THQ’s Relic Entertainment Inc. studio, which makes real-
time strategy games including the “Company of Heroes”
franchise, brought in the most at the auction held yesterday and
today, selling to  Sega Sammy Holdings Inc. (6460)  for $26.6 million.  “The total proceeds are just shy of $100 million from the
auction process,” Jeffrey C. Krause, a THQ lawyer, told Walrath
at the hearing. Some of the video-game maker’s assets weren’t
acquired at the auction, leaving about $29 million in value at
the company, Krause said.  The company’s Volition Inc. studio garnered the second
highest price, selling to Koch Media GmbH, which owns the maker
of the hit Zombie game “Dead Island” for about $22.3 million.
Volition makes the “Saints Row” series, THQ’s best-selling
title. Koch Media also purchased the rights to develop and
market the unpublished titles “Metro 2033” and “Metro 2034”
for about $5.9 million.  ‘Grand Theft’  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , the maker of the
“Grand Theft Auto” series, scooped up the rights to the
company’s unpublished video-game “Evolve” for about $10.9
million.  Ubisoft Entertainment (UBI)  SA will acquire the company’s rights
to “ South Park : The Stick of Truth”, a role-playing game based
on the popular adult cartoon show from  Matt Stone  and  Trey
Parker , for about $3.3 million. Ubisoft, which makes the
Assassin’s Creed video-game franchise, will also buy THQ
Montreal Inc. for about $2.5 million. THQ Montreal is working on
“1666,” an unfinished title from the Assassin’s Creed creator
Patrice Desilets.  THQ sold the rights to its “Homefront” franchise to
Crytek GmbH, which partnered with THQ to develop the sequel, for
$544,218.  The company’s Vigil Games Inc. development studio, which
produced the “Darksiders” series, didn’t sell at the auction.
THQ “values the group as a whole at several million dollars,”
Krause said in an interview after the hearing.  “Saints Row,” with more than 11 million units shipped
globally, is THQ’s most-successful franchise, according to a May
press release. The game’s third iteration, “Saints Row: The
Third,” has shipped more than 5 million units, according to a
transcript of the company’s Nov. 5 earnings call.  Sustaining Losses  THQ said it was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection  after
sustaining losses for the past five fiscal years. The company
listed assets of $204.8 million and debt of $248.1 million when
it sought court protection on Dec. 19.  The company was devastated by recent losses tied to the
“uDraw” peripheral device for video-game consoles. While the
device that lets users reproduce their drawings on their
television had early success on Nintendo Co.’s Wii console, the
versions for Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3 and Microsoft Corp.’s
Xbox 360 struggled to gain traction and “fell far short of
expectations,” according to court documents.  THQ entered bankruptcy with a deal to sell itself as a
whole to Clearlake Capital Group LP in a deal then valued at
about $60 million. Clearlake’s opening offer at the auction was
valued at $42.9 million, Krause said at the hearing.  The video-game maker wanted to hold an auction with
Clearlake’s offer as the lead bid 21 days after entering
bankruptcy protection, a proposal that drew criticism from
creditors. The creditors argued the timeframe was too fast to
give prospective buyers a realistic opportunity to evaluate the
assets.  ‘Piecemeal Bids’  Walrath denied that request earlier this month, forcing THQ
to reach a compromise that extended the process by about two
weeks and allowed for “piecemeal bids” for individual assets
and video-game titles, a change creditors were pushing.  “Our goal was to have a robust auction” and “we were
certain that allowing piecemeal bids would maximize value,” a
lawyer for creditors, Paul N. Silverstein, said at the hearing.
“The auction was a success and piecemeal bidding was key to
that success,” he added.  While Walrath said she was “glad the process resulted in
more money for creditors,” the judge was told that the sales
will likely cost some workers their jobs at the acquired
studios, and undoubtedly at those that weren’t. The company will
work with the unsecured creditors committee to negotiate “a
settlement” for terminated workers’ claims, Krause told the
judge.  The case is In re  THQ Inc. (THQIQ) , 12-13398,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  