-- QPR Looks to Blackburn Defenders, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-01-24T12:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/qpr-looks-to-blackburn-defenders-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  Blackburn Rescuers?  Queens Park Rangers manager Harry Redknapp is considering
Blackburn defenders Martin Olsson and Scott Dann to help the
west London club escape the relegation zone, the Daily Mirror
said.  Redknapp is willing to pay 3 million pounds ($4.8 million)
for Olsson while West Ham wants to pay only about 2 million
pounds, the newspaper said. He is also interested in Dann, who
would cost about 4 million pounds, the Mirror said.  Coloccini Exit  Newcastle captain Fabricio Coloccini said he doesn’t want
to play for the club again after failing to reach an agreement
to allow him to return to Argentina, the Independent said.  Negotiations broke down earlier this week as the defender’s
agent and the club tried to reach a pact to keep him in England
for the rest of the season, the newspaper said.  Cut-Price Sale  Birmingham will cut the asking price for goalkeeper Jack
Butland to 3.5 million pounds to try to generate bids from
Premier League clubs, the Telegraph said.  The Blues want to raise funds to avoid administration and
so are willing to allow the 19-year-old to leave this month for
a lower upfront payment, the newspaper said.  Manchester City, Liverpool, Newcastle, Fulham and
Southampton have been linked with the player, with Southampton’s
6 million-pound bid rejected in June, the Telegraph said.  Williams Wanted  Liverpool and Arsenal will both attempt to sign Swansea
defender Ashley Williams, who is rated at about 8 million
pounds, the Mirror said.  Ex-Swansea manager Brendan Rodgers wants to bring his
former captain to Liverpool and Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger wants
the center-back to shore up his defense, the newspaper said.  Williams signed a new three-year contract in October, the
Mirror said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  