-- Quarter of Russian Banks With 2012 Losses Foreign-Owned
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-24T15:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/quarter-of-russian-banks-with-2012-losses-foreign-owned.html
Foreign-controlled banks were
overrepresented among Russia’s unprofitable lenders last year,
according to the country’s regulator.  Of the 48 banks the ended the year with losses, 13 -- or
more than a quarter -- are majority-owned by foreigners, Russian
central bank Deputy Chairman Mikhail Sukhov told reporters today
in Tula, about 100 miles south of Moscow. More than 100 banks
are controlled with foreign capital, he said. Russia has 896
 banks , according to Sukhov.  A unit of  Austria ’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  is one
of a handful of foreign banks, along with  France ’s  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and America’s  Citigroup Inc. (C) , that have prospered in
Russia retail banking as state-run  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  and VTB Group
increase market share.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  are among international lenders that abandoned
 consumer banking  over the past two years.  “There is a certain group of banks that aren’t developing
their business in Russia,” Sukhov said. “Compared with their
parent companies’ operations, the losses are kopeks. But most
likely, these banks are in a waiting mode. And while not all
have plans to sell, the negative financial results are an
additional drain.”  The  Micex Financials Index (MICEXFNL)  of six stocks fell 4.4 percent
last year, while the broader  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  advanced 5.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 23
percent  advance  for the Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial
Services Index.  Foreigners Exit  Some international lenders may start looking to sell their
comparatively small Russian businesses to reduce risk-weighted
assets as banks prepare for new capital regulations, known as
Basel III, according to Sukhov.  Bank Rossii warned in 2011 that it may limit operations
between Russian lenders and their overseas parents if they were
deemed to pose a danger to the liquidity of the financial
system. The entire eastern European banking industry was in
danger of a cash crunch at the time as western European banks
withdrew money from their subsidiaries,  International Monetary
Fund  Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said.  While Russia’s traditional sources of foreign bank capital
are retreating, Asian banks are more actively expanding their
presence in the country, Sukhov said. More than one new bank
will be established by lenders not based in Europe or the U.S.
this year, according to Sukhov.  Asian Banks  “We’re witnessing a broadening of the geographic scope of
Asian banks, and not just Asian banks, in our banking sector, he
said.  Russia, which holds the rotating Group of 20 presidency
this year, needs to grant the central bank additional
supervisory powers to regulate the industry, the International
Monetary Fund said in a report yesterday. While profit in the
sector topped 1 trillion rubles ($33 billion) for 2012, the
regulator is unsure why lending to companies slowed so rapidly
in the final months of the year, First Deputy Chairman Alexey Simanovsky said last week.  Corporate lending growth will probably expand 16 percent to
18 percent this year, Sukhov said. The capital adequacy ratio
for Russian banks will probably be between 12 percent and 14
percent this year, according to Mikhail Kovrigin, deputy head of
the central bank’s oversight department.  Lenders are working to boost profitability by reining in
costs, including for personnel, Sukhov said. Putting more
emphasis on earnings from commissions, rather than more volatile
interest income, would also help bottom lines, he said.  Workers in Russian banks are three to four times less
effective than their colleagues in the west based on the amount
of assets they manage relative to headcounts, Sukhov said.
Bankers were paid 604 billion rubles in 2012, up from 528
billion rubles in 2011, according to preliminary data before
accounting for taxes, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Tula,  Russia  at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  