-- Rand Slumps to 4-Year Low as Central Bank Leaves Rate Unchanged
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-24T14:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/rand-rebounds-from-four-year-low-on-signals-decline-overdone.html
The rand declined for a second day,
reaching the weakest level in almost four years, after the
central bank left its benchmark repo rate unchanged and said the
currency’s decline may benefit exporters. Bond yields rose.  The rand declined as much as 0.3 percent to 9.0878 per
dollar, the weakest since April 2009. It traded 0.1 percent down
as of 4:22 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline this year
to 6.6 percent, the most out of 25 emerging-market currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds
due December 2026 climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 7.37, the highest since Jan. 4.  The weak rand and above-inflation wage increases posed
risks to the outlook for prices, Governor Gill Marcus said after
the rate-setting committee left the  Reserve Bank ’s repo rate at
5 percent. The rand’s decline, while a “concern”, would
benefit the nation’s exporters and help narrow the current-
account deficit, she added, fueling speculation the bank won’t
intervene to support the currency.  “There is little doubt, with the emphasis on the wage-
price spiral and the rand, that inflation risks are now thought
of differently,”  Razia Khan , the London-based head of Africa
research at Standard Chartered Plc, said in e-mailed comments.
“Mention was also made of the benefits of a weaker currency.
The message? Rand weakness may not be an unequivocal negative.”  Intervention  While  developing countries  including  Poland ,  Mexico  and
 Malaysia  sold dollars to support their exchange rates, South
Africa’s central bank hasn’t intervened to influence the
currency. The central bank doesn’t target a level for the rand
and intervention would be costly and ineffective, Marcus said
Oct. 10.  South Africa’s currency slumped 2.3 percent yesterday after
the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for
economic growth in the country to 2.8 percent for this year,
below projections by the government.  The currency’s decline in itself doesn’t pose a risk to the
nation’s credit rating, said Konrad Reuss, head of Sub-Saharan
Africa for  Standard & Poor’s , which cut  South Africa ’s rating
one level to BBB, with a negative outlook, in October.  “Unless we see unorthodox policy responses, in that we the
Reserve Bank change gear and start trying to manage the exchange
rate more actively,” the recent decline is not a concern, Reuss
said in an interview in  Cape Town . “You have a floating
exchange rate which is good in the context of the current
account deficit. As long as we see credible policy responses to
that it wouldn’t be a rating concern at this stage.”  Economic Growth  Growth in Africa’s biggest economy slowed last year as a
series of strikes in the mining industry cut output and a slump
in  Europe  reduced export demand. The government is forecasting
growth of 3 percent this year, while the central bank predicts
2.6 percent.  The rand may extend declines in coming months, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG, which yesterday adjusted its estimate
for the rand to 9.30 per dollar in the next three months, from a
previous estimate of 9.10.  The currency “has been hit by a loss of confidence amongst
international investors regarding the outlook for South
 Africa ,” Bernd Berg, a Zurich-based emerging-markets strategist
at Credit Suisse, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Strikes, a steep fall in exports, political uncertainty,
falling growth rates and rising inflation” are among factors
weighing on the currency, he said.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility jumped 35 basis
points today to 13.50 percent, the highest in more than two
weeks, indicating that options traders see wider price swings in
the currency in coming weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  