-- Travelers Keeps Up Dow Weight as Shares Shrink: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/travelers-keeps-up-dow-weight-as-shares-shrink-chart-of-the-day.html
Travelers Cos. may have done more to
sustain its place in the Dow Jones Industrial Average than any
other company since joining the 30-stock gauge in June 2009.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how to draw this conclusion: by
tracking the drop in the amount of Travelers stock outstanding
during the period. The data was compiled by Bloomberg from the
property and casualty insurer’s quarterly financial statements.  Travelers ended last year with 33.5 percent fewer shares
than the New York-based company had 3 1/2 years earlier. The
decline was the biggest for a component of the Dow average,
Bloomberg’s data showed.  Repurchases explain why the so-called share count
plummeted. Travelers bought back 22.4 million shares last year
for $1.45 billion, according to an earnings report released two
days ago. Buybacks were suspended after  Hurricane Sandy  hit the
U.S. northeast in October and resumed last month.  Property-casualty companies often repurchase shares, Scott Krisiloff, chief investment officer at Avondale Asset Management
in Los Angeles, wrote on his firm’s blog two days ago. The
 posting  highlighted Travelers’ share count.  “The name of their game is to grow book value per share,”
or the value of assets after subtracting liabilities, he wrote.
“To that end, they are not bashful about buying back stock when
they don’t have a more efficient use for capital.”  Buybacks can raise the share price, which determines how
much weight a company has in the Dow industrials. Travelers had
the eighth-highest weighting, 4.3 percent, as of yesterday even
though it was the second-smallest company by market value. Only
Alcoa Inc. was less valuable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  