-- RBC’s McKay Sees Path Back to U.S. Retail Banking
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-24T21:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/rbc-s-mckay-sees-path-back-to-u-s-retail-bank.html
Royal Bank of Canada  isn’t giving up
on U.S. consumer banking even after  Canada ’s largest lender took
a C$1.57 billion ($1.57 billion) writedown on the sale of its
money-losing U.S. bank.  Royal Bank is looking for ways to re-enter the consumer
lending business in the U.S. through acquisitions and
partnerships in payment systems, as well as expanding its
Internet bank, said David McKay, group head of personal and
commercial banking.  The push follows RBC’s failure to make inroads in U.S.
consumer banking after almost 11 years of building on its $2.16
billion purchase of Centura Banks in 2001. Royal Bank sold its
North Carolina-based RBC Bank and credit-card assets in March to
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  for $3.62 billion.  “We had the wrong franchise for what we needed to do, and
we got an albatross off our back,” McKay, 49, said yesterday in
an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “We’re liberated to
think creatively now.”  McKay called the U.S.-based bank a “painful” learning
experience that may ultimately help the Toronto-based company.  The bank will take those lessons and “see if there’s a
path forward,” McKay said. “But we don’t feel any pressure to
have to do something because we have very strong franchises. We
want to be opportunistic and smart.”  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$1 billion of assets
at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, remains skeptical of
Royal Bank’s return to U.S. consumer banking.  “I think you have to show me, because they didn’t do well
in the U.S.,” Kinsey said in an interview from Toronto. “Royal
had said that, after they pulled out of the U.S., their focus
was going to be on international and wealth management, and
those are two banking areas where they have expertise.”  TD Expands  Royal Bank  rose  0.6 percent to C$61.80 at the close of
Toronto trading today. The bank has risen 2.9 percent this year,
outperforming the eight-member  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Commercial
Banks Industry  Index. (STCBNK)   Canadian lenders have mixed strategies on U.S. consumer
banking.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the country’s second-largest
lender, has spent more than $25 billion since 2004 building a
U.S. branch network that spans from  Maine  to  Florida . TD Bank is
now targeting corporate banking in the U.S. with a focus on
“mid-tier” companies.  Bank of Montreal , Canada’s fourth-
biggest bank, ramped up its U.S. presence by buying Wisconsin
lender Marshall & Ilsley Corp. in July 2011 for $4.1 billion,
building on a Chicago-based Harris Bank franchise it bought in
1984.  ‘Over-Branched’  Bank of Nova Scotia , the country’s third-largest lender,
never ventured into U.S. consumer banking while  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce , the fifth-biggest bank, closed an
electronic banking platform in the U.S. known as Amicus in 2002
after an expansion failed.  Royal Bank may build off its U.S.-based Internet bank,
which currently caters to Canadians living and working in the
U.S. and has more than 150,000 customers, said McKay, who has
worked at the bank for more than 20 years.  “The world of banking is rapidly changing, it’s over-
branched,” McKay said. “With the technology changes that are
happening in the U.S., there are a number of non-traditional
opportunities there to lever a virtual bank that are quite
exciting.”  Royal Bank has a unique opportunity and time to look at the
U.S. and mull partnerships to “take a more disruptive approach
to the U.S. marketplace” rather than the more traditional
approach, said McKay, who has an MBA from the Western
University’s Richard Ivey School of Business and a bachelor’s
degree in mathematics from the University of Waterloo.  Record Profit  McKay anticipates future growth in areas of mobile banking
and online commerce, giving banks the opportunity to play a key
role in areas such as payment systems.  “That’s the mandate I’m moving forward with, is to look at
the U.S. with a completely different lens,” McKay said. “We’re
sitting back and looking at the opportunity to do something in a
non-traditional way.”  Royal Bank  earned  54 percent of last year’s record profit
from personal and commercial banking, according to financial
statements. Annual profit from the consumer-lending unit was
C$4.09 billion, up 9.3 percent from 2011, as balances for
residential mortgages, personal loans and deposits increased.  Canadian banking comprised 93 percent of revenue for the
unit last year, with the Caribbean and U.S. banking making up
the balances.  Caribbean Unit  McKay said he’s not happy with the performance of the
Caribbean banking business and he may consider cutting jobs,
trimming costs and leaving some markets.  “You’ve got challenged economies, challenged consumers and
challenged business clients,” McKay said. “Having said that,
we observe that some of our competitors in the market are able
to make a profit, so there are operating model improvements that
are certainly obvious that we need to pursue.”  Royal Bank is also seeking ways to expand its personal and
commercial banking business to counter an expected consumer
slowdown in Canada.  The bank is partnering with retailers including  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. (SC)  for banking and credit-card
products. The bank plans to add features for its Shoppers
Optimum MasterCard such as offering reward points for buying RBC
travel insurance starting in February and, later, switching
mortgages to Royal Bank, McKay said.  Small Branches  Royal Bank plans to open smaller urban “stores,” each one
about a quarter of the size of a regular branch and employing
five people, after the opening of a mini-branch in  Montreal .  Royal Bank will continue to add 20 to 25 branches a year,
McKay said. Branch growth in Canada has climbed each quarter,
from 1,211 branches as of April 30, 2011 to 1,239 by Oct. 31
last year, according to financial statements.  McKay reiterated his estimate that mortgage growth for the
banking industry will slow to about 3 percent to 4 percent, and
Royal Bank will outperform the marketplace. The bank is turning
to higher-margin areas such as commercial lending and credit
cards to help offset the slowdown.  “We are heading into a slower growth consumer market,
there’s no doubt and the signs are everywhere,” McKay said.
“We cannot expect the consumer lending part of the business --
which has carried the Canadian banks for the better part of the
last five years -- to contribute as much as it has to growth as
we experienced over the last five-plus years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  