-- RBS May Lend $631 Million to Clean Power, Focusing on Biomass
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-01-24T15:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/rbs-may-lend-631-million-to-clean-power-focusing-on-biomass.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, may channel as much
as 400 million pounds ($631 million) into clean energy this year
with a focus on biomass.  The bank is working on about five deals to support plants
that will use organic matter such as wood chips to generate
electricity, said Andrew Buglass, head of energy in RBS’s
structured finance division. The facilities, to be built from
scratch, will each have a capacity of 50 to 150 megawatts, he
said. Projects of that size may cost as much as 300 million
pounds and RBS expects other banks to invest as well.  Britain’s biomass industry has gained momentum following
clarification of government support levels in July. The
Department of Energy and Climate Change estimates bioenergy
plants using wood chips and organic waste to produce heat and
power may meet 8 percent to 11 percent of the nation’s primary
energy demand in eight years.  The bulk of the bank’s lending last year was on wind and
solar power, Buglass said in an interview in  London , as it laid
the groundwork for the larger biomass projects it expects to
fund this year.  “Biomass will occupy quite a lot of our time and effort
this year,” Buglass said. “It can make a material contribution
to the generation mix. Financing for the larger biomass projects
is likely to be finalized towards the end of the year.”  RBS also has held discussions with clients interested in
converting fossil-fuel powered stations to burn biomass, he
said.  Kedco, Helius  To date, RBS has invested in biomass facilities of below 50
megawatts developed by companies including Kedco Plc and  Helius
Energy Plc. (HEGY)  Helius said in April last year it was working with
lenders including RBS and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to finance a
300 million-pound power station in Avonmouth.  RBS in December started a 200 million-pound fund to help
U.K. businesses reduce energy use and lower costs, through
projects such as the installation of more efficient lighting.
It’s been in talks with the U.K. Green Investment Bank about the
fund and ways they can work together, said Buglass.  “I see the Green Investment Bank’s participation as a
positive move that will enhance liquidity and help drive the
market forward towards 2020 and will watch with interest how
they deploy their funds during 2013,” he said.  The GIB opened in Edinburgh on Nov. 28 with 3 billion
pounds of state funds to spur financing for low-carbon
technology as Britain aims for 15 percent of its energy to come
from clean sources by 2020. One of the bank’s main priorities
will be supporting energy efficiency programs. It already has
awarded Sustainable Development Capital LLP 50 million pounds to
start a fund for energy efficiency projects.  In addition to biomass, RBS expects to back onshore wind
and ground-mounted solar projects this year, said Buglass. It
will also look at offshore wind as existing projects start to
approach markets to refinance what they’ve already built on an
equity basis, he said. It expects to lend as much to renewables
as last year, if not more, which would amount to 300 million
pounds to 400 million pounds, said the head of energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  