-- Renault Says Action Needed to Lift French Competitiveness
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2013-01-24T09:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/renault-says-action-needed-to-lift-french-competitiveness.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Ghosn said the French automaker must take action to
increase productivity, hold back pay increases and cut the
workforce as the region’s auto sales sink for a sixth year.  “It’s a very comprehensive plan to try and bring back
competitiveness to Renault in France,” Ghosn said today in an
interview in Davos with Bloomberg Television. “There’s a good
consciousness in France that the competitiveness of France needs
to be enhanced.”  The Boulogne-Billancourt-based company began talks with
unions in November as part of efforts to sustain profit while
 Europe ’s car market falls to almost a two-decade low. France’s
second-biggest carmaker is threatening to shutter two factories
in the country unless it reaches an agreement with workers,
Dominique Chauvin, head of the CFE-CGC union, said this week.  Renault is asking labor leaders to agree to a wage freeze
in  France  this year and then raises of 0.5 percent in 2014 and
0.75 percent in 2015, the carmaker said Jan. 22. Workers’ pay
accounts for 60 percent of Renault’s fixed costs in its home
country, the company has said. The manufacturer’s proposals come
on top of other plans, including a 6.5 percent increase in work
hours in French factories, to reduce spending by 65 million
euros ($86.6 million).  The manufacturer also wants to eliminate 7,500 jobs through
2016 in France, or 17 percent of Renault’s workforce in the
country, to save another 400 million euros.  Tough Market  Renault, the European automaker with the steepest decline
in the region last year, said earlier this month that it’s
aiming to increase European market share in 2013 as industrywide
sales drop 3 percent.  “We are facing a very tough European market,” Ghosn said
in the interview. “The best thing we can hope for is a market
stabilization, so in Europe the question is how do you gain
market share, and that’s a function of products.”  The carmaker said this week that it would increase French
production by 15 percent once a labor deal is reached. Renault’s
domestic factories would then build 80,000 more vehicles a year
by 2016 to supply manufacturers the company cooperates with,
including  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and Daimler AG. Renault’s current
full-year production in the country amounts to 530,000 vehicles
for its own brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  