-- Rhoen-Klinikum to Pursue Standalone ‘Market Leadership’
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-24T13:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/rhoen-klinikum-to-pursue-standalone-market-leadership-.html
Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) ’s new executives
said they will build a more competitive hospital network from
the inside even as talks continue with major shareholders who
bought stakes during Fresenius SE’s failed takeover bid.  “We want as in the past to continue to compete for market
leadership,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Siebert said at a
breakfast with reporters in Frankfurt today, adding that the
company doesn’t need a takeover to survive. “Rhoen-Klinikum can
stand alone for itself and have success and will try to do
this.”  The German private hospital operator is reviewing its
portfolio and thinking strategically about trends to determine
where growth will come in the next five to 10 years, Chief
Financial Officer Jens-Peter Neumann said at the event. In the
meantime, talks are continuing with five major shareholders,
Neumann said.  Siebert and Neumann were hired in November to reorient the
Bad Neustadt An Der Saale, Germany-based company after
Fresenius, the owner of the Helios hospital chain, failed to win
enough shareholder support for the 3.1 billion-euro ($4.1
billion) bid.  Asklepios Kliniken GmbH , a competitor, blocked the
deal by buying a stake in Rhoen-Klinikum.  Rhoen-Klinikum’s shareholders also include Chairman Eugen Muench, Fresenius, medical-products supplier  B. Braun Holding
GmbH  and the investors in another hospital operator,  Sana
Kliniken AG .  Rhoen-Klinikum rose 0.8 percent to 15.10 euros at 1:55 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . The stock has fallen 2 percent including
reinvested dividends in the  past year , giving the company a
market value of 2.1 billion euros.  Missed Merger  It would be a mistake to steer the company only with the
idea of “now we’ll get the missed merger,” Neumann said.  The CFO will fly to  London  tonight to start a series of
meetings with investors. Rhoen-Klinikum wants to improve its
communication with shareholders, Neumann said.  Rhoen-Klinikum isn’t concerned about having necessary
investments blocked by the competitors who own a stake, Neumann
said. The company doesn’t expect a wave of hospital
privatizations this year, he said.  Neumann said he expects to have spoken to all the company’s
major shareholders by the end of February.  Rhoen-Klinikum expects the Giessen and Marburg university
hospitals to be making a profit by the end of 2014, Siebert
said. The company twice cut its profit forecast last year, and
earnings were hurt in part by disappointing revenue at Giessen
and Marburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  