-- Richmond Fed’s Maryland Business Activity Survey: January (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2013-01-24T18:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/richmond-fed-s-maryland-business-activity-survey-january-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Richmond Fed’s  Maryland  Business Activity Survey.  According to the latest survey results, business activity in
 Maryland was essentially flat in January. The general business
 activity index registered −2 for the month, down 9 points from
 December. The sales index edged higher to a reading of 5.
 Business expenditures on services and capital investment were
 flat. Labor market conditions weakened as more firms indicated
 that they shed workers than added workers in January.
 Profit margins continued to come under pressure with increases in
 input costs outpacing output prices. Despite weaker conditions in
 December, expectations for activity in the near future remained positive.
 Forty-five percent of respondents anticipated greater business activity
 six months from now while twelve percent expected activity to decline.
 Current Activity
 Business activity edged lower in December as the general business
 activity index registered −2, declining 9 points from last month. Sales
 increased modestly, however, as the sales index increased 5 points to 5.
 After modest increases in November and December, business spending
 weakened in January. Spending on business services dropped 11 points to
 a reading of −2--its weakest reading since December 2011. Total capital
 expenditures declined 7 points to 2, also the lowest reading since
 December 2011. Spending on equipment or software decreased to 5 from
 17 last month, a significant drop from the average of 18 over previous
 six months.
 Employment
 According to the survey results, labor market conditions deteriorated in
 January as a greater number of respondents indicated that they shed workers
 than added workers. The employment index registered −10--down from −7 in
 December. Fifteen percent of respondents indicated that they added workers
 for the month; however twenty-four percent reported a decline. This was the
 first consecutive negative reading since the end of 2010. There was little
 change in the workweek. The average workweek index was unchanged at 2.
 Despite considerable slack in the labor market, respondents reported higher
 wages in January. The wage index increased 4 points to 24.
 Expectations for future labor market conditions remained relatively positive
 in January, however. The number of employees index registered 15, down 5
 points from last month. Nearly one in three respondents indicated that they
anticipated expanding their workforce over the next six months while
 seventeen percent anticipated reducing their workforce. Expectations remain
 below where they were one year ago, however. The number of employees
 expectations index peaked at 36 in March 2012 and steadily declined through
 August where it reached zero and remained near that level in September.
 In the October and November surveys, the index increased to 16 before edging
 higher to 20 in December. While the last four months represent an improvement,
expectations are still less than in early 2012 when 43 percent of respondents
 in the April survey anticipated expanding their workforce.
 Prices
 Businesses reported that margins remained under pressure in January with
 increases in input prices outpacing output prices. Respondents reported that
 input prices rose 2.6 percent in January on an annualized basis. Output prices
reportedly increased at a faster rate in January than in previous months, by
 1.7 percent at an annual rate. Businesses expected profit margins to remain
 under pressure over the next six months. Input prices were expected to
 increase at a 3.0 percent annualized rate while output prices were
 expected to increase by 2.2 percent.
 Expectations
 Despite weaker activity in January, expectations of economic activity
 six months from now improved. The expectations index for general business
conditions edged lower to 33 from 37 in December. The sales index also
 decreased by 4 points to 36. Roughly forty-five percent of respondents
 in the January survey expected business conditions and sales to improve
 over the next six months. Just seven percent expected business conditions
 to worsen. Overall the January survey results indicated that business
 activity was flat or edged slightly lower in January while expectations
 for future activity remained positive. Notably, despite the modest and
 uneven pace of growth and uncertainty related to the U.S. economic outlook,
respondents continued to be more positive about the outlook over the near
 term.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of Richmond 