-- Rothschild’s Proposed Bumi Chairman King Expects to Win Vote
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2013-01-24T17:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/rothschild-s-proposed-bumi-chairman-king-expects-to-oust-tan.html
Wallace King, proposed by  Nathaniel Rothschild  as the new Bumi Plc chairman, expects to win enough
backing from shareholders next month to oust incumbent Samin Tan
as a battle for control of the Indonesian coal venture rages.  “We will get the votes,” King said in an interview,
referring to Rothschild’s bid to replace 12 directors at Bumi
amid a probe into alleged financial irregularities. “I think
it’s very, very clear that there’s been a lot of strange
transactions and I think those transactions when exposed to the
light of day will not stand up.”  Rothschild’s foray two years ago into Indonesian coal
through a $3 billion deal with the country’s Bakrie family,
controllers of a palm-oil-to-property empire, began to sour in
late 2011, leading him to quit  the board  last October. He’s now
seeking to regain control of the group he co-founded with the
Bakries and has accused management and Tan of failing investors.  “Bumi Plc obviously has a number of serious issues and I’m
not a close associate of anyone, and I think there will be some
challenges to sort the company out and restore  shareholder
value ,” King told Bloomberg Television in Davos yesterday.
“I’ve known Nat for many years and he’s not a close associate
of mine.”  February Meeting  Conflict over the $1.3 billion London-traded coal company
intensified this month as Bumi agreed to a February shareholder
meeting to vote on Rothschild’s motion to oust directors
including Tan and Chief Executive Officer Nick von Schirnding.
Boardroom infighting and financial probes in the U.K. and
Indonesia prompted Rothschild and the Bakries to seek to unwind
their collaboration. The date for the meeting is not yet set.  “I’ve either had conversations with or met all of our top
20 largest shareholders and I have no doubt we will win,” von
Schirnding said by phone from  London . Tan is ready to stand down
as chairman after steering the company through the “current
phase of the crisis.” Bumi is advancing a $430 million proposal
that would sever ties with the Bakries by exiting its investment
in the family’s PT Bumi Resources, he said.  King, 68, was CEO of Sydney-based  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) ,
 Australia ’s biggest construction company, for 23 years before
retiring at the end of 2010. He and Rothschild have also seen
Bumi shareholders to build support before the vote.  “We met with a number of investors in London,” King said.
“They can see the issues. They want to go forward on a positive
basis. In pretty much all of the interviews I’d say the body
language was quite positive.”  A London-based spokesman for Tan declined to comment.  Missing Funds  Bumi said this week it may seek to recover missing funds,
identified in a four-month probe by law firm Macfarlanes LLP,
without specifying a figure. Rothschild said the lawyers’ report
assessed the possible misappropriation of as much as $1 billion.
Bumi owns stakes in two Indonesian coal producers: 29 percent of
Bumi Resources and 85 percent of PT Berau Coal Energy.  “It’s a matter of turning this company into a profitable
company and correcting the wrongs and seeing that related-party
transactions don’t happen in the future to the benefit of some
shareholders over other shareholders,” King said.  Bumi has been in talks with authorities in Indonesia and
the U.K., including the  Serious Fraud Office , over the probe. It
said it’s investigating “all recourse options available,”
while declining to make the Macfarlanes findings public.  Prosecute Wrongdoings  “If it’s clearly established that there’s been
wrongdoings, I think those wrongdoings should be followed up and
prosecuted,” King said. “On the information that I’ve looked
at, there’s a number of related-party transactions that I don’t
think will stand up in the light of day.”  Rothschild holds about 14.8 percent of the  voting rights  in
Bumi and 18.2 percent of the votes for next month’s meeting. As
well as putting forward King, in January he proposed Brock Gill
as CEO and himself as an  executive director .  He also nominated Hashim Djojohadikusumo, Roger Davis,
Jonathan Djanogly -- a conservative member of the U.K.
parliament and former justice minister -- and Richard Gozney.
Gozney is a former British ambassador to  Indonesia .  The Bakries said at the time the proposal was “yet another
distraction” and an “unjustified attempt to exert control over
the company to the detriment of other shareholders.”  Enough Support  Tan became chairman of the group in March after purchasing
half of the Bakries’ 47.6 percent stake for $1 billion two
months earlier. In an interview this month, Tan said he had
enough support to stop Rothschild’s bid and was in talks with
key shareholders over backing his strategy for the company.  “It depends what shareholders want,” von Schirnding said.
“If they want to maximize shareholder value, we offer a
solution. This board offers a solution which we believe we --
more than any board -- can deliver, which is the separation from
the Bakrie Group and Bumi Resources.”  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  has slumped 62 percent in the past 12 months. It
declined 1 percent to close at 334 pence in London today.  Rothschild started the company in 2010 with a vision of
building Bumi into an Indonesian “resources champion.”  “There’s a long way to go on this,” King said. “If we
can clean up the company and restore value and do the right
thing, pay dividends, have a profitable company, I think then
the original vision can be followed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  