-- Russian Lawmakers Back Bill Abolishing Direct Regional Elections
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-01-24T10:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/russian-lawmakers-back-bill-abolishing-direct-regional-elections.html
Russian lawmakers gave preliminary
approval to a  law  that would allow governors to be appointed in
the country’s 83 regions, reversing last year’s move to restore
direct elections.  The bill was  approved  late yesterday by 403 of the 450
members of the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, in the
first of three required readings. Under the measure, President
 Vladimir Putin  will have the right to submit three candidates
for approval by the legislature of any province.  Putin abolished direct elections for governors in 2004 as
president.  Dmitry Medvedev , who served as head of state from
2008 to 2012 after Putin completed the maximum two consecutive
terms allowed by the constitution, restored the gubernatorial
elections after mass protests over alleged election fraud.
Putin, 60, returned to the Kremlin last May after edging aside
Medvedev, 47, who now serves as prime minister.  A top official from the ruling United Russia party, Adalbi
Shkhagoshev, said the law would allow the mainly Muslim North
Caucasus to opt out from direct votes, according to comments
published on the party’s  website . The impoverished region is
plagued by violence blamed on Islamic extremists.  Critics of the law say that it will be used to end
elections of all governors.  “Now the authorities can place a cross on gubernatorial
elections,” Dmitry Gudkov, an opposition lawmaker, said on his
 Twitter Inc.  account.  Russia’s first gubernatorial elections in eight years were
held last October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  