-- Russia Weakens Anti-Smoking Law Before Key Second Reading
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-01-24T15:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/russia-weakens-anti-smoking-draft-law-before-key-second-reading.html
Russia weakened a proposed law aimed
at cracking down on smoking in the world’s second-largest
tobacco market before a key vote on the legislation tomorrow.  While the bill keeps a ban on smoking in public places, it
drops restrictions on cigarette sales and the right to set
minimum cigarette prices, said Dmitry Yanin, head of anti-
tobacco lobbying group, the International Conference of Consumer
Societies. “This is a major victory for the tobacco lobby,” he
told reporters in Moscow today. “The  tobacco companies  have
managed to hang onto their second-biggest market after China.”  An aide to Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets, Alexei
Levchenko, said the changes to the legislation were necessary to
reach agreement with lawmakers, though he insisted that health
goals of reducing smoking will still be met.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS) ,  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , which
control 93 percent of the $19.5-billion Russian market, had
opposed the curbs on cigarette consumption, which were supported
by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  and approved on the first
reading on Dec. 14. Lawmakers will vote on the bill in the
decisive second of three required readings tomorrow.  Russia ’s government had proposed measures that would outlaw
all tobacco advertising and sponsorship as well as kiosk sales
immediately, with bans on trade in small retail outlets and
smoking in public places taking effect Jan. 1, 2015.  Tobacco makers will be able to sponsor philanthropy and
sell cigarettes in all retail outlets except for kiosks,
Levchenko said. The draft law also drops plans to end duty-free
tobacco sales while the ban on public smoking will take effect
from mid-2014, six months earlier than planned, Yanin said.  The new version of the legislation is a compromise after a
“multi-million-dollar campaign” by the tobacco lobby, lawmaker
Dmitry Nosov told Bloomberg News.  BAT, Europe’s largest cigarette maker, rose as much as 2.1
percent, the most since Nov. 19. Philip Morris, the world’s
largest publicly traded tobacco company, gained as much as 0.5
percent.  In Russia, 39 percent of the population are regular
smokers, according to the  World Health Organization . About
400,000 Russians, or 0.3 percent of the population, die each
year from smoking-related diseases, Medvedev said in October.
That compares with 114,000, or 0.2 percent in the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  