-- Russia Bonds Gain as Storchak Signals January Euroclear Start
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-01-24T14:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/russia-bonds-gain-as-storchak-signals-january-euroclear-access.html
Russia’s ruble debt rallied after a
three-day slump as the  Finance Ministry  signaled the  bond market 
may open to foreign investors as early as this month, spurring
additional inflows into the domestic market.  The yield on government ruble notes maturing February 2027
fell three basis points to 6.99 percent after increasing four
basis points in the previous three days. The yield on so-called
OFZs due July 2022 fell eight basis points, the most in two
weeks, to 6.66 percent. Russia’s overnight MosPrime rate fell 32
basis points to 5.16 percent, the lowest since September.  It is “quite possible” the Finance Ministry’s next OFZ
auction in January will be held with direct settlement through
Euroclear Bank SA in place for the first time, Deputy Finance
Minister Sergei Storchak said in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland late yesterday.  Russia  is preparing to allow foreign
investors -- who currently deal through local brokerages --
direct access to the domestic market, a move Sberbank Investment
Research says may bring $20 billion of inflows this year.  “We see demand for OFZs today, both due to Euroclear and
internal factors,” Dmitry Igumnov, head of fixed income trading
at BCS Financial Group, said by e-mail. “Liquidity is up and,
as a consequence, money market rates are down.”  It’s “realistic” to expect the start of direct settlement
in the first 10 days of February, Sberbank analysts wrote in a
note today. They forecast a gradual decline in OFZ yields in the
coming days.  Taking Profits  Bond traders, fund managers and analysts say demand may ebb
if the start of direct settlement is delayed.  “If the market doesn’t see a large number of new
investors, Russian market participants might start taking
profits,” Alexander Nikolaev, head of fixed income trading at
OAO Bank of Moscow, said by e-mail.  Alexey Korolenko, who runs a bond fund at UralSib Asset
Management, closed his main positions in OFZs in November and
December last year.  “The major part of the rally in OFZs is over,” he said by
phone from Moscow. “But we aren’t short OFZs.”  Once inflation is subtracted from the yield on the notes,
the real  interest rate  has declined almost to zero, meaning the
bonds’ gains are “mostly exhausted,” ZAO Raiffeisenbank
analysts wrote in a note yesterday.  “Inflationary risks” and a “volatile environment on
foreign markets” will govern investor appetite in the future,
they said.  The central bank does not plan to lower interest rates in
the near future, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
reiterated this morning.  Target Range  “The amount of information we will have in the near future
does not allow us to change the current level of the rates,”
RIA Novosti cited Ulyukayev as saying in Davos.  The central bank can’t cut interest rates because inflation
at 6.8 percent exceeds the upper level of its target range for
2013, Ivan Sinelnikov, an analyst at OAO Gazprombank, wrote in
an e-mailed note.  The regulator will only be able to ease monetary policy
when weak industrial production, investment and retail trade
data are “compounded” by inflation slowing to the central
bank’s 5 percent to 6 percent target range, Sinelnikov said.
That’s “not likely before the second quarter of 2013,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Davos, Switzerland at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  