-- Sabadell, Bankinter Start Repaying ECB Loans as Investors Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-01-24T13:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sabadell-bankinter-start-repaying-ecb-loans-as-investors-return.html
Banco Sabadell SA (SAB)  and Bankinter SA,
the first two Spanish banks to publish full-year earnings,
committed to starting to repay emergency loans from the  European
Central Bank  as investor confidence improves.  Sabadell plans to return 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of
24 billion euros in three-year money the bank borrowed under the
ECB’s Longer-Term Refinancing Operations, Chairman Josep Oliu
told reporters in Barcelona today. Bankinter plans to repay 15
percent of its 9.5 billion euros of LTRO loans this year, Chief
Financial Officer Gloria Ortiz said on a webcast today.  The pledges to return ECB loans come as Spanish banks seek
to persuade investors that a cleanup of soured property assets
and easier access to funding means they have turned the corner.
Still, weak credit demand and low  interest rates  are putting
pressure on margins while loan  defaults  continue to mount as
 Spain ’s economy shrinks.  “Wholesale markets are beginning to open, international
investors are showing interest in Spain, exports are doing
well,”  Bankinter (BKT)  Chief Executive Officer Maria Dolores Dancausa
told reporters in Madrid. “There are aspects of the economy
that are doing badly but I want to underline the positive.”  Banks can start paying back this week more than 1 trillion
euros of three-year money they borrowed in two portions during
2012.  ECB Finance  “At the moment, the ECB doesn’t finance any part of the
structural balance sheet of the bank, something we couldn’t say
a year ago,” Oliu said.  Sabadell earlier reported an 8.73 million-euro fourth-
quarter loss compared with profit of 24.47 million euros in the
same period a year earlier as it boosted provisions to cover
real estate losses. Bad loans as a proportion of total lending
jumped to 9.33 percent from 8.46 percent in September.  Fourth-quarter net interest income rose 27 percent to 487.3
million euros from a year earlier. That was a 7.4 percent
decline from the third quarter.  Bankinter’s fourth-quarter  net income  climbed to 52.36
million euros from 34.22 million euros a year earlier, the
Madrid-based bank said in a filing to regulators today. Net
interest income fell 1.7 percent from a year earlier and 16
percent from the third quarter to 146.7 million euros.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending at Bankinter
rose to 4.28 percent from 3.24 percent a year ago, the lender
said. The ratio will probably increase by another percentage
point over the next year before peaking, Dancausa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net  Sharon Smyth at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  