-- Samsung Drops on $2.8 Billion Won Profit-Cut Prediction
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-01-25T10:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/samsung-boosts-profit-76-selling-phones-to-users-apple-misses.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  fell to a
two-month low in  Seoul  trading after forecasting a slowdown in
smartphone demand and predicting that a stronger currency may
cut operating profit by 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion) this year.  The world’s largest  maker  of mobile phones, TVs and
computer-memory chips  dropped  2.5 percent after stoking concerns
about the smartphone market triggered by an Apple Inc. share
plunge yesterday. The forecast also overshadowed a better-than-
expected 76 percent jump in quarterly  net income .  “Fourth-quarter results were good, but the problem now is
what lies ahead,” said Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst
with Taurus Investment Securities. “The high-end smartphone
market has largely become saturated, while the fast Chinese
growth in the lower segment will make it difficult for anyone to
see strong profit growth there.”  Samsung and  Apple (AAPL) , which together make more than half the
world’s smartphones, face slower growth in developed nations as
years of surging sales have limited the number of new customers
they can find. In  China , the companies are batting with local
phone-makers offering models costing as little as $100.  “Chinese vendors are growing fast,” Kim Hyun Joon, vice
president at Samsung’s mobile communications business, said on a
conference call today. Global market growth also will get
“somewhat weaker” starting this year, he said.  Stronger Won  The phone-maker also said capital spending this year will
be similar to 2012 levels. Its shares closed at 1,417,000 won,
the lowest since Nov. 30. Apple tumbled 12 percent in New York
yesterday after posting the slowest profit growth since 2003.  Samsung posted fourth-quarter net income of 7.04 trillion
won, surpassing the 6.8 trillion-won average of 31  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 19 percent to 56
trillion won. Operating profit surged 89 percent to 8.84
trillion won.  The stronger won cut operating profit by 360 billion won in
the period, mainly by damping earnings from sales in China and
 Brazil . Korean carmakers  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
posted fourth-quarter profit declines because of the won’s
appreciation.  “The stronger won will obviously have a negative impact on
profit, but that isn’t Samsung’s only concern,” Standard
Chartered Plc analyst Sean Kim said. “Apple’s unimpressive
earnings also indicate that the overall market situation is
becoming more difficult.”  Global Phones  Samsung, which ships more than a quarter of all mobile
phones worldwide, more than doubled operating profit to 5.44
trillion won. The company was the biggest seller of smartphones
in China in the third quarter, according to IDC. Apple slipped
to sixth behind four local suppliers including Lenovo Group
Ltd., ZTE Corp. and Huawei Technologies Co., highlighting the
U.S. company’s lack of a low-cost iPhone.  Globally, Samsung shipped 213 million smartphones last
year, compared with 135.8 million for Apple and 35 million for
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Strategy Analytics said today. The worldwide market
grew 43 percent to 700 million.  “The question is how much more will Samsung continue
boosting its market share as Apple staggers and competition from
Chinese companies intensifies,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief
executive officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd.
in Seoul, which oversees about $5.5 billion of assets, including
Samsung shares.  Apple Lawsuits  Samsung also supplies chips for the iPhone, and it’s in a
global legal dispute with Apple concerning intellectual-property
rights. The companies are using patents to try to force each
other to change products or remove models from store shelves.  Samsung’s display division, which makes flat panels for
TVs, made a fourth-quarter profit compared with a year-earlier
loss. The semiconductor unit boosted operating profit 8.4
percent to 1.42 trillion won as sales of DRAM chips for servers
and mobile devices offset a slump in prices for DRAM used in PCs
caused by a global glut and slowing demand.  The Korean company may sell 59.7 million smartphones in the
first quarter, double the tally for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, Lee Sun Tae, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment &
Securities, said before the earnings announcement. Samsung
probably sold 63 million in the fourth quarter, according to
Morgan Stanley. Apple shipped 47.8 million iPhones in the
period, boosted by a new model and holiday-season demand.
Samsung doesn’t provide shipment data.  In China, nationwide smartphone sales may rise 44 percent
this year to 300 million, led by cheaper units, according to
IDC. The Samsung 7568 Galaxy smartphone is available for as
little as 1,299  yuan  through  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  The cheapest
iPhone on Apple’s China website, an 8-gigabyte iPhone 4, costs
3,088 yuan. The latest iPhone 5 starts at 5,288 yuan. Neither
company provides sales data by region.  Samsung’s consumer-electronics unit, which makes TVs and
home appliances, posted an operating profit of 740 billion won,
compared with 540 billion won a year earlier, helped by high-
margin models featuring 3-D functionality and LED back-lighting
technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  