-- SCA Posts Profit as Georgia-Pacific Deal Boosts Sales
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-01-24T15:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sca-posts-profit-as-georgia-pacific-deal-boosts-hygiene-sales.html
Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) , the maker of
Tempo tissues and Libero diapers, returned to a profit in the
fourth quarter as the acquisition of Georgia-Pacific LLC’s
European business boosted consumer-hygiene sales.  Net income was 2.09 billion kronor ($324 million),  Europe ’s
biggest tissue maker said in a statement. That compares with an
estimate for 2.11 billion kronor by nine analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. A year earlier, SCA posted a 3.43 billion-kronor net
loss after writing down the value of some assets. Sales rose 12
percent to 23.4 billion kronor.  SCA has increased its focus on consumer-hygiene products to
skirt most of the decline that has gripped the Nordic  paper
industry  in the past few years. In January last year, SCA
divested its packaging operations to DS Smith. In November 2011,
it bought Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue business from Koch
Industries Inc., adding brands such as Lotus.  “The sale of SCA’s packaging business reduces our cyclical
exposure and gives us greater financial opportunities to grow
our hygiene business,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Johansson
said in the statement. “The Georgia-Pacific acquisition boosts
our competitive strength in the European tissue market and
complements our market positions.”  The stability of the tissue business, a strong balance
sheet and a debt level under the target contributed to the
decision to propose an increased dividend payout to 4.50 kronor
a share from 4.20 kronor, Johansson said today in an interview
in Stockholm.  Eying Acquisitions  SCA’s shares rose as much as 3.2 percent in Stockholm
trading, the biggest intraday gain since Oct. 18.  The tissue-paper maker is still eying acquisitions globally
and has as much as 9 billion kronor to spend, Johansson said.
The company isn’t interested in buying any of  Kimberly-Clark
Corp. (KMB) ’s assets in Europe, he said. The  Dallas , Texas-based
company said Oct. 24 it would exit the diaper business in
Western and  Central Europe , except for  Italy , as well as some
lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissues. SCA will
decide by summer how to capitalize on the withdrawal, Johansson
said.  SCA said in November that it planned to cut 1,500 jobs,
mainly in Europe, to save 300 million euros ($400 million)
annually by 2015. SCA has also said it will cut expenses and
increase efficiency at its forest-product operations to boost
earnings by 1.3 billion kronor annually from 2015.  “The efficiency programs are proceeding according to
plan,” Johansson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.ne  