-- Senate Changes Rule on Filibusters, Keeps Supermajority
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-25T15:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/senate-leaders-said-to-agree-on-filibuster-rule-changes.html
The  U.S. Senate  revised its rules to
make it harder for a single member to slow progress on
legislation, while continuing to let the minority party block
action by insisting on a 60-vote supermajority for bills to
proceed.  Senators approved the change last night on a pair of votes.
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, agreed to the
plan earlier yesterday in Washington.  The agreement headed off Reid’s threat to have Democrats
impose their own rules, which “would have turned gridlock into
a meltdown,” said Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan .  A supporter of broader rule changes, Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of  Iowa , called the accord “a baby, baby step.” It
“does nothing to alter the fact we have now become a de facto,
60-vote Senate” in which support from 60 of the chamber’s 100
members is needed to advance major legislation, he said.  Reid has complained that Republicans abuse rules allowing
use of the filibuster procedure to block legislation and
confirmation of presidential nominees.  While the compromise isn’t as far-reaching as what Reid and
other Democrats had sought, it does pare back the ability of an
individual or small group of senators to stall legislation
backed by both parties’ leaders. Unchanged is the minority’s
ability to demand a 60-vote threshold to advance legislation
once it has reached the Senate floor. Democrats control 55
Senate votes to 45 for the Republicans.  Minority Decides  Harkin said President  Barack Obama ’s second-term agenda
“will not get very far” as long as Republicans can block
legislation with 41 votes. “We still have a system here where
the minority will decide what happens,” he said.  Obama said in a statement that he is “hopeful” that the
“bipartisan agreement will pave the way for the Senate to take
meaningful action in the days and weeks ahead.”  The compromise measure speeds the process for bringing
bills to the floor in cases where there’s an agreement that each
side will have a chance to offer two amendments to the
legislation. It wouldn’t restrict filibusters on passage of
legislation or presidential nominations.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said he didn’t know how much difference the
changes will make.  ‘To Be Seen’  “It remains to be seen,” Durbin said. “If there’s a
constructive attitude” because leaders reached a bipartisan
agreement, “it may help things.”  The agreement “could have been worse,” said Republican
Senator  Roy Blunt  of  Missouri . The changes aren’t necessary, he
said, “But if the majority insists we do some things to
expedite procedures, this does that without doing irreparable
damage to the Senate as an institution.”  Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent who caucuses
with Democrats, said the plan “doesn’t go anywhere near far
enough in my view,” and he voted against the changes.  “What we have to ask ourselves is: Should we need 60 votes
to pass major pieces of legislation? I don’t think we should,”
Sanders said.  The revised rules reduce the maximum debate time, to eight
hours from 30 hours, on nominations by the president after they
clear the 60-vote threshold for ending a filibuster. That
provision wouldn’t apply to federal appellate or Supreme Court
nominees or to candidates for Cabinet posts.  ‘Talking Filibuster’  The plan excluded a proposal by some Democratic senators,
including Harkin,  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon  and Tom Udall of  New
Mexico , to require senators who want to filibuster a bill to
hold the floor and speak until one side gives in.  The so-called “talking filibuster” was made famous in the
1939 film “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,” where the title
character, played by  Jimmy Stewart , collapses from exhaustion
after speaking on the Senate floor for 24 hours nonstop to delay
a vote on a bill he opposes.  Reid and McConnell also reached an informal agreement to
insist that senators who want to continue debate, after 60 or
more senators agree to limit it, must take the floor and stay
there during the allotted remaining time. Currently, there is no
such requirement.  Changing the rules entailed votes on two resolutions. One,
aimed at expediting procedures for consideration of legislation
and some nominations, was approved 78-16; it needed 60 votes to
pass. The other was a change to standing rules for bringing
measures to the floor and passed 86-9; it had needed 67 votes.  McConnell ‘Relieved’  McConnell said in a statement he was relieved that Reid
backed off threats to change the rules with the votes of 51
Democrats, an untested tactic referred to as the “nuclear
option.”  “No party has ever broken the rules of the Senate to
change those rules,” McConnell said. “I’m glad such an
irreparably damaging precedent will not be set.”  Reid said in a statement that lawmakers “took steps
towards ending gridlock in the Senate, and making this body a
more efficient place while still respecting the rights of the
minority.”  Levin joined McConnell in expressing relief the agreement
avoided the “nuclear option.” He recalled that Democrats took
“great umbrage” in 2005 when they were in the minority and
then-Majority Leader  Bill Frist , a Tennessee Republican,
threatened to use such a strategy to curb Democratic filibusters
against President  George W. Bush ’s judicial nominees.  “We just can’t have a situation in the Senate where the
majority can decide what the rules are at any time,” Levin
said. Otherwise, he added, the Senate would become like the
House, “which adopts rules every two years to fit the
majority’s own needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  