-- Shanghai CBRC Requires Bank Hotlines in Wealth Product Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T01:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/shanghai-cbrc-requires-bank-hotlines-in-wealth-product-crackdown.html
Shanghai ’s  banking regulator  is
requiring lenders to open telephone hotlines for customers to
report staff attempting to sell unauthorized wealth management
products as  China  cracks down on illegal soliciting.  The Shanghai branch of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission and the city’s banking association have also begun
taking customer complaints on employee misconduct through their
own hotlines, the local regulator said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The requirements come after a former employee of Huaxia
Bank Co. was suspected of promoting an unauthorized investment
product that later failed. Chinese banks have been relying on
wealth management products, which offer higher returns than
benchmark deposit rates, to keep customers from moving savings
to rival banks.  The balance of Chinese lenders’ wealth management products
may have jumped to 13 trillion  yuan  ($2.09 trillion) by the end
of 2012 from 8.5 trillion yuan a year earlier, according to
 Fitch Ratings .  The CBRC last week  banned  bank employees from selling
wealth management products without authorization and told the
banks to stop selling private-equity related products or
misleading customers into buying such products. The hotlines in
Shanghai will also be used for reporting staff that solicit
private loans, according to the statement.  Investors of the Zhongding Wealth Investment Center Limited
Partnership, the savings product sold by Huaxia Bank’s former
employee in Shanghai, had their principal repaid in full after a
guarantee firm bought the asset,  Securities Times  reported on
Jan. 22.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  