-- Shiller Says U.S. Housing Market May Drop Further: Tom Keene
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-24T13:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/shiller-says-u-s-housing-market-decline-may-persist-correct-.html
A U.S. housing-market revival may
prove illusory and the threat of further weakness remains, said
 Robert Shiller , a professor at  Yale University  and co-creator of
the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values.  “The housing market has been declining for something like
six years now, it could go on, that’s my worry,” Shiller told
 Tom Keene  in a Bloomberg Television interview today in Davos,
 Switzerland . “The short-term indicators are up now, it
definitely looks better, but we saw that in 2009.”  The  property market  has shown signs of recovery and
homebuilding has rebounded as low borrowing costs spur buyer
demand, bolster  prices . Values rose 7.4 percent in November from
a year earlier, the ninth straight increase and the biggest gain
since May 2006,  Irvine , California-based data provider CoreLogic
said last week.  “It’s a good housing market in the sense that  mortgage
rates  are very low and prices have come down to normal levels,
so yes, it’s a good time to buy if nothing bad happens,”
Shiller said. “But it’s also a very bad housing market in that
most of the mortgages are being supported by the government, and
we have the Fed and this buying program. It’s a very abnormal
market. There’s a lot of uncertainty going forward.”  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.38
percent in the week ended Jan. 17 from 3.4 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  said that day. The average rate
dropped to a record 3.31 percent in November. New-home sales in
December picked up to a 385,000 annual rate, according to the
median forecast of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg ahead of a
Commerce Department report tomorrow.  Attending Davos  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
increased an annual 4.3 percent in October, the biggest 12-month
advance since May 2010, the group said on Dec. 26. The next
report is due on Jan. 29.  Data on Jan. 22 showed sales of U.S. existing homes
unexpectedly fell in December. Purchases fell 1 percent to a
4.94 million annual rate last month, the National Association
of Realtors said. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was
for a gain to a 5.1 million rate.  Shiller, who spoke while attending the  World Economic
Forum ’s 2013 annual meeting, also said that while global
economic conditions are “a little better,” there are still
risks to the recovery.  “We’ve been five years in a slow economy, and it could go
quite a bit longer,” he said. “We’ve seen gross domestic
product growth at sub-normal levels.”  He added, “I think we’re pretty far from irrational
exuberance, maybe 50 years away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  