-- Slovenian Premier Battles to Keep Post After Losing Majority
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-01-25T15:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/slovenian-premier-battles-to-keep-position-after-losing-majority.html
Slovenia’s Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  battled to keep his post and push on with an economic
overhaul as the country lurched toward early elections and a
bailout after his coalition split over graft allegations.  Jansa was left short of the 46 votes needed to pass laws
after the Citizens List party decided to abandon the coalition
following a report by the anti-graft agency which accused him of
failing to properly account for his private assets. Other
coalition partners have also said they will quit, increasing the
risk of early elections for the second time in a year.  Slovenia, on the brink of becoming the sixth euro-area
member to ask for international assistance last year, pushed
ahead with an overhaul of the economy, including a 4 billion-
euro ($5.4 billion) bank recapitalization plan, amid its second
recession in three years.  Early elections “would stall the reform agenda and even
the implementation of the bad-bank plan will hang in the
balance,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said in a report to
clients today. “The government will likely be shut out of
international markets and may struggle to finance itself,
bringing the possibility of a bailout back to the fore.”  Bond Plans  Slovenia  may sell as much as 3 billion euros of debt this
year to repay maturing credits as yields fall, finance the
budget and recapitalize the banking industry, Deputy Finance
Minister Dejan Krusec told reporters in Vienna Jan. 15.  The former Yugoslav republic sold $2.25 billion of 10-year
bonds in October with a yield of 5.7 percent on increased demand
on the U.S. debt market. The yield on the notes was 4.902
percent at 3:51 p.m. in Ljubljana, down 0.03 percentage point
from yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The best option for a bond sale for Slovenia would be to
retap the existing bond that we successfully sold on the U.S.
market in October,” outgoing Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
told reporters in Ljubljana today. The country should have no
problems in financing its budget until June when “a large
chunk” of maturing debt is due, he said.  Bad Bank  Sustersic, who stepped down yesterday when his Citizens
List party left the Cabinet, had helped pass legislation to
create the so-called bad bank that will take non-performing
loans from lenders such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor. (KBMR)  In exchange, the institutions would
receive government-guaranteed bonds.  The Pensioners’ Party and the  People’s Party , also members
of the five-way coalition, have said they may quit in the coming
weeks after the anti-graft agency found Jansa failed to declare
more than 200,000 euros in private assets. The premier has
called the omission an accident.  “The  economic situation  in the country is serious,” Jansa
told reporters in Ljubljana yesterday. Early elections would
mean “a stalemate for several months” and there would be no
guarantee they would produce “a more stable government,” he
said in explaining in part why his Cabinet will continue to push
forward with its agenda.  The cost of insuring the debt with five-year credit-default
swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness worsen,
increased 3 points from yesterday to 270 by 3:56 p.m. in
Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Croatian Impact  An early vote also “wouldn’t be helpful” in efforts to
approve neighboring  Croatia ’s European Union accession treaty as
Slovenia needs a two-thirds majority to do that, Jansa said
yesterday. The former Yugoslav republics are locked in a legal
dispute over a banking dispute. Croatia wants to become the
bloc’s 28th member in July.  “There are intensive talks going on to solve the
ratification of Croatia’s EU accession treaty and I think it’s
my duty to do this in February,” Karl Erjavec, Slovenia’s
Foreign Minister and leader of the Pensioners Party said in an
interview with public broadcaster  TV Slovenija  late yesterday.  The Pensioners Party will decide Feb. 5 on whether to leave
the government by Feb. 22.  Gross domestic product fell 3.3 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter, the third-biggest drop in the euro region
after Greece and  Portugal , as consumption slumped and exports to
 Europe  eased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  