-- Sony Fined $394,500 Over Hacker Attack on PlayStation Data
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-24T17:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sony-fined-394-000-over-2011-hacker-attack-on-playstation-data.html
Sony Corp. (SNE) ’s U.K. unit was fined
250,000 pounds ($394,500) by the country’s privacy regulator
over a 2011 hacker attack that put the personal data of 77
million PlayStation users worldwide at risk.  Sony could have prevented the breach by keeping software
up-to-date and ensuring that passwords were secure, the U.K.
Information Commissioner’s Office said in a statement on its
 website .  The April 2011 hacker attacks on Sony’s Qriocity network,
which provides PlayStation users with access to videos and
games, compromised more than 100 million customer accounts, the
second-largest online data breach in U.S. history. Sony
suspended those services until July and budgeted 14 billion yen
($155.4 million) in costs that year. Two members of the LulzSec
“hacktivist” group pleaded guilty last year to U.K. charges
that they disrupted the websites of Sony, the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency and  News Corp .  “If you are responsible for so many payment-card details
and log-in details, then keeping that personal data secure has
to be your priority,” said  David Smith , the U.K.’s deputy
commissioner and director of data protection. “In this case
that just didn’t happen, and when the database was targeted --
albeit in a determined criminal attack -- the security measures
in place were simply not good enough.”  Sony said that it would appeal the  decision .  Layered Defense  “Criminal attacks on electronic networks are a real and
growing aspect of 21st century life and Sony continually works
to strengthen our systems, building in multiple layers of
defense and working to make our networks safe, secure and
resilient,” the company said in a statement.  The fine is the second-highest levied by the U.K. privacy
regulator following a 325,000-pound penalty for Brighton and
Sussex University Hospitals NHS Trust in June 2011.  “This is going to be the future,” said Flip Petillion, a
lawyer in the Brussels office of law firm Crowell & Moring LLP.
“For the last 20 years if companies didn’t respect data-
protection rules, they got a briefing” or “a simple request to
abide by the rules. This is definitely going to change and they
will get fines.”  The European Union is pushing through an overhaul of the
27-nation bloc’s data-protection rules that may force anyone
controlling data to notify regulators and individuals when a
data breach is discovered.  EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  in November 2011,
just over 6 months after the Sony hacker attack, said the
“incident highlighted why companies need to reinforce the
security of the information they hold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  