-- South Africa Holds Rate as Rand Sparks Inflation Fears
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-01-24T15:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/south-africa-holds-rate-as-rand-sparks-inflation-fears.html
South Africa ’s  Reserve Bank  kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a third meeting as a
weaker rand threatens to boost inflation, making it difficult
for policy makers to stimulate a flagging economy.  Members of the Monetary Policy Committee unanimously agreed
to leave the repurchase rate at 5 percent, Governor Gill Marcus
told reporters today in  Pretoria , the capital, matching the
forecasts of all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The monetary policy stance remains accommodative and
appropriate,” Marcus said. “Further accommodation at this
stage is constrained by the upside risks to the inflation
outlook,” which include the currency and higher wages.  Rising wages and the currency’s slump to a four-year low
beyond 9 rand to the dollar is adding to price pressures as
inflation nears the top of the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target. That’s limiting policy makers’ ability to
support the economy and help offset the effect of mines strikes
and firings that may worsen a 25.5 percent  unemployment rate .  The rand has dropped 6.4 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of the year, the worst performance of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 9.0555 a dollar as
of 4:49 p.m. in Johannesburg, down from 9.041 when Marcus
announced the rates decision.  Every 1 percentage decline in the rand adds as much as 0.2
percentage points to inflation, according to Johannesburg-based
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  Inflation accelerated to a seven-month
high of 5.7 percent in December, the statistics office said
yesterday.  ‘Wage Spiral’  “We don’t believe that it will cut rates again in this
cycle,” Elna Moolman, an economist at Johannesburg-based
 Renaissance Capital , said in an e-mail. “This is owing to
upside risks to the inflation forecasts and the bank’s concerns
about a possible wage price spiral.”  The central bank raised its forecast for average inflation
for this year to 5.8 percent from 5.5 percent, while lifting it
to 5.2 percent in 2014 from 5 percent previously. Inflation will
probably peak at 6.1 percent in the third quarter of this year,
Marcus said.  Workers on South African mines won wage increases of as
much as 22 percent last year after a series of strikes.
Farmworkers in Western Cape province staged intermittent work
stoppages since November, demanding that the minimum daily wage
be more than doubled to 150 rand ($16.55).  Growth Slows  “The MPC is mindful of the danger of a possible wage-price
spiral and further employment losses should unaffordable real
wage demands be granted while economic growth remains
constrained,” Marcus said.  Economic growth will probably reach 2.6 percent this year,
down from a November estimate of 2.9 percent. The bank raised
its forecast for next year to 3.8 percent from 3.6 percent.  “Domestic economic growth remains fragile and below
potential,” the governor said. “The outlook for parts of the
mining sector is bleak, following continued labor disputes and
announcements of possible closures of shafts and mines, a
consequence of increased cost pressures, weak global demand and
prices.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its growth
forecast for this year to 2.8 percent from 3 percent, lower than
the government’s projection of 3.6 percent.  Twelve-month forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on
 interest rates , rose 5 basis points today to 5.12 percent.  The bank “is sounding more hawkish than previously,”
 Razia Khan , the London-based head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc, said in e-mailed comments. “The Reserve
Bank is unlikely to react to any temporary breach of the
inflation target, especially one driven primarily by supply-side
factors. But there is little doubt, with the emphasis on the
wage-price spiral and the rand, that inflation risks are now
thought of differently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  