-- Spanish Jobless Rate Hits Record After Rajoy’s First Year
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-01-24T16:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/spanish-jobless-rate-hits-record-after-rajoy-s-first-year.html
Spanish  unemployment  rose to a
record in the final quarter of 2012 as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government imposed the deepest budget cuts in the
country’s democratic history.  The number of jobless approached 6 million people, or 26.02
percent, from 25.01 percent in the previous three months, the
National Statistics Institute in Madrid said today. That matched
the median forecast of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Spain is now home to a third of the euro region’s unemployed.  The jobless number rose as Rajoy marked his first
anniversary in office. It is now the highest since at least
1976, the year after dictator  Francisco Franco ’s death heralded
Spain’s transition to democracy. Some officials predict the
slump that hit the euro area’s fourth-largest economy in 2008
will extend into this year.  “The government expects unemployment to come down in 2013
but it seems too optimistic given not only the weak economic
activity we expect but also the usual lag between activity and
unemployment,” said  Ricardo Santos , a euro-area economist at
BNP Paribas SA in  London . “This will continue going forward
given that the bulk of the cuts in the public sector is yet to
be made.”  INE data released today show that 259,000 unemployed people
in the last quarter had lost a position in the public sector up
from 176,000 at the end of 2009.  IMF Forecast  Job destruction will probably continue until the end of the
year, Spanish Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre
told reporters in Madrid today. The worsening economic
contraction and higher unemployment in the last quarter of 2012
are the result of “the concentration of a large part of the
budget cuts approved to boost income and cut spending, as tax on
sales was raised and public sector employees’ year-end bonus
scrapped.”  While budget cuts have a negative impact on output in the
short term, they are necessary to regain investors’ confidence,
Latorre said. The improvement of  Spain ’s funding conditions will
eventually translate into better credit conditions for the
private sector, leading to an economic recovery along with an
increase in exports, in the second half, he said.  Economy Contracts  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its forecast
for economic growth in Spain this year, forecasting that gross
domestic product will contract 1.5 percent after previously
predicting a drop of 1.4 percent.  The Bank of Spain said separately that the recession
worsened in the fourth quarter due to budget cuts. The central
government and the regions started implementing Rajoy’s fifth
package of austerity measures in a year, including higher sales
tax and cuts in  unemployment benefits , public-sector jobs and
wages.  Meeting the European Union deficit target for 2013 will
require “a very ambitious additional fiscal effort,” the Bank
of Spain said. The European Commission said this week that Spain
will probably miss its 2012 goal of 6.3 percent of GDP, and in
2013 it sees the shortfall at 6 percent.  “The government’s forecast of a 0.5 percent contraction
this year is already looking way too optimistic,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
London, said by telephone. “We predict a 2.5 percent drop as
the negative forces in recent quarters, including a dreadful
labor market, persist.”  Seat Jobs  Carmaker Seat may cut as many as 740 jobs affecting 400
temporary workers and 340 office employees, La Vanguardia
reported this week. Other measures being considered are reducing
working hours and cutting wages to boost productivity amid
adverse conditions for sales, the newspaper said.  Rajoy has still won time among investors as a rally in
securities of so-called peripheral countries enables him to
avoid seeking a full international bailout. Spain sold 7 billion
euros ($9.3 billion) of 10-year bonds via banks on Jan. 22.  “It is necessary to distinguish between the markets and
the real economy, which continues to be worrying,” Sara Balina,
chief economist for Spain at Madrid-based consultancy Analistas
Financieros Internacionales, said in a telephone interview. AFI
forecasts an average unemployment rate of 27.3 percent this
year. “More fiscal consolidation efforts will have to be made
and exports won’t make up for a deteriorating domestic demand.”  Rajoy has requested the Spanish regions divide their
combined deficit by five in the two years through the end of
2013, even as education and health care represent over half of
their spending and the recession undermines tax receipts.  While Economy Minister Luis de Guindos this week ruled out
additional budget cuts, the government is working on an overhaul
of public administrations that could further fuel unemployment
this year. Expansion newspaper said yesterday a draft law pares
more than 60 percent of local government jobs across Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  