-- Li Ning Falls on Plan to Sell Convertible Securities
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-01-25T02:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sportswear-maker-li-ning-halts-shares-from-trading.html
Li Ning  Co. fell by a record after
the Chinese sportswear company said it plans to raise as much as
HK$1.87 billion ($241 million) offering convertible securities
to fund efforts to revive its brand.  Li Ning fell as much as 16 percent to HK$5.20, headed for
the biggest decline since it started trading in June 2004. 
Qualifying  stockholders  will be offered one convertible security
for every two shares, the company said in a statement to Hong 
Kong’s stock exchange today.  Each security can be converted into one share at HK$3.50
each, 44 percent lower than the stock’s last closing price
before the announcement, Li Ning said. The retailer in December
predicted a “substantial” full-year loss because of costs for
a plan to revive growth, after reporting an 85 percent drop in
first-half  profit .  “The steep discount the company is willing to offer
reflects its urgent need for  capital  to support the
transformation plan, and the recovery could be slower than
expected,” Jerry Peng, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. Ltd. said by phone.  Li Ning shares  traded  at HK$6.21 before the stock was
suspended yesterday for the announcement. The stock dropped 14
percent to HK$5.34 at 10:40 a.m. in  Hong Kong . The city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.1 percent.  Li Ning has said it plans to boost sales by investing in
marketing, clearing old inventory and “improving product
freshness” as competition from  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Adidas AG, and  Anta
Sports Products Ltd. (2020)  increases. The efforts, which will include
buying back inventory, will cost between 1.4 billion  yuan  ($225
million) and 1.8 billion yuan, the retailer said last month.  Gymnast Founder  Li Ning’s founder in October sold a 25 percent direct stake
in the sportswear retailer to  Viva China Holdings Ltd. (8032) , a
company he partially controls.  In January last year, Li Ning sold 750 million yuan of
convertible bonds to TPG Capital and Singapore’s sovereign fund
to raise money for more stores and product development.  Viva China will underwrite 60 percent of the securities
announced today, with TPG underwriting 40 percent. TPG, Viva
China and Singapore’s sovereign fund GIC have agreed to
subscribe to the convertible securities.  Gymnast Li Ning was the final torchbearer at the opening
ceremony of the 2008 Beijing  Olympic Games . He won three gold,
two silver and one bronze medals in the 23rd Los Angeles Olympic
Games in 1984, and founded the company after retiring from
athletics, according to the retailer’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  