-- Startups Blend Tree Sap With Cash to Create Healthy Faux Eggs
-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 2013-01-24T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/startups-blend-tree-sap-with-cash-to-create-healthy-faux-eggs.html
Nestled among Internet startups in
the bustling South of Market neighborhood of  San Francisco  is an
innovator of another sort.  The year-old  Hampton Creek Foods ’ 2,400-square-foot office
is home to a state-of-the-art lab, with a stainless-steel
triple-shaft mixer, restaurant-grade dishwashers and 17
employees milling around in white lab coats. They’re developing
a plant-based substitute for the hen-born egg that’s
indistinguishable in taste and price from the real thing.  That, it turns out, is hard work.  “We definitely have a new respect for eggs,” said Megan
Clements, a research scientist, as she watches a fellow food
scientist squeeze oil into a vat of company-made eggless
mayonnaise. “Every day we are challenged to get better to make
up for what is not there.”  Hampton Creek is one of several venture capital-backed
startups trying to engineer dietary alternatives that are better
for the planet and healthier for people -- not to mention
animals. The so-called clean-food movement follows in the wake
of the high-tech industry’s disastrous bet on clean energy,
which resulted in a crop of solar, wind and fuel-cell companies
whose fortunes fell dramatically amid the proliferation of cheap
natural gas and low-cost competition from the Chinese.  Over the past year, two of the most esteemed VC firms in
Silicon Valley, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and  Khosla
Ventures , have backed almost a dozen startups trying to engineer
healthier and cheaper alternatives to eggs, chicken, cheese,
salt and candy.  Not Fake  The companies, whose creations are subject to U.S. Food and
Drug Administration regulations, “are trying to replicate the
sensory experience of proteins that we have all eaten,” said
Amol Deshpande, a general partner at Kleiner Perkins who joined
the firm from the agriculture giant Cargill Inc. “It’s not just
fake meat. The goal is to have a no-compromise solution.”  At a Khosla Ventures conference for investors late last
year, Josh Tetrick, the 32-year-old chief executive officer of
Hampton Creek, gave  Bill Gates  and  Tony Blair  a blind taste
test. He pitted muffins made with real eggs against those made
with his egg replacement, called Beyond Eggs. Neither could tell
the difference (nor could this reporter in a later test). The
ingredients in the faux egg mix include peas, sunflower
lecithin, canola and natural gums extracted from tree sap.  Plant-Based Eggs  The company’s food engineers laboriously test combinations
of their ingredients, trying to match the egg’s taste and its
functions as a thickening agent and emulsifier in baked goods
while also making the substitute healthier and with a longer
shelf life. Tetrick says he’s talking to a Fortune 500 company
that he won’t name about using plant-based eggs for its sauces
and dressings.  Beyond Meat , a two-year-old company based in  Los Angeles ,
is making soy-based chicken strips based on formulations
developed by two professors at the  University of Missouri .
Unlike previous soy-based substitutes, Beyond Meat’s come
remarkably close to replicating the taste and texture of the
genuine article.  Last summer, the company received an undisclosed investment
from Kleiner Perkins and Obvious Corp., an investment vehicle
started by two of Twitter Inc.’s founders, and the meatless
strips went on sale at Whole Foods Market Inc. outlets in
Northern California.  Safer Salt  Another target of the venture capital-backed foodies is
salt, a culprit in cardiovascular disease. Minneapolis-based  Nu-
Tek Salt LLC , a Khosla-backed startup founded by two veterans of
packaged foods giant ConAgra Foods Inc., has devised a formula
that uses a mixture of sodium chloride (aka salt) and healthier
potassium chloride, another naturally occurring mineral.  The salt substitute is about 10 times more expensive per
pound than pure sodium chloride, and it can taste metallic, yet
Nu-Tek is trying to ride the wave of publicly announced salt-
reduction efforts by food companies like Unilever, Sara Lee and
Kraft Foods.  The startup, which declined to comment on whether it has
deals to supply any of those companies, just built a factory in
Fargo,  North Dakota , and CEO Tom Manuel predicts $10 million in
sales this year.  A few of these companies have ambitious plans to change
more than one aspect of our diet.  Unreal , a startup based in
 Boston , entered the $30 billion-a-year candy market with
Unjunked Candy, a line of low-sugar alternatives to popular
confections like M&M’s.  The rival brand is now being sold in some  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ,  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  stores. Unreal, which has
received funding from Khosla, plans to move into snacks, soda
and breakfast cereal soon as well.  ‘Substantially Cheaper’  The founder of a startup called  Sand Hill Foods , Patrick
Brown, told NPR last year that his company wants to “produce
stuff that will compete by being substantially cheaper and every
bit as good and essentially indistinguishable to a consumer who
loves meat or dairy.”  The venture capitalists behind these startups believe that
 climate change  and the planet’s dwindling natural resources will
put more pressure on the food chain and that the  food industry 
will require sustainable alternatives. It sounds reasonable,
though venture investors placed similar bets on failed clean-
tech plays Solyndra LLC and Fisker Automotive Inc. The clean-
food startups will face a different set of challenges, including
the reluctance of consumers to give up familiar dietary fare.  Speaking about his company from the  Mayo Clinic , where his
father is recuperating from a heart operation,  John Burns , CEO
of Unreal, said consumers will be forced to reconsider what they
put into their bodies.  “I’m acutely aware right now of the need to move to better
and healthier eating, both from a business standpoint and
personally,” he said. “This is a macro trend that doesn’t
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Stone in San Francisco at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Cantor at 
 dcantor5@bloomberg.net  