-- Stephens Emerges as Major Contender, Endorser at Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-24T13:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/stephens-emerges-as-major-contender-endorser-at-australian-open.html
Sloane Stephens’s emergence as a
Grand Slam title contender at the Australian Open put the tennis
world and marketers on alert to the teenager’s potential.  The 19-year-old American lost to defending champion
Victoria Azarenka in the semifinals of the season-opening major
in  Melbourne  yesterday, 24 hours after ousting five-time
champion Serena Williams in the tournament’s biggest upset.  The run put the Florida native in position to boost her
endorsement earnings as a possible Grand Slam champion from the
U.S., according to sports marketers. The last American woman to
win a major singles title other than Serena or Venus Williams
was Jennifer Capriati at the 2002 Australian Open.  “In the sport of tennis, we’re always interested in where
the next great American player is coming from,” Darin David,
director of sports marketing at The Marketing Arm, said in a
telephone interview. “To have a new star come up, people have
been waiting on that. If Sloane is the one to step forward,
there’s certainly an opportunity there to cash in.”  Stephens’s current  sponsors  include  Under Armour Inc. (UA) ,
racket maker  Head NV (HEAD) , nutritional supplement manufacturer Usana
Health Sciences, American Express Co. and Johnson & Johnson,
according to her website.  Potential additions already are lining up after her win
against 15-time major champion Williams, said her manager John
Tobias, the president of Lagardere Unlimited Tennis, which also
represents Azarenka and former top-ranked Caroline Wozniacki.  “We had a number of different reach-outs,” Tobias said in
a telephone interview, without giving specific details. “We’ve
been in touch with a lot of brands.”  Prize Money  The three-set victory against Williams on Rod Laver Arena,
in which she fought back from a set and 2-0 down against a
player she had idolized growing up, may prove to be the most
profitable part of her campaign, which yielded A$500,000
($525,000) in prize money for reaching the semifinals.  “If there was one player we could have said from a
marketing standpoint you could beat on worldwide television, it
would be Serena Williams,” Tobias said. “For her to do that
and do it the way she did it was pretty convincing to a lot of
brands and a lot of the media that this girl is no flash in the
pan. She’s going to be around for a while.”  Looking long term, Tobias said a selective approach would
be applied to Stephens’s corporate partnerships and that any new
endorsements must have “real authenticity.”  “I really believe this girl is going to be at the top of
the women’s game for the next 10 years,” Tobias added. “It’s
important not to jump at the first thing that comes to us.”  Sharapova, Li  The only two women to make Forbes magazine’s 2012 list of
the top 100 best-paid athletes were four-time Grand Slam
champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia  and  China ’s Li Na, who faces
Azarenka in tomorrow’s Australian Open final.  Sharapova’s earnings of $27.9 million included an estimated
$22 million in endorsements with the likes of  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and Tiffany & Co., according to Forbes. Li, who
became the first Chinese player to win a major singles title at
the 2011 French Open, ranked 81st with earnings of $18.4
million. Of that, $17 million came from endorsements including
Nike, Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and Chinese insurance company
Taikang Life Insurance Co.  While female tennis players make strong fashion icons and
are attractive to advertisers, winning majors is the key to
attracting a broader audience and building a brand, according to
Bob Dorfman, the executive creative director at San Francisco-
based Baker Street Advertising.  ‘Ways to Go’  “Her game has a ways to go,” Dorfman said by e-mail. “If
Sloane keeps winning on the court, she’ll certainly win the
attention of marketers of everything from cosmetics to
computers, fast food to soft drinks, smart phones to sports
cars.”  Stephens, the sole teenager ranked in the top 50 on the
women’s tour, grabbed her phone immediately after beating
Williams to check her messages and said in her post-match press
conference that the number of followers of her Twitter account
had more than doubled to 35,000. She’s since added another
20,000 followers.  Stephens first picked up a tennis racket at age nine, when
her mother, Sybil Smith -- an All-American swimmer at Boston
University -- introduced her to the game. Her father was John
Stephens, a former New England Patriots running back who was
killed in a 2009 car accident.  Family Move  After Stephens said her goal was to be a professional
tennis player, her family moved to  Florida  from  California  when
Stephens was 11 so she could train at Saviano High Performance
Tennis Academy in Ft. Lauderdale. Eight years later, she became
the first American teenager to reach a Grand Slam semifinal
since Williams at the 2001 U.S. Open.  “She’s still got plenty of work ahead of her,” Tobias
said. “By no means does she look at herself at the same level
as the Williams sisters, especially from the marketing
perspective, but she’s got the ability to get there. This is a
girl who’s not going to shy away from the media. I think that’s
what’s going to cause a lot of brands to be interested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  