-- Sternlicht’s Starwood Firms to Buy LNR for $1.05 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-01-24T21:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sternlicht-s-starwood-firms-said-to-buy-lnr-for-1-05-billion.html
Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD)  the
commercial-mortgage company founded by  Barry Sternlicht , climbed
to a record after agreeing to buy LNR Property LLC as part of a
$1.05 billion deal with Starwood Capital Group LLC.  Starwood Property will pay $856 million for most of LNR’s
businesses, including its U.S. special servicing unit and 50
percent of LNR’s stake in Auction.com, the companies said today
in a statement. Starwood Capital, Sternlicht’s closely held
investment firm, will buy LNR’s U.S. property-development unit
and the other half of the  Auction.com  interest for $197 million.  The deal gives the Greenwich, Connecticut-based companies a
window into some of the more than $1 trillion of commercial real
estate debt scheduled to mature in the next five years in the
U.S. and Europe, as well as access to pricing of troubled
properties and income from fees. LNR’s special servicer
business, which represents bondholders in debt restructurings
and foreclosures, is the biggest manager of distressed U.S.
commercial real estate loans.  “It is a major-league transformative deal,” said Joshua Barber, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. The
transaction will give Starwood Property “real size, real scale,
unbelievable networks and real mortgage originators.”  Starwood Property gained 4.6 percent to $25.11, the highest
closing price since the stock began trading in 2009. The real
estate investment trust and competitors including  Colony
Financial Inc. (CLNY)  and  Apollo Commercial Real Estate Finance Inc. (ARI) 
went public that year to try to capitalize on distressed
property after the credit crisis.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  “Our goal from the beginning was to build a sustainable
competitive advantage in the financial markets,” Sternlicht,
the founder, chairman and chief executive officer of both
Starwood companies, said in a telephone interview. “We’re
always looking at tilting the landscape in our favor.”  The company “leaped at the chance” to buy LNR, “because
we knew LNR had an extraordinary seat at the table,” Sternlicht
told analysts today on a conference call. “They had a view of
the commercial-property markets, particularly the debt markets,
that few if any people have in the  United States .”  LNR’s co-CEOs, Tobin Cobb and Justin Kennedy, will remain
in their jobs, managing LNR as a separate business under
Starwood Property ownership. The  Miami Beach , Florida-based
company is currently owned by a group that includes funds
managed by Cerberus Capital Management LP,  Oaktree Capital Group
LLC (OAK) ,  iStar Financial Inc. (SFI)  and  Vornado Realty Trust. (VNO)   Vornado, iStar  Vornado, based in  New York , expects net proceeds of $241
million from the sale, the company said today in a statement.
IStar, also based in New York, said it anticipates $220 million
in proceeds. Its  shares  rose 2.1 percent to $8.90.  The LNR deal follows nine months of pursuit by Starwood and
a U.S. property recovery driven by the  Federal Reserve ’s low
interest rates and growing institutional appetite for real
estate assets. Commercial-property prices were up 38 percent
from their 2010 trough as of November, according to a value-
weighted index compiled by  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP)   “Values are increasing but they’re not running away,”
Sternlicht said in the interview. “Clearly there’s a move out
of fixed income to real property, and capital -- particularly
international capital -- is beginning to spill into secondary
cities.”  Property Broker  Beside the U.S. special servicing unit and its share of
Auction.com -- a property and loan broker that sells primarily
online -- Starwood Property’s acquisition includes LNR’s U.S.
investment portfolio, which has 203 securities in 97 CMBS
trusts, plus another five collateralized debt obligation bonds,
the companies said. It will also gain the European loan servicer
Hatfield Philips and a European debt-investment fund.  “ Europe  is just beginning to untangle an enormous backlog
of assets,” Sternlicht said. “We should have a pretty good
seat at the table” as banks there contend with distressed
commercial property assets, he said.  Starwood Property primarily originates and invests in
commercial real estate loans and buys mortgage-backed
securities. It had $3.6 billion of investments at the end of the
third quarter, according to a November investor presentation on
the company’s website.  It “will be the biggest player structured as a REIT in the
space by leaps and bounds,” Zachary Tanenbaum, vice president
at New York-based investment bank MLV & Co., said in an
interview. “It’s even hard to compare them to some of their
peers, because this puts them into so many different
businesses.”  ‘Priceless’ Data  The company will benefit from having access to LNR’s $131
billion of loans where it is the named special servicer, said
Andrew Sossen, chief operating officer and general counsel.  “The information is priceless,” he said in an interview.
“As a special servicer, you have a view into what rents are in
any given city on any given street in the U.S, to the extent you
have a property there. With $131 billion worth of loans, that
gives you a data point and a look into the commercial real
estate markets throughout the U.S.”  The LNR purchase probably will add to earnings this year,
before transaction costs, Starwood Property said in the
statement. The deal creates an “unbelievably complicated
story” for measuring financial performance, Stifel’s Barber
said.  “The income is going to be screwy,” he said. “There’s a
lot of different pieces to that income, you have non-recurring
income from mortgage origination gains, from servicing fees,
from workout fees. There’s a lot of goofy stuff.”  The deal is scheduled for completion in the second quarter.
Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG advised Starwood
Property, with Sidley Austin LLP providing legal counsel.  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  advised LNR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  