-- Sternlicht’s Starwood Firms Agree to Buy LNR for $1.05 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-01-24T11:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sternlicht-s-starwood-firms-agree-to-buy-lnr-for-1-05-billion.html
Barry Sternlicht’s  Starwood Property (STWD) 
Trust Inc. and Starwood Capital Group LLC agreed to buy LNR
Property LLC, the biggest manager of distressed U.S. commercial
real estate loans, for $1.05 billion.  Starwood Property, the largest commercial-mortgage real
estate investment trust, will pay $856 million for most of LNR’s
businesses, including its U.S. special servicing unit and 50
percent of LNR’s stake in Auction.com, the companies said today
in a statement. Starwood Capital, Sternlicht’s closely held
investment firm, will buy LNR’s U.S. property-development unit
and the other half of the  Auction.com  interest for $197 million.  The deal gives the Greenwich, Connecticut-based companies a
window into some of the more than $1 trillion of commercial real
estate debt scheduled to mature in the next five years in the
U.S. and  Europe , as well as access to pricing of troubled
properties. LNR’s special servicer business, which represents
bondholders in debt restructurings and foreclosures, oversees
more than 1,100 delinquent securitized mortgages, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sternlicht, 52, is the founder, chairman and chief
executive officer of both Starwood companies.  LNR’s co-CEOs, Tobin Cobb and Justin Kennedy, will remain
in those jobs, managing LNR as a separate business under
Starwood Property ownership. The company was recapitalized in
2010 by a partnership that includes  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) ,
Cerberus Capital Management LP,  iStar Financial Inc. (SFI)  and  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC. (OAK)   The deal is scheduled for completion in the second quarter,
according to today’s statement.  Property Broker  Besides the U.S. special servicing unit and its share of
Auction.com -- a property and loan broker that sells primarily
online -- Starwood Property’s acquisition includes LNR’s U.S.
investment portfolio, which has 203 securities in 97 CMBS
trusts, plus another five collateralized debt obligation bonds,
the companies said. It will also gain the European loan servicer
Hatfield Philips and a European debt investment fund.  Starwood Property primarily originates and invests in
commercial real estate loans and buys mortgage-backed
securities. It had $3.6 billion of investments at the end of the
third quarter, according to a November investor presentation on
the company’s website.  The REIT has shown an interest in special servicers in the
past. Starwood Property bid unsuccessfully on CWCapital Asset
Management when it was for sale in 2010, Sternlicht said in a
conference call in August of that year. That company is owned by
affiliates of  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  