-- Sugar Rush Leaves U.S. With Biggest Glut in Decade: Commodities
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-01-24T22:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/sugar-rush-leaves-u-s-with-biggest-glut-in-decade-commodities.html
Record U.S. sugar output is creating
the biggest domestic glut in a decade, reducing costs for
Hershey Co. and making it more likely the government will need
to stockpile supply to support farmers.  Production will jump 6.9 percent to 9.07 million short tons
(8.23 million metric tons) in the year ending Sept. 30, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said  Jan. 17. Stockpiles are forecast
at 2.2 million short tons, the most since 2000. Domestic prices
will drop 5.8 percent by October to 20 cents a pound, extending
last year’s 38 percent slump, according to the median of seven
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a massive quantity of sugar being produced,”
said Craig Ruffolo, a vice president at McKeanny Flavell Co.,
the Oakland, California-based sugar broker whose clients have
included Kraft Foods Group Inc., General Mills Inc. and Bunge
Ltd. “Our supply situation is bursting at the seams.”  While Americans are  eating  the most sugar since the 1970s,
that’s still not enough to absorb increasing supply. Sugar-beet
harvests expanded almost twice as fast as demand in the past
four years, and the cane crop is the biggest since 2004.  Food makers that didn’t import sugar before 2002 now get
about 33 percent of supply from overseas after a free-trade
agreement spurred a surge from  Mexico . That’s reduced the
premium paid for domestic sugar to 2.7 cents a pound relative to
world prices, from 10.1 cents a year ago. The decline is
reducing profits for farmers and widening margins for food
makers.  Raw Materials  While commodities have been in a bull market since August,
domestic-sugar futures began a bear market in April and slumped
the past five quarters, the longest losing streak since the
contract started in 2008. Domestic-sugar prices fell 5.9 percent
to 21.23 cents this month on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, as
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials rose
2.7 percent and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 4 percent. A Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries
lost 0.3 percent.  Back in May, when U.S. sugar fetched more than 30 cents,
Frank Jenkins, the president of Wilton, Connecticut-based
Jenkins Sugar Group, the largest domestic broker, predicted
output gains would send futures to the mid-20s. Prices fell
below 25 cents by mid-October and have kept dropping.  Beet Record  Beet-sugar output produced mostly in northern states
including  Minnesota  and North Dakota will climb to a record 5.2
million short tons this year, 23 percent more than in 2009, the
USDA says. Farmers are using more genetically modified seeds to
boost yields and planting 13 percent more acreage than four
years ago, after prices exceeded 40 cents in 2010 and 2011.
Cane-sugar production in southern states including Florida and
 Louisiana  will reach 3.87 million short tons, 22 percent more
than in 2011.  The government still restricts imports to support farmers
and offers loans that guarantee a minimum price of 20.9 cents
for unrefined sugar. If it drops below that level, processors
who get the credits can repay their debt by selling the sugar to
the USDA. The most ever acquired by the government through the
program was 764,000 tons in the year ended Sept. 30, 2001.  Processors pledged 1.83 million short tons as collateral
for $775.3 million of loans, equal to 20 percent of the crop. A
drop below the USDA’s target price would put a “large portion”
at risk, said Barbara Fecso, a USDA dairy and sweeteners analyst
in  Washington . She declined to predict how much the government
may end up owning. Buying surplus sugar would add to a  budget
deficit  that the Treasury estimated in October reached $1.09
trillion in the year ended September 2012.  Import Quotas  Sugar is the only major agricultural commodity grown in the
U.S. in which the government actively manages imports. Quotas
started in the 1930s and survived a challenge in Congress last
year. An Iowa State University study in 2011, when prices
averaged 38 cents, said that ending the limits would cut
consumer costs by $3.5 billion annually. Retail prices averaged
a record 69 cents a pound last year, from 42 cents a decade
earlier, Labor Department data show.  The sugar glut means “retail prices will probably come
down,” though declines tend to lag behind reductions in
wholesale costs, Tom Earley, an economist with  Agralytica , a
food and agriculture consulting firm in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
said in a telephone interview.  Reduced Incentive  The diminishing premium for U.S. sugar relative to
international prices also may tighten supply by reducing margins
for exporters, said McKeanny Flavell’s Ruffolo. ICE Futures
U.S.’s No. 11 raw-sugar contract, reflecting international
prices, tumbled 26 percent in the past year, compared with 39
percent for domestic futures.  The U.S. government has few options in curbing shipments
from Mexico because of the free-trade accord, and the USDA
predicts a 30 percent jump in imports to 1.388 million short
tons this year, more than any other foreign supplier. The agency
anticipates that Mexican production will rise 12 percent to an
eight-year high.  Hershey, the maker of chocolate Kisses and Reese’s candies,
expects higher gross margins this year because of “stable to
down” commodity costs including sugar, Chief Financial Officer
Humberto Alfonso told analysts on a conference call in October.
Its shares rose 28 percent in the past year and the  Hershey (HSY) ,
Pennsylvania-based company will report a 16 percent gain in net
income to $806.3 million in 2013, the mean of six analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Candy Competitors  “The price U.S. manufacturers pay for sugar is still
considerably higher than the world price our competitors
overseas pay,” said Mitchell Goetze, the president and chief
operating officer of Baltimore-based  Goetze’s Candy Co. , the
maker of Caramel Creams and Cow Tales. “Confectionery
manufacturers have enough challenges in our everyday operations
without also having to struggle against a government program
that arbitrarily restricts the supply of sugar.”  Rising U.S. production is compounding a third consecutive
annual global glut. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its three-month
forecast for international prices to 18.5 cents from 22 cents on
Jan. 14, citing the surplus. Raw sugar for delivery in March
closed at 18.5 cents yesterday on ICE.  Two Quarters  World output will exceed demand by 7.8 million metric tons
this year, Czarnikow Group Ltd., the London-based sugar trader,
said Dec. 19, increasing a forecast it made in August by 9.9
percent. Rabobank International boosted its estimate for the
 surplus  by about 12 percent to 6.6 million metric tons on Jan.
17. It expects world prices to average 18 cents to 20 cents over
the next two quarters.  Hedge funds and other large speculators held a net-long
position, or bets on higher prices, of 12,162 contracts as of
Jan. 15. That compares with a five-year average of 112,000
contracts, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  “There’s going to be a surplus over the next few months
and we may make some new lows,” said Claudio Oliveira, the head
of trading at Castlestone Management LLC in New York, which
manages about $130 million of assets. “Farmers will stand to
lose money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  