-- Suzlon Lenders Approve $1.8 Billion Debt Reorganization Plan
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-01-24T13:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/suzlon-lenders-approve-1-8-billion-debt-reorganization-plan.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest
wind-turbine maker, said lenders approved a 95 billion rupee
($1.8 billion) debt-restructuring plan and a two-year moratorium
on principal and interest payments.  A consortium of 19 banks led by  State Bank of India 
approved the proposal to reduce the  interest rate  by 3 percent
and extend repayment by eight years after the moratorium, which
begins Oct. 1, Pune-based Suzlon said in a stock exchange
statement, which didn’t give the current rates of interest.  Suzlon on Oct. 11 failed to pay $209 million, the biggest
convertible note default by an Indian company. The wind-turbine
maker continues to be in negotiations with bondholders, Chief
Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said in the statement.  The founders will invest an additional 1.88 billion rupees
in the company, following an infusion of 620 million rupees in
December, according to the statement.  “The restructuring of the domestic debt will help Suzlon
successfully defend its leadership position when the Indian wind
market bounces back in six to nine months,” said Ashish Sethia,
 India  country manager for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  BNEF expects installations in the country to fall about 40
percent after a subsidy for wind farms was withdrawn. The
incentive helped annual installations in the world’s third-
biggest wind market to more than double from 2009 to 2011.  Suzlon  fell  3.2 percent to 18.05 rupees at the close in
Mumbai today. The shares have dropped 32 percent in the past
year, compared with a 17 percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive
Index.  The wind-turbine maker can raise 18 billion rupees for
working capital needs from the banks, according to the
statement. The interest of 15 billion rupees due over the next
two years will be converted into equity or an equity-linked
instrument after the moratorium ends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  