-- Swift Transportation Jumps as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-01-24T21:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/swift-transportation-jumps-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
Swift Transportation Co. (SWFT)  rose the
most since its December 2010 initial public offering after the
trucking company posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The shares jumped 28 percent to $13.14 in New York, the
highest closing price since July 2011. Through yesterday, the
 stock  had gained 6.5 percent in 12 months, underperforming the
15 percent gain in the Russell 2000 Index.  Swift’s fourth-quarter profit excluding some items rose to
38 cents a share from 29 cents a year earlier, according to a
regulatory filing by the Phoenix-based company yesterday after
the close of regular trading. That beat the 26-cent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite a tepid freight market in the fourth quarter,
Swift delivered a standout quarter via strong operational
discipline and successful fleet rationalization,” Chaz Jones,
an analyst at Wunderlich Securities in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said
in a note to clients. Jones advises investors buy the stock.  Jack Waldo, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in Little Rock,
 Arkansas , upgraded his rating on Swift today to overweight from
equal weight.  Today’s  trading volume  exceeded 15.8 million shares, more
than 11 times the daily average for the past six months.  Swift expects per-share earnings to increase 10 percent to
15 percent this year, Chief Financial Officer Virginia Henkels
said today on a conference call with analysts.  “This will depend obviously on the economy, fuel prices
and other things outside of our control, but we will remain
focused on improving the operational items that are in our
control,” she said.  A “large majority” of Swift customers in the U.S. and
 Mexico  “have a positive outlook on 2013,” Henkels said on the
call. “From a consumers’ perspective, there is more certainty
today than existed three or six months ago.”  Swift returned to the stock market more than three years
after co-founder Jerry Moyes took the company private in a
leveraged buyout valued at $2.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  