-- U.K. to Import Electricity From Irish Clean Energy Plants
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-24T12:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/u-k-to-import-electricity-from-irish-clean-energy-plants.html
The U.K. plans to import
gigawatts of wind energy from Ireland to cut costs to
consumers of lowering the greenhouse gas output of the nation’s
power mix.  U.K. Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change  Ed Davey  and his Irish counterpart, Pat Rabbitte, are signing a
memorandum of understanding today that will chart how the
countries will work together to establish an energy trading
program, Davey’s department said in an e-mailed  statement .  “Ireland has the potential to generate far more wind
energy than we could consume domestically,” Rabbitte said in
the statement. “The opportunity to export this green power
presents an opportunity for employment growth and export
earnings which we must seize.”  The U.K. aims to get 30 percent of its electricity from
renewables by 2020 from almost 12 percent now. It’s part of the
nation’s effort to meet a European Union target of deriving 15
percent of all energy, including for heat and transportation,
from renewables. EU rules say power produced in one nation can
be used to meet another’s obligations.  The British government forecast in 2011 that renewable
subsidies will add 54 pounds ($85) to a typical annual household
bill in 2020, an increase more than offset by EU and U.K. energy
efficiency policies.  Power Imports  “Trading power with Ireland could increase the amount of
green power in our energy mix and potentially bring down costs
for U.K. consumers,” Davey said in today’s statement. “Making
the most of the natural renewable resource available around our
islands could benefit the economies of both countries.”  Element Power, a unit of Hudson Clean Energy Partners of
Teaneck, New Jersey, is planning an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion)
project called “Greenwire” to develop and build 3,000
megawatts of onshore wind farms by 2018 in Ireland. The power
would then be transferred via undersea cables to the U.K.
Greenwire called last week in a  statement  for the British and
Irish governments to “accelerate the policy required to unlock
the potential for the project.”  About 3,000 to 6,000 jobs may be created during the
construction phase of a 3,000-megawatt project, according to
today’s U.K. statement, which didn’t mention the Greenwire plan.
More jobs would be created for maintenance of the wind turbines
during their 20-year operating life, and further employment may
arise from the manufacture of turbines, cables, and other
technology in both nations, it said.  “If analysis shows that renewables trading would be to
mutual benefit, the next stage would be to develop an inter-
governmental agreement for signing in 2014,” the U.K.
department said in the statement. “A tight time line is
essential if potential projects, which would be selected through
an open competitive process, are to commence exporting wind
energy from Ireland to the United Kingdom by 2020.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  