-- U.S. Says North Korea Needlessly Provocative With Threats
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-01-24T20:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/u-s-says-north-korea-needlessly-provocative-with-test-threat.html
The White House said North Korea’s
threat to conduct a nuclear weapons test is “needlessly
provocative” and will lead to further isolation and sanctions.  “We judge North Korea by its actions, and provocations
like these are significant violations and we act accordingly,”
White House press secretary Jay Carney told reporters. “We
certainly haven’t seen a noticeable change in behavior” by the
North Korean regime.  Carney didn’t specify what actions President  Barack Obama ’s
administration would take if North Korea follows through with
its threat to test more long-range rockets and a nuclear device
in defiance of United Nations declarations.  North Korea, declaring the U.S. as “the sworn enemy of the
Korean people,” said earlier today it will launch “a variety
of satellites and long-range rockets” and carry out “a nuclear
test of higher level,” according to a statement carried by the
official Korean Central News Agency.  The threat follows an expansion of UN sanctions on Jan. 22
after North Korea’s December launch of a long-range rocket.
Sanctions were supported by China, its closest ally.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, asked today whether the
U.S. has seen signs that a nuclear test or missile launch was
imminent, said there were “no outward indications.”  Test Capability  “But that doesn’t tell you much,” he said at a briefing.
“They have the capability, frankly, to conduct these tests in a
way that make it very difficult to determine whether or not they
are doing it.”  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has worked to bolster his
legitimacy since inheriting the position from his late father in
December 2011 by continuing a military-first policy while
seeking to boost an impoverished economy.  Six-nation talks to defuse tensions involving the U.S.,
China, South Korea, Japan and Russia haven’t been held since
December 2008.  North Korea has enough plutonium to produce four to eight
basic nuclear weapons, according to  estimates  by Stanford
University nuclear scientist Siegfried Hecker, who visited North
Korea’s atomic uranium-enrichment and other atomic facilities in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  