-- U.S. Gulf Crudes Slide on Speculation Seaway Issues Short-Lived
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-01-24T21:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/u-s-gulf-crudes-slide-on-speculation-seaway-issues-short-lived.html
Spot crude in the U.S.  Gulf Coast 
weakened after the differential between U.S. and European
benchmarks narrowed on speculation a reduction in rates on a
pipeline from the Midwest to the Gulf would be short-lived.  West Texas Intermediate’s discount to Brent narrowed by 24
cents to $17.33 a barrel, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. When Brent loses ground versus WTI, it typically
weakens the value of U.S. grades that compete with foreign oils
priced against the European benchmark. A return to higher rates
would increase the amount of light oil in the Gulf Coast.  “The WTI-Brent spread widened a great deal yesterday
because of the Seaway news, but is coming in today,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market research for the Americas at Societe
Generale SA in  New York . “There’s a feeling any issues will be
temporary.”  Light Louisiana Sweet oil weakened $1.20 to $19 a barrel
above WTI in Cushing at 2:03 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Heavy Louisiana Sweet’s premium narrowed
20 cents to $19 a barrel.  The WTI-Brent spread widened $1.83 yesterday after
 Enterprise Product Partners LP (EPD)  announced it had reduced the
capacity on its Seaway pipeline that carries crude to Houston
from Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Takeaway Constraints  The pipeline can only take 175,000 barrels a day at its
Jones Creek terminal because of takeaway constraints at the
location, said  Rick Rainey , a Houston-based spokesman for the
company. Enterprise on Jan. 11 said the pipeline had resumed
service and was increasing toward an expanded capacity of
400,000 barrels a day.  Enterprise is waiting for third-party operators to “take
care of any work or issues they may have” and has no estimate
when Seaway flows will increase, Rainey said.  Mars Blend weakened 25 cents to a $13.75-a-barrel premium
to the U.S. benchmark. Poseidon’s premium fell 25 cents to
$13.60 a barrel.  Thunder Horse  weakened 25 cents to $15.75 over
WTI.  Southern Green strengthened 25 cents to a $13.25-a-barrel
premium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  