-- U.S. Tomato Prices Seen Doubling Without Mexico Accord
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-24T19:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/u-s-tomato-prices-seen-doubling-without-mexico-accord.html
Consumers will pay twice as much for
tomatoes if the Obama administration ends a pricing accord with
 Mexico , according to a study from an American importers group.  U.S. prices of so-called hothouse vine tomatoes would jump
to almost $5 a pound from an average of about $2.50 after the
17-year-old agreement ends, triggering limits on imports,
according to the study released today by the  Fresh Produce
Association of the Americas . Mexico’s government opposes ending
the deal.  The Commerce Department in September, responding to a
complaint from U.S. growers, issued a preliminary decision to
end the accord, which has set the price for imports of tomatoes
from Mexico since 1996. Mexican officials then threatened to
retaliate. The Nogales, Arizona-based importers group has dubbed
the dispute a “tomato trade war.” The agency’s final decision
is expected later this year.  “This is like playing Russian roulette with America’s
pocketbook,” Lance Jungmeyer, the produce group’s president,
said today in a statement.  U.S. growers led by the Florida Tomato Exchange have said
the pricing agreement is outdated and ineffective, and ending it
will create a free market for trade in tomatoes.  Mexican Tomatoes  The U.S. imported $1.8 billion of fresh or chilled tomatoes
from Mexico in 2011, a 58 percent increase from 2008, according
to the Census Bureau. Imports of the Mexican goods through
November were worth $1.4 billion, it said.  “The industry-funded study does nothing to resolve the
issues,” Michael Wessel, a spokesman for the Florida exchange
and the Certified Greenhouse Farmers based in Fresno,
 California , said in an e-mail. “U.S. law is designed to ensure
that domestic producers and their workers have a fair chance to
to compete against fairly priced products.”  U.S. tomato growers have said that without the agreement,
which sets a minimum price for the imports, there would be a
glut of tomatoes from Mexico. That would drive down wholesale
prices, Reginald Brown, executive vice president of the Florida
exchange, has said.  Importers have said terminating the accord could clear the
way for Florida growers to file a trade complaint alleging that
imports from Mexico are sold below cost. That may result in
punitive tariffs on the Mexican goods, which would drive up
consumer prices, the importers’ group has said.  U.S. retail prices for tomatoes grown in hothouses would
increase by as much as 98 percent from December to May assuming
Mexico tomatoes are barred from the U.S., according to the study
by the  Nielsen Perishables Group , a Chicago-based consulting
firm. Prices would jump 217 percent for Roma tomatoes and 52
percent for field-grown tomatoes, according to the study.  If Mexican growers are trading fairly, they should have no
concerns about the agreement being terminated, the producers’
group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  