-- Tufts Joins Berkeley in Application Surge From Foreign Students
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/tufts-joins-berkeley-in-application-surge-from-foreign-students.html
Freshman applications to many U.S.
colleges and universities are rising this year, fueled by a
surge of international students, even as costs increase and the
number of U.S. high school graduates declines.  At  Tufts University , international applications climbed 12
percent from a year ago and have more than doubled since 2004.
The number of foreign students seeking admission to the
 University of California ,  Berkeley  jumped about 22 percent this
year, while the  University of Pennsylvania , an Ivy League
member, reported a 38 percent increase since 2010.  U.S. universities are searching overseas to fill slots with
more students who can pay full tuition as the pool of domestic
prospects declines and the annual cost to attend at some private
colleges tops  $60,000 . Schools are boosting their recruiting
staffs and travel budgets to pursue more international
applicants.  “Having students from overseas just makes sense,” said
Lee Coffin, dean of undergraduate admission at Medford,
Massachusetts-based Tufts. “If the American population is going
to decline, then the global population represents another source
of high-quality students.”  The Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education said
this month that the number of U.S. high-school graduates is
expected to drop through the rest of the decade, raising
questions about how colleges will recruit and enroll students.
The Midwest and Northeast will experience the largest declines,
according to projections in the Jan. 10 report.  Bottom Line  International students, most of whom pay full tuition, help
a college’s bottom line as states cut funding to public
universities and private universities struggle with lower
endowment returns and rising costs.  At UC Berkeley, international and out-of-state students pay
a supplemental fee of almost $23,000 a year, on top of the
 $11,220 tuition  that Californians pay, according to the
college’s website.  Universities are marketing to foreign students for pricing
reasons, though increasingly those admitted are requiring a
discount, said  John Nelson , a managing director at Moody’s
Investors Service.  “Even at a discount, the international student provides
more marginal revenue to a college that otherwise might not have
any added revenue from resident students who are in short supply
in some parts of the country,” Nelson said in an e-mail.  Admittance Rates  Competition for slots at selective colleges has always been
fierce, even before international applications picked up pace.
Last year,  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
accepted just 5.9 percent of applicants last year, Penn 12.3
percent, and both  Tufts  and Berkeley 21 percent.  The increase in foreign applications doesn’t necessarily
mean tougher acceptance standards for Americans because
international applicants may be vying against each other, said
Sally Stevens, associate director of college guidance at the
 Roxbury Latin School  in West Roxbury,  Massachusetts .  “You can’t leap to the conclusion that it’s more
competitive for U.S. kids,” Stevens said in an interview. “I’m
not sure these universities want to become so overweighted with
foreign students at the undergraduate level that they lose the
ambiance they’re trying to create.”  China  often dominates schools’ foreign applications. Tufts
received 708 applications from China this year compared with 39
in 2004, Coffin said. The college, which has bolstered its
international recruiting staff 10-fold to 10 people since about
2004, began recruiting in Africa some five years ago, and
admissions officers also travel to Bangladesh and  Vietnam .  Unlike most colleges, Tufts meets the financial need of
foreign students that it admits.  International Recruiting  Penn started recruiting outside the U.S. Northeast and Mid-
Atlantic regions decades ago and also looks internationally,
Eric Furda, dean of undergraduate admissions, said in an
interview. The Philadelphia-based school received 5,689
international applications this year, up 94 percent from 2006.  The gains in overseas applicants helped Penn stave off a
decline in total applications this year. The school received
31,244, according to preliminary data, -- an increase of just 26
from last year, Furda said.  Georgetown University , in  Washington , had a similar
experience. Total applications dipped less than 1 percent this
year, though the decline would have been greater without a 10
percent increase in international applications, according to
Charles Deacon, the dean of admissions.  Overseas applications are partly driven by rapid  population
growth  in the sending countries, Nelson at Moody’s said.  “Some of the increase relates to the pure demographics of
the sending countries, not just more aggressive marketing by
U.S. colleges,” Nelson said.  University of California  Total freshman applications to Berkeley, near  San
Francisco , climbed 9.7 percent, the school said in a statement.  The nine undergraduate campuses of the University of
California system, which also includes UCLA and UC  San Diego ,
drew 18,659 international applicants, a gain of 34 percent from
a year ago. The increase builds on a 66 percent surge the year
before.  At  Duke University , applications from foreign students this
have risen by a greater percentage than domestic ones over the
past few years, Christoph Guttentag, dean of undergraduate
admissions, said in an interview. Duke, based in Durham,  North
Carolina , doesn’t release statistics for international
applications.  “The American post-secondary education system is very
appealing to a lot of individuals outside the U.S.,” Guttentag
said. “It makes sense that they would cast their eyes here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  