-- Mumbai Terrorist Attack Scout Gets 35-Year Prison Term
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mumbai-terrorist-attack-scout-gets-35-year-prison-sentence.html
A U.S. citizen who served as an
advance scout for the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks that killed
more than 160 people, including six Americans, was ordered to
spend 35 years in prison.  David Coleman Headley, 52, was sentenced yesterday by U.S.
District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber in Chicago.  Headley pleaded guilty to 12 criminal counts arising from
his efforts in support of the terrorists who carried out the
three-day assault in  India  and those who planned a never-
executed attack on a Danish newspaper that printed inflammatory
cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in 2005.  “Mr. Headley is a terrorist,” deserving of a death
penalty for his crimes, Leinenweber said before pronouncing the
sentence. While acceding to the prosecutors’ request, the judge
said he was imposing a term that would “hopefully keep him
under lock and key for the rest of his life.”  In a three-day siege in November 2008, a squad of 10 people
attacked two Mumbai hotels, a cafe, a train station and a Jewish
hostel. Nine of the assailants were killed.  Headley admitted he’d helped identify targets and a water-
landing site for the attackers. Linda Ragsdale, who was shot
while dining at the Oberoi Hotel, addressed Headley yesterday in
court before he was sentenced.  ‘No Understanding’  “I don’t know you,” Ragsdale, 53, of Nashville,
 Tennessee , said. “I know you only from your testimony in this
courtroom. I have no understanding of how you came to choose
this path.”  “David Headley has lost his right to live as a free man,”
she told the judge.  Clothed in a gray tunic and gray pants, Headley stood
silently, his eyes alternately closed or looking downward, as
Ragsdale spoke.  Citing his willingness to cooperate immediately upon his
arrest in 2009, U.S. prosecutors asked the judge to impose a
term of 30 to 35 years, a departure from the life sentence he
could have received under the advisory federal sentencing
guidelines.  His 2010 guilty plea averted a possible death sentence.  Former  Chicago  U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald
addressed the court briefly yesterday, telling Leinenweber that
he was appearing as a fact witness and not as a government
official.  ‘Fully Admitted’  Headley was captured at Chicago’s O’Hare International
Airport while Fitzgerald was still the region’s top federal
prosecutor. Now in private practice, the attorney told the court
Headley “fully admitted to his role” in the Mumbai attacks
within 30 minutes of his arrest.  Over the ensuing weeks, Headley told authorities of other
terrorist plots with knowledge he could be sentenced to death,
Fitzgerald said.  “I think the hardest decision for a federal prosecutor to
make is balancing between the seriousness of the crime and the
value of the cooperation,” Acting U.S. Attorney Gary S. Shapiro
said after the sentencing. “As we said in court today,
‘despicable’ doesn’t begin to capture the horror of the
nightmare.”  He said Headley’s cooperation went beyond that of
testifying in court and to the provision of intelligence
information usable in charging other people and stopping other
crimes.  ‘Best Friend’  “The only way you get witnesses in this world is by
threatening to prosecute them and then offering them some real
incentive to provide you with that information,” the prosecutor
said. “This was obviously a terrorism case and the number of
cooperators you get in terrorism cases is vanishingly small.”  Headley testified against co-defendant Tahawwur Rana, 52,
whom he called his “best friend in the world,” at a 2011
trial.  Rana, a Pakistani-born Canadian, was convicted of helping
Headley with the newspaper plot and of providing material
support to a terrorist group. He received a 14-year sentence
last week from Leinenweber.  Headley was born as Daood Gilani, the son of an American
woman and a Pakistani man. He changed his name to portray
himself in India as an American who was neither Muslim nor
Pakistani, according to his plea agreement.  Using his new identity and cover provided by Rana’s
immigration-services business, which had offices in Chicago, New
York and Toronto, Headley said he traveled to Copenhagen and to
India to do reconnaissance for the terror plots.  Material Support  He admitted to aiding the murder of U.S. nationals and
providing material support to the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, the same
Kashmiri separatist group aided by Rana.  Seeking a lower sentence than that sought by the U.S.,
defense lawyer John Theis told the court that information
provided by his client aided governments in India,  Pakistan , the
U.S. and elsewhere, possibly preventing the Danish newspaper
attack.  Theis called that ongoing cooperation “so profound it
calls for an extraordinary departure from the guidelines.”  Meeting with reporters after the sentencing, Theis declined
to say what term he had sought. The defense sentencing
memorandum was filed with the court under seal.  ‘Moral Outrage’  Ragsdale, who left the courthouse without addressing the
media, relayed in court a letter from one of the mothers that
called a 35-year term a “moral outrage.”  “We need to honor those lives that were lost,” Ragsdale
said.  While there is no parole in the federal prison system,
defendants are required to serve at least 85 percent of their
sentence. Leinenweber also imposed a requirement of five years
post-prison supervised release.  The six Americans killed were Sandeep Jeswani of Chicago;
Alan Scherr of  Virginia  and his daughter, Naomi, each of whom
were killed at the Oberoi Hotel in Mumbai; and Rabbi Aryeh
Teitelbaum and Gavriel Holtzberg, both originally of New York,
and Rabbi Ben Zion Chroman, an American who was living in  Israel 
at the time, were killed at the city’s Chabad House.  Headley had performed surveillance on those targets and
others, according to prosecutors’ sentencing memorandum.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  