-- Mumbai Terrorist Attack Scout Faces Possible 35-Year Term
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mumbai-terrorist-attack-scout-faces-possible-35-year-term.html
David Coleman Headley, the U.S.
citizen who acted as an advance scout for the November 2008
Mumbai terrorist attacks that killed more than 160 people
including six Americans, is set today to learn whether he will
spend decades in prison.  Headley, who is set to be sentenced today in federal court
in  Chicago , pleaded guilty to 12 criminal counts arising from
his efforts in support of that three-day assault and a never-
executed plot to attack a Danish newspaper that printed
inflammatory cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in 2005.  Pakistani-born Canadian Tahawwur Rana, who was convicted of
helping Headley with the newspaper plot and of providing
material support to a terrorist group, received a 14-year
sentence last week from U.S. District Judge Harry D. Leinenweber
in Chicago.  “Determining an appropriate sentence for David Headley
requires consideration of uniquely aggravating and uniquely
mitigating factors,” prosecutors told Leinenweber in a Jan. 22
sentencing memorandum.  The government is seeking a prison term of 30 to 35 years
for Headley, 52, whose 2010 guilty plea averted a possible death
sentence. He testified against Rana, also 52, whom he called his
“best friend in the world,” at a 2011 trial.  Headley’s defense team filed its sentencing memorandum
under seal. John Theis, one of his attorneys, declined to
comment on it.  U.S. Nationals  Headley admitted to six counts of aiding and abetting the
murder of U.S. nationals and one charge of providing material
support to the Lashkar e Tayyiba, the same Kashmiri separatist
group aided by Rana.  He was born as Daood Gilani, the son of an American woman
and a Pakistani man. He changed his name to portray himself in
 India  as an American who was neither Muslim nor Pakistani,
according to his plea agreement.  Using his new identity and cover provided by Rana’s
immigration services business, which had offices in Chicago,  New
York  and Toronto, Headley said he traveled to Copenhagen and to
India to do reconnaissance for the terror plots.  On Nov. 26, 2008, a squad of 10 attackers assaulted two
Mumbai hotels, a café, a train station and a Jewish hostel. Nine
of the assailants were killed. Headley said he had helped
identify targets and a water-landing site for the attackers.  Rana’s Business  While Rana was accused of helping Headley travel to India,
where he opened an office for Rana’s business, jurors rejected
prosecutors’ claims that Rana knowingly supported his efforts
there.  Headley testified he had known Rana since they attended a
Pakistani military academy as teenagers. Both men primarily
lived in Chicago, prosecutors said when announcing their arrest
in October 2009.  He also said that he had carried out assignments for an
agent of  Pakistan ’s Inter-Services Intelligence Agency
identified only as “Major Iqbal” and another man, al-Qaeda
ally Ilyas Kashmiri, who was reported killed in a U.S. missile
attack on June 3, 2011, a week before Rana’s conviction by a
jury in federal court in Chicago.  Headley was arrested by federal agents at Chicago’s O’Hare
International Airport while en route to Philadelphia and
intending to travel to Pakistan.  The case is U.S. v. Kashmiri, 09-cr-00830, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  