-- Union Pacific Tops Estimates as Chemical Cargoes Rise
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-01-24T21:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/union-pacific-tops-estimates-as-chemical-cargoes-rise.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest
U.S. railroad by sales, posted higher fourth-quarter earnings
than analysts estimated as shipments of petroleum products and
automobiles climbed.  Net income rose 7.5 percent to $1.04 billion, or $2.19 a
share, topping the $2.16 average  estimate  of 27 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. That compares with earnings of $964 million,
or $1.99 a share, a year earlier.  Profit exceeded $1 billion for the third consecutive
quarter as a strengthening U.S. economy boosted demand for motor
vehicles and extraction of crude oil from shale formations
climbed. That helped to overcome a decline in coal volumes at
the Omaha, Nebraska-based company as utilities switch to less
expensive natural gas.  “There are great opportunities ahead of us in 2013 and
beyond on oil-shale activity, and at the end of the day it could
end up more than replacing what we lose from this point
forward,” Chief Financial Officer Robert Knight said today in a
telephone interview.  Fourth-quarter revenue climbed 2.8 percent to $5.3 billion,
Union Pacific said. For the year, the company earned $3.94
billion, or $8.27 a share, on sales of $20.9 billion.  Petroleum-product shipments grew  69 percent  from a year
earlier to 62,700 carloads, helping to push chemicals revenue up
15 percent to $834 million, Union Pacific said. Motor vehicles
and automobile parts accounted for $466 million of revenue, up
14 percent from the same period in 2011.  Coal Declines  Coal volumes fell, with revenues from the commodity
declining 7.5 percent to $990 million. Agricultural-products
revenue fell 8.1 percent to $785 million in the fourth quarter
after record drought struck the U.S. Midwest last summer.  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the two largest U.S.
eastern railroads, saw steeper declines in coal volumes in the
fourth quarter, they said this week. Coal revenue declined more
than 18 percent at CSX and 23 percent at Norfolk Southern.  Union Pacific, which operates mostly in the west, is well-
positioned to benefit further from higher petroleum volumes as
oil production booms due to hydraulic fracturing in areas
including the Bakken Shale formation in North Dakota and
Montana, said Donald Broughton, an analyst at Avondale Partners
LLC in St. Louis.  “This is yet another strong quarterly performance out of
these guys,” Broughton said. “They weren’t hurt as badly by
coal as the eastern rails were and will continue to be and
they’re really able to benefit in a big way from chemicals and
petroleum from the fracking boom.”  Union Pacific fell 1.1 percent to $133.84 at the market
close in New York. CSX and Norfolk Southern advanced 1.9 percent
and 2.1 percent, respectively.  The company expects total volumes to climb “slightly”
this year, assuming U.S. industrial production expands about 2
percent, Knight said during a conference call with analysts
after the results were announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 