-- United Joins Southwest Beating Estimates as Fuel Costs St
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-24T21:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/united-joins-southwest-beating-estimates-as-fuel-costs-st.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  outperformed analysts’ bottom-line
estimates in the fourth quarter amid steadying costs for fuel,
their biggest expense.  United’s loss of 58 cents a share, excluding some items,
was narrower than the 61-cent average projection. Southwest’s
adjusted profit of 9 cents a share compared with an 8-cent
estimate.  Fuel expenses offered a reprieve for the airlines, which
have grappled with surging prices and higher labor costs
simultaneously, while sluggish economic growth limited their
pricing power. Southwest’s  fuel-cost increase  narrowed to 0.7
percent, from 59 percent a year earlier.  United’s fuel payments 
fell 0.3 percent, compared with a 26 percent gain a year ago.  The beats “are fitting an industry pattern indicating it’s
going to be a very strong year for the airlines,” Ray Neidl, an
independent airline analyst based in  Connecticut , said in an
interview. “Unless something bad happens with the economy or
oil prices shoot up, I think these trends are going to continue
for the year.”  United climbed 2.2 percent to $25.54 at the close in New
York, while Dallas-based Southwest advanced 0.8 percent to
$11.45.  United, which became the world’s largest carrier after its
merger with Continental Airlines, boosted frequent-flier miles
sales, change fees and charges for checked bags to help mute the
impact of lower ticket sales. Total revenue at the Chicago-based
company fell 2.5 percent to $8.7 billion in the quarter, better
than the $8.67 billion estimated by analysts.  Merger Integration  The carrier had $439 million in one-time costs during the
quarter, most of it related to integrating the operations of
United and Continental by repainting planes, training employees
and paying relocation or severance for eliminated positions.  Including those items, United’s net loss was $620 million,
or $1.87 a share, compared with a deficit of $138 million, or 42
cents, a year earlier.  United’s domestic on-time arrival rate was 80.1 percent for
the fourth quarter, topping its goal and improving on 72.4
percent for the third quarter and 76.4 percent for the second
quarter, when it suffered from chronic late flights and
insufficient spare planes to fill in for those with mechanical
malfunctions.  “With much of our integration behind us, our significantly
improved operational performance and our increasing customer
satisfaction, we can now go forward as one company,” Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Smisek said in the statement.  Southwest Fees  Smisek pledged in October to run a reliable airline again
and vowed to win back passengers who switched to other airlines
because of United’s tardiness. The airline plans seating-
capacity cuts of 4.1 percent to 5.1 percent this quarter.  Like United, Southwest is using fees to boost sales. The
carrier expects to increase annual revenue by about $100 million
in a departure from its stance of forgoing some charges that are
standard for the industry. Sales in the fourth quarter rose 1.6
percent to $4.17 billion.  Profit excluding some items fell 1.5 percent to $65 million
from $66 million, or 9 cents a share, a year earlier.  “These solid earnings were achieved despite significant
efforts and costs related to critical strategic initiatives,”
Chief Executive Officer Gary Kelly said in the statement.  Including $13 million in gains from special items,
Southwest’s net income fell 49 percent to $78 million, or 11
cents a share, from $152 million, or 20 cents, a year earlier.
The 2011 period included $86 million of gains from special
items.  Labor Expenses  United, Southwest and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  all grappled
with rising labor costs, with increases of 4 percent, 4.5
percent and 6 percent respectively. Alaska was the only one of
the three to lag behind estimates, and its adjusted profit of 70
cents a share missed by only a penny.  Revenue rose 8 percent to $1.13 billion as the Seattle-
based carrier added new service from San Diego to  Orlando  and
from Anchorage to Kona. The carrier sought new revenue on routes
with little competition and boosted regional flying.  Including $10 million in losses on fuel hedges, Alaska
Air’s net income slid 31 percent to $44 million, or 61 cents a
share, from $64 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier. Its total
fuel bill surged 30 percent to $372 million.  Shares in the airline dropped 0.6 percent to $46.39.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  