-- Turkish Lira Weakens 4th Day Against Euro on LTRO Anticipation
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-24T15:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/turkish-lira-weakens-4th-day-against-euro-on-ltro-anticipation.html
The Turkish currency weakened for a
fourth day against the euro as the common currency strengthened
on anticipation of large cash repayments by European lenders via
the European Central Bank’s Longer-Term Refinancing Operations.  The lira depreciated 0.2 percent against the euro to 2.3645
by 5:20 p.m. in Istanbul in its fourth day of losses. The
Turkish currency appreciated 0.1 percent at 1.7699 against the
dollar and  yields  on benchmark two-year notes were unchanged at
5.84 percent.  The ECB’s LTRO programs in December 2011 and February 2012
reduced the risk of a systemic crisis blowing the single
currency apart. Along with ECB President Mario Draghi’s July
pledge to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro, the
cash infusions helped stem a rout in Spanish and Italian bonds.
Turkey sold 42 percent of its exports to the European Union in
November, according to statistics office  website .  “Mostly this comes from EUR strength, rather than TRY
weakness,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG, said in e-mailed comments. “People are anticipating
tomorrow’s announcement of the first LTRO repayment volume and
should it turn out to be quite high, this would be an indication
of a considerable improvement of financial market conditions,
particularly for Euro-banks.”  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee reduced its
overnight borrowing and lending rates by 25 basis points each on
Jan. 22 on concern the lira may become overvalued as  Turkey ’s
stock and bond markets draw in money on bets of a second upgrade
by a rating company this year.  Turkey’s currency has gained 1.5 percent in the past month
against the dollar. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has said
he’s monitoring an index of the currency’s real exchange rate,
weighted against Turkey’s trading partners, and may act to
weaken the lira if it appreciates. As capital inflows
accelerate, bank credit has started to grow faster than
expected, the central bank said in its rates decision published
on Jan. 22.  Turkey wants to keep loan growth at about 15 percent and
faster expansion may cause inflation to exceed this year’s 5.3
percent forecast, Basci told CNCB-e television in Davos today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  