-- Mutations Found in ‘Junk’ DNA May Be Driving Skin Cancers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mutations-found-in-junk-dna-may-be-driving-skin-cancers.html
Human  DNA  that researchers once
thought served no purpose may play a crucial role in deadly skin
cancers, harboring some of the mutations that first appear in
tumors and promote the malignancy’s growth.  Using gene sequencing technology, scientists at the  Dana
Farber Cancer Institute  in  Boston  found two mutations among 71
percent of melanoma tumors analyzed. The discovery, the first to
identify gene mutations in the vast region of DNA that only last
year was shown to have a role turning genes on and off, was
 published  yesterday in two studies in the online journal Science
Express.  The findings are a result of faster, cheaper technology
that can sequence all of a tumor’s DNA in days. They also prove
it’s worth searching the whole genome, not just genes containing
instructions for proteins, said  Levi Garraway , the study’s
senior author and assistant professor of medicine at  Harvard
Medical School  and Dana Farber Cancer Institute.  “Historically, people used to call that junk DNA,”
Garraway said in a telephone interview. “We actually didn’t
believe the finding at first.”  The mutations are located in a part of the DNA that
controls whether a gene called TERT, or  telomerase reverse
transcriptase , is switched on. When activated, the TERT gene can
make a cell replicate almost endlessly -- a common feature in
cancer cells, according to the researchers.  The mutation can be caused by exposure to sunlight,
Garraway said.  “These are mutations of exactly the sort that UV damage
causes,” he said. “It makes perfect sense that you’d see these
in melanoma.”  12,000 Deaths  Melanomas account for three-quarters of the 12,000 annual
deaths from skin cancer in the U.S., according to the  American
Cancer Society . They often start as moles on the skin with ill-
defined borders and can spread to the lymph nodes and other
organs, becoming increasingly  difficult to treat , according to
the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  After discovering the mutation, the researchers hooked a
piece of the mutant DNA to another gene that makes a protein.
They found that when combined, the mutant DNA increased
production of the protein, and presumed it would do the same
thing in the TERT genes, potentially causing melanoma.  The genetic mutations may not be limited to melanomas. The
researchers said that early evidence suggests they might be
common in liver and bladder cancers as well.  Scientists had previously thought that only genes, small
pieces of DNA that make up about 1 percent of the genome, have a
function. Findings published in September showed that an
underlying circuitry exists in which 80 percent of the DNA
within each human cell can contribute to disease. The circuitry
plays a role turning on and off genetic activity that can lead
to health or to illnesses, according to the studies last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  