-- Mutual-Fund Group Says Risk Council Overstepping Powers
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-24T22:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/mutual-fund-group-says-risk-council-overstepping-powers.html
The mutual-fund industry’s main
trade group accused U.S. regulators exceeded their legal
authority in urging the Securities and Exchange Commission to
overhaul rules for money-market funds.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council drafted
recommended rules for the SEC in November without the economic
analysis required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the  Investment
Company Institute  said today in a  letter  to the council. The
ICI, reiterating arguments against the FSOC’s specific
recommendations, urged the council to withdraw its proposals.  “FSOC has overstepped its legal authority as defined by
Congress,” Karrie McMillan, the ICI’s general counsel, said in
a statement accompanying the letter. “The fact that FSOC is
acting with such haste and without adequate concern for the
process outlined in the Dodd-Frank Act is very troubling.”  The SEC, under pressure from the FSOC to overhaul rules
governing money funds, is expected to receive a rule-making
proposal from the agency’s staff before the end of March,
Republican Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said in a Jan. 16
speech. Regulators have been working to make money funds safer
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund.  U.S. Treasury representatives didn’t immediately respond to
a request for a comment on the ICI’s letter.  The FSOC began a process Nov. 13 by which it will recommend
the SEC reconsider rule changes backed by former SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro . Her plan to abandon the funds’ traditional fixed
$1 share value or force funds to set aside capital was shelved
in August after three fellow commissioners said they would
reject it.  Paper Market  Money-fund executives say the changes would destroy the
appeal of the funds to investors and deny companies, states and
municipalities a source of cheap, short-term borrowing. U.S.
money funds hold about $2.7 trillion and represent the largest
collective buyer of commercial paper.  FSOC, which is headed by the  Treasury secretary  and
includes the leaders of the U.S. Federal Reserve, SEC and
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., invited public comment on its
draft recommendations. The FSOC was created by the Dodd-Frank
Act to address systemic risks in the wake of the 2008 financial
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  