-- Van Cleef & Arpels Adds China Boutiques to Fuel Sales Growth
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-24T09:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/van-cleef-arpels-adds-china-boutiques-to-fuel-sales-growth.html
Van Cleef & Arpels, a  Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  brand selling $141,000 timepieces with
moving ballerinas on them, is expanding its network of boutiques
in  China  to bolster sales growth this year.  The maker of jewelry and watches plans to build on the
seven boutiques it already has in that market with two openings
this year, Chief Executive Officer Nicolas Bos said yesterday in
an interview at this week’s watch fair in Geneva.  Richemont this week reported sales for the three months
through December that lagged analysts’ expectations as growth in
Asia Pacific stalled. Weakness in wholesale channels in the
region likely stemmed from high inventories, according to Jon
Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.
Paris-based Van Cleef & Arpels is in a stronger position than
some brands as it has less exposure to outside distributors, Bos
said.  Van Cleef & Arpels is expanding its range of watches with
enamel-decorated jewelry timepieces featuring butterfly and kite
motifs. The brand is also introducing a watch with a ballerina
on its dial and wings that move to indicate the time when a
button is pressed.  “We see tremendous opportunities to use fine watchmaking
and mechanical movements,” Bos said. “Ladies care about
jewelry technique, and we thought that would translate into
watches.”  Van Cleef & Arpels makes about two of the ballerina watches
each month. The brand plans to expand its watch-assembly
facilities in  Switzerland  over the coming years, Bos added.  Bos took over as CEO of Van Cleef & Arpels last year when
former Chief Executive Stanislas de Quercize left to run
Richemont’s Cartier brand. Bos previously ran Van Cleef &
Arpels’s North American operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  