-- Venezuela Ready to Crack Down on Clunker Car Inflation Refuge
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-01-25T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/venezuela-ready-to-crack-down-on-clunker-car-inflation-refuge.html
Venezuela’s government is preparing
to crack down on one of the last refuges against the fastest
inflation in  Latin America  -- used cars.  The National Assembly on Jan. 22 approved in a first-round
vote a bill that fixes prices for used and new cars as President
 Hugo Chavez ’s administration tries to fight inflation. The bill
still needs to pass a second vote.  Automobiles purchased in Venezuela,  South America ’s largest
oil exporter, typically gain in value the moment they are driven
off the dealership lot. Facing  20.1 percent inflation  and
 capital controls  introduced in 2003 that limit the amount of
bolivars citizens may take out of the country, Venezuelans
invest in durable goods.  “Cars gain in value instead of depreciating because of a
supply and demand crisis,” said Henkel Garcia, an analyst with
Caracas-based economic consultancy Econometrica. “In Venezuela
we buy cars to protect our wealth.”  Venezuela’s  consumer prices  last month rose 3.5 percent,
the fastest pace in 32 months, the central bank said Jan. 11.
Venezuela has the third-highest inflation rate worldwide.  Chavez in 2012 ordered companies to cut prices of shampoo,
soap and other personal care products to contain inflationary
pressures.  Suspended Sales  Inflation rose after Chavez restricted dollar supplies in a
bid to close a fiscal gap widened by spending before elections
in October, in which he defeated challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski by more than 10 percentage points.  The lack of dollars has created shortages of goods that
range from toilet paper to detergent and extend to automobiles.
Suvinca, a Venezuelan state distributor of Chinese-made cars,
posted a  notice  on its website yesterday that said it had run
out of cars and suspended sales.  About 70 percent of products consumed in Venezuela are
imported or assembled from raw material that is imported, Emilia
Peraza, an adviser at the Consecomercio trade chamber in
Caracas, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The law on vehicle sales will set the price of new cars to
2009 levels and make it illegal to charge more for a used car
than a new one, Elvis Amoroso, a deputy aligned with Chavez’s
socialist PSUV political party, said in telephone interview on
Jan. 23. Venezuela last devalued its currency in 2010.  ‘Triple the Price’  “The law won’t solve the problem, because it doesn’t
resolve the fact that there is still little supply. It won’t
reduce demand, either,” Garcia said. “A black market will be
created very fast. Instead of solving the problem, it will make
it worse.”  A 2008 4X4 Jeep Cherokee purchased in 2008 for 135,000
bolivars ($31,395) can be sold today for 450,000 bolivares, a
233 percent price increase, said Giovanna D’onghia, 35, a
Caracas customer who checks prices on Tucarro.com, a used-car
website. Inflation over the same period was 209 percent.  Used cars can also cost more than the suggested price of
new cars as customers must wait as much as a year to have the
vehicle delivered.  Tucarro.com yesterday listed a used 2012  Chevrolet  Cruze
for 595,000 bolivars ($138,372), while the same family model is
listed at 354,000 bolivares on Chevrolet’s Venezuela website.  “Car dealerships convert new cars into used cars and sell
them for triple the price,” said Amoroso, who is sponsoring the
bill. “It’s a scam. It’s an organized mafia.”  Bolivar, Black Market  The bolivar has fallen 51 percent since January 2012 in
unregulated trading to 17.51 per dollar, according to  Lechuga
Verde , a website that tracks the rate. Venezuelans use the black
market when they can’t get access to the central bank’s Sitme
exchange, which sells dollars to businesses for 5.3 bolivars, or
the so-called Cadivi system that sells dollars at 4.3 bolivars
for priority imports.  Car manufactures obtain dollars at the official rate of 4.3
bolivars and then set retail prices using the black market rate,
the text of the proposed law says.  The bill was unanimously approved in a first discussion and
was supported by opposition lawmakers, said Amoroso. The
legislation could be passed within 30 days, he said, adding that
he saw no need to increase vehicle production in the country.  “With this law, it will not be permissible to sell a car
above the maximum suggested price, and a used car can never cost
more than a new one,” Amoroso said. “Notaries will be
prohibited from legalizing any transaction that is above the
suggested price.”  A total of 104,083 cars were assembled in  Venezuela  in 2012
compared to 102,409 in 2011, according to Venezuelan car chamber
 Favenpa .  “The system is sick and it’s making car dealers rich,”
Ricardo Villasmil, an economist at the Universidad Catolica
Andres Bello in Caracas who advised the opposition in the
October elections, said yesterday in an interview. “Because of
that reality, it makes sense to regulate the prices so at least
you are benefiting the buyers and not the sellers.”  ‘Capacity,’ Chavez Delays  Jose Morales, a 37-year-old Venezuelan, said that he signed
the papers to purchase a new Chinese Chery car for 110,000
bolivars in February 2012 and is still waiting to get the keys.  On Jan. 21, at the headquarters of Suvinca in Caracas, a
company representative said that there were no cars to sell,
Morales said in an interview on Jan. 23.  A Suvinca employee told customers that Venezuela hasn’t
renewed the agreement with  China  this year because President
Chavez hasn’t been able to sign the accord due to his health
condition, Morales said.  Calls placed to Suvinca’s headquarters in Caracas yesterday
were not answered.  Chavez, a 58-year-old former paratrooper, hasn’t been seen
or heard from since stepping off a plane last month in Cuba to
undergo a fourth operation for an undisclosed type of cancer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  