-- Venezuela VP Maduro Arrives in Havana to Visit Ailing Chavez
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-01-24T04:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/venezuela-vp-maduro-arrives-in-havana-to-visit-ailing-chavez.html
Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  arrived in  Havana  yesterday to receive instructions from
cancer-stricken President  Hugo Chavez  on a regional summit
taking place this week.  Maduro and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  were greeted at the
airport in the Cuban capital by Venezuelan Foreign Minister
Elias Jaua, Venezuelan Attorney General Cilia Flores and Cuban
Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez, the Telesur network  reported 
on its website.  The vice president last visited Chavez on the communist
island a week ago and will head to  Chile  later this week for the
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States summit.  “President Chavez is closing a post-operative cycle,”
Maduro said in an interview broadcast last night on Russian
state network RT before he flew to Cuba. “He’s climbing back up
the crest of the hill, battling and has lived the best days
after the operation.”  Maduro spoke at a political rally yesterday in Caracas to
commemorate the 1958 downfall of dictator Marcos Perez Jimenez.
Thousands of supporters dressed in the red shirts of Chavez’s
“21st century revolution” gathered in western Caracas in a
show of allegiance to their 58-year-old leader, who hasn’t been
seen or heard from since stepping off a plane last month in Cuba
to undergo his fourth cancer-related operation.  Chavez’s fragile health prevented him from attending his
own swearing-in ceremony for a new term Jan. 10 after the Dec.
11 operation caused a lung infection and hemorrhaging.  Health Battle  Bolivian President  Evo Morales  said Jan. 22 Chavez is doing
physiotherapy in order to return to  Venezuela . No date has yet
been set for him to land in Caracas as he continues to face a
“tough, complex health battle,” Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said Jan. 22.  “We’re always optimistic” about Chavez coming back to
Venezuela, Maduro said yesterday in the interview on the RT
network, without providing a timeline for the leader’s return.  Before traveling to Cuba, Chavez anointed Maduro as his
successor, urging Venezuelans to vote for the 50-year-old former
bus driver and labor union leader should he die or step down
because of his health.  Maduro, who has been running affairs in Chavez’s absence,
said at the rally the Venezuelan opposition is trying to sew
discord between him and National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello .  He said authorities uncovered a plot to assassinate him and
Cabello and warned the government will come down with a “hard
hand on anyone who violates the constitution and the country’s
peace.”  Should Chavez die or step down before completing a third
six-year term, the constitution states elections must be held
within 30 days.  Opposition Parties  Opposition parties are ready for elections and will choose
a presidential candidate by consensus, Ramon Guillermo Aveledo,
the head of the opposition alliance known as the Democratic
Unity Table, said at a smaller rally in eastern Caracas.  The recent news regarding Chavez’s health has raised hopes
among his supporters that Chavez may be able to retake the helm
of the country he’s ruled for 14 years. Pedro Castro, a 36-year-
old computer technician said he attended the pro-Chavez rally to
show support for Chavez and his government.  Chavez’s health “is in good hands,” Castro said. “He’s
coming back reloaded. Chavez will be around for a while.”  Maria Leal, a seamstress wearing a red t-shirt and red cap
at the rally, said that in Chavez’s absence Maduro could take
power.  “There’s no one like Chavez, but in his absence, why
not?” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  