-- Veolia Targets ‘High Growth’ China, Mideast to Boost Profit
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-24T09:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/veolia-targets-high-growth-china-mideast-to-boost-profit.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the biggest
water company, will focus on “high growth” opportunities
offered by  China  and the  Middle East  as part of a plan to scale
back its geographic reach to 40 nations.  The utility confirmed a target to cut debt through 5
billion euros ($6.7 billion) of asset sales by the end of the
year and cost cuts of 470 million euros by 2015.  “We can’t be everywhere and do everything,” Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot told a press conference today
in Paris. He said he wanted to “build a new” utility.  Frerot is more than a year into what he pledged would be a
two-year “profound transformation” of the Paris-based utility
in an attempt to boost profitability after former CEO  Henri Proglio  extended Veolia’s reach to 77 nations. Frerot has also
changed top management and shuffled the board after fending off
a bid to oust him last year.  The shares rose 2.3 percent to 9.324 euros as of 10:43 a.m.
in Paris, for the best performance in the Stoxx 600 Utilities
Index.  Within five years, Veolia will earn half its revenue from
industrial clients compared with 35 percent now, Frerot said.  Veolia is contending with economic stagnation in  France ,
where it generated almost 40 percent of its revenue in 2011. The
company said it completed about 10 “significant” asset sale
agreements by the end of last year. Assets for sale have been
valued at higher levels than expected, it said.  Frerot said he’s seeking to win shale energy contracts for
water treatment and increase revenue from  energy efficiency .  The utility is targeting annual sales growth of more than 3
percent from 2014 and an average increase in adjusted operating
cash flow of more than 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  