-- Vestas Says Economy Overtook CO2 Cuts as Wind Driver
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-24T16:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vestas-says-economy-overtook-co2-cuts-as-wind-driver.html
The fragile world economy has
overtaken climate change as the main driver of the wind
industry,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  Chief Executive Officer Ditlev Engel said.  “The macro environment is obviously a challenge,” Engel
said today in a phone interview from the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland. “Wind is now subject to the overall
performance of economic growth. In the early days, it was more
you were changing because you needed to replace some CO2-
emitting power with green power.”  The CEO said he didn’t think “much” has changed in the
global economy, suggesting no immediate recovery for turbine
manufacturers struggling with declining margins due to excess
manufacturing capacity. The Bloomberg Industries Global Wind
Energy Index has declined 27 percent in the past year, compared
with a 14 percent gain in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  Engel declined to provide industry or company forecasts,
citing a closed period before Vestas reports earnings on Feb. 6.
Vestas has already said it expects global shipments totaling 5
gigawatts in 2013, down from about 6.3 gigawatts last year.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance in November forecast annual
installations would decline 9 percent to 41.8 gigawatts in 2013,
more than canceling out last year’s gains. The forecast preceded
a Jan. 1 extension of the U.S. Production Tax Credit,
benefitting the wind industry, and  China ’s plan to install 18
gigawatts of wind power this year.  The U.S. and Chinese developments are positive for the wind
industry, according to Engel, who said that after U.S. President
 Barack Obama  mentioned climate change in his inauguration
speech, climate change may return as a driver of the industry.  ‘Declined Considerably’  “That’s hopefully going to resurface as a discussion,”
Engel said. “It’s evident that over the last few years, the
climate discussions have declined considerably.”  Aside from China, other “promising” markets for wind
power include  Australia ,  Brazil ,  Mexico  and  Chile , Engel said.
Traditional markets in  Europe  have been weighed down by
regulatory uncertainty, he said, citing “overnight” changes
made in Spain. Spain, once the provider of the most generous
subsidies to the wind industry, a year ago halted assistance to
new projects.  “It has a ripple effect: people think if it can happen
there, can it also happen here?,” Engel asked. “The focus on
the regulatory certainty has increased dramatically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  