-- Vestas Falls as Mitsubishi Plans Signal No Joint Venture
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-24T10:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vestas-falls-as-mitsubishi-plans-signal-no-joint-venture.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  shares fell
the most in 10 days after  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) 
announced offshore wind turbine plans that suggest a deal
between the two companies isn’t imminent.  Mitsubishi Heavy said today it began testing a generation
system using an hydraulic drive train instead of mechanical
gears. The Tokyo-based company said in a  statement  that it will
now accelerate development of a 7-megawatt offshore wind
turbine, with mass-production planned to start in 2015.  Mitsubishi’s announcement signaled it’s not close to a deal
with Vestas to jointly develop the 8-megawatt V-164 offshore
turbine being worked on by the company based in Aarhus,  Denmark .
The two companies announced talks about a “strategic
cooperation” in August. Vestas tumbled as much as 4.9 percent
and was trading down 4 percent at 37.59 kroner at 11:45 a.m. in
Copenhagen.  “The bargaining power is definitely shifting to Mitsubishi
with this announcement,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB)  in Aabenraa, Denmark, said in a telephone interview. “I
conclude that an agreement with Vestas will not happen within
the next three months.”  Matthew Whitby, a spokesman for Vestas, said, “The talks
with Mitsubishi Heavy are still on-going, and we can’t say
anything beyond what’s in previous company announcements.”  Pedersen said that while he’s confident Vestas’s machine
will be “a lot better product,” and it makes sense for both
companies to carry on developing their own new turbines in the
absence of a deal, “you can do that quietly or can you can do
that making a lot of noise. It sends a message to Vestas: ‘Do
you really think that we need you?’”  Mitsubishi Heavy said it plans to install and test its new
technology at Hunterston in south-west  Scotland  this year. It
will have a trial of a floating turbine scheduled for Fukushima,
Japan in August 2014. It aims for at least a 10 percent share of
the global offshore wind power market by 2017, a company
official, Masahide Umaya, said today in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  