-- Vienna Insurance Misses Estimates as Premium Growth Stalls
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-24T15:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vienna-insurance-misses-estimates-as-premium-growth-stalls-1-.html
Vienna Insurance Group AG (VIG) , the
biggest insurer in eastern  Europe , missed profit estimates as
payments for hail, rain and storm damages hurt fourth-quarter
earnings and growth outside  Poland  stalled.  Pretax profit rose 5 percent to about 585 million euros
($780 million) in 2012, according to preliminary results, the
Vienna-based company said in a statement today. That implies
fourth-quarter profit fell 2 percent to about 142 million euros,
according to Bloomberg News calculations. The  average estimate 
of 13 analysts was for profit of 588.5 million euros, with 11
predicting earnings of more than 585 million euros.  “We still had some late claims for natural catastrophe
damage claims in the fourth quarter,” Chief Executive Officer
Peter Hagen told journalists in Vienna. Low  interest rates  also
had an effect on the company’s results, he said.  Vienna Insurance, which makes more than half of its revenue
in the former communist part of Europe, expects its growth to be
driven by that region because people are still spending a
smaller share of their income on insurance than in western
Europe. While its life-insurance revenue benefits from
increasing savings in Poland and the Czech and Slovak republics,
products like car insurance are suffering from the slowdown in
countries including  Romania .  Romania Loss  Hagen declined to give a profit forecast for 2013, saying
the economy is too volatile to make a prediction, though the
company targets revenue growth that outpaces the market.  Unconsolidated premiums written rose 9.5 percent to 9.87
billion euros last year, driven by life-insurance premiums that
more than tripled in Poland, and by growth with corporate
customers in  Austria , the company said in  slides  presented to
investors today.  Premium growth will slow in Poland this year, Hagen said.
Premiums slid in Romania, where Hagen said the group probably
lost money last year, and the  Czech Republic .  Vienna Insurance shares  recovered after falling in early
trading. They were up 1.3 percent to 39.515 euros at 2:45 p.m.
in Vienna trading, outperforming the 14-member  Euro Stoxx
Insurance (SXIE)  index.  Hagen said Vienna Insurance will continue to pay about 30
percent of its net income as a dividend, and may raise the
payout if net income increases in line with pretax income. He
declined to be more specific ahead of the final audited results,
which are due April 3.  Vienna Insurance paid 1.10 euros a share for 2011. The
 Bloomberg dividend estimate  is 1.20 euros for 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  