-- Vietnam Inflation Accelerates in January After Interest-Rate Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T03:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vietnam-inflation-accelerates-in-january-after-interest-rate-cut.html
Vietnam ’s inflation accelerated in
January, limiting the central bank’s scope to add to last
month’s interest-rate cut and bolster the economy.  Consumer prices  climbed 7.07 percent from a year earlier
after rising 6.81 percent in December, the General Statistics
Office said in Hanoi today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of six economists was 6.95 percent.  The central bank cut its  refinancing rate  for the sixth
time last year in December as the  economy  expanded 5 percent in
2012, the least since 1999. The  World Bank  is concerned about
the policy easing, as the country faces the risk of double-digit
inflation in 2013, the World Bank’s lead economist for Vietnam,
said in Ho Chi Minh City this week.  “Good, sound macroeconomic policies are key to maintaining
macroeconomic stability and low inflation,” Sanjay Kalra, the
senior resident representative of the  International Monetary
Fund  in Vietnam, said earlier. “Underlying inflationary
pressures are still a little bit on the high side.”  Moody’s Investors Service said in a Jan. 21 report that
Vietnam’s inflation rate is high when compared to the rest of
the Asia-Pacific region. Among the risks is that protracted slow
economic growth may lead to excessive policy easing, Johanna Chua, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian economic research at
Citigroup Inc., said in a research note this month, predicting
another 100 basis-point cut in borrowing costs this year.  Still, the pace of price gains appears “modest” for the
beginning of the year, given the upcoming Tet holiday, Vietnam’s
government said in a Jan. 19  posting  on its website. The lunar
New Year holiday, known as Tet, is in February this year.  Consumer prices gained 1.25 percent in January from the
previous  month , today’s report showed. Prices in the category
including health care and pharmaceuticals surged 55.6 percent
from a year earlier, while education jumped 17.3 percent.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . With assistance from Minh
Bui in Sydney. Editors: Rina Chandran, Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  