-- Vietnam Seeks Constitutional Revision to Support Economic Change
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T07:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vietnam-seeks-constitutional-revision-to-support-economic-change.html
Vietnam  will amend its constitution
to allow for changes to the economy, as it seeks to extend the
growth dividends of a shift from Soviet-style central planning
to a market-oriented model more than two decades ago.  The goal is to ensure synchronized political and economic
change, Deputy Minister of Justice Hoang The Lien said in a
question-and-answer session on the draft revisions, according to
a transcript on the government’s website. Adjustments will be
made in articles on the economy, education, environment and
culture, according to Nguyen Van Phuc, deputy head of the
National Assembly’s Economic Committee and the team drafting the
amendments, the second set since a new constitution in 1992.  “The 1992 constitution was built when we were at the start
of the economic reform process,” Lien said. “The 1992
constitution targeted economic changes, with an important switch
from a centrally-planned economy to a market-oriented economy.
We obtained great developmental achievements in the past 20
years. In reviewing the past 20 years implementing the 1992
constitution, we realized that there are still many issues.”  Once  Southeast Asia ’s fastest-rising destination for
foreign investment, Vietnam’s  expansion  has eased since the
early boom from the 1986 “Doi Moi” economic renovation that
allowed private business. The Communist Party government has
pledged to restructure banks, curb corruption and reorganize the
public sector as the country loses out to faster-growing rivals
such as  Indonesia  in recent years.  `Low’ Growth  Vietnam must accept “low” economic growth while it
restructures its economy and should aim for annual expansion of
at least 5 percent, according to President Truong Tan Sang. The
economy expanded 5.03 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in 13
years, as a slump in bank lending damped domestic demand, adding
pressure on the government to revamp the financial system and
attract more foreign investment.  A draft of the revised constitution removes language
stipulating that the state sector will “assume the leading role”
in the national economy.  “It shows a huge advance and change in thinking,” said
economist Le Dang Doanh, who has advised Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung. “If it’s approved, there’ll be no ground for state
enterprises to continue being overly pumped with state money and
receiving special treatment.”  The draft also indirectly acknowledges the role of the
private sector.  Equal Treatment  “Vietnam’s economy is a socialist-oriented market economy
with many forms of ownership and economic sectors,” according to
the draft. “All economic sectors are important components of the
national economy, and together, will be developed in the long
term,” operating equally and competitively under the law,
according to the draft, which was posted on the government
website for public feedback this month.  The revised constitution will include an emphasis on human
rights and citizens’ rights, Phuc said, according to the
transcript released on the government’s website yesterday.
Changes to the constitution will provide the “political premise
for economic development,” Lien said.  The draft amendments will be submitted to the National
Assembly for approval following public consultation. The
assembly will complete the revised constitution draft by March
31 and it will be discussed at the next legislative meeting in
May. A final version will be reviewed and approved at the end
of the year, Nguyen Si Dung, the National Assembly’s deputy
chief administrator, said by phone today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  