-- Vietnam Stocks Gain Most in Asia on Support for Property Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-24T06:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vietnam-stocks-gain-most-in-asia-on-support-for-property-market.html
Vietnam’s  stocks  gained the most
among major Asian indexes after a minister said government
support for social housing would bolster the property market.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose for a second day, climbing 1.8 percent to
451.28 at 1:39 p.m. in  Ho Chi Minh City , poised for the biggest
gain in two weeks. HAGL Joint-Stock Co., the second- biggest
listed property developer, ended a three-day decline, jumping
5.1 percent to 27,000 dong. Cuu Long Petro Urban Development &
Investment Corp. rose 2.4 percent.  The government has been taking measures to rescue the
property market as part of its effort to address bad debt and
bolster the economy. Its support for social housing including
tax reductions and lower  interest rates  will be “an indirect
stimulus” to “warm up” the property market, Minister of
Construction Trinh Dinh Dung said in a television broadcast.  The minister’s comment “may be considered a supporting
factor for the market,” Nguyen Hoai Nam, Hanoi-based deputy
head of research at Maybank Kim Eng Securities Joint-Stock Co.,
said by phone. “The real-estate market has fallen a lot in the
past few years, so it’s probably time for it to bounce back.”  The construction ministry suggested levying a 10 percent
corporate income tax rate on income from social housing
investment, a reduction from the current 25 percent rate, among
measures to help the sector, Dung said.  Developers may have to cut prices of apartments in  Hanoi ,
the capital city, by as much as 50 percent of their original
values this year,  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  said in its fourth-quarter
report on its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  