-- Vodafone’s Pain Is Seen Boosting Chance of Verizon Deal
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-24T21:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/vodafone-pain-seen-boosting-verizon-wireless-deal-odds-real-m-a.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  may be
in its strongest position ever to obtain full control of  Verizon
Wireless  from its venture partner  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Verizon Communications shares have risen  22 percent  in the
last two years. During the same time, Newbury, England-based
Vodafone’s stock lost 7.8 percent in U.S. dollar terms as it
suffered the longest stretch of  sales declines  in at least seven
years because of heightened competition in  Europe  coupled with
an economic slowdown. That divergence helped push the second-
largest U.S. phone company’s market value higher than Vodafone’s
in December for the first time in a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Almost 14 years after forming the Verizon Wireless joint
venture, now may be an opportune time for Vodafone to sell its
45 percent stake to gain cash to help shore up its business in
Europe, said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., which estimates the
holding is valued at more than $115 billion. New York-based
Verizon Communications, with a market capitalization of $122
billion, also could acquire Vodafone to gain full control of the
venture and its 98 million customers, and then sell off the
international assets, said New Street Research.  “It’s the most attractive wireless asset probably in the
world,”  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst at Bernstein,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s the best time for
realizing value in Verizon Wireless -- there will never be a
better moment.”  Today, Vodafone rose 3.2 percent to 168.65 pence, the
biggest gain since Aug. 1. It was also the largest increase
among 20 telecommunications stocks in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Verizon declined 0.5 percent to $42.59.  ‘Willing Buyer’  Vodafone, then called Vodafone AirTouch Plc, and what was
then known as Bell Atlantic Corp. agreed to create the mobile
company in 1999 and began selling service under the Verizon
Wireless brand in  2000 .  “I don’t think there’s any difference today than there has
been over the past 10 years,” Fran Shammo, chief financial
officer of Verizon Communications, said in a phone interview
this week. “If Vodafone wants to sell their 45 percent, if they
are a willing seller, then we are a willing buyer.”  Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Vodafone, declined to comment
on a potential change to the company’s Verizon Wireless holding.
Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said in November
that he hasn’t ruled out an exit from the Basking Ridge, New
Jersey-based venture.  Bolstering Revenue  Verizon Communications would have to pay about $125 billion
to buy Vodafone’s stake, including about $11 billion that
Vodafone would want to compensate for its Luxembourg tax assets,
according to New Street Research. Bernstein’s Bienenstock pegs
the equity value of Vodafone’s holding at about $116 billion,
based on a multiple of 9 times the wireless business’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  An infusion of cash from selling its stake in the largest
U.S. mobile-phone operation would help Vodafone make new
investments to overcome its struggles in European markets, where
the debt crisis led to staff cuts and writedowns at its southern
European operations. Revenue has fallen for two straight semi-
annual periods, the worst stretch since the one ended in
September 2005, and analysts  project  declines for at least the
next three periods, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone could use the money to fund acquisitions or
expansion into more profitable regions and businesses. Nick Read, Vodafone’s head of  Africa , Asia and the  Middle East , has
said the company is looking for opportunities to get bigger in
Africa, where profit is predicted to overtake southern Europe in
as few as three years.  Unpredictable Dividend  “I could imagine that Vodafone invests the money a bit
better in other regions of the world,” said Peter Braendle, a
 fund manager  at Swisscanto Asset Management who oversees 500
million euros ($666 million) in investments, including Vodafone
 shares .  Vodafone’s payouts from the partnership have been
unpredictable. Verizon Communications, which controls 55 percent
of the mobile company, has authority over when and if the
wireless business pays dividends.  Because the payments can be withheld if Verizon Wireless is
in debt from an acquisition or needs to conserve cash to expand,
Vodafone CEO Colao last year called it a “luxury problem.”
Before receiving more than $8 billion combined from two dividend
payments in the last year, Vodafone hadn’t had a payment since
2005.  Stock Currency  Verizon Communications has more financial wherewithal to
resolve the joint venture structure now than in the past. The
company’s market value exceeded Vodafone’s on Dec. 18 for the
first time since 2002, data compiled by Bloomberg show. As of
yesterday, Vodafone had a market capitalization of 80.1 billion
pounds ($127 billion), compared with Verizon Communications at
$122 billion.  Verizon Communications may struggle to pay for Vodafone’s
entire holding with cash and potential  debt  financing,
Bienenstock said. The company reported $3.09 billion in  cash  and
equivalents at the end of last year, compared with $13.4 billion
a year earlier.  Still, Verizon Communications’ stock valuation could help
provide the needed firepower, said  Todd Lowenstein , a fund
manager at HighMark Capital Management Inc., which oversees
about $17 billion, including Vodafone shares. Verizon
Communications had a price-earnings ratio yesterday of 19, near
a nine-year high of 19.9 set last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Partial Buyout  “It’s actually good for Verizon now if they were to use
their stock as currency,” Lowenstein, who is based in Los
Angeles, said in a phone interview. “It’s a higher-than-average
multiple right now than what they usually carry.”  One option would be a partial buyout in which Vodafone
sells 60 percent of its holding in the venture in exchange for
cash and a 19 percent stake in Verizon Communications, as well
as full control of an Italian business that the companies own
jointly, Bienenstock said. That way, Vodafone could maintain a
U.S. holding without the uncertainty of dividend payments from
Verizon Wireless, she said.  If Verizon Communications were to instead acquire Vodafone
outright, they’d win control over their most valuable asset --
the wireless business -- and pick up international operations
for “a steal,” said  Jonathan Chaplin , an analyst at New Street
Research in  New York .  “Verizon should buy all of Vodafone,” Chaplin said in a
phone interview. “I think they can, and I think the sooner they
do it the better.”  Verizon’s Fate  Verizon Communications could then sell the international
assets they don’t want at a premium, potentially to  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
he said.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for AT&T, declined to comment
on the Dallas-based company’s potential interest in European
assets.  Verizon Communications’ fate is tied up with its wireless
business. Even after investing in its  FiOS  fiber-optic network
for high-speed  Internet service  to help offset declining home-
phone customers, wireless still accounted for more than half of
its  revenue  and all of its operating income in the fourth
quarter. Verizon Communications relies on the mobile business to
help fund its own  dividend , which cost about $5.2 billion last
year.  “Unlike so many companies in this business, Verizon
Wireless is a growing company with expanding margins,”  Roger Entner , an analyst with Recon Analytics LLC in Dedham,
 Massachusetts , said in a phone interview. “The profit upside
from Verizon Wireless is enough to justify the deal.”  Peaking Value  In the U.S., Verizon Wireless has used its lead in rolling
out long-term evolution service to gain market share and
increase the size of customers’ phone bills with higher-priced
data plans. LTE is a network technology that lets smartphone and
tablet users download video and stream music faster. Subscriber
growth reached a record in the fourth quarter with the addition
of 2.1 million contract customers.  Vodafone could sell its share of the maturing U.S. business
at near record levels and use the proceeds to enter growth
markets or invest in LTE upgrades, said Kevin Roe, an analyst at
Roe Equity Research LLC, based in Dorset,  Vermont .  Verizon Wireless’s value may be peaking as the pool of
potential new customers shrinks and consolidation leads to
stronger competitors, Roe said. Mobile penetration in the
country has exceeded  101 percent , according to the CTIA wireless
industry association.  ‘Right Price’  Competition may be heating up, with Deutsche Telekom AG
merging its T-Mobile USA unit with MetroPCS Communications Inc.,
and Japan’s Softbank Corp. making a $20 billion investment in
Sprint Nextel Corp.  A resolution for Vodafone’s stake has been discussed for
years without a result. In 2004, former Verizon Communications
CEO  Ivan Seidenberg  suggested that Vodafone and Verizon
Communications swap a stake in Vodafone’s Italian business for
Vodafone’s holding in the U.S. In 2006, analysts called for
Vodafone to take advantage of an option to sell $20 billion of
its holding in Verizon Wireless to Verizon Communications. The
company let that option expire in 2007.  It came up again in 2009, when Colao, on the job for just
over a year, said at a conference in Barcelona that he intended
to “solve” Vodafone’s lack of control over Verizon Wireless
and that he would consider selling the stake or merging with
Verizon Communications.  “At the end of the day, it’s always a question of price,”
said Swisscanto’s Braendle, one of the Vodafone shareholders.
“Selling at the right price would be wonderful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net . 