-- Wal-Mart Favored Over Hospitals in Nonprofit Pinch: Taxes
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/wal-mart-favored-over-hospitals-in-nonprofit-pinch-taxes.html
Pittsburgh’s biggest nonprofit
hospitals and universities, whose jobs helped revive the Steel
City economy, may have to shoulder some of its tax burden too.  A levy based on payroll size would be paid by those with
250 employees or more under a bill  being written  by state
Senator Jim Ferlo, a Pittsburgh Democrat. It would also reduce a
similar tax on businesses in  Pennsylvania ’s second-largest city.  The move falls in line with similar efforts across the U.S.
to impose payments such as municipal user fees on nonprofit
organizations, said David L. Thompson, vice president of public
policy at the National Council of Nonprofits in  Washington . He
said these steps have been taken with increasing frequency as
local governments cope with the lingering effects of  recession .  “Nonprofit employers have been great community leaders and
citizens until the governments ran out of money, in which we
became scofflaws and somehow not paying our fair share,”
Thompson said.  For Ferlo, it’s about budgets.  “The philanthropy and the goodwill don’t help the city
operating budget pay for collective bargaining awards for
police,” Ferlo said. “It doesn’t help pay for the asphalt.
Everyone should be asked to step up to the plate.”  Since 2000, at least 218 jurisdictions in 28 states have
collected payments in lieu of taxes from nonprofit
organizations, whose charitable status exempts them from most
taxes, according to a report from the Lincoln Institute of Land
Policy in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . More than 90 percent of so-
called PILOTs came from schools and hospitals.  Colleges Targeted  Cities in several states --  Rhode Island , Massachusetts,
 Vermont ,  New Jersey ,  North Carolina  and  Michigan  -- are
targeting nonprofit colleges to replenish their coffers, said
Tony Pals, a spokesman for the National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities in Washington.  For some jurisdictions, the payments are critical.
Providence, the Rhode Island capital, sought to stave off
bankruptcy when it reached an  agreement  in May with  Brown
University , raising the amount the school will contribute to the
city by $31.5 million over 11 years. Moody’s Investors Service
in a Jan. 17 report credited the move with helping Mayor Angel Taveras make “significant progress” in closing a $110 million
budget gap last year.  Hospitals, museums and universities are becoming
increasingly businesslike by selling merchandise and providing
services secondary to their missions, said Daphne Kenyon, a
visiting fellow at the Lincoln Institute and a co-author of its
report on PILOTs. That has changed the public’s view of such
organizations from purely charitable groups to entities that
should make some payment to their host communities, she said.  ‘More Entrepreneurial’  “Nonprofits do things that look like what for-profits do;
they’ve become more entrepreneurial,” Kenyon said. “So people
think, why should they be completely tax-exempt? Why shouldn’t
they make some contribution?”  Yet the hospitals and schools that municipal officials have
targeted often face their own fiscal straits, according to
Thompson of the nonprofits council. These organizations
sometimes are regarded as holding readily available “pots of
money,” he said. “In reality, nonprofits are struggling as
much or more than the governments and don’t have the spare cash
that’s presumed.”  In Pittsburgh, nonprofit groups get city services without
paying a fair share of the costs, Ferlo said last week in a memo
to Senate colleagues. That’s “unsustainable” as the largest
charitable organizations expand to account for an increasing
portion of the property-tax base, he said.  Task Force  Tax-exempt employers, including governmental organizations,
make up 33 percent of the tax base in Pittsburgh, according to a
report produced under the state’s financially distressed
community program.  Mayor Luke Ravenstahl has been asked to set up a  task force 
to build a long-term partnership with nonprofit groups before
the end of 2014 to encourage them to pay more. The panel hasn’t
been formed, said Joanna Doven, a spokeswoman for Ravenstahl.  Ferlo said the measure he’s developing may provide a
“working model” for the Pittsburgh panel.  Designed as an amendment to a law authorizing a  payroll tax 
on municipal businesses, the measure would let the city extend
the levy to larger nonprofit groups. Hospitals, colleges and
others would pay a 0.4 percent rate, while the current charge
for businesses would fall to 0.5 percent from 0.55 percent,
according to Ferlo’s note to lawmakers.  Raising Revenue  Ferlo said the net effect would raise as much as $10
million for the city’s budget, which is $470 million this year.
The payroll tax, as currently structured, is expected to
generate $54 million, according to budget documents.  Tax-exempt organizations with 250 workers or more account
for 70 percent of such employment in the city, Ferlo said. The
nonprofit University of Pittsburgh Medical Center had the most,
with 38,700 or almost 13 percent of all local jobs in 2011,
according to a municipal financial report for that year.  The five largest Pittsburgh employers in 2011 were all tax-
exempt organizations, with businesses, including  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
rounding out the list, the city report shows.  Susan Manko, a medical center spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Ferlo’s proposal. The hospital, with fiscal 2012
operating revenue of about $9.6 billion and operating income of
$351 million,  said  it contributed $565 million in community
services, such as programs for the poor and charity care, in the
previous year.  Model Measure  Ferlo’s plan would apply only to nonprofit organizations in
Pittsburgh, where state approval was required in 2004 to
implement the payroll tax on businesses. Ferlo said other cities
in the Keystone State “could use this as a model to get some
reasonable income” from tax-exempt operations. About half of
the property-tax base in Harrisburg, the insolvent state
capital, is exempt. Its fiscal recovery plan calls for voluntary
payments by charitable groups.  “Most of these communities have not been able to negotiate
so-called payments-in-lieu-of-tax initiatives,” Ferlo said.
“There should be something written into law and uniform and
equitable.”  Ferlo’s proposal, if passed, would be unique among
municipalities collecting money from nonprofit groups, the
Lincoln Institute’s Kenyon said. User fees are more common. In
 Minneapolis , for example, charges for street maintenance and
lighting are applied based on the square-footage of properties
owned by charitable organizations, according to her report.  Ferlo said he didn’t talk to leaders of Pittsburgh’s
nonprofit groups as he formulated his proposal.  Collaboration is preferable, Kenyon said.  “The nonprofits sector and the local government thrive
when they realize they need to work together, and that they both
have an interest in having a strong, fiscally solvent government
and a cordial relationship,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  