-- Whitman Capital Founder Gets 2 Years for Insider Trading
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/whitman-capital-founder-gets-2-year-sentence-for-insider-trading.html
Whitman Capital LLC hedge fund
founder Doug Whitman was given two years in prison for trading
on illegal tips about  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff pronounced sentence
yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court, also imposing one year of
supervised release and a $250,000 fine. Whitman was convicted in
August after a  jury trial  in which he spent more than two days
on the witness stand proclaiming his innocence.  “I am terribly, terribly sorry,” said Whitman, who
frequently became emotional as he addressed Rakoff. “This is
something that haunts me today and will for the rest of my
life.”  Prosecutors said Whitman, 55, made more than $900,000 for
his  Menlo Park , California-based hedge fund using illicit tips
from technology firm insiders, including  Roomy Khan , a former
Intel Corp. executive who was at the center of the biggest
stock-tipping probe in U.S. history. Khan, a witness at
Whitman’s trial, twice pleaded guilty to passing inside
information to Galleon Group LLC cofounder Raj Rajaratnam.  ‘Decent Person’  Whitman is the first defendant in the government’s
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading to testify at trial. He
was found guilty of two counts of conspiracy and two counts of
 securities fraud .  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara have obtained more than 70 insider-trading guilty pleas
and verdicts since August 2009, including the criminal
prosecution of Rajaratnam.  Rakoff yesterday described Whitman as “basically a decent
person” who was “cavalier and crude in his business dealings
even when he wasn’t breaking the law.”  “Mr. Whitman was someone who had no compunctions about
going across illegal lines that he was very well aware of and
excusing them and even bringing those excuses into the courtroom
when that served his interests,” Rakoff said.  Rakoff ordered Whitman to forfeit the $935,000 profit the
U.S. claims he made from insider trades on Polycom and Google.  False Testimony  The U.S. asked Rakoff to sentence Whitman to more than five
years in prison, citing his “repeated denials of wrongdoing and
affirmative lies to cover it up,” including what prosecutors
claimed was his false testimony at the trial.  Rakoff agreed with prosecutors that Whitman had lied on the
stand.  “I think, frankly, he repeatedly perjured himself,”
Rakoff said. “I think the evidence was quite overwhelming.”  Rakoff also agreed with the government that federal
sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, called for Whitman to
get from 51 to 63 months in prison. Rakoff, who frequently
criticizes the sentencing guidelines, declined to follow them.  In court papers, Whitman said he was offered a plea deal a
year ago that would have called for no more than six months’
jail time. He denied lying in court and argued that he has
already suffered the loss of his profession, the end of his 20-
year marriage and the humiliation of a public prosecution.  “He has been utterly and completely devastated by this,”
David Rody, a Whitman lawyer, told Rakoff.  “Doug Whitman maintains his innocence and looks forward to
vindication on appeal,”  David Anderson , another Whitman lawyer,
said in a statement.  Whitman asked Rakoff for a sentence of six months or less.  At Whitman’s request, Rakoff said he will recommend he be
assigned to a federal prison in Lompoc,  California . The judge
said Whitman may remain free on bail while he appeals his
conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  