-- Women Lose More Ground in U.S. Small Business Contracts Race
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-01-24T12:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/women-lose-more-ground-than-men-in-small-business-awards-race.html
U.S. government contracts to women-
owned small businesses dropped for the second consecutive year,
declining at a faster rate than awards to their male
counterparts.  The women’s contracts slid 5.5 percent to about $16.4
billion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 from $17.3
billion in fiscal 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Awards to  small firms  owned by men fell 4.1 percent to $80.9
billion.  The gender gap may reflect stiffer competition over a
shrinking pool of contract revenue as well as the bureaucratic
burdens associated with a new effort to reserve awards for
women-owned firms, according to former procurement officials and
small business advocates.  “Women-owned small businesses are at the very bottom of
the food chain,” said Jeanne Peck, chief executive officer of
Nash Locke LLC, an information technology company based in
McLean, Virginia. “They often have to fight for the scraps of
subcontracts.”  It may get worse for women, as they face difficulty winning
a greater share of business in an era of federal spending cuts,
said Robert Burton, acting administrator of the Office of
Federal Procurement Policy under  George W. Bush .  “I don’t think you’re going to see any of these figures
rise,” Burton, now a partner at the law firm Venable LLP in
Washington, said in a phone interview. “Historically, the
government has never put a strong emphasis on women-owned small
businesses.”  Missed Target  The government set a goal in 1994 of awarding at least 5
percent of the total value of eligible contracts to woman-owned
businesses. It never has met that target. Women captured about
3.2 percent of the total, according to federal procurement data.
The  Small Business Administration  hasn’t released official
numbers using its own methodology, which excludes some
contracts.  The gender disparity is particularly striking because the
U.S. is in its second year of a new program aimed at boosting
awards to women-owned  small businesses , said Ann Sullivan, head
of government relations for Women Impacting Public Policy Inc.,
a Washington-based nonprofit organization that promotes women in
business.  The effort, which allows agencies to reserve money for
women-owned businesses, started in April 2011, 11 years after
Congress ordered the SBA to create the program.  V-22 Tilt-Rotor  In the first full year of the program, about $72.5 million
in contracts were set aside for women-owned small firms in
fiscal 2012. That’s less than 0.1 percent of what  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , the No. 1 government contractor, won in the same
period. It’s also less than the price of a single V-22 tilt-
rotor aircraft, made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Textron Inc. (TXT)   “We’re not going to break the champagne out yet,” said
Sullivan, also president of Madison Services Group Inc., a
government relations firm in Washington. Sullivan worked with
Congress, the SBA and the White House to help create the set-
aside program.  Agencies’ contracting officers may be reluctant to use the
program because they must take on the burden of verifying that
the businesses are legitimate, said Margot Dorfman, chief
executive officer of the Washington-based U.S. Women’s Chamber
of Commerce.  “I’m not sure I blame them,” Dorfman said in a phone
interview. “There’s no incentive to encourage them to use the
program.”  Contract Caps  John Shoraka, the SBA’s associate administrator for
government contracting and business development, didn’t provide
a comment on the decline in small business contracts to women.  “We will continue education, outreach and recruitment of
women-owned small businesses to the federal procurement
process,” he said in an e-mail.  The defense authorization bill signed into law this month
removed caps on contracts awarded under the program, a
development that Shoraka called “another win for women-owned
small businesses.”  Previously, the ceilings were $4 million for services and
$6.5 million for manufacturing. Last year, only one company
received a contract valued at more than $3 million under the
program.  Nash Locke owner Peck said federal agencies need to work
harder to promote women-owned businesses in a marketplace that
is dominated by men.  While Peck has been working with the government since she
founded her company in 2008, she says acquisition officers still
ask her if she’s in charge of her own business.  “I’m always flummoxed when I get questions like that,”
said Peck, who works with the Defense Department. “I’m always
the one showing up. I’m in charge. But it still remains the
first question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in  Washington  at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  