-- Wrong Way to Admit You Blew Millions of Dollars
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-01-24T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/wrong-way-to-admit-you-blew-millions-of-dollars.html
Somewhere in the vast interior of
China last year, almost a half-billion dollars of cash belonging
to  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  vanished. So how did the company soften the
blow when it broke the news to investors?  Easy. Caterpillar  said  the loss was “non-cash.” See?
Accounting tricks don’t have to be complex after all.  This sort of abuse of the English language is  routine  in
corporate disclosures and has long been a pet peeve of mine.
Here’s the drill: First a company like Caterpillar makes a big
acquisition. It pays cash. Then the company it bought turns out
to be a wreck, maybe even a fraud.  The  rules  say Caterpillar must write down the value of what
it bought -- or, more precisely, what it mistakenly believed it
had bought, because the assets it paid for never existed in the
first place. Calling the loss non-cash makes it seem like
Caterpillar didn’t lose any real money. It’s like reverse
alchemy, turning gold into straw, at least for public-relations
purposes.  Last June, Caterpillar  paid  $690 million -- $475 million of
which was cash -- for a Hong Kong-based company called ERA
Mining Machinery Ltd., which makes coal-mining equipment through
a subsidiary in China called  Zhengzhou Siwei Mechanical &
Electrical Manufacturing Co.  Caterpillar last week said it found
“deliberate, multi-year, coordinated accounting misconduct” at
 Siwei . It said the tip-off came in November when it did a
physical inventory count at Siwei and found it didn’t match what
the books showed. Caterpillar  said  it will record a “non-cash
goodwill impairment charge” of $580 million for the fourth
quarter, wiping out all but 16 percent of the purchase price.  Blown Cash  Why did Caterpillar call it non-cash? “We characterize it
as a non-cash item in the fourth quarter because it does not
impact cash flow in the fourth quarter,” said Jim Dugan, a
spokesman for the Peoria, Illinois-based maker of engines and
machinery. That’s technically accurate. It also ignores that the
company blew $475 million of cash on the purchase during the
second quarter.  There ought to be a rule that says companies aren’t allowed
to call writedowns “non-cash” if they paid cash to buy the
assets they’re writing down. The label might not be false.
However, it is misleading.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
last week  said  it will  record  a $14 billion “non-cash
impairment charge” for the fourth quarter. Like Caterpillar, it
paid cash for the acquisitions it’s writing down. Last month,
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, reported a $4.3
billion “ non-cash ” writedown at its European businesses, which
it had bought with cash.  Hewlett-Packard Co. used the same label when it wrote down
its 2011 cash acquisition of the software maker Autonomy Corp.
by $8.8 billion. HP, much like Caterpillar,  blamed  most of the
loss on accounting improprieties at the company it bought.  Back to Caterpillar, recall that the company said it was
writing down goodwill by $580 million because of its findings at
Siwei. That’s odd, because Caterpillar in its most recent
 quarterly report  said it allocated only $476 million of the
company’s purchase price to goodwill. (Goodwill is a plug number
representing the difference between the purchase price and the
fair market value of the acquired company’s net assets.)  Caterpillar didn’t say how the goodwill grew before the
writedown. Dugan, the Caterpillar spokesman, said the company
will provide more information when it files its annual report in
the coming weeks.  Sketchy Pedigree  Then there’s the question of why Caterpillar bought this
piece of junk. ERA Mining was formed through a  reverse takeover 
in 2010, which let Siwei obtain a Hong Kong stock listing
without an initial public offering. That sketchy pedigree should
have been a warning flag, especially after the dozens of Chinese
 reverse-merger stocks  over the past few years that turned out to
be frauds. ERA Mining’s 2011 annual report noted that the
structure of the deal meant “the assets and liabilities of the
Siwei Group are recognized and measured at their pre-combination
carrying amounts,” which turned out to be false.  ERA and Siwei were barely profitable, even using the
numbers that Caterpillar now says were phony. The company, which
was audited by  RSM Nelson Wheeler  of Hong Kong, showed lifetime
retained earnings of about $33 million as of Dec. 31, 2011.
Tangible shareholder equity, which excludes goodwill and other
intangible assets, was about $98 million. Caterpillar paid about
seven times that much. How much of the $580 million writedown
was attributable to misconduct? And how much was due to the
simple fact that Caterpillar overpaid? Dugan declined to answer.  The markets shrugged off the news of Caterpillar’s China
troubles as a one-off hit, which is understandable. (The stock
price went up slightly on Jan. 22, the first day of trading
after Caterpillar’s disclosure.) Caterpillar is one of America’s
most-admired companies. It has a $63 billion market value, about
$90 billion of assets, and it has reported more than $1 billion
of earnings for seven consecutive quarters. This scandalette
should be a minor blow.  The bad news is it shows Caterpillar did a horrible job of
due diligence. And its  board  -- which includes  Jon Huntsman , a
former U.S. ambassador to China -- may be more of a rubber stamp
than investors realized. Caterpillar’s leaders have more
explaining to do. Banning looking-glass language from their
vocabulary would be a good start.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  