-- Yen Tumbles After Minister Says Its Slide Isn’t Over
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-01-24T16:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/yen-holds-3-day-rally-on-signs-boj-failing-to-stoke-inflation.html
The yen fell for the first time in
four days versus the dollar after Deputy Economy Minister
Yasutoshi Nishimura said its decline isn’t over and a level of
100 versus the U.S. currency wouldn’t be a concern.  Japan ’s currency slid against all of its 16 most-traded
peers after a Chinese report showed manufacturing expanded at
the fastest in two years, reducing demand for the yen as a
refuge. Asian currencies weakened against the dollar as  North
Korea  threatened to test nuclear weapons. The euro gained after
contraction in European manufacturing and services slowed, and
 Mexico ’s peso rose amid stronger-than-forecast U.S. jobs data.  “The yen story is still alive,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by
telephone from New York. “When you have a combination of good
dollar, good U.S. data, good euro data, and good Chinese data
and you’re short yen, the tendency is for yen to underperform
dollar and to some extent the euro.” A short position is a bet
that a currency will weaken.  The yen tumbled 1.6 percent to 90.02 per dollar at 11:49
a.m. in New York after strengthening 1.7 percent during the
previous three days. It slid to 90.25 on Jan. 21, the weakest
level since June 2010. Japan’s currency dropped 2 percent to
120.40 per euro, approaching the 20-month low of 120.71 it
reached on Jan. 18. The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.3375. It
touched $1.3404 on Jan. 14, the highest since Feb. 29, 2012.  Peso Climbs  The Mexican peso rose against the greenback after claims
for jobless benefits in the U.S., its biggest trade partner,
unexpectedly dropped last week to a five-year low of 330,000.
Mexico’s annualized inflation fell to a 15-month low in the
first half of January, reinforcing forecasts that the central
bank will leave borrowing costs unchanged until next year.  The peso strengthened 0.6 percent to 12.6155 per dollar.  Israel’s shekel climbed against 31 major counterparts on
speculation Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will assemble a
governing coalition able to curb the country’s budget deficit.
This week’s elections gave Netanyahu the chance to serve a third
term with a weaker mandate than four years ago, leading him to
seek an alliance with centrist Yair Lapid’s Yesh Atid party.  The currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 3.7130 per dollar.  The yen slumped 19 percent in the past six months, the
worst performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar dropped 4.7
percent, and the euro advanced 6.9 percent.  ‘Quite Tolerant’  “These short yen positions that have been building over
the last two months will be quite tolerant of no change for a
while in terms of the government actually delivering anything
simply because you’ve had a change of government and the
rhetoric has been so strong,”  Adam Cole , global head of
foreign-exchange strategy in  London  at Royal Bank of Canada’s
 RBC Capital Markets , said in an interview. “Investors will be
prepared to give the new government time to deliver.”  The yen at 100 per dollar would be acceptable, Nishimura
said in an interview in  Tokyo , suggesting global criticism may
fail to convince Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to temper his push to
weaken the currency. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today
in Davos,  Switzerland , that the Japanese government’s call for
monetary easing is a risk to the global economic recovery.  Abe, who took office last month, is working to boost the
economy and has called for “bold monetary policy” to defeat
deflation and drive the yen lower.  ‘Isn’t Over’  “The current level around 90 can be said to be a
correction of the strong yen, but it isn’t over yet,” Deputy
Economy Minister Nishimura said. A level of 110 to 120 would
raise import costs, he said, suggesting the government won’t
back a currency free-fall.  The probability of the yen weakening to 100 by year-end was
25 percent today, according to options data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan’s currency fell in early Asian trading after HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said their preliminary reading
of  China ’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index increased to 51.9 in
January from 51.5 the previous month. The data suggest China’s
expansion at the start of 2013 will equal or exceed its 7.9
percent pace in the fourth quarter.  “Yen weakness kicked in squarely as a function of the
Chinese data,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund
sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “The Chinese
data surprised to the upside for many people. The global
backdrop is showing an improving trend that’s not factored into
the market yet.”  North Korea  Asian currencies fell as North Korea threatened to conduct
a nuclear weapons test “targeted” at the U.S. after the U.S.
pushed through new United Nations sanctions against the state
for its rocket launch last month.  Investors are “selling Asian assets amid rising
geopolitical risks in North Korea,” said  Yuji Saito , director
of foreign-exchange at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in Tokyo.  South Korea ’s won declined 0.3 percent to 1,068.85 per
dollar and the  Taiwan dollar  declined 0.1 percent to 29.039.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, reached
118.42, the least since Jan. 10.  The euro strengthened against all except two of its 16
most-traded counterparts after Markit Economics released its
survey of purchasing managers in manufacturing and services.  A  composite index  based on the survey climbed to 48.2 this
month from 47.2 in December, the data showed. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The 17-nation currency rose for the first time in five days
against the Swiss franc, gaining 0.4 percent to 1.2427 francs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  