-- Yen Set for 11th Weekly Drop as CPI Adds to Easing Case
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-25T06:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/yen-tumbles-after-minister-says-its-slide-isn-t-over-yet.html
The yen headed for a record stretch
of weekly losses against the dollar as data showing a decline in
Japanese consumer prices added to the case for further monetary
stimulus from the central bank.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  announced open-ended easing and a 2
percent inflation target this week. The Japanese currency
remained weaker after touching a 2 1/2-year low as Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said he will make “considerable efforts” to
reach the price target. The Dollar Index rose before U.S. data
forecast to show home sales increased.  “The market’s looking for any excuse to sell the yen at
the moment,” said  Thomas Averill , managing director in Sydney
at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-rate risk
management company. “The weakness in the yen has got quite a
long way to go. It’s very hard to find economic fundamentals
that justify buying the currency.”  The Japanese currency slid 0.2 percent to 90.55 per dollar
at 6:39 a.m. in London from yesterday, after earlier touching
90.69, the weakest since June 21, 2010. It was set for an 11th
weekly loss, the longest losing streak in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1971.  The yen dropped to 121.31 per euro, the weakest since April
2011, before trading at 121.03, 0.2 percent lower than
yesterday’s close in  New York . The 17-nation euro fell 0.1
percent to $1.3367. The shared currency was still poised for a
0.4 percent weekly gain against the dollar and 0.9 percent
advance versus the yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, added 0.1 percent to 80.038.  Consumer Prices  Japanese  consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent in December from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
reported in  Tokyo  today, the seventh decline in eight months.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who took office last month, has
called for “bold monetary policy” to beat deflation and drive
the yen lower. The BOJ on Jan. 22 doubled its inflation target
to 2 percent and announced open-ended asset buying from 2014.  BOJ board members said  Japan ’s economy is weakening and the
central bank will continue with “powerful” monetary easing,
according to the minutes released today of the December meeting
when it expanded its asset-purchase program by 10 trillion yen
($110 billion).  Shirakawa reiterated in remarks in Tokyo today that while
the central bank is conducting aggressive easing, achieving the
price-gain target isn’t easy.  100 Yen  Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said yesterday
the currency’s decline isn’t over and a level of 100 versus the
 U.S. dollar  wouldn’t be a concern. The yen at 100 per dollar
would be acceptable, he said in an interview in Tokyo,
suggesting global criticism may fail to convinceAbe to temper
his push to weaken the currency. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said yesterday in Davos,  Switzerland , that the Japanese
government’s call for monetary easing is a risk to the global
economic recovery.  The dollar was supported before a report which may show
home sales in the U.S. increased. Purchases of new houses
probably climbed to a 385,000 annual rate in December, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
which would be the best showing since April 2010. The National
Association of Realtors releases the data today.  German Economy  Losses in the euro were limited before data forecast to
show a rise in business confidence in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest
economy. Economists polled by Bloomberg expect the Ifo
institute’s  business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, climbed to 103 this month from 102.4 last month.
That would be the highest since July.  “The real euro-zone economy is still quite soft, although
we are seeing indicators out of Germany starting to rebound,”
said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender.
“We think the Ifo data due today probably should continue to
improve, and that will help support the euro.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said the euro is here to
stay and will probably strengthen. The momentum is for the
“euro to rise and yen to fall,” Soros said at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos yesterday.  Morgan Stanley recommends selling the yen versus the euro,
the U.S. dollar and Asian currencies, according to a report
yesterday.  The yen has fallen 6.8 percent in the past month, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1.8
percent in the same period while the dollar added 0.3 percent.  The yen’s 14-day relative-strength index against the dollar
was at 31, near the 30 level which indicate asset price has
fallen too rapidly and it may be poised to reverse course. The
Japanese currency’s RSI versus the euro was also at 31.  “The pace of yen weakening is likely to slow,” said
Kikuko Takeda, a senior currency economist in  London  at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “I don’t think it will continue to
depreciate at the same pace as it has been in the past month. We
may see a bit of a rebound sooner or later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  