-- Hyundai Motor Profit Declines 5.5%, Shares Extend Fall
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-01-24T07:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/hyundai-motor-profit-declines-5-5-missing-analyst-estimates.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
biggest automaker, reported a steeper profit drop than analysts
estimated after the won appreciated more than any major
currency, reducing the value of overseas sales. The stock fell.  Fourth-quarter  net income  declined 5.5 percent to 1.89
trillion won ($1.8 billion), compared with 2 trillion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts expected 1.98 trillion won, according to the average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue also
missed estimates.  Hyundai shares fell the most in three weeks as the results
showed how Hyundai Motor -- and more broadly, South Korean
exporters -- are bracing for the end of a four-year period of
favorable exchange rates. The yen, which began tumbling since
late 2012 to the benefit of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , will probably
extend its slide and the won will keep appreciating this year,
according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The won will most likely continue strengthening this
year, and if this trend continues, it will have a notable impact
on the company,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer of
Seoul-based Midas International Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $5.5 billion, “The company needs to show
significant sales growth for the shares to move favorably, but
that seems difficult this year.”  Hyundai slumped 4.6 percent, the steepest drop since Jan.
3, to close at 208,000 won in Seoul. Smaller affiliate  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270) , which reports earnings tomorrow, tumbled 3.5
percent to a two-year low and underperformed the Kospi stock
index’s 0.8 percent decline.  Yen vs. Won  The yen will probably end 2013 at 90 per dollar, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts, which
would be the weakest finish to a year since 2009. The won is
projected to gain more than 3 percent to 1,030 per dollar, the
sharpest gain among Asian counterparts, the surveys show.  “The magnitude of the won’s appreciation will probably
intensify toward the second half of this year,” Chief Financial
Officer Lee Won Hee said today during a conference call. “The
weak yen will allow Japanese automakers to aggressively market
products, especially in places where we are intensely competing
against them, such as Australia and  Russia .”  Such a trend wouldn’t help Hyundai Motor, which has
forecast that deliveries will rise 5.7 percent to 4.66 million
vehicles this year, the slowest growth since 2007. Combined
sales at the carmaker and smaller affiliate Kia Motors Corp.
will probably increase 4.1 percent to 7.41 million units, the
lowest growth in seven years, according to the companies.  ‘Difficult Year’  “2013 will be a very difficult year as the ongoing
European crisis and the slowing global economy affect
international and domestic markets,”  Chung Mong Koo , chairman
of both Hyundai and Kia, said during a new year address on Jan.
2.  Chung, 74, can thank the  combination  of a weaker won and a
stronger yen for some of his success in the past five years. In
that period, Hyundai Motor Group gained more market share than
any other major automaker -- even outselling Toyota,  Asia ’s
largest manufacturer by revenue, in China and  India .  From the middle of 2007 to late 2008, when the value of the
yen more than doubled against the won, Japanese carmakers were
under pressure to raise prices while Hyundai could theoretically
ship a car to the U.S. and cut the price by 40 percent without
eroding profitability. The yen kept appreciating, reaching a
postwar high of 75.35 against the dollar at the end of October
2011 and traded below 80 as recently as last November.  Yen’s Turnaround  Then Yoshihiko Noda,  Japan ’s prime minister at the time, in
mid-November called for new elections and fueled speculation
that a new government would step up efforts to weaken the yen.
No currency in the world has weakened more than the yen since.  “Our competitive edge against Hyundai is much better than
a year ago,” Mitsuhisa Kato, executive vice president at
Toyota, said Jan. 7.  The won’s appreciation will undermine South Korean
automakers’ profitability and may lead to budget cuts in
marketing or research and development investments, Bank of
America Corp. Merrill Lynch wrote in a  report  on Jan. 22. The
profitability gap with Japanese automakers will likely shrink
and South Korean makers, with capacity shortages and a dearth of
new products, will probably face a lull in volume growth,
according to the report.  New Models  Fourth-quarter sales rose 11 percent to 22.72 trillion won,
below the average analyst estimate, though Hyundai ended the
year with record annual revenue. Operating income, or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses, also
missed the average estimate.  Aside from the fading currency advantage, Hyundai’s line-up
of new products may slow this year. The company’s only global
full-model change among its vehicles may be the Genesis in the
second half of this year, analysts at NH Investment & Securities
Co. and KB Investment & Securities Co. said. By comparison,
Hyundai last year released the new Brazil-specific HB20 and a
new  Santa Fe  sport utility vehicle, a model that’s seven times
more popular, in terms of unit sales, than the Genesis.  Hyundai declined to comment on new models this year.  Exaggerating Mileage  Hyundai said today it’s setting aside 240 billion won as
provisions to reimburse customers after announcing in November
that the company and Kia overstated the fuel efficiency of some
models in the U.S. The Seoul-based automakers have offered
customers of 900,000 vehicles prepaid fuel cards to compensate
them for the differences in fuel economy compared with what
appeared on the cars’ window stickers.  Hyundai’s sales in the country climbed 8.9 percent to a
record 703,007 vehicles in 2012, though the growth was lower
than the average industrywide 13 percent jump in vehicle sales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The automaker forecast
U.S. sales will rise 4.3 percent to 734,000 units.  Helping Hyundai ease the fallout from the currency and the
fuel-economy scandal was  China . The company sold 38 percent more
vehicles in the country last quarter and capped the year with a
16 percent increase in deliveries, according to Hyundai and Kia.
This year, Hyundai said it expects sales to rise 13 percent to
970,000 units in China and raise its market share.  Passenger-vehicle demand in China will expand by 8.5
percent to 16.8 million units this year, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. That’s faster than last
year’s 7.1 percent as analyst expectations mount about economic
stimulus measures by the new government.  In  Europe , Hyundai’s sales rose 4.9 percent last quarter
and 10 percent during 2012, fueled by sales of its i30 compacts
and Tucson sport utility vehicles. Sales will drop 6.5 percent
to 415,000 units this year, the CFO said.  For the year, Hyundai’s net income rose 12 percent to a
record 9.06 trillion won and its operating profit rose 5.1
percent, both records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  