-- Zloty Slides to Weakest Since September as Polish Sales Slump
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-01-24T11:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-24/zloty-slides-to-weakest-since-september-as-polish-sales-slump.html
The zloty slid the the weakest level
since September after a report showed Polish  retail sales 
dropped the most since 2005 in December.  The zloty retreated 0.6 percent to 4.1960 per euro at 11:22
a.m. in Warsaw, the weakest since Sept. 5. It had the steepest
weakening after the Indonesian rupiah among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on
10-year notes fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.80 percent, the seventh day of declines.  December retail sales declined 2.5 percent from a year
earlier, boosting pressure on the central bank to continue
cutting borrowing costs to spur the economy. That was the
steepest drop since April 2005 and compared with a median
forecast for a 1.2 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 22
economists.  “The report fits the overall picture of deepening slowdown
and strengthen expectations for an interest rate cut in
February,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at Bank
Millennium SA in Warsaw, said in e-mailed report today.  While nothing indicates  Poland ’s economy will contract or
experience a recession this year, the slowdown will be deeper
and longer than in 2009,  Jerzy Hausner , one of the 10 members of
the Monetary Policy Council, said on Polish Radio 1 today.  The data came after reports showed the biggest slump in
industrial output in more than three years as inflation slowed
to the central bank’s target. Policy makers said on Jan. 9 they
may pause after cutting  interest rates  for a third month in a
row.  Investors in the forward-rate agreements market expect the
central bank to reduce borrowing costs by another 92 basis
points, based on a gap between nine-month contracts and three-
month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  