-- T-Mobile USA First-Quarter Customer Loyalty Rises on IPhone Plan
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-04T13:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/t-mobile-usa-first-quarter-customer-loyalty-rises-on-iphone-plan.html
T-Mobile USA , the U.S. wireless unit
of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said subscriber numbers and customer
loyalty improved in the first quarter as it cut prices and
prepared to offer the iPhone.  T-Mobile’s plan to start selling Apple Inc.’s smartphone
April 12 helped slow the defection rate of contract customers to
1.9 percent a month from 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter.
according to preliminary results released today. The lower
churn, or customer exodus rate, also slowed contract customer
losses for the T-Mobile brand in the quarter to 199,000, down
from 515,000 in the  fourth quarter .  The improved subscriber performance may validate T-Mobile’s
strategy to offer cheaper service plans and upgrades to faster
long-term evolution, or LTE, networks to deliver videos and
stream music to smartphone customers. Deutsche Telekom also
needs a stronger T-Mobile to help convince  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  shareholders to vote April 12 for a proposed
merger with its U.S. unit.  Deutsche Telekom would loan $15 billion and take a 74
percent stake in the combined company with MetroPCS shareholders
getting $1.5 billion in cash and a 26 percent stake. Opponents,
including MetroPCS shareholder Paulson & Co., have said the deal
would load too much debt on the new company. Two of three
shareholder advisory firms have urged a no vote.  T-Mobile announced new plans March 26 that offer unlimited
calls and 500 megabytes of data for $50 a month. Customers can
buy the iPhone 5 and other smartphones for $99.99 down, plus
monthly payments of $20, a divergence from the traditional model
of combining device and service payments into one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  