-- ‘Ruby’ Says She Never Had Sex With Ex-Premier Berlusconi
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-04-04T10:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/-ruby-says-she-never-had-sex-with-ex-premier-berlusconi.html
Karima El Mahroug, the Moroccan
woman known as Ruby Heart-Stealer who’s at the center of Silvio Berlusconi’s underage-prostitution trial, said she never had sex
with the three-time Italian premier.  “I’m not a prostitute, they must listen to me,” El
Mahroug said in comments broadcast by SkyTG24 television during
a protest in front of Milan’s main courthouse. “There’s an
ongoing war against Berlusconi and I’ve been involved, but I
don’t want my life to be destroyed.”  Berlusconi, 76, has denied ever paying for sex and said he
thought El Mahroug was 24 in February 2010 when she said she
attended at least one of the billionaire’s parties. El Mahroug
was 17 at the time. El Mahroug said today she regretted having
told lies, including to the former premier.  In addition to the charge of paying for sex with a minor,
Berlusconi is accused of abusing his powers as premier when he
called the Milan police department on El Mahroug’s behalf after
she was arrested for theft. The call was a request for
information, Berlusconi has testified. After the call, El
Mahroug was released into the custody of a Berlusconi associate.  The former premier is also appealing an October tax fraud
conviction which carried a four-year sentence. He has denied
wrongdoing in all cases against him.  Berlusconi’s lawyers have claimed that Milan’s courts are
biased and have sought to move trials to Brescia, another city
in the Lombardy region. The underage-sex trial has been
temporarily suspended pending a decision by the  Supreme Court  on
the lawyers’ request. The case will resume April 22, Ansa news
agency reported last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  