-- ‘Tonight’ Switch Exposes Broadcasters’ Losses to New Media
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-04-04T20:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/-tonight-switch-exposes-top-broadcasters-losses-to-new-media.html
NBC’s decision to hand off
stewardship of “The Tonight Show,” the most popular late-night
program, highlights the dilemma facing all of the major
networks: shrinking audiences for broadcast TV.  “The Tonight Show With  Jay Leno ” is averaging 3.5 million
viewers a night this season, down 25 percent from five years
ago, Nielsen data show. The program attracts about 1 million of
the 18-to-49-year-olds that advertisers target, fewer than  Conan O’Brien  when NBC fired him as host in 2010.  NBC, owned by cable operator  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , said yesterday
“Late Night” host  Jimmy Fallon , 38, will succeed Leno next
year. The change helps the network attract the younger viewers
marketers want, said Peter Gardiner, who advises on ad
strategies. While “The Tonight Show” is the leader, NBC sees a
day when online viewing matters as much as live TV, he and other
ad executives said.  “Late night will never be the same as it was 10 years
ago,” said  Jon Swallen , chief research officer for Kantar Media
in New York. “The same goes for the rest of television.”  Success on the Internet has become a prerequisite for TV.
On-demand viewing, digital recorders and next-day Web clips have
diluted the attraction of late-night shows and forced networks
to consider new priorities when replacing a host, said  Greg Evans , a TV critic for Bloomberg Muse.  Cable Competition  Late-night options, including O’Brien on Time Warner Inc.’s
TBS,  Chelsea Handler  on Comcast’s E!, and  Jon Stewart  and
 Stephen Colbert  on  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Comedy Central, have shrunk
broadcast audiences and their ad dollars. Shares of
Philadelphia-based Comcast rose 0.7 percent to $42.12 at the
close in New York. They have gained 13 percent this year.  Advertising sales on “The Tonight Show” have declined 43
percent to $146 million from $256 million five years ago,
according to Kantar Media, a research unit of  WPP Plc (WPP) , the
world’s largest advertising company.  “This is a new world for TV talk-show people,” said
Gardiner, principal of Gardiner & Associates and the former
chief media officer of Deutsch Inc. “The digital video platform
has become a bigger part of the business.”  Fallon has fans on TV and on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, making
him a safer choice for advertisers than when Leno took over in
1992, according to Jim Boyle, managing director at SQAD, an
industry forecaster that tracks $35 billion in advertising
sales. NBC will move “The Tonight Show” to New York from Los
Angeles as part of the handover.  ‘Unique Talent’  “We are purposefully making this change when Jay is No. 1,
just as Jay replaced  Johnny Carson  when he was No. 1,” NBC
Universal’s chief executive officer, Steve Burke, said yesterday
in a statement. “Jimmy Fallon is a unique talent and this is
his time.”  “The Tonight Show” heir is the top-rated late-night host
in his time slot at 12:35 a.m., according to Nielsen data from
NBC. He also has 250,000 YouTube subscribers, Michelle Slavich,
a YouTube spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Fallon’s online
musical clips, including the “History of Rap” duets with
 Justin Timberlake , have been viewed millions of times.  “Fallon has the magic,” Gardiner said in an interview.
“He’s funny, he’s viral, he’s everything you’d want a host to
be these days.”  That will help NBC with younger viewers. Under Fallon,
“The Tonight Show” may lower the average age of its audience
by two or three years to about 50, Swallen said.  YouTube Fans  Leno, 62, host for almost 22 years, has 20,000 YouTube
subscribers, less than 1/10 of Fallon’s, with clips that focus
“largely on his TV interviews,” according to Slavich.  Last night, Leno joked about his long-time rivalry with
 David Letterman ,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s late-night host, who once vied for
“The Tonight Show” job.  “I had a really awkward day today,” Leno said in his
monologue, according to a transcript from the network. “I had
to call David Letterman and tell him he didn’t get ‘The Tonight
Show’ again. Awful. Terrible.”  On the Web, both Fallon and Leno trail ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel,
who has 1.5 million YouTube subscribers. Kimmel has also
increased his TV audience since moving to 11:35 p.m. from a
later time slot, Nielsen data show.  Fallon’s brand of humor is mainstream and could help NBC
stay No. 1 after the transition, Bloomberg’s Evans said.  “NBC clearly wants a younger audience, but Conan was too
edgy,” Evans said. “Fallon is more with keeping in ‘The
Tonight Show’ tradition of a middle-of-the-road comic.”  Ratings Decline  The changes in late night, including Kimmel’s move at  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC in January, come as the major broadcasters
collectively experience audience losses approaching their worst
of the past decade, according to Nielsen data. In late night,
Letterman is down 5.4 percent this year.  In prime time, the four major broadcast networks have lost
7 percent of their combined viewers this season and almost 11
percent in the 18-to-49 group, according to Nielsen data.  “Leno and Letterman have become a little irrelevant,”
Gardiner said. “The networks need to do something to shake up
late night.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  