-- AB InBev Near Final Agreement With U.S. Over Modelo Deal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-05T07:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/ab-inbev-u-s-said-to-be-nearing-final-agreement-over-modelo.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and the U.S.
Justice Department are close to a settlement of a lawsuit
seeking to block the brewer’s purchase of Grupo Modelo SAB,
three people familiar with the matter said.  An agreement will probably be announced next week, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
confidential. There’s a chance both sides will seek a short
extension of an April 9 deadline to report progress on a
settlement to the federal judge in charge of the case so they
can put the final touches on the deal, two of the people said.  AB InBev is negotiating with the Justice Department for
approval of a revised merger plan that would have Modelo sell
control of all its brands in the U.S., as well as a brewery it
built in Piedras Negras,  Mexico , to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) , a
winemaker and beverage distribution company.  The department is reviewing Constellation’s plan to boost
brewing capacity at the Piedras Negras plant by about 70 percent
to ensure that Modelo-brand products would remain viable
competitors in the U.S. beer market, two people familiar with
the matter said March 8.  AB InBev  rose  0.2 percent to 76.65 euros at 9:04 a.m. in
Brussels trading. Constellation fell 0.2 percent to $48.25 in
 New York  yesterday, while Modelo was unchanged at 112 pesos in
Mexico City.  Stock Moves  Laura Vallis, a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev in New York, and Angie Blackwell, a Constellation
representative, declined to comment on the prospects for
settlement. Jennifer Shelley, a Modelo spokeswoman, and Gina Talamona of the  Justice Department , also declined to comment.  The Justice Department will probably demand in the consent
decree that Constellation make its commitments binding to invest
in the expansion of the Piedras Negras plant, said Sandeep
Vaheesan, special counsel with the American Antitrust Institute
and author of a white paper recommending that the transaction be
blocked. The department will also probably insist Modelo
transfer to Constellation employees with marketing, distribution
and production experience in the beer market, Vaheesan said.  “The Justice Department probably wants to make sure that
Constellation, which has been principally focused on wine and
spirits, can fill the shoes of Modelo, which is a brewer,”
Vaheesan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  