-- Macquarie’s Fund Rises on Pay TV Listing Plans: Singapore Mover
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-04-04T03:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/macquarie-s-fund-rises-on-pay-tv-listing-plans-singapore-mover.html
Macquarie International
Infrastructure Fund (MIIF)  rose the most in more than three months on
plans to list cable television operator Taiwan Broadband
Communications Co. on the Singapore stock exchange.  The shares gained as much as 4.4 percent to 60 Singapore
cents, set for the biggest increase since Dec. 18, and traded at
58.5 Singapore cents as of 10:58 a.m. in Singapore. The stock
sale comes as it considers divesting its 47.5 percent stake in
Taiwan Broadband to the trustee manager of Asian Pay Television
Trust, which has obtained a preliminary approval to list on the
Singapore bourse, it said.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  said in December it plans to shut the
Singapore-listed infrastructure fund after selling assets
including a port and highway in  China  because it doesn’t expect
its share price to reflect the value of its holdings. The fund
said today it’s seeking at least 40.8 Singapore cents a share
through its listing, valuing the stake at a minimum of S$470
million ($380 million), it said in the statement.  “This is a positive step in the fund’s strategy to unlock
 shareholder value ,” said Liu Jin Shu, an analyst with SIAS
Research Pte. in Singapore. “The question is how high the IPO
price they will get.”  Australia’s biggest investment bank decided to shut the
fund, which started in 2005, after it couldn’t find good assets
in  Asia  or means to boost its share price, Chairman Chiang Meng Heng said in an interview on Dec. 18.  The divestment “substantially alters the focus of
Macquarie International Infrastructure Fund and, if successfully
implemented, would lead to the winding down” of the fund, the
Macquarie fund said in a statement to the stock exchange today,
adding it has no plans for further acquisitions.  The fund is trading at a 16 percent discount to its net
asset value as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  