-- Adelson Says He Can’t Recall 2000 Macau Licensing Talk
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-05T01:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/adelson-says-he-can-t-recall-2000-macau-licensing-talk.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. Chairman
 Sheldon Adelson  told a jury a  Hong Kong  businessman who seeks
$328 million over claims he helped the casino operator get a
Macau gaming license couldn’t deliver what he promised.  “I think he asked me whether or not, if he could deliver a
license, I would like it,” Adelson testified yesterday at a
trial in state court in  Nevada , recalling his early meetings
with Richard Suen, a business friend of his brother Leonard
Adelson. “He never said anything more than I know somebody who
knows somebody who knows somebody.”  Adelson said under questioning from Suen’s lawyer, John
O’Malley, that he didn’t recall discussing the possibility of
pursuing a Macau license with Suen in 2000 because at that time
nobody knew for sure whether the Macau government would
discontinue the monopoly  Stanley Ho  had on gambling in the
former Portuguese colony.  Suen alleged in his complaint that Adelson breached a 2001
agreement to pay him and his associates $5 million and 2 percent
of the net income from the company’s Macau casinos if it was
awarded a permit.  Second Time  This is the second time the claims have gone to trial. The
Nevada  Supreme Court  in 2010 reversed a $43.8 million jury award
two years earlier in favor of Suen and sent the case back for a
new trial. The state high court found that the trial judge
incorrectly allowed so-called hearsay evidence linking meetings
with government officials in Beijing that Suen helped arrange
with the award of the gaming license.  Adelson, 79, said yesterday that after the Macau government
in 2001 created a public tender process for gaming concessions,
Suen’s ability to get  Las Vegas  Sands a license was “completely
cut off” because it had become a “beauty contest.”  “He couldn’t give us anything that wasn’t available to
us,” Adelson said.  Clark County  District Court Rob Bare denied a request
yesterday by Suen’s lawyers for a mistrial after Adelson brought
out brochures to demonstrate that he didn’t need Suen to lobby
for him with the Macau government about Las Vegas Sands’s
ability to bring convention business in addition to gambling to
Macau.  ‘Our Qualifications’  “This is exactly what the Macau government wanted,”
Adelson said, referring to the books he pulled out of a
briefcase while on the witness stand. “These were our
qualifications.”  Bare instructed Adelson not to produce any further items he
might have brought to court.  Suen claims that meetings he arranged between Adelson and
Chinese officials, including the mayor of Beijing and the vice
premier responsible for Hong Kong and Macau, were instrumental
in leading Edmund Ho, the former chief executive of the Macau
Special Administrative Region, to award the company a gaming
license in 2002. Edmund Ho initially had expressed misgivings
about Las Vegas Sands’s large-scale plans, according to Suen.  Brother Lenny  Adelson said he attended the meetings at the urgings of his
brother Lenny, who had told him it would be good to show Chinese
officials that he was interested in their interests. Adelson
said the meetings were organized by a Chinese committee to
promote international trade rather than by Suen and his
associates, as he had earlier believed. In a 2005 deposition
played in court, Adelson said that Suen or his associates had
set up the meetings.  The Chinese officials only cared about whether he would
make an investment in  China , Adelson said yesterday.  Adelson added the officials were also interested in what,
if anything, he could do about opposition in  U.S. Congress  to
Beijing’s bid to host the Olympics.  Calling DeLay  Adelson testified that he called Congressman Tom DeLay of
 Texas , then the Republican Majority Whip, from a cell phone. The
Sands chairman confirmed his earlier testimony that he relayed
to a deputy of the Beijing mayor that the  House of
Representatives  wasn’t going to vote on a resolution
discouraging the U.S. Olympics Committee from endorsing
Beijing’s Olympics bid on human rights grounds until after the
vote, later that month, by the Olympics committee.  Adelson is expected to continue testifying today.  Before the Portuguese colony became part of the People’s
Republic of China in 1999, gambling in Macau was a monopoly
concession that since 1962 had been in the hands of a company
controlled by billionaire Stanley Ho. In 2001, the Macau
government invited bids for casino concessions to boost growth
through competition.  Las Vegas Sands has said in court filings that it obtained
the Macau license after it took the suggestion of the local
government and joined the bid by  Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd. (27) , backed by two “prominent and wealthy Hong Kong families”
who had the wherewithal to invest in Macau and lacked casino
expertise.  2002 Concessions  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , Stanley Ho’s company  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) 
and the Galaxy/Las Vegas Sands group were awarded the three
concessions issued by the Macau government in 2002. Las Vegas
Sands later that year got a subconcession from Galaxy to build
its own casinos in Macau.  Adelson disputed that the subconcession was a license,
saying that Las Vegas Sands operates its casinos under Galaxy’s
license and that, unlike Ho’s company and Wynn Resorts, the
company can’t sell subconcessions to other casino operators.  “The government wanted our expertise to change Macau, and
that’s what we did,” Adelson said. “We changed Macau.”  The case is Suen v.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , 04A493744,
Nevada District Court, Clark County (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  