-- African Nations Call for Central African Republic Vote
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-04-04T11:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/african-nations-call-for-central-african-republic-vote.html
Central African Republic’s new
rulers faced growing isolation as African leaders refused to
recognize the transitional government and South Africa said it
was withdrawing its remaining troops from the country.  The 10-nation Economic Community of Central African States,
or ECCAS, will deliver demands to the nation’s new leaders,
stating elections must be held within 18 months, said South
African Foreign Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who attended
the talks yesterday in Chad. South Africa will remove its
military trainers, she said, after 13 were killed in fighting in
the rebel assault on the capital, Bangui.  “There could be no recognition given to any government
that comes to power through unconstitutional means, especially
through a violent coup, such as the one that took place in the
Central African Republic,” Nkoana-Mashabane told reporters
today in  Pretoria , South Africa’s capital.  The African Union’s Peace and Security Council suspended
the Central African Republic last month and imposed travel bans
and asset freezes on seven members of the Seleka rebels who
overthrew President Francois Bozize on March 24. Seleka leader
Michel Djotodia has promised elections within three years.  “Djotodia is very aware if he doesn’t follow these new
directives, he’ll be punished by the international community,”
David Zounmenou, a researcher in the African conflict prevention
program at the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies,
said today in a phone interview. “He’ll be isolated. That would
also undermine his authority internally.”  Kony Hunt  Uganda has suspended its pursuit of Lord’s Resistance Army
leader Joseph Kony in the Central African Republic after the
transitional government in Bangui refused to cooperate, Asuman
Asuman Kiyingi, Ugandan minister of state for foreign affairs,
said by phone today from the capital, Kampala.  Uganda has more than 2,500 troops in Central African
Republic as part of an African Union force created last year to
hunt Kony. The Lord’s Resistance Army Lord fanned out across
Central African Republic, South Sudan and the Democratic
Republic of Congo after fleeing northern Uganda in 2005.  The ECCAS proposal for the Central African Repubic involves
establishing an electoral college led by a five-member council
that will have executive powers and will plan the election,
Nkoana-Mashabane said. Leaders from the region and South Africa
will hold a second summit in  Chad  after they receive a response
from Seleka, which she said would probably be favorable.  “I don’t know of any leadership in any part of the world
which says ’I want to isolate myself’,” Nkoana-Mashabane said.  Violent History  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from France in 1960. At least four battles
for Bangui took place from 1996 until 2003, when Bozize toppled
predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army chief.  Seleka began its rebellion in December after accusing
Bozize of failing to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement
signed in Libreville in January ended the fighting and created
the unity government. The insurgents resumed combat in March,
saying Bozize had failed to meet a new set of demands.  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, said Jan. 7 it
delayed plans to open a mine in the country by at least a year
because of the rebellion.  Contracts Honored  Axmin, in an April 2 statement on its website, said it was
“pleased” that transitional government in Central African
Republic had announced that it will honor lawfully concluded
contracts.  “This is further confirmation of the validity of Axmin’s
legally binding contractual agreements with the State and the
will of the CAR transitional government both to honor those
agreements and to create an environment in which we will be able
to develop the Passendro Mine,” Chief Executive Officer George Roach said in the statement.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  