-- Thai Stocks Erase Losses on Yingluck Case, Property Curb Outlook
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-04T10:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/thai-stocks-slump-as-political-tension-threatens-growth-policies.html
Thai  stocks  erased losses after the
nation’s anti-corruption agency dismissed a case against Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and the central bank ruled out the
possibility of property-price controls.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  rose 0.5 percent to 1,528.46 at the
close in Bangkok, rebounding from a slump of as much as 2.6
percent.  Land & Houses Pcl (LH) , the nation’s biggest residential
developer by market value, gained 0.8 percent after tumbling as
much as 5.8 percent in the morning session.  The National Anti-Corruption Commission dismissed an
allegation that Yingluck concealed a loan when declaring her
assets, Klanarong Chanthic, the agency’s secretary general, told
a press briefing today. The Bank of Thailand sees no need for
property-price controls, Somboon Chitphentom, senior director of
its prudential policy department, said today.  “These two reports removed major concerns that have
overhung the stock market for the past few weeks,” Athaporn Arayasantiparb, head of research at UOB Kay Hian Securities
( Thailand ) Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone today. “The market may
make a big rebound this week.”  Thai stocks faced pressure today when the corruption
commission met to discuss the complaint against Yingluck,
Maybank Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest
brokerage, wrote in a report.  Property Curbs  Overseas investors  sold  a net 1.97 billion baht of Thai
equities yesterday, the biggest outflow in two weeks, according
to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreign selling
indicates renewed concerns among overseas investors about Thai
politics, according to Maybank Kim Eng.  Investors had earlier sold shares of property developers,
driving an industry gauge to the biggest decline on the
benchmark index, on concern that the central bank may introduce
measures to cool residential prices, Chanpen Sirithanarattanakul, head of research at DBS Vickers Securities
(Thailand) Ltd., said today. The  Thai Property Development Index (SETPROP) 
rose 0.8 percent, rebounding from a 5 percent loss.  The Bank of Thailand left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for a fourth straight meeting yesterday, saying it
will be vigilant about asset-price risks. The Nation newspaper
reported yesterday that the authority may take steps to curb
property prices after detecting hot spots, especially in the
condominium sector.  Pruksa Real Estate Pcl (PS) , the nation’s second-biggest
residential property developer, jumped 5.7 percent, reversing a
2.9 percent slide at the trading break.  Quality Houses Pcl (QH) 
gained 3.1 percent, rallying from a 2.1 percent loss.  SC Asset
Corp. (SC) , controlled by Yingluck’s family, jumped 4.2 percent after
dropping 3.3 percent.  -- Editors:  Matthew Oakley , Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  