-- AIG Among Mortgage Insurers Fined by CFPB in Kickback Probe
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-04T18:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/aig-among-mortgage-insurers-fined-by-cfpb-in-bank-kickback-probe.html
Four mortgage insurers will pay more
than $15 million in penalties to settle claims they paid illegal
kickbacks to lenders in exchange for business, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau said today.  “Illegal kickbacks distort markets and can inflate the
financial burden of homeownership for consumers,”  Richard Cordray , the CFPB’s director, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe these mortgage insurance companies funneled
millions of dollars to mortgage lenders for well over a
decade.”  The fines represent the first foray into the mortgage
insurance market by the CFPB, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
to protect consumers from unfair practices in the financial
services industry. The actions come as Congress and the
administration of President  Barack Obama  have pledged to reduce
the government’s role in providing mortgage insurance and the
housing market is emerging from a long decline.  The four companies involved are Genworth Mortgage Insurance
Corp., part of Richmond, Virginia-based  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ;
United Guaranty Corp., which belongs to New York-based  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ; Radian Guaranty Inc., a subsidiary of
 Radian Group Inc. (RDN) , of Philadelphia; Mortgage Guaranty Insurance
Corp., a unit of Milwaukee-based  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)   Kent Markus, the CFPB’s director for enforcement, declined
to specify which lenders received the kickbacks or how much they
were paid, because the investigation is continuing.  ‘Two to Tango’  “In every kickback situation, there is somebody paying and
somebody receiving,” Markus told reporters on a conference
call. “It takes two to tango. Today we’re dealing with those
paying the kickbacks. But we have more work to do on this
matter.”  PHH Corp. (PHH) , a mortgage lender based on  Mount Laurel ,  New
Jersey , last year disclosed it was the target of a CFPB probe on
this issue.  Mortgage insurers have rallied this year as  home prices 
climbed and the U.S. signaled it may reduce its role in the
housing-finance market. Radian has advanced 63 percent this
year, while MGIC has gained 83 percent. Genworth, which also
sells  life insurance  and long-term care coverage, is up 26
percent.  Mortgage insurance is a small portion of business at AIG,
which has jumped 6.5 percent.  United Guaranty said in an e-mailed statement that it
“believes these practices complied with the law and were fair
to consumers, but settled the matter to avoid the distraction
and expense of protracted litigation.”  Eliminating ‘Distraction’  Teresa Bryce Bazemore, president of Radian Guaranty, also
said the arrangements were legal. “This settlement was an
opportunity to eliminate distractions at an acceptable cost so
that we can continue our primary focus of writing new,
profitable  mortgage insurance ,” she said in an e-mailed
statement.  MGIC also issued a statement saying it believes the
arrangements were legal, and that it wanted to close the matter.  The case concerns mortgage insurance, which is typically
required when borrowers put up less than 20 percent of a home’s
purchase price. The lender, not the borrower, usually chooses
the insurer while the borrower pays the premiums.  ‘Essentially Worthless’  The lenders collected revenue from the mortgage guarantors
through deals that were called “captive reinsurance
agreements,” according to the CFPB. The bureau said the
coverage provided by the lenders was “essentially worthless”
and a way for the companies to get funds from mortgages insurers
without taking on their risks.  The practice is a violation of the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act, the agency said.  “The impact of illegal kickbacks on consumers is that it
raises prices,” Markus said.  Rohit Gupta, president of Genworth’s mortgage insurance
unit, said that the reinsurance helped offset losses during the
housing crisis, and disputed Markus’ contention of consumer
harm.  “Consumers paid the same amount for the underlying
insurance whether or not their loan was part of a captive
reinsurance arrangement,” Gupta said.  Under the settlement, the four insurers will end the
practice, and abstain from creating any similar arrangements for
10 years, according to the consumer bureau. The companies will
also have to make reports to the consumer agency detailing their
compliance with the enforcement orders.  The portion the of $15.4 million in fines paid by each
company will reflect their cooperation with investigators and
the pervasiveness of their conduct.  United Guaranty  and Genworth
will both pay $4.5 million, while Radian will pay $3.75 million
and MGIC $2.65 million.  Markus said that the four companies are “the only mortgage
insurers that are writing policies today” that used these
reinsurance structures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  