-- Alabama Joins States Passing Bills Regulating Abortion Clinics
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-04-04T15:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/alabama-joins-states-passing-bills-regulating-abortion-clinics.html
Alabama  is joining six other U.S.
states to require that doctors performing abortions have
hospital admitting privileges, which the law describes as a
safety measure and opponents say is an effort to close clinics.  The Republican-led legislature passed the measure April 2.
Republican Governor Robert Bentley, a physician, is expected to
sign the so-called Women’s Health and Safety Act after reviewing
it, said his spokeswoman, Jennifer Ardis.  The bill  says abortion doctors must have privileges at an
acute-care hospital within the same metropolitan area, and any
abortion center must meet certain building codes or lose its
license. The measure is an attempt to shut most of Alabama’s
five licensed abortion providers with stricter rules, according
to  Planned Parenthood , which may challenge it in court.  “We are definitely going to explore every possible option
to protect the women’s health and safety in Alabama,” Nikema
Williams, vice president of public policy for Planned Parenthood
Southeast, said in a telephone interview.  Arizona, Kansas, Mississippi,  North Dakota , Tennessee and
Utah have passed laws requiring hospital privileges for doctors
at abortion facilities, and lawmakers in Kentucky,  South
Carolina , Texas and  West Virginia  are considering similar
measures, said Elizabeth Nash, state issues manager for the
 Guttmacher Institute  of New York, which promotes sexual and
reproductive health.  An abortion clinic in Tennessee has closed after passage of
that state’s law, according to Nash. Mississippi’s only abortion
clinic is suing the state to block a law there, saying it will
be forced to shut down because local facilities won’t grant
privilege requests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  