-- Angola Plans Iron, Manganese Investments to Cut Oil Reliance
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-04-05T08:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/angola-plans-iron-ore-manganese-investment-to-cut-oil-reliance.html
Angola, the fifth-largest diamond
producer, has cut mine taxes and plans to spend billions of
dollars to attract investment into mineral deposits, Geology and
Mines Minister Francisco Queiroz said.  The projects include the $900 million Cassinga  iron-ore 
mine, planned fertilizer output of 400,000 metric tons a year
and a $400 million manganese development, Queiroz said in an
interview last week in Luanda, the capital. A mining law enacted
in November that cut tax to 25 percent from 35 percent was
followed by investment from companies including diamond producer
 De Beers  and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , which is developing an ammonia and
urea plant, he said.  “The new law is very clear with lots of security for
investors, which gives them certainty, transparency and
guaranteed mining rights,” said Queiroz, who drafted the new
code. “It has flexibility for companies to join with partners
based on negotiation with the government, not imposition, which
is a break from the past.”  Angola  wants to diversify its earnings away from the crude
oil and diamonds that make up almost all its exports, more than
40 percent of economic output and over 70 percent of government
revenue, he said. Production of gems, Angola’s chief mineral
export, may increase to about 9 million carats this year from
8.3 million carats in 2012 as four new mines start, Queiroz
said.  The southwest African country is rebuilding its economy
after a civil war that lasted from independence from  Portugal  in
1975 until 2002. It pumped 1.78 million barrels a day of oil
last month, second only to  Nigeria  in  Africa , mainly from
offshore fields run by companies including  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc. (BP/)   Cassinga Iron  The rehabilitation of the colonial-era Cassinga iron-ore
mine near Jamba in Huila province about 750 kilometers (466
miles) southeast of Luanda will be funded about equally by the
state and Angola Exploration Mining Resources. Angola
Exploration, known as AEMR, is a partnership between closely
held Luanda-based DT Group and Empresa Nacional de Ferro de
Angola, the state iron-ore company known as Ferrangol EP, the
minister said.  It’s too early to determine exact production levels because
reserves are still being assessed, while indications are the
mine could operate for more than 40 years after a start in 2015,
he said.  In October Queiroz said the mine would produce a total of
20 million tons a year of ore, 7 million tons each from the
Cassinga North and South mines and the rest from the Cateruca
land reserve. Reserves are estimated at 400 million tons,
according to the state-run  Jornal de Angola .  Roads, Airports  Ferrangol will build new roads and airports for the project
and expand the port at Namibe on the Atlantic Ocean, he said.
The rebuilding of the Mocamedes railway line that heads inland
from Namibe was completed last year.  AEMR and Ferrangol are also involved in the re-opening of
the Kassala-Kitungo iron-ore and manganese mines in Kwanza North
province, Queiroz said. The sites were  estimated  to hold 300
million tons of iron ore and 5 million tons of manganese,
according to Jornal.  Exploration for gold at Mpopo in Huila and Chipindo in the
northern enclave of Cabinda is being undertaken, he said.  Companies with ties to  Israel ’s  LR Group Ltd.  have projects
to mine Angola’s estimated 400 million tons of phosphorus and
make fertilizer, the minister said.  Fertilizer Market  Australian Stock Exchange-listed  Minbos Resources Ltd. (MNB)  has
an equal share of the  Cabinda Phosphate Project  with Petril
Projects Ltd., a subsidiary of LR Group, and plans to start
production in 2015. Vale Fertil Lda., an Angolan division of LR
Group, will begin output by the end of next year from a project
in the northern province of Zaire, Queiroz said.  The projects will supply 200,000 tons a year to the
domestic market export the same amount, mostly to the U.S. and
 China , as well as to Europe and  India , he said. Angola wants to
double annual output to 400,000 tons within five years, he said.  “Our study of the international market has shown there is
a phosphorus production deficit of about 25-30 percent and we
hope to supply 10-15 percent of world demand in 10-15 years,”
Queiroz said.  The Cabinda project contains the advanced exploration sites
Mongo Tando, Chibuete, Ueca and Chivovo, and Cacata, a site in
development, according to a March 15 regulatory filing by
Minbos. The area’s exploration target confirmed by Coffey Mining
Pty Ltd. is 333 million tons to 538 million tonnes with grades
of 10-20 percent phosphate, Minbos said.  Power, Port  The company was negotiating to bring on a strategic partner
by the end of March to help develop the project, according to a
March 27 note by Independent Investment Research Pty Ltd. Annual
output is forecast at 1.2 million tons and Minbos can upgrade
the phosphate to 32 percent with little additional processing,
the analyst said.  The  Zaire  project near Lucunga is estimated to cost $1
billion to construct a power plant, sea port and factories to
process phosphate into ammonia, state news agency Angop  reported 
in August, citing Ehud Levy, Vale Fertil project manager.
Reserves were estimated at 130 million tons, according to Angop.  The Mavoyo manganese project in northern Uige province
targets an early 2016 restart of a mine that operated before
independence, Queiroz said. The area near the border with the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo is also  known  for its copper
deposits.  The government wants to increase domestic production of
granite and marble supplies to 40 percent of the market from 10
percent currently over the next five years, Queiroz said.  Negotiations are continuing with  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  to build an
aluminum smelter to produce 750,000 tons of the metal a year, he
said. It requires the construction of a hydroelectric power dam
in Kwanza South or Benguela province, and the government would
repay the cost of the plant to Alcoa, he said.  Alcoa said in Oct. 2011 it was targeting first production
in 2020 and had signed an agreement for a 12-month exclusivity
period to negotiate a power contract and cooperation agreement
with the government. Angola pledged to supply 1,300 megawatts of
power to the aluminum industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  